03-06-2021||First Edit||Modi, Mamata on a dangerous action-reaction spiral||The stand-off over the just-retired IAS officer Alapan Bandyopadhyay, who was chief secretary of West Bengal and is now adviser to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, is only the latest incident in the continuing saga of confrontation between the state and the central government. The confrontation existed before the West Bengal elections and became more acute after the Trinamool Congress (TMC) decisively defeated the BJP. In the latest case, the chief secretary was recalled to the Centre on the last day of his service in violation of service rules which stipulate that the state’s concurrence is needed for such a measure. Four days before the recall, the chief secretary’s tenure had been extended to enable him to continue his work of managing the pandemic in the state. He has now been issued a show-cause notice. It is clear that the Centre’s action against the chief secretary is part of the political fight between the BJP and the TMC. The chief secretary episode needs to be seen in the context of the story about the alleged disrespect to the Prime Minister shown by Mamata Banerjee during Narendra Modi’s visit to the state for a review meeting after Cyclone Yaas struck last week. The charge against her is that she kept Modi waiting, but she has denied it. She has the grouse that Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari, who had no reason and need to attend the meeting, were invited to it and that was to spite her. There seems to have been a lack of communication between the Centre and the state government over this. But it is most likely that it was deliberate. The Governor has been running an open political campaign against the TMC government, and Adhikari is a recent defector to the BJP. Politics is at the root of the acrimony between the two governments, and it gets aggravated through a chain of actions and reactions. The Centre is to be blamed for creating rancour through provocations, and Mamata tends to give back more than she gets. The central government and the BJP have not been able to accept the humiliating defeat in the state assembly elections. It will be unfortunate if the Centre wants to keep the relations on the boil for political gains in future. It will affect the governance of the state, especially when the Centre and the state need to work together to fight the pandemic and manage the cyclone relief operations. It will hurt federal relations in general and affect the administration by dragging the bureaucracy into the political fight. It will politicise and demoralise the bureaucracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/modi-mamata-on-a-dangerous-action-reaction-spiral-993130.html
03-06-2021||First Edit||It’s time to scrap sedition law||The Supreme Court on Thursday made a welcome decision to quash sedition charges filed against senior journalist Vinod Dua for criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The court also made an important ruling that journalists should be protected against wrong and arbitrary prosecution under Section 124A of the IPC, which is the sedition law. The court’s ruling came two days after it had decided to review the sedition law in the context of media freedom. The law has now become a weapon used by governments to curb free speech and expression. The Supreme Court decided to examine the provision in a case related to the slapping of sedition charges on two TV channels and an MP by the Andhra Pradesh government over a speech made against it. There is already a case before the court challenging the validity of the law. A judge who was part of the bench hearing the Andhra case sarcastically asked whether sedition cases would be filed against the media for reporting on the bodies of Covid victims floating in the Ganga, too. While the ruling in the Vinod Dua case is welcome, every citizen should, in fact, be entitled to such protection because media freedom derives from the freedom of speech, which is everyone’s right. The Supreme Court upheld the constitutional validity of the sedition law in the Kedar Nath case in 1962 but restricted its scope. The court laid down that its use must be limited to acts involving an intention or tendency to create disorder or disturbance of law and order or incitement to violence. To underline this, the court also said, “the citizen has his right to say or write whatever he likes about the government or its measures.” But governments routinely file sedition cases against critics and dissidents over a range of issues, including raising of slogans, peaceful protests, and reporting of inconvenient incidents. Sedition cases have increased after the Modi government came to power, and criticism of government leaders and policies has invited sedition charges. Threats to jail people on sedition charges have become common. The conviction rate in sedition cases is very low, and that shows that most cases do not stand the scrutiny of law and were filed for political or other extraneous reasons. But the process becomes the punishment because bail is difficult to get under the stringent law, and cases drag on for a long time. Such a draconian law, which is misused to curb the constitutional rights of citizens, has no place in a democracy. Many countries like the UK and Australia have scrapped it, and India also should do so. The court should undertake its review at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/it-s-time-to-scrap-sedition-law-993528.html
03-06-2021||In Perspective||Bangladesh leaves India behind in per capita income||Half a century ago, in March 1971, Bangladesh’s founders declared their independence from richer and more powerful Pakistan. The country was born amid famine and war; millions fled to India or were killed by Pakistani soldiers. To the Pakistani military’s American backers, the new country seemed destined to fail: Henry Kissinger, then Secretary of State, famously called it a “basket case.” George Harrison and Ravi Shankar organised the first-ever super-benefit to raise money for UNICEF relief work in the struggling country. This month, Bangladesh’s Cabinet Secretary told reporters that GDP per capita had grown by 9% over the past year, rising to $2,227. Pakistan’s per capita income, meanwhile, is $1,543. In 1971, Pakistan was 70% richer than Bangladesh; today, Bangladesh is 45% richer than Pakistan. One Pakistani economist glumly pointed out that “it is in the realm of possibility that we could be seeking aid from Bangladesh in 2030.” India— eternally confident about being the only South Asian economy that matters— now must grapple with the fact that it, too, is poorer than Bangladesh in per capita terms. India’s per capita income in 2020-21 was a mere $1,947. Don’t hold your breath expecting India to acknowledge Bangladesh’s success: Right-wing figures in India are convinced Bangladesh is so destitute that illegal migrants from there are overrunning the border. In reality, Bangladesh is far richer than the depressed Indian states where Hindu nationalist politicians have been railing against Bangladeshi “termites.” It’s as if Mississippi were fretting about illegal immigration from Canada. Perhaps that explains why Indian social media exploded with indignation and denial when the GDP numbers were announced. Meanwhile, Bangladeshi media have made little of the comparison. That’s the sort of self-confidence that comes from growing consistently. Bangladesh’s growth rests on three pillars: exports, social progress, and fiscal prudence. Between 2011 and 2019, Bangladesh’s exports grew at 8.6% every year, compared to the world average of 0.4%. The success is largely due to the country’s relentless focus on products, such as apparel, in which it possesses a comparative advantage. Meanwhile, the share of Bangladeshi women in the labour force has consistently grown, unlike in India and Pakistan, where it has decreased. And Bangladesh has maintained a public debt-to-GDP ratio between 30-40%. India and Pakistan will both emerge from the pandemic with public debt close to 90% of GDP. Fiscal restraint has allowed Bangladesh’s private sector to borrow and invest. Bangladesh’s success brings its own set of problems. For one, its exports benefit from the country’s participation in various mechanisms that allow tariff-free access to developed economies, such as the US’ Generalised System of Preferences. These groupings are only open to the world’s least developed countries. Thanks to its growth, Bangladesh will likely have to give up these privileges by 2026 or so. As its economy matures, its comparative advantages will also change. Like Vietnam and others, it will then have to shift emphasis away from garments to higher-value exports. The transition will test Bangladesh as it has those other nations. The government needs a strategy for the next decade that focuses on new forms of global integration and on a continued transformation of the economy. The smartest thing to do would be to retain access to the developed world’s markets by signing free-trade agreements. Work has started on an FTA with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, according to Bangladeshi officials, but there’s a lot more to be done. Once again, Bangladesh should benchmark itself against Vietnam, which is not only part of the China-centric Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership and the successor to the Trans-Pacific Partnership, but also signed an FTA with the European Union in 2019. Transforming the terms of Bangladesh’s trade won’t be easy, which is why the effort needs to start now. Dhaka will have to beef up its negotiating capacity in particular: It doesn’t even have a dedicated set of trade negotiators in its commerce ministry. Nevertheless, the past 50 years have shown how unwise it is to bet against Bangladesh. In 1971, success seemed well beyond a long shot. Today, the country’s 160 million-plus people, packed into a fertile delta that’s more densely populated than the Vatican City, seem destined to be South Asia’s standout success. (Bloomberg Opinion)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/bangladesh-leaves-india-behind-in-per-capita-income-993132.html
03-06-2021||In Perspective||Ramdev's rage suits BJP politically||Baba Ramdev’s serial abuse of modern medicine and its practitioners has led to both anger at the persistence of his egregious statements and bewilderment at the government’s inaction. His ‘apology’ for one appalling statement invariably segue into another set of aggressive, malicious and slanderous comments. Despite doctors protesting against him, the central government is unable to tame him. Instead of initiating legal action against him, it has at best cajoled him to apologise. The ‘apology’ inveigled out of Ramdev was followed by an aggressive “25 questions to allopathic doctors”. His sidekick, Acharya Balkrishna, head of the Ayurvedic business, made a horrendous assertion that the critics of his mentor were part of a “Christian plot” to malign yoga and Ayurveda! Is the government really helpless before the businessman Baba? Can it advocate universal vaccination when Ramdev openly questions its efficacy asserting that “1,000 doctors have died” after full vaccination? Under public criticism, Ramdev has backtracked and offered up his alter ego, Balkrishna, for vaccination. He deflected the question when asked if he would take the vaccine, with: “Why does a hatta-katta (strong and muscular) man like me need to take anything?” The Centre can invoke Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act against Ramdev for spreading falsehood and alarm about the Covid pandemic. The Centre has been quick to invoke Section 51 of the same Act against the Chief Secretary of West Bengal, two hours before he was due to retire, for disobedience. So, is the government deliberately turning a blind eye to Ramdev’s misdemeanours? The Act’s provisions cover spreading fake news and rumours. Ramdev cannot absolve himself by saying he was only reading out a forwarded message when he said that Allopathic medicine was “stupid and bankrupt” and that “more patients have lost their lives due to allopathic medicines than (due to the) lack of medical oxygen or shortage of beds.” The Indian Medical Association has asked the government to act against him under the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act for endangering the life, health and safety of Covid patients. However, no BJP government either at the Centre or in the states will act against Ramdev. Ramdev knows that there is some public receptivity for his statements, arising from people’s frustration with the pandemic’s devastation. But he misdirects and channels public anger towards modern medicine rather than against the BJP government’s mishandling of the pandemic by populating the public sphere with red herrings. But the ruling dispensation also values Ramdev for his network of Pantanjali Ayurveda agents/franchisees and yoga disciples. They can be politically leveraged during elections. In March 2010, Ramdev launched a movement called “Bharat Swabhiman” and declared that he would launch a political party to contest all Lok Sabha seats in 2014. His vast network of supporters and franchisees was obviously part of his political calculation. One might also recall that he was unsuccessfully wooed by Arvind Kejriwal as well. Once Ramdev saw the tide turn in Narendra Modi’s favour in the run-up to the 2014 general election, he threw his weight behind the BJP. The BJP used Ramdev as a force multiplier in the 2014 election campaign. His contribution to the BJP’s stunning victory was acknowledged by Arun Jaitely. In a hyperbolic statement, he said, “The role played by Ramdev in awakening the voters is similar to the struggles of Mahatma Gandhi and Jayaprakash Narayan who stayed away from power.” Amit Shah, then party president, also commended Ramdev’s contribution and promised that his endeavours to promote Ayurveda and yoga would have government support. That promise was kept. Ramdev’s business empire benefitted from his proximity to the BJP government. BJP chief ministers were open-handed in giving him free public land to set up herbal parks, factories, cowsheds, ‘universities’ and schools. He was given Z-plus security and the Central Industrial Security Force was deployed to guard his private business enterprise at Haridwar. Ramdev’s controversial Coronil for treating Covid-19 was promoted by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and BJP-ruled Haryana has included Coronil in the free Covid-19 kits for public distribution. The media, especially TV channels, love Ramdev and his oafish antics because they get sackfuls of advertising revenue from his Patanjali Ayurveda. Additionally, unlike other advertisers, Ramdev attracts viewers by his verbal gladiatorial displays. Ramdev doesn’t lose an opportunity to market his remedies on TV and never fails to name a clutch of his branded products. Or miss an occasion to point to the underbelly of modern medicine – unscrupulous hospitals ordering unnecessary medical tests, overcharging patients and prescribing costly branded medicines.  So, even if he is decried as a snake oil salesman who is damaging the government’s healthcare strategies to control the pandemic, it does not matter to the BJP. It is a price they seem willing to pay for the political capital he brings to the party. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/ramdevs-rage-suits-bjp-politically-993521.html
03-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||7 held for vandalising woman's house in Mangaluru; key accused stalked and harassed her||The Kankanady town police arrested seven men for trespassing and vandalising a house in Preethinagara near Shakthinagara on May 30. Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar said that Hemanth, along with his friends, had barged inside the house of a woman and damaged household articles including the TV, kitchen appliances, sofa and the doors. Police sources said Hemanth, a history-sheeter, was stalking, troubling and harassing the young woman by making repeated calls. The victim's parents and brother had tried to convince Hemanth not to trouble the girl. But he reportedly had issued threats. On May 30, he and his friends forcibly entered the house and created a ruckus. The gang had even attempted to assault the woman's children with lethal weapons. The police have booked cases. The arrested are Ranjith (28), Avinash (23), Dhanush (19), Prajwal (24), Deekshith (21), Hemanth (19) and Yathiraj (23). Ranjith and Avinash are listed as history-sheeters and have cases filed against them. Prajwal and Deekshith also have cases booked against them in various police stations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/7-held-for-vandalising-womans-house-in-mangaluru-key-accused-stalked-and-harassed-her-993257.html
03-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry seeks relaxations in lockdown after June 7||The Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) has requested the Dakshina Kannada district administration to relax certain lockdown restrictions after June 7 to keep business activities afloat. In a memorandum submitted to DK district-in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary, KCCI president Isaac Vas requested the district authorities to permit all commercial establishments to function with a 50 per cent workforce. TheKCCI also requested the authorities to permit all industries to function and to revise the present bank timings for the convenience of the general public and the traders. While considering the lifting of the lockdown, the government may also revise the office timings if required. The weekend curfew can be imposed for a few more weeks till the total positivity rate and total oxygen bed occupancy are within manageable limits, Vas said in the memorandum. While appreciating the government's decision for a lockdown considering the gravity of the situation, Vas said the trade and commerce in the region have been hit hard and a few industries are bleeding during the lockdown period. Dakshina Kannada has seen a drop in Covid cases in recent days and the vaccination drive is also picking up, the memorandum said, seeking further relaxations in the lockdown restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kanara-chamber-of-commerce-and-industry-seeks-relaxations-in-lockdown-after-june-7-993266.html
03-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Eight jail inmates eligible for Covid-related parole prefer to stay in prison||Eight inmates in the Mysuru Central Jail have preferred to stay back in their cells, declining parole facility offered to decongest the prison premises. According to jail officials, the "social stigma" attached to those imprisoned along with fear of contracting the coronavirus in the outside world were key reasons behind their refusal to avail the opportunity. "There were 83 prisoners who are entitled for parole for 90 days in our jail but eight have said they will not go home. Rest others availed the benefit," Jail superintendent K C Divyashree told PTI. "There are various reasons for not availing the parole benefits. One is the prevailing Covid-19 situation. Also, there are issues related to acceptance in the family and society," she explained. In order to decongest the prison during the second wave of Covid-19, the parole facility was provided to 83 jailbirds whereas in the first wave last year, 63 of them made use of it. According to jail officials, about 700 inmates above the age of 45 have been given anti-Covid vaccine whereas a few between the age group of 18 and 44 have also received the jab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/eight-jail-inmates-eligible-for-covid-related-parole-prefer-to-stay-in-prison-993338.html
03-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two leopards found dead in Nanjangud farmland; forest department officials suspect poisoning||The carcasses of two leopards were found at an agricultural field in rural Mysuru on Thursday. Forest department officials suspected foul play. The leopards were found dead in a farm land in Kadabur, Nanjangud taluk. The big cats might have died due to poisoning. A five-year-old female and a one-year-old cub died in a ginger field owned by farmer Ramanayaka. According to Forest department officials, the big cats ventured into the field in search of food and thus died after consuming food laced with poison.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-leopards-found-dead-in-nanjangud-farmland-forest-department-officials-suspect-poisoning-993348.html
03-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bagalkot ZP member Mahantesh Udapudi dies of Covid||Zilla panchayat member and Congress leader Mahantesh B Udapudi (43) died of Covid-19 complications at a private hospital in Jaipur, Rajasthan, on Wednesday. Mahantesh, it is said, had contracted 'black fungus'. After undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at Mudhol hospital, he was shifted to Bengaluru three weeks back. He was then airlifted to Jaipur, where he failed to respond to treatment and died of heart attack, family sources said. A budding entrepreneur, Mahantesh Udapudi had served as president of ZP standing committees for education and health and social justice. He is survived by his mother, wife and two children. He was laid to rest at his native on Thursday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bagalkot-zp-member-mahantesh-udapudi-dies-of-covid-993421.html
03-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sufficient stock of fertiliser for monsoon sowing in Karnataka: Minister||Agriculture Minister B C Patil said Karnataka has sufficient stock of DAP fertiliser for monsoon sowing and assured that there would not be any problem with fertilisers this time. Patil said the demand for DAP fertiliser from April to September this year is 4.44 lakh metric tonnes. So far, 93,000 metric tonnes have been supplied and the state has a stock of 1.26 lakh metric tonnes including the old stock. The fertiliser would be supplied based on the demand, he said adding that farmers do not need to worry about this. About other fertilisers, he said the demand is for 2.64 metric tonnes and the state has 1.25 lakh metric tonnes in stock.  The minister said stringent action would be taken against those who stock the fake fertilisers and sowing seeds illegal and make a profit in black market.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sufficient-stock-of-fertiliser-for-monsoon-sowing-in-karnataka-minister-993425.html
03-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Lunar Exports donates medical kits in Mysuru||As part of the CII Mysuru Covid initiative, Bastian Joseph, managing director of Lunar Exports (Walkmate), handed over 4,000 medical kits, worth Rs 10 lakh, for the home isolation Covid patients in Mysuru to Shilpa Nag, commissioner, Mysuru City Corporation, last week. Besides, the company also donated PPE kits worth Rs 5 lakh to the Covid warriors through the district administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lunar-exports-donates-medical-kits-in-mysuru-993447.html
03-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Widespread rain in north Karnataka, old Mysuru region||Many parts of north Karnataka and old Mysuru districts experienced heavy showers, accompanied by thunder and lightning, on Thursday evening. The showers brought a much-needed relief from scorching heat in most districts. Simmering heat in the morning gave way to rain in the evening. Hubballi-Dharwad twin cities, parts of Belagavi, Gadag, Haveri, Uttara Kannada, Vijayapura and Bagalkot districts received moderate to heavy rain. Bagalkot town plunged into darkness in the evening following thundershowers, coupled with strong winds. Vijayanagara and Ballari districts have been experiencing showers since Wednesday night. The incessant showers have left paddy and sugarcane fields inundated in the twin districts. Acres of ready-to-harvest paddy have been damaged in the rain in Hagaribommanahalli taluk. A spell of sharp showers left many parts of Davangere city flooded. Commuters had a tough time negotiating the water-logged roads in the city. Thundershowers have left most of the check-dams and ponds in the district full to the brim. Old Mysuru districts and Kodagu also witnessed heavy showers in the evening. Black gram, green gram and cow peas spread on roads for drying were damaged in the rain in Chamarajanagar district. Farmers had a torrid time in salvaging the wet grains and pulses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/widespread-rain-in-north-karnataka-old-mysuru-region-993456.html
03-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Nag gets support of corporators, employees||Corporators, irrespective of political parties, pourakarmikas and the members of various organisations have come in support of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Shilpa Nag, who announced resignation from Indian Administrative Service (IAS), due to the alleged harassment by Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri. The corporators and the civic body workers are launching a protest in front of MCC on Friday demanding Nag to withdraw her resignation. The corporators also demanded the state government to transfer the DC. Subbaiah, a corporator said that all the members of the civic body, irrespective of political parties, will stage a protest against the DC Rohini Sindhuri. Shilpa Nag was working day and night, but the DC was targeting her. “We demand the state government to transfer the DC from Mysuru. Even pourakarmikas will stage a protest at the respective zonal offices,” he said. "Not only the members and the civic workers, even the officials have extended moral support to the protest. The officials will not physically present in the protest due to Covid duty," he said. Besides, a few have launched an online campaign in favour of Shilpa Nag. When Shilpa Nag was returning after announcing her decision in a press conference, a security personnel tried touching her feet asking her not to resign. Several officials were also seen trying to convince the officer to reconsider her decision. Nag won several hearts after she was seen consoling the mother of a deceased MCC hearse driver by hugging, recently. The photograph had gone viral and the officer received appreciation not only in Mysuru, but several IAS officers appreciated her gesture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nag-gets-support-of-corporators-employees-993465.html
03-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Youths unable to get vaccination, charges DKS||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar, on Thursday said that the chief minister, who suggested online registrations for Covid vaccinations, later suspended it. The youths should fight to get their doses of vaccines, he opined. Speaking at a programme organised to distribute food kits to the poor, at Nagamangala in Mandya district, he said, “Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa himself launched the vaccination registration drive at the Bowring Hospital in Bengaluru. I had directed the students and rural youths to register their names for vaccines. But, there are no vaccines. I have collected details from the state’s chief secretary. The youths are not getting vaccines. Now, we have to fight to get our dose of vaccines.” “I announced Rs 100 crore from MLA and MLCs fund for purchasing vaccines to overcome shortage. We will buy vaccines by inviting tenders in a transparent manner, from the same agencies, which supply to the government. We will provide free vaccines to the poor. But, the state government has not given permission for this,” he said. The party workers have donated more than 200 ambulances across the state, which is serving the people. We have been working to save the lives of the people, he said. The farmers growing fruits and vegetables are worst affected due to Covid induced lockdown. The government itself should purchase the farmers’ produce and bail them out, he stressed. There was a heavy rush in getting the food kits distributed by the party to the autorickshaw, cab drivers and labourers of unorganised sector. Though it was announced that food kits will be distributed symbolically only for 20 people, hundreds of people had gathered at the venue. The police had a tough time in controlling the surging crowd.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/youths-unable-to-get-vaccination-charges-dks-993466.html
03-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid deaths: Mass immersion of ashes by govt draws flak||The mass immersion of ashes of unclaimed bodies of Covid-19 victims by the state government in River Cauvery near Kashi Vishwanathaswamy temple at Belakavadi in Malavalli taluk of Mandya district on Wednesday, received much publicity, with some claiming that it ensured ‘dignity in death’. Revenue R Ashoka was glorified on both media and social media, even though there were criticisms. Mysuru-based spokesman of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee H A Venkatesh mocked at Ashoka, by stating, “The Revenue Minister has tried to perform penance for the sins of the state government. Is this the function of a minister?” He said, “If the Covid patients were provided proper treatment and hospitalisation, there would not have been so many deaths. It has to be noted that the bodies had to wait in long queues, in front of crematorium. The people will never forgive the government, for the mismanagement. While the government itself was responsible for the mass deaths, now it is enacting a religious drama, of giving ‘mukthi’ to unclaimed bodies.” Venkatesh said, “It is a ploy of the government to evoke religious sentiments among the people, to mask its failures and to get positive publicity. It also seems to be promotion of superstitions. Besides, with this, the minister himself is involved in polluting the river.” J Raghunath, a retired government employee, said, "The government lacks the commitment to manage the pandemic. If it had provided oxygen, medicines and other medical facilities on time, there would not have been a situation for mass immersion of ashes." "Instead of leading by example, the government is setting bad precedents. It should rather urge the people to give up old practices that pollute nature. When the population was less, such acts would not have caused much damage. But, with a population of over 130 crore, on just 32.87 lakh sq km of land, with a density of over 400 persons per square km, we cannot afford to pollute our natural resources, especially water,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-deaths-mass-immersion-of-ashes-by-govt-draws-flak-993467.html
03-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Districts continues to report highest daily cases||Although the state government has been claiming that the Covid positivity rate is on a decline, Mysuru district, especially Mysuru city, continues to be in the first 10 districts, in the incidence of the highest number of Covid positive cases on a daily basis. As per the data available, Mysuru city, with 65 wards, has 44 red zones, 18 yellow zones and three green zones. While three wards - Ward No 21 Gangotri, Ward No 31 KN Pura and Ward No 50 Sunnadakeri - comes under green zone, 18 wards are under yellow zone and 44 wards are red zones. Green zone indicates that the ward has 8 to 20 Covid positive cases, yellow zone has 21 to 50 cases. Red zones have 51 to 300 Covid cases, according to a report furnished by the Mysuru Zilla Panchayat. Mysuru had the highest positivity rate of 41.32%, as on May 31, forcing the district administration to tighten the Covid norms, declaring a total lockdown from May 29 to June 7. Mysuru city is nearing one lakh positive cases, with 93,854 cases as on June 2. There are 8,510 active cases and 1,241 people of the city have succumbed to the infection so far. HD Kote taluk is in the last spot, with just 4,069 positive cases and 33 deaths. Mysuru taluk is in the second place, with 11,675 cases and 82 deaths. Similarly, Nanjangud reported 8,954 cases and 84 deaths; KR Nagar 8,128 cases and 60 deaths; Hunsur 7,307 cases and 49 deaths, T Narasipur 7,113 cases and 106 deaths, Periyapatna 4,555 cases and 88 deaths. According to the medical bulletin issued by the state government, Mysuru district reported 1,687 fresh cases on June 2, Wednesday. The total positive cases were 1,45,655 and active cases 15,247. Twelve deaths were reported on June 2, taking the total death toll to 1,651. Thus, the Health department officials and the district administration have been taking several initiatives, forming ward wise task forces, helplines, creating awareness among the people on precautionary measures to be followed, like wearing masks, social distancing and others. The Mysuru City Corporation, which has been conducting door-to-door survey, is all set to go to the ground level to contain the spread, by establishing kiosks to conduct tests and micro-triage centres in apartment complexes. According to the data released by the district administration, 343 villages have not reported a single Covid case, either due to the increasing awareness among the people in rural areas or due to the imposition of self-lockdown, preventing people from entering and exiting the villages. The villages of the whole DB Kuppe Gram Panchayat in HD Kote taluk, with a population of around 7,000 people has, so far, reported zero cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/districts-continues-to-report-highest-daily-cases-993468.html
03-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Strict guidelines, residents' alertness keep Covid at bay in 14 villages||While cases of Covid-19 are on a rise in villages, 14 villages in Mysuru taluk have no cases, turning them into model villages. The residents’ alertness, strict guidelines and the officials efforts have kept the villages safe. Mysuru taluk has a total of 37 Gram Panchayats and 14 villages under 11 GPs have not reported a single Covid case. The villages have been Covid-free since the beginning. Madahalli, Rayanakere, Kattehundi, Kumbralli, Chikkegowdanahundi, Krishnapur, Ramanahalli, Gudumadanahalli, Inam Uttanahalli, Lakshmipura, Makanahundi, Hanchyahundi, Hosahundi and Gurukaapura are the model villages, without any Covid case. According to the officials, the villagers were very much cooperative and followed strict guidelines issued by the governments. The villagers also took precautionary measures voluntarily. Mysuru Taluk Panchayat Executive Officer M S Ramesh said, “The people were not participating in functions, controlled unnecessary movement, maintained social distance, wore mask and used hand sanitisers.” In addition, regular awareness by GP authorities and proper measures helped the villages to be Covid-free. GP presidents, members, Panchayat Development Officers (PDOs) and other staff conducted door-to-door campaign to create awareness, said Ramesh. The authorities are regularly monitoring the health of the villagers and and are advising them not to neglect even minor symptoms. In addition, the efforts of Asha and Anganwadi volunteers and Health department workers kept the villages safe. The workers visit the houses along with pulse oximeters and laser thermometers to screen the villagers. The workers refer the people for medical tests, if they have Covid symptoms, he added. ‘Vaidyara Nade Halligala Kade’, an initiative in which doctors will visit the villages to conduct swab tests and also provide treatment, will be launched on Thursday. The doctors, along with anganwadi and Asha workers will visit the houses. The doctors will conduct Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) on the people with Covid symptoms. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri said, “The initiative will be launched in all the taluks. The MLAs will launch the programme in their respective assembly segments.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/strict-guidelines-residents-alertness-keep-covid-at-bay-in-14-villages-993469.html
03-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Leopard deaths in H D Kote, Nanjangud taluks||Two adult leopards and a cub were found dead under suspicious conditions in H D Kote and Nanjangud taluks on Thursday. A five-year-old male leopard was found dead at a field in Naganahalli village in H D Kote taluk. The village comes under Nagarahole National Park and Metikuppe wildlife range limits, on the social forest area. Veterinarian Dr Mujeeb Rahman conducted the postmortem and the viscera has been sent for testing. The reason for the death will be ascertained after the report is available, said sources. Similarly, a four-year-old leopardess and its cub said to be four-month-old, were also found dead in a suspicious manner at Kadaburu village, in Nanjangud taluk, on Wednesday.  Veterinarian Dr Shivakumar conducted a postmortem and said that the deaths were unnatural. DCF, Social Forestry, Prashant Kumar said, there is suspicion over the cause of leopard deaths. The viscera have been sent to the lab in Bengaluru and results awaited, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/leopard-deaths-in-h-d-kote-nanjangud-taluks-993487.html
03-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two pilot training schools to come up at Kalaburagi airport soon||The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has given its nod to set up two pilot training institutes at Kalaburagi Airport. Hyderabad-based Asia Pacific Flight Training Academy and New Delhi-based Redbird Asian Academy had applied to set up training institutes. The AAI has directed them to begin preparatory works. The authority has put a condition that the institutes be handed over to the airport after 30 years. About 5,000 square meters will be utilised for training purposes at the airport. The companies themselves will prepare sketch, construct, operate and manage the flying schools.  Asia Pacific Pilot Flight Training Academy, which belongs to GMR Group, has its central office near Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in Hyderabad. The company will teach about private pilot licences, commercial pilot licences, multi-engine rating, instrument rating, assistant instrument rating among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-pilot-training-schools-to-come-up-at-kalaburagi-airport-soon-993508.html
03-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Vijayendra meets Nadda, requests him to rein in dissidents||Karnataka BJP vice-president and CM B S Yediyurappa's son B Y Vijayendra on Thursday met the party's national president J P Nadda and is learnt to have requested him to take immediate action to end dissident activities of a section of state leaders. Amid a section of leaders demanding the unseating of Yediyurappa, his son requested the national leadership to rein in dissidents and bring discipline in the state unit in the interest of the party. While appraising current political situation in the state, he also suggested total revamping of the party's state unit, sources in the BJP said. Denying he or any members of the CM's family are involved in any kind of corruption, he is learnt have said some disgruntle leaders are making baseless allegations. However, Vijayendra and Singh refused to disclose what exactly transpired during their meeting. "I met national president J P Nadda and took his suggestion on handling of Covid-19 pandemic," Vijayendra tweeted later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/vijayendra-meets-nadda-requests-him-to-rein-in-dissidents-993475.html
03-06-2021||Main Article||Civil servants not politicians’ handmaidens||The controversy on the posting of a civil servant, the Chief Secretary of a state, no less, and the circumstances that surround it, must evoke serious reflection. The eponymous ‘Babus’ that some berate with glee, or the anonymous civil servants and their tireless work that many never see, have as the result of the unseemly wrangle between the Centre and West Bengal, been propelled to the limelight. It should in the years to come serve as a modern-day parable of how not to govern. But first, back to the future, if only to tell us of the prescience of the founding fathers on how independent India’s future polity might evolve. The fact that the independence of the civil service was enshrined in the Constitution rather than any statute was by intent and design, whatever the protestations of privilege that the detractors of the civil service advance. Its intent and purpose were clear – compromising the independence of the civil service was rendered more difficult. Perhaps more important, the debate in the Constituent Assembly on the civil service was accompanied by no small sense of trepidation about its future, an open acknowledgement of the distrust of future politics in the country. Therefore, what has emerged from the recent action of the Government of India and the response of the state is not a mere quotidian issue; nor a silly, meaningless argument between a couple, in this instance, the central and the state governments. It should serve as the basis for a much-needed, meaningful, and non-partisan dialogue that can change the quality of everyday administration, ridding it of politics while strengthening federalism. Even more important, it should serve as an opportunity for the politician and the civil servant alike to revisit the imperatives of the purpose, integrity, and the standards of service of public administration that need to be upheld. To revisit the need for and the importance of an independent, impartial, civil service, we would do well to learn lessons from its history, context and the conditions that have circumscribed its development, or as some might say, its decline. Two exhortations by one of the great statesman-administrators of independent India, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, best serve as the touchstone for the civil servant and the elected political representative alike, especially in the present day: his address to the first batch of the officer trainees of the Indian Administrative Service at Metcalf House in April 1946, a few months before independence; and his speech in the Constituent Assembly on the need for the protection and independence of the civil service in independent India, delivered in October 1949. Seen from the perspective of the civil service, there can be little doubt that the successes we have achieved and the progress we have made since independence is in considerable measure the result of the passion, competence and commitment of our civil servants. The civil service remains the favourite whipping boy for some people that always remain cynical, but that does not detract from the fact that over the last 74 years, scores of civil servants have contributed their mite to the task of social and economic progress in the country. There are some guiding principles that form the bedrock of the higher civil services in the country, and it is critical to ensure that these essential wellsprings are not allowed to dry up. To paraphrase from Sardar Patel’s 1946 address, above all, the civil service must maintain the utmost impartiality and incorruptibility of administration. A civil servant cannot afford to, and must not, take part in politics. Nor must he involve himself in communal wrangles. To depart from the path of rectitude in either of these respects is to debase public service and to lower its dignity. Patel urged the civil servant to render service without fear or favour and without any expectation of extraneous rewards. It would be fair to say, while there may be some black sheep, as in other walks of life, most civil servants strive to and have succeeded in meeting this standard. If the civil servants are to continue to serve without fear or favour, what standard should the elected representatives uphold? Again, we must turn to Sardar Patel exhorting the members of the Constituent Assembly, and I quote: “…If you want an efficient All-India Service, I advise you to allow the Services to open their mouths freely. If you are a Premier, it would be your duty to allow your secretary, or Chief Secretary, or other Services working under you, to express their opinion without fear or favour. But I see a tendency today that in several provinces, the services are set upon and told – ‘No, you are servicemen; you must carry out our orders.’ The Union will go — you will not have a united India— if you have not a good All-India Service which has the independence to speak out its mind, which has a sense of security that you will stand by your word…’’ For some time now, the civil service has faced the ominous prospect of its independence being subordinated to narrow political interests; civil servants are not the handmaidens of politics or politicians. It is time the political class heeds the sage advice of the Sardar: Do not quarrel with the instruments with which you want to work. It is a bad workman who quarrels with his instruments. Everyone thrives with encouragement. Nobody will want to work if criticised and ridiculed in public. It is not without reason that the civil service attracts the best and the brightest of India’s youth. The result is that the higher civil service in India is peopled by as educated, committed and talented a group of people one might find that strives to administer this complex and diverse country. The intellectual integrity of the civil servants and their unequalled sharing of responsibility must be preserved sans politics for the greater cause of India’s future. (The writer is Director, Public Affairs Centre, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/civil-servants-not-politicians-handmaidens-993530.html
03-06-2021||Mysuru||Will quit, Sindhuri to blame: IAS officer Shilpa Nag resigns from civil services||The row over Covid management in Mysuru district, which has been simmering for a while, took a new twist on Thursday with Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Shilpa Nag offering to quit service, accusing deputy commissioner Rohini Sindhuri of high-handedness. Sindhuri, who has been at loggerheads with local politicians, including MP Prathap Simha, has denied Shilpa’s allegations.   IAS officer Nag, who convened an emergency media conference, said, “There is harassment and humiliation by the DC. I have no mental peace, no proper sleep and food for the past one week. I have had enough. I have taken the decision with utmost sorrow. I have written to the Chief Secretary in this regard.” Nag said, “One should not put the district or city at stake for one’s pride. No district or city should have such an officer. She has been humiliating MCC staff and has threatened to suspend them”. “Let the DC confront me instead of targeting other MCC officials who have been toiling day and night,” said Nag. “As of May 31, only two wards of the MCC were under the red zone. But according to the DC’s report on Wednesday, a majority of the wards are shown under red zone. The DC is trying to create panic,” she said. “The MCC has taken up several initiatives but is being targeted. The district administration is claiming credit for the initiatives,” she said. “The DC has ordered not to obtain corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds. An Assistant Environment Engineer took the initiative to raise funds under CSR. But, he was targeted and the DC is preparing to suspend him, Nag said. When his brother-in-law died, he took only three hours’ leave. The MCC has collected Rs 12.3 crore in the form of equipment, Nag added.  CS to visit Mysuru According to sources, Karnataka Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar is expected to visit Mysuru on Friday, to resolve the issue. Meanwhile, in a press note in Bengaluru, District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar stated that the government will not accept Nag’s resignation under any circumstances. “I will speak to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in this regard. Even Shilpa Nag will be convinced to continue in service. Will personally meet her on Friday in Mysuru,” he said.  Denying Nag’s allegations, Sindhuri in a press statement said she was focused on the fight against Covid-19. “In fact, Shilpa Nag had stopped attending Covid-19 review meetings convened by the DC. The MCC was submitting contradictory ward wise Covid figures on new cases, deaths and active cases. I had ordered a rectification,” she said. Sindhuri accused Nag of failing to set up Covid Care Centres and said CSR funds meant for the whole district were spent entirely on the MCC. “Over the last 10 days, Shilpa has been issuing statements to the media against the district administration. A conduct not expected from a Mysuru City Corporation Commissioner,” Sindhuri noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/will-quit-sindhuri-to-blame-ias-officer-shilpa-nag-resigns-from-civil-services-993342.html
03-06-2021||Mysuru||Documentary on making of ‘Parva’ play on Rangayana website||The play ‘Parva’, directed by veteran theatre person Prakash Belavadi, is based on novelist S L Bhyrappa’s magnum opus of the same name.  Rangayana director Addanda C Cariyappa said, “Film director P Sheshadri has directed the documentary and it includes details of the preparation to stage the play and experiences narrated by artistes and technicians involved in the production. The 30-minute documentary film can be watched on the official website of Rangayana.” The preparations for the play ‘Parva’ started during the Covid lockdown last year when activities of Rangayana and the movement of artistes were restricted. Its inaugural shows were held at Karnataka Kalamandira on March 12, 13, and 14 from 10 am. Later, the shows were held on Thursday, Friday and Saturday in parts and on Sunday in full, at Bhoomigeetha auditorium, from March 25. Following encouraging feedback from theatre enthusiasts, the shows were staged in full on Saturday and Sunday only, from April 3, the immediate next week. The last show was held on April 4. The shows had to be postponed following the imposition of new guidelines by the state government on April 2. Curfew and lockdown were imposed later, due to a rise in Covid cases in the second wave. Thus, the play is yet to be staged again, even though the response was overwhelming during all its shows.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/documentary-on-making-of-parva-play-on-rangayana-website-993428.html
03-06-2021||National||DH Toon | '4 hours of sleep not recommended for PM'||Expectations for India’s economic growth are being revised sharply lower as a surge in people losing their jobs and defaulting on debt suggest a more halting recovery from the financial shock of the Covid-19 pandemic. Economists are downgrading their estimates as a range of data – from the rate of cheques bouncing to the amount of mortgaged gold jewellery up for sale - shows the extent of the economic damage from a devastating second wave of the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-4-hours-of-sleep-not-recommended-for-pm-993128.html
03-06-2021||National||3-day meeting of RSS functionaries from June 3: Pandemic, politics on agenda||Top brass of RSS on Thursday got off to three-day-long confabulations on the current socio-political and economic scenario. The meeting comes amid growing concerns over the saffron party's image and the impact of the pandemic on its poll prospects. Sunil Ambekar, joint head of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh's (RSS) media and publicity (Sah Prachar Pramukh), who had authored the book, titled 'The RSS: Roadmaps for the 21st Century', however, said that the Sangh's deliberations do not discuss day-to-day politics. "Lot of informal deliberations are being held as all five joint general secretaries (sah karyavah) will be interacting with the RSS chief (Sarsanghchalak) Mohan Bhagwat ji during the three days. Sangh Karyakartas have carried out massive relief work during the pandemic. They will be apprising the RSS chief of their work," Ambekar told Deccan Herald. This is the second important gathering in which all key functionaries of RSS are present, after the Sangh's highest decision-making body, Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha (ABPS), convened in Bengaluru in March this year. The closed interactions will be attended by former RSS General Secretary Suresh Joshi (Bhaiyya ji Joshi), RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosable (second in command now), and its joint general secretaries (sah sarkaryawahs) like Krishna Gopal, Manmohan Vaidya, HR Mukunda, Ram Dutt and Arun Kumar. Bhagwat will be speaking to them individually as well as collectively. Also on the agenda is the preparations for the third wave of Covid-19 and its relief works and the political violence in West Bengal after the elections in which BJP was trounced by Mamata Banerjee's Trinamool Congress. The meeting comes as the pandemic has cast a shadow over BJP's prospects in the future polls, even as it will focus on overall impact of the pandemic on economic growth, jobs and politics. Hosabale, who had earlier held meetings with RSS and BJP leaders in politically crucial Uttar Pradesh for four consecutive days, seeking feedback from functionaries in the state on issues like public perception on Covid-19 management, will apprise Bhagwat on this. Hosabale had also held meetings with PM Modi over Uttar Pradesh, which is going to polls next year. The state is central to BJP's Lok Sabha fortunes. Apart from having 80 Lok Sabha seats, the state also has PM Modi's Lok Sabha constituency, Varanasi, and 3 holy Hindu cites —Ayodhya, Mathura and Kanshi. Opposition parties have latched on to images of bodies floating in the Ganga during the pandemic for their campaigning. On May 30, Narendra Kumar, joint head of media and publicity in RSS, addressed a virtual event in Maharashtra and labelled the pictures of the floating bodies as "agenda". He said that such pictures had resurfaced in 2015 and 2017 also. He also cited how pandemics worldwide in the past have led to more deaths, defending Modi government's handling of Covid-19. Last month, Bhagawat had said the present crisis arose due to negligance of the government, administration and public (Kya janata, kya shasan, kya prashasan, sabhi gaflat mein aa gaye"). "We do not want negation. We are not saying nothing has happened. Everything is right. The situation is indeed tough, sad which is perplexing people, disappointing them..." he had said underlining the importance of "consistency" in efforts to win the battle over Coronavirus. Amid growing criticism of the government at the onset of the second wave, RSS stepped in to defend the Centre and provide succour to the patients. On April 24, Hosabale instructed Swayamsevaks to get involved and act promptly to resolve people's problems. This was the first time RSS got involved in health awareness drives on such a large scale in the last few decades. Prior to it, RSS’s Delhi state executive member Rajiv Tuli had raised questions on the absence of the state BJP during the pandemic on Twitter, saying "There is fire everywhere in Delhi, has any ‘Dilli wala’ seen BJP Delhi? Where is BJP4Delhi? Or is the state body dissolved?”. RSS later described it as Tuli's personal opinion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-day-meeting-of-rss-functionaries-from-june-3-pandemic-politics-on-agenda-993173.html
03-06-2021||National||Choksi produced before magistrate to answer charges of illegal entry into Dominica||The High Court of Dominica on Wednesday asked local police to present fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi before the magistrate’s court to stand trial for illegal entry into the Caribbean Sea island nation. Justice Bernie Stephenson also adjourned the hearing on the Habeas Corpus petition filed by the lawyers representing Mehul Choksi till Thursday. Choksi, who is now in a hospital, was virtually present in the High Court. Choksi was reported missing from Jolly Harbour township in Antigua on May 23 last. He was arrested from Canefield Beach in Roseau, the capital of Dominica, on May 26. Browne requested Dominican Government to deport Choksi to India, instead of repatriating him to Antigua and Barbuda (A&B). The Dominican Government, however, decided to repatriate him to Antigua and Barbuda, but the High Court in Roseau blocked the repatriation after a Habeas Corpus petition was filed by the lawyers representing the diamantaire. A team of officials from the Ministry of External Affairs, Central Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement Directorate are in Dominica to explore the possibility of Mehul Choksi’s deportation to India, where he would have to stand trial for colluding with his nephew and jeweller Nirav Modi defrauding the Punjab National Bank of Rs 13500 crore. Choksi was granted the citizenship of the A&B by the Browne’s Government in November 2017. He had taken an oath as a citizen of A&B in January 2018 – just days after fleeing from India. The Ministry of External Affairs had in February 2018 revoked the passports issued to both Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/choksi-produced-before-magistrate-to-answer-charges-of-illegal-entry-into-dominica-993174.html
03-06-2021||National||2 killed after inhaling poisonous gas at SAIL's IISCO steel plant||Two workers died after inhaling poisonous gas during maintenance work at the IISCO steel plant of state-run SAIL in West Bengal's Burnpur on Wednesday, officials said. The incident happened when Baban Sarkar and Suman Biswas, both contractual workers, were cleaning the sulphur tank of battery number 11 around 3 pm, they said. Baban went into the tank first and when he did not come out, Suman went inside to find out what happened. When both of them did not come out, two other workers went in to find out that the tank was filled with poisonous gas, local sources said. Baban and Suman, both locals, were brought out after plant workers went in wearing protective gear, they said. When taken to the IISCO hospital, they were declared dead. The plant was not operational when the incident happened, a SAIL official said. An inquiry committee was constituted for a detailed investigation, he said. Following the incident, protests were held by the INTUC. INTUC leader Harjit Singh said that the management has to provide adequate compensation to the families of those killed. PTI CORR NAM SOM SOM||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-killed-after-inhaling-poisonous-gas-at-sails-iisco-steel-plant-993179.html
03-06-2021||National||Union minister Thakur hits back at Chidambaram; says economy will rebound on reforms||Hitting back at former Finance Minister P Chidambaram for his comments on the economy, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur on Wednesday said India's growth will rebound on the back of consistent reforms and strong fundamentals. Thakur also regretted that "leaderless Congress (was) behaving like an ostrich reading economic data". "Indian economy is resilient and will rebound in the times ahead based on consistent reforms that have ensured strong fundamentals through these difficult times. "I am not surprised that the former finance minister chose to ignore hard data and instead went ahead with 'whataboutery' - the Congress leadership has embodied this clueless approach over the years," the Union minister said in a press release. Consistent reforms and strong fundamentals have ensured that India had a swift rebound from a contraction of 24.4 per cent in the first quarter to a growth of 1.6 per cent in the fourth quarter of FY 2020-21, he pointed out. On Tuesday, Chidambaram termed financial year FY 2020/21 as "the darkest year of the economy in four decades" and said the record negative growth has left "most Indians poorer than they were two years ago". Chidambaram had slammed the government for misleading the people, a reference to the "green shoots" claims of the finance ministry in July last year, after the first wave peaked and also for mishandling of the country's finances. India's economy -- which was experiencing a slowdown even before the pandemic broke out last year -- contracted 7.3 per cent during April 2020 to March 2021 fiscal (FY21), weighed down by nationwide lockdown that pummelled consumption and halted most economic activities. This is the first full-year contraction of the Indian economy in the last four decades since 1979-80 when GDP had shrunk by 5.2 per cent. However, the performance was better compared to 8 per cent contraction projected in the Economic Survey 2020-21. On the issue of the gloomy forecast made by the former finance minister, Thakur said, "while you doubt the resilience of Indian entrepreneurs, small businesses, traders and MSMEs to revive themselves, various international agencies project India to grow by 12.5 per cent in FY 2021-22 making India the only major economy to have a projected double-digit growth". "Is the Indian economy an island in isolation; have other major economies not faced a GDP contraction? Are you not aware that France, Germany, Italy, the UK contracted by 8.2 per cent, 4.9 per cent, 8.9 per cent and 9.9 per cent, respectively," Thakur said. He also noted that Canada, Russia, South Africa, USA too have seen contraction in their GDP in the past year and that despite the disruptions in the globalised world, India has remained resilient. Further, the minister urged Chidambaram to shift gears from his gloom and doomsday prediction and stressed that lockdown saved lives while gradual unlocking allowed green shoots. On the issue of cash transfer to poor and farmers, Thakur said that during the NDA tenure (2014-19), the government disbursed Rs 8 lakh crore on procurement of wheat and rice as compared to Rs 3.74 lakh crore during the UPA tenure (2009-14). The government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi purchased 74 times more pulses at MSP (Minimum Support Price) than that procured during UPA tenure 2009-14, the minister said. He also noted that the NDA government procured 306.9 million tonnes of paddy and 162.7 million tonnes of wheat in the last five years as compared to 2009-13 during the UPA tenure wherein only 176.8 million tonnes of paddy and 139.5 million tonnes of wheat were procured. By opening 42 crore Jan Dhan accounts, Modi government has stopped leakages in the system ensuring every rupee reaches its intended beneficiary swiftly and even during the Covid pandemic, through Direct Bank Transfer (DBT), it provided financial support to millions, Thakur said. He reminded the former finance minister that DBT was also given under NSAP (National Social Assistance Programme) to widows, divyangs, senior citizens, to building and construction workers as well as to front load PM-KISAN for farmers and to make 24 per cent contribution to EPFO and Ujjwala. Noting that total transfers exceed Rs 68,000 crore, Thakur wondered whether these are not "cash in hand". While the UPA government during your (Chidambaram) tenure as the finance minister disbursed bad loans, Thakur said, Modi government provided Rs 3 lakh crore government guarantee through the ECLGS scheme to the industry to sustain and revive their businesses. Over Rs 2.65 lakh crore has been sanctioned by public and private sector banks, and NBFCs to over 92 lakh accounts as part of "cash flow for businesses" under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS), he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-thakur-hits-back-at-chidambaram-says-economy-will-rebound-on-reforms-993180.html
03-06-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on June 3||India reported 1,32,788 new coronavirus infections on Thursday taking the country's tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,84,41,986 , while the daily positivity rate has further dropped to 6.21 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll due to the viral disease has climbed to 3,37,989 with 2,887 more people succumbing to it. The active cases were recorded below 20 lakh for the third consecutive day, the data updated at 8 am showed.       Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  2,84,41,986 as of June 3, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  3,37,989  as of June 3, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> No. of people discharged: 2,63,90,584   Total Vaccination: 22,10,43,693  Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-june-3-993184.html
03-06-2021||National||Best and most student-friendly decision: PM Modi on class 12 exam cancellation||A day after his government decided to cancel the CBSE Class 12 board exams this year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that the decision was taken after an extensive consultative process, and that this was the best and most student-friendly move. The central government received several inputs from across the country that were insightful, enabling it to take a "student-friendly" decision, he said. Following the Centre's decision to cancel class 12 CBSE board exams in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, several states including Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttarakhand called off their board exams on Wednesday while a few others said they will take a call soon. Responding to a number of tweets lauding the decision, Modi said health and welfare of students is our topmost priority. He noted that this has been a chaotic year for students with the joys of growing up partly snatched away as they remained confined to their homes and spent less time with friends. "As you said, in the current times, this was the best and most student friendly decision," he said replying to a tweet. It has been a chaotic year for students. The joys of growing up partly snatched away, confined to their homes, less time with friends. Responding to a teacher's post, the prime minister said the teaching community has played an outstanding role in the past year. "I would like to applaud all the teachers for supporting the students and ensuring that the education journey continues under the new normal," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/best-and-most-student-friendly-decision-pm-modi-on-class-12-exam-cancellation-993186.html
03-06-2021||National||India records 1.34 lakh new Covid-19 cases, 2,887 deaths||With 1,34,154 fresh cases, India's Covid-19 tally has climbed to 2,84,41,986, while the daily positivity rate has further dropped to 6.21 per cent, the health ministry said on Thursday. The death toll due to the viral disease has climbed to 3,37,989 with 2,887 more people succumbing to it, while the number of active Covid-19 cases was recorded below 20 lakh for the third consecutive day, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. Also, 21,59,873 tests were conducted on Wednesday to detect Covid-19, taking the total number of such tests conducted so far in the country to 35,37,82,648, while the daily positivity was recorded at 6.21 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for 10 consecutive days now, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 7.66 per cent.   The number of active cases has reduced to 17,13,413, accounting for 6.02 per cent of the total number of cases, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 92.79 per cent. A net decline of 80,232 cases was recorded in the Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, the ministry said. Recoveries continued to outnumber the fresh cases for the 21st day in a row. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 2,63,90,584, while the case fatality rate has gone up to 1.19 per cent, the data showed. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore coronavirus cases on May 4 this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-134-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-2887-deaths-993204.html
03-06-2021||National||India secures deal for 30 crore Biological-E Covid-19 vaccine doses||The Union Health Ministry has struck an agreement with Hyderabad-based vaccine manufacturer Biological-E to reserve 30 crore of its vaccines for which the ministry would be making an advance payment of Rs 1,500 crore. The company would manufacture and stockpile the vaccine, currently undergoing phase-III clinical trials after successful phase-I and II evaluations, between August and December. “The Covid-19 vaccine of Biological-E is currently undergoing phase-III clinical trials after showing promising results in phase-I/II trials. It is likely to be available in the next few months. The proposal of Biological-E was examined and recommended for approval after due diligence by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19,” the ministry said in a statement. The third phase trial began around 40 days ago at 15 sites across India on 1,268 persons of 18-80 years of age. The trial, sources said, might take at least another two months to complete following which the results will be submitted to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation. Developed jointly with Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, the RBD (receptor binding domain) protein sub-unit vaccine was found to be safe and triggered an immune response in the phase-I/II of clinical trials, involving 360 healthy subjects in the age bracket of 18-65 years. The vaccination schedule consists of two doses administered via intramuscular injection 28 days apart. The vaccine candidate has been supported by the Centre from pre-clinical stage with the Department of Biotechnology not only providing financial assistance of more than Rs 100 crore but also by partnering with Biological-E to conduct all animal challenge and assay studies at Translational Health Science Technology Institute, Faridabad. This is one of the five under-development Covid-19 vaccines that the Centre has taken into account while estimating availability of 216 crore doses by 2021 end to inoculate a target population of 95 crore Indians.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-secures-deal-for-30-crore-biological-e-covid-19-vaccine-doses-993207.html
03-06-2021||National||WhatsApp obtaining trick consent for new user policy, says Centre||The Centre has told the Delhi High Court that WhatsApp, which has become an “essential digital service” during the Covid pandemic, was obtaining "trick consent" from its users for its updated 2021 privacy policy.  "WhatsApp has unleashed its digital prowess to the unsuspecting users and would like to force them to accept the updated 2021 privacy policy……the game plan is very clear, i.e, to transfer the entire existing users committed to updated 2021 privacy policy before the Personal Data Protection (PDP) Bill becomes the law," the Centre said an affidavit filed in the High Court. It said that WhatsApp has access to personal, sensitive personal and business data of hundreds of millions of Indian users and has also acquired a role of an “essential digital service” which makes it imperative for its privacy policy to be examined on the touchstone of privacy principles in line with the K S Puttaswamy verdict. The government also contended that WhatsApp was indulging in anti-users’ practices by obtaining “trick consent” from the users for its updated privacy policy.  “Millions of WhatsApp existing users, those who have not accepted the updated 2021 privacy policy are being bombarded with notifications on an everyday basis," it claimed. The government also gave some screenshots of notifications to ask the court to restrain WhatsApp from "pushing notifications" to its users.  Facebook-owned WhatsApp last month said it had for now done away with the May 15 deadline for users to accept its privacy policy and that it would “follow up” with people who had not yet accepted the new terms of service. The government said the Competition Commission of India (CCI) has formed a prima facie opinion that WhatsApp has contravened the provisions of Section 4 of the Competition Act, 2002 "through its exploitative and exclusionary conduct, in the garb of policy update".  The CCI had said a thorough and detailed investigation is required to ascertain the full extent, scope and impact of data sharing through involuntary consent of users, it pointed out.   The affidavit was filed in a pending PIL by Seema Singh, Meghan and Vikram Singh who sought a direction to Centre to order WhatsApp to either roll back the new privacy policy or provide an opt-out option to its users.  The Centre had said the new update privacy policy violated the Information Technology Rules of 2011 and WhatsApp may be restrained from implementing the new policy till the challenge to the validity of its policy is finally decided.  The Centre had introduced the PDP Bill, 2019 in the Lok Sabha.  “Upon enactment, this law will provide a robust regime on data protection which will limit the ability of entities such as respondent no. 1 issuing privacy policies which do not align with appropriate standards of security and data protection," it said. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/whatsapp-obtaining-trick-consent-for-new-user-policy-says-centre-993215.html
03-06-2021||National||Books by Yogi Adityanath, Ramdev enter UP philosophy syllabus||Undergraduate philosophy students in the state of Uttar Pradesh will reportedly have books written by the state’s chief minister Yogi Adityanath and controversial yoga guru Ramdev as part of their syllabus. Varsity authorities at Chaudhary Charan Singh University (CCSU) in Meerut, run by the state government, have already incorporated the books into its syllabus, multiple media outlets reported. Adityanath’s Hathyoga Ka Swaroop va Sadhna and Baba Ramdev’s Yog Sadhna va Yog Chikitsa Rahasya, which extols yoga’s abilities to cure illnesses, will now be part of the second semester undergraduate philosophy curriculum at the university alongside Plato and Aristotle. “We need literature like this to learn about Yoga, our ancient science. Similarly, Ramdev’s book is also a good addition for Philosophy students because he is the Yoga guru… He has taken Yoga to the masses.” Ramdev is currently embroiled in a war of words with doctors who practice modern medicine after he called allopathy a “stupid science” and pinned the blame for lakhs of deaths during the Covid-19 pandemic on the use of modern medicine. The change in syllabus follows recommendations made by a committee formed by the state government to draw up a “common minimum syllabus” for all UP state universities and colleges that agrees with the New Education Policy 2020. The Union cabinet-approved revamp of the country’s education policy includes eight mentions of yoga in the 65-page document and instructs educators to ensure “all students of allopathic medical education must have a basic understanding of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, and Homeopathy (AYUSH), and vice versa.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/books-by-yogi-adityanath-ramdev-enter-up-philosophy-syllabus-993220.html
03-06-2021||National||Here’s all you need to know about the Model Tenancy Act||The Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, approved the Model Tenancy Act on Wednesday, which aims to boost private participation in rental housing as a business model for addressing housing shortage. The Act has also set up separate rent authorities, courts and tribunals to safeguard the interests of both landlords and tenants. Enactment of this 'model law' is up to the respective states and Union Territories.   Here’s all you need to know about this Act: > Under this new Act, a written agreement between the landlord and tenant is a must, which has to be submitted to the district ‘Rent Authority’. > The Act promotes uniform security deposits. The security deposit can be up to two months’ rent in case of residential premises and up to six months’ rent in commercial properties. > The Act has divided the responsibilities of both landlord and tenant for activities towards the property unless agreed otherwise. The Landlord is responsible for structural repairs (except for damages caused by the tenant), whitewashing walls, painting doors and windows, and plumbing and electrical maintenance. > Likewise, the tenant is responsible for socket and kitchen fixture repair, replacement of glass panels on windows and doors, drain cleaning, maintenance of open spaces around, and informing the landlord of damages immediately. > In case the tenant doesn’t permit the landlord to make construction on the rental premises, the landlord can take up the issue to the Rent Court. > Landlord cannot withhold essential supplies from the tenant under the Model Tenancy Act. > If no information of rent revision is agreed by the landlord and tenant on the agreement paper, then the landlord has to give a three-month notice before revised rent is due. > Under the Act, rent cannot be increased during the tenancy period, unless mentioned in the agreement. > Tthe landlord has to notify the tenant at least 20 hours before visiting the rented premises. > Tenants cannot be evicted from the premises during tenancy agreement continuation unless specified otherwise in the agreement. > The Model Tenancy Act will not affect existing tenancies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/here-s-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-model-tenancy-act-993223.html
03-06-2021||National||SC for protecting journalists; quashes FIR against Vinod Dua for criticising Modi government||The Supreme Court on said every journalist "must" be granted protection from prosecution under penal provision of sedition unless her reports incited people to violence or showed tendency to create disorder or disturbance of public peace. A bench presided over by Justice U U Lalit quashed an FIR lodged against senior journalist Vinod Dua by Shimla police on May 6 for his YouTube shows purportedly criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi for Pulwama attack and Covid-19 lockdown in 2020. Acting on Dua's plea, the top court said it was of "firm view" his prosecution for sedition and other offences would be "unjust" as he was within his "permissible limits" to criticise the government. The court relied upon the landmark decision Kedar Nath Singh Versus State of Bihar (1962), which had then upheld validity of sedition provision but with riders. "The principles culled out from the decision in Kedar Nath Singh show that a citizen has a right to criticise or comment upon the measures undertaken by the government and its functionaries, so long as he does not incite people to violence against the government established by law or with the intention of creating public disorder," the court said. "It is only when the words or expressions have pernicious tendency or intention of creating public disorder or disturbance of law and order that Sections 124A and 505 of the IPC must step in," the bench, also comprising Justice Vineet Saran, added. The court thus said it must be clarified that every journalist will be entitled to protection in terms of Kedar Nath Singh case. "Every prosecution must be in strict conformity with the scope and ambit of the Sections and completely in tune with the law laid down in Kedar Nath Singh," the bench said. Going through the FIR lodged by a local BJP leader, the court noted that the statements that the Prime Minister had used deaths and terror attacks to garner votes "were not made" in the Talk Show. With regard to Dua's show on lockdown in March, 2020, the court wondered, "The situation was definitely alarming and as a journalist if he showed some concern, could it be said that he committed offences as alleged." Instead, the court said, the statements were made by Dua so that prevailing situation could be addressed quickly and efficiently. The court, however, rejected Dua's plea to lay down that no FIR would be lodged against a journalist with 10 years experience unless approved by a committee at state level, saying, "this would amount to encroachment upon the field reserved for the legislature".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-for-protecting-journalists-quashes-fir-against-vinod-dua-for-criticising-modi-government-993227.html
03-06-2021||National||SC asks CBSE, CISCE to place on record objective parameters for assessment of Class 12 marks in two weeks||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Centre to submit an objective criteria to assess Class 12 students within two weeks even as it appreciated the decision to cancel the CBSE board examinations.  “We are happy with the Centre’s decision to cancel the board exam (CBSE and ICSE boards). But what is the objective standard principle you will apply," a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari asked Attorney General K K Venugopal. The court stressed the decision in the matter should be taken urgently within two weeks as many students want to take admissions in foreign universities. The court noted the criteria for final assessment has not been mentioned by a letter circulated by the Centre for adjourning the matter. The A-G sought time to place for the purpose, saying the objective criteria will be determined by CBSE. He said the petition filed by advocate, Mamta Sharma for cancellation of board exams may be disposed The bench, however, said that it would only dispose of the matter after the objective criteria was placed on record.   The ICSE board counsel, for his part, sought four weeks’ time to place the objective criteria on record. The court, however, declined to give four weeks to both CBSE and ICSE. “If you want, you can do overnight, but we are giving you two weeks. All interactions are happening online, do it in two weeks," the bench told the counsel. The court also noted, last year decision was taken promptly in this regard. Petitioner Sharma contended that some state boards were still going ahead with the exams. "We have interest of the students in our minds, irrespective of the board. Let this be resolved first and then we will consider the other state board exams," the bench said. A meeting headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 1 decided to cancel CBSE board examinations in view of second wave of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-cbse-cisce-to-place-on-record-objective-parameters-for-assessment-of-class-12-marks-in-two-weeks-993239.html
03-06-2021||National||2,000 Uttarakhand cops test positive for Covid-19 despite two doses of vaccine||More than 2,000 Uttarakhand police personnel have reportedly tested positive for Covid-19 during the country’s brutal second wave, even though 93 per cent of them had been completely vaccinated. Deputy Inspector General of Police (law and order) and Uttarakhand police chief spokesperson Nilesh Anand Bharne said severity and casualties remain low when quizzed about the large number of infections in the police force. Bharne told the daily that even vaccine manufacturers had admitted that vaccines did not guarantee that recipients would not test positive for the virus even after getting jabbed twice. Some of the police force was assigned to manage the Kumbh Mela that was organized in Haridwar from April 1 to April 30 that saw hundreds of devotees and wide-scale flouting of Covid-appropriate norms as a second Covid-19 wave taking hold of the country. The deployed police force was halved later as most of the main festivities were coming to a close. However, Bharne denied any link between the deaths of some of the policemen deployed at the Kumbh Mela and the religious gathering. Data showed that two of the five policemen who died had comorbidities, while the other three had not been vaccinated. The police had had a hard time in imposing the standard operating procedures (SOPs) on the seers of akharas and ascetics who gathered at the ghats on the two major bathing days due to severe time constraints. Many had termed the religious gathering a “super-spreader” event with over 1,700 people testing positive for the virus over five days as the bulk of the festivities neared the end by April 15. Prime Minister Narendra Modi appealed to the chiefs of the akharas to call off the event on April 17, which prompted the leader of one of the largest sects of seers to heed the call. Last week, Inspector General Sanjay Gunjyal, a top Mela official, said it was unfair to call it a Covid "super-spreader" as just 0.2 per cent of all the RT-PCR tests conducted in Haridwar since January 1 till the conclusion of the event had yielded a positive result and only 0.5 per cent of police personnel on mela duty had contracted the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2000-uttarakhand-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19-despite-two-doses-of-vaccine-993241.html
03-06-2021||National||Kerala tops Niti Aayog's Sustainable Development Goals Index 2020-21 again, Bihar worst performer||Kerala retained its top position followed by Tamil Nadu and Himachal Pradesh and Karnataka came third in the Niti Aayog’s sustainable development goal’s index, which evaluates the progress of states and union territories on social, economic and environmental criteria. The other top states were Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Uttarakhand According to the Index, Bihar was the worst performing state, while Jharkhand came second from the bottom. The other three bottom five states included Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. As the Index was prepared on the basis of 16 identified goals, including social, environmental and economic parameters, different states did well on different counts. Tamil Nadu and Delhi were adjudged the best in dealing with issues related to poverty alleviation. Similarly, Kerala and Chandigarh did well to ensure zero hunger indices. Chhattisgarh and Andaman & Nicobar Islands did well in ensuring gender equality. Again, Delhi along with Gujarat topped the list in terms of having good infrastructure. In terms of peace and justice, Uttarakhand and Puducherry were found to be the best. Among the union territories, Chandigarh topped the chart, followed by Delhi, Puducherry and Lakshadweep, Andaman & Nicobar, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, and Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu. Our effort of monitoring SDGs through the SDG India Index and Dashboard continues to be widely noticed and applauded around the world. It remains a rare data-driven initiative to rank our states and union territories by computing a composite index on the SDGs,” Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar said. Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said, “the report reflects on the partnerships we have built and strengthened during our SDG efforts. The narrative throws light on how collaborative initiatives can result in better outcomes and greater impacts.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-tops-niti-aayogs-sustainable-development-goals-index-2020-21-again-bihar-worst-performer-993246.html
03-06-2021||National||Mehul Choksi’s wife breaks silence on ‘mystery woman’, says she fears for his life||Fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi’s wife has finally broken her silence on the ‘mystery woman’, being identified as the diamantaire’s 'girlfriend'. Priti Choksi also said she is scared for her husband's life if he is sent back to India. “We, as a family, are deeply anguished by PM Gaston Browne’s statements. My husband is treated like a criminal here (in Antigua) because of the statements that Mr Gaston Browne has made in the past of calling him a ‘crook’, etc. etc; and on what basis I have no idea. A man who was trying to live his life quietly is being targeted in this manner,” Priti Choksi told HT. According to Priti, her husband is going through physical and mental torture. She told ANI, "If someone really wanted him back alive, why did they need to torture and abuse him physically and mentally?" She also told ANI that she has full faith in the justice system of the Caribbean nations and awaits his safe and rightful return to Antigua.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mehul-choksi-s-wife-breaks-silence-on-mystery-woman-says-she-fears-for-his-life-993247.html
03-06-2021||National||Gautam Gambhir's foundation guilty of unauthorisedly stocking, distributing Covid-19 medicines, High Court told||The Gautam Gambhir Foundation has been found guilty of unauthorisedly stocking, procuring, and distributing Fabiflu medicine to Covid-19 patients, the Delhi High Court was informed by the Delhi government's drug controller on Thursday. The drug controller submitted that action will be taken without delay against the foundation, drug dealers as also in other such cases which would be brought to its notice. MLA Praveen Kumar has also been found guilty of similar offences under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, the court was informed. The court asked the drug controller to file status reports on further progress in these cases within six weeks and listed the matter for hearing on July 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gautam-gambhirs-foundation-guilty-of-unauthorisedly-stocking-distributing-covid-19-medicines-high-court-told-993264.html
03-06-2021||National||Vice President Naidu asks people to promote cycling culture on World Bicycle Day||To mark the World Bicycle Day, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday urged people to make concerted efforts to promote cycling culture and reap its various health and environmental benefits. A bicycle is an affordable and sustainable means of transportation that helps one stay fit, reduces traffic congestion and cuts down on pollution, he said.  "To promote cycling in the cities, our urban planners and policy makers must create exclusive cycling tracks. These cycling-friendly tracks will not only give a dedicated route to the cyclists but will also help them stay safe," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted, quoting Naidu. According to the United Nations, acknowledging the uniqueness, longevity and versatility of the bicycle, which has been in use for two centuries, the General Assembly decided to declare June 3 as World Bicycle Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-naidu-asks-people-to-promote-cycling-culture-on-world-bicycle-day-993269.html
03-06-2021||National||Validity of Teachers Eligibility Test pass certificates extended from 7 years to lifetime||The Centre on Tuesday decided to extend the validity of the Teachers Eligibility Test (TET) qualifying certificates from seven years to a lifetime, fulfilling a long-standing demand from the teaching community. The National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) had made a recommendation to this effect in September last year. “The respective state governments/UTs will take necessary action to revalidate/issue fresh TET certificates to those candidates whose period of 7 years has already elapsed,” Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said. (2/2) Respective State Govts./UTs to take necessary action to re-validate/issue fresh certificates to candidates whose period of 7 years elapsed already. This is a positive step in increasing the employment opportunities in the teaching field. The TET is one of the essential qualifications for a person to be eligible for an appointment as teacher in schools. According to the NCTE Guidelines issued on February 11, 2011 the state governments were mandated to conduct the TET and issue certificates with a validity of seven years from the date of passing of the test. The NCTE is tasked to achieve planned and coordinated development of the teacher education system throughout the country, the regulation and proper maintenance of norms and standards. The mandate given to the NCTE covers the whole gamut of teacher education programmes including research and training of persons for equipping them to teach at pre-primary, primary, secondary and senior secondary stages in schools, and non-formal education, part-time education, adult education and distance (correspondence) education courses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/validity-of-teachers-eligibility-test-pass-certificates-extended-from-7-years-to-lifetime-993278.html
03-06-2021||National||Issue NFSA ration cards to economically weaker sections of society: Centre||Amid reports of the poor facing hurdles in availing subsidised foodgrains, the Centre has asked state governments and union territories to launch a special drive to issue ration cards to the weakest sections of society. It asked the state governments to launch a special drive to reach out, identify and issue ration cards under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) to the most vulnerable and economically weaker sections of the population in urban and rural areas by utilising the available coverage under their respective NFSA limits. These sections include street dwellers, rag pickers, hawkers, rickshaw pullers and migrant labourers among others. Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said the states and UTs have the scope to add 1.97 crore beneficiaries to NFSA as only 14 states have achieved 100 per cent coverage. “Out of total NFSA coverage limit of 81.35 crore, a gap of nearly 1.97 crore can be also utilised by States/UTs for this purpose,” Pandey said. The advisory asked the states to launch a special drive to reach out, identify and issue ration cards under the NFSA to the most vulnerable and economically weakest sections of the population in urban and rural areas, by utilising the available coverage under their respective NFSA limits. These are especially for people who may not have address proof. The advisory was necessitated as address proof was seen to be a hurdle. In April, the Centre had announced a monthly distribution of an additional 5 kg of foodgrains for free to 80 crore PDS beneficiaries from May 1, for two months to help the poor tide over the economic hardship in the second wave of the pandemic. Additional grains were to be given under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) via ration shops or Public Distribution System. The Centre was aiming at distributing 80 lakh tonnes of foodgrains over the two-month period that will cost the exchequer over Rs 26,000 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/issue-nfsa-ration-cards-to-economically-weaker-sections-of-society-centre-993280.html
03-06-2021||National||Who is Arun Kumar Mishra, the new NHRC chief?||Former Supreme Court judge Arun Kumar Mishra has been appointed the chairperson of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), nine months after his retirement. The move has stoked discontent among some critics who have cried foul, claiming the appointment was an act of political favouritism. A high-powered committee that included both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah appointed Mishra as the chief of the human rights body. However, Rajya Sabha Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge, who was also part of the committee, took to Twitter to condemn the decision and said the appointment reeked of “partisanship & quid pro quo.” Kharge also submitted a formal letter to the prime minister, delineating his concerns with the selection process in which he raised the specific issue about the lack of any candidates from the Dalit, Adivasi or minority communities for the body that deals primarily with these groups Who is Arun Kumar Mishra? Mishra is the son of Hargovind Mishra, who was also a judge of the Madhya Pradesh High Court. Mishra was a practising lawyer from 1978 to 1999, before teaching at Jiwaji University. He was elected Vice-Chairman of the Bar Council of India in 1997-1998 and Chairman in 1998-1999. Mishra then went on to become a judge of the Madhya Pradesh High Court and was later transferred to Rajasthan High Court, where he eventually became Chief Justice of Rajasthan in 2010. Mishra was later appointed Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court in 2012 until he was appointed as a judge of the Supreme Court. Change in selection rules This is the first time in the body’s 27-year history that the government would have formally appointed a chairman who had not served as chief justice of India, owing directly to a 2019 amendment by the Parliament that allowed a judge of the Supreme Court to be considered for the post. Praise for Modi Months before his retirement, Mishra in February 2020 had heaped praise on Modi at an international judiciary conference, calling him a “versatile genius”. The move drew flak from the Supreme Court Bar Association, which said in a statement that the comments reflected “poorly on the independence of the judiciary”. Controversial rulings During his tenure as a Supreme Court judge, Mishra was on benches that decided on several high-profile and controversial cases, including the Sahara-Birla case and the Haren Pandya murder public interest litigation. Mishra headed a five-judge Supreme Court Constitution bench in 2019 that decided to confirm a ruling he had previously been party to on issues relating to the interpretation of a key section of the Land Acquisition Act, 2013. Two verdicts that Mishra partook incited protests for their disregard for marginalised sections and were later stayed. Mishra also led a bench in the same year that ordered the eviction of forest dwellers and tribals whose claims over land were dismissed under the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights Act), 2006. In his last judgment as a Supreme Court judge, Mishra approved the razing of slums along 140 km of Delhi’s railway network.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-is-arun-kumar-mishra-the-new-nhrc-chief-993286.html
03-06-2021||National||Tapeworm drug, cheaper tests: How Reliance plans to tackle Covid-19||By Debjit Chakraborty, Reliance Industries Ltd. is working on a new Covid-19 drug and cheaper testing kits as the conglomerate owned by Asia’s richest man Mukesh Ambani looks to curb the pathogen which has ravaged India in the past year. India’s most-valuable company is exploring use of a tapeworm drug, Niclosamide, as a cure for Covid-19, according to its annual report. Its diagnostic kits -- R-Green and R-Green Pro -- have been approved by India’s apex medical research body and it has designed a process to make sanitisers at one-fifth the market cost, Reliance said in the report. The refining-to-retail group’s efforts come as India emerges the pandemic’s epicenter with the world’s fastest-surging coronavirus outbreak that has sickened 2.84 crore so far and killed more than 3,37,900 people in the Asian nation. Even though the deadly second wave is ebbing, experts have warned against a possible third wave of infections. Reliance is also trying to address ventilator shortages across Indian hospitals seen earlier this year by using 3D technology and a “special snorkeling mask.” It is designing medical-grade oxygen generators with five to seven liter capacity per minute, the report said. When India faced a huge oxygen shortage during the second wave in April, Reliance repurposed its plants in Jamnagar, world’s biggest oil refinery site, to produce medical-grade oxygen. Last year, it set up a unit to make personal protective equipment kits for the front-line healthcare workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tapeworm-drug-cheaper-tests-how-reliance-plans-to-tackle-covid-19-993292.html
03-06-2021||National||Fact Check: Book titled ‘How to convert India into Christian nation’ behind Sonia Gandhi||An image of Congress President Sonia Gandhi has been shared on social media and it allegedly shows that the bookshelf behind her has the ‘Holy Bible’, a statue of Jesus and a book titled ‘How to Convert India into Christian Nation’. Twitter user @noconversion first tweeted the image, gaining over 700 retweets as of this writing. Another user @asgarhid drew more than 400 retweets for the picture.  BJP Tamil Nadu Secretary Sumathi Venkatesh and BJP supporter Renuka Jain also shared the image. They later took down their tweets. Journalist and BJP support Meena Das Narayan tweeted the image as well. The image is also circulating on Facebook.  Many Facebook groups such as ‘Sudarshan News‘ with one lakh followers and ‘PMO India New Delhi*‘ with three lakh followers further promoted the image.  Morphed Photo If one looks very carefully, the image carries a watermark of the Twitter handle @noconversion on the left, which hints that this handle had created the image.  A reverse image search led Alt News to a video posted by Congress in October 2020 where Gandhi questioned the Centre on the farmers’ agitation and the hike in fuel prices. The video was also tweeted by Rahul Gandhi. The viral image is a screengrab taken by PTI. Many videos of Sonia Gandhi in front of that bookshelf has been tweeted by Congress. ‘बदलाव की बयार है।’ कांग्रेस अध्यक्ष श्रीमती सोनिया गांधी जी का बिहार की जनता के नाम संदेश आपसे साझा कर रहा हूँ। Alt News compared a screenshot from the video with the viral image. We noticed that the books ‘How to Convert India into Christian Nation’ and the ‘Holy Bible’ and the statue of Jesus are not present on the bookshelf in the video. Thus, the viral image is morphed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-book-titled-how-to-convert-india-into-christian-nation-behind-sonia-gandhi-993319.html
03-06-2021||National||Twitter reacts to Juhi Chawla's 5G hearing interruption||The Delhi High Court’s online hearing of Bollywood actor Juhi Chawla’s plea against 5G wireless network implementation in the country, raising concerns over the environmental damage, was interrupted by some unknown people. Soon, video clips of the man singing went viral on social media. However, some women pointed out that Chawla was not taken seriously and was harassed by the people who interrupted her plea hearing.   Why couldn’t the host of this meeting mute attendees? Such cheap publicity gimmick 🙄   Yes, with you Juhi Ma'am, already we are facing pandemic, rather than taking care of environment we are just ruining it. We all should take initiative for coming generations.. 💫 Some others, meanwhile, had a laugh and said the actor shouldn’t have shared the link online.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-reacts-to-juhi-chawlas-5g-hearing-interruption-993321.html
03-06-2021||National||SC tells CBSE to amend bylaws restricting candidates to change names||The Supreme Court on Thursday said an individual must be in complete control of their name and law must enable her to retain as well as to exercise such control freely “for all times”. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar directed the CBSE to amend its bylaws, while declaring the conditions imposed by it for correcting one's name in records before publication of result as "excessive and unreasonable". Holding that name of an individual is an intrinsic element of identity, the top court said a board dealing with maintenance of educational standards cannot arrogate to itself the power to impact identity of students who enrol with it. "The right to control one’s identity must remain with the individual, subject, of course, to reasonable restrictions," the bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, said in its 132-page judgement. The court passed its judgement on a batch of 22 petitions questioning validity of the CBSE's bylaws which put restrictions in corrections of names of students. Maintaining that expression of identity is a protected element of freedom of expression under the Constitution, the top court said the obligation of Board to take additional administrative burden for name corrections is no doubt onerous but the propensity of a student losing career opportunities due to inaccurate certificate is unparalleled.  "The utility of certificates issued by the Board is not confined to educational purposes anymore. They serve a social purpose today and are often used to cross verify particulars like name and date of birth while applying for other government identity documents. They assume immense relevance while applying for various jobs, both public and private," the bench said. "Interestingly, CBSE itself has argued at length on the importance and authoritative value of their certificates. In such circumstances, an inaccuracy or denial of change could be fatal to a student’s future prospects and all these concerns cannot be brushed aside in the name of administrative exigencies," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-tells-cbse-to-amend-bylaws-restricting-candidates-to-change-names-993326.html
03-06-2021||National||Mumbai-based organisation plans course to bring public closer to palaeontology||Steven Spielberg’s Jurassic Park, the science-fiction and action film, in a way connected the common people of several generations with palaeontology! Dinosaurs are always exciting, but palaeontology is not just about these giant creatures that once roamed the Earth and went extinct some 67 million years ago.   Palaeontology is the study of the history of life on Earth based on fossils, which are the remains of plants, animals, fungi, bacteria, and single-celled living things that have been replaced by rock material or impressions of organisms preserved in rock. For the first-time in India, palaeontology as a science is being taken closer to the people thanks to the efforts of Mumbai-based India Study Centre Trust (INSTUCEN) in organising a five-day course. INSTUCEN Trust’s Managing Trustee Mugdha Karnik said that the online course would be held from 7-11 June. “This is for the first time in India that such a course is being held when a complex subject like palaeontology would be taken to the commoners,” said Dr Kurush Dalal, a veteran archaeologist, historian and culinary anthropologist. Dr Prateek Chakraborty of Pune-based Deccan College Post-Graduate and Research Institute will be conducting the course. The modules include: An Introduction to Palaeontology, Geological timelines and the history of life on Earth, the origins of modern life, Methodology: Basic Field methods and Advanced Methods Laboratory applications. One of the finest teachers and experts in the field, Dr Chakraborty will guide people through the cultural and scientific antecedents of 19th-century palaeontology to modern era technologies like dating, bone histology, osteology among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-based-organisation-plans-course-to-bring-public-closer-to-palaeontology-993329.html
03-06-2021||National||Number of active internet users in India likely to reach 900 mn by 2025, rural may lead, says IAMAI||The number of active internet users in the country is likely to grow nearly 45 per cent to 900 million (90 crore) by 2025 compared to 622 million (62.2 crore) as of last year, an IAMAI-Kantar Cube report released on Thursday said. According to the report, rural India may have a higher number of internet users compared to urban centres by 2025 which indicates the need to strengthen the digital ecosystem in the country. “By 2025, there would be a greater number of internet users in rural India than in urban India. Given this, the digital ecosystem will need to evolve to address the specific needs of this emerging demography. "Vernacular, Voice and Video will emerge as the game changers for the digital ecosystem over the next few years," Biswapriya Bhattacharjee, Executive Vice President, Insights Division, Kantar said in a statement on the report. The report suggests that even though the internet penetration in urban India is over two times than rural areas, the usership in rural areas has been growing at a faster rate on a year-on-year basis. "While internet users grew by 4 per cent in urban India -- reaching 323 million users (67 per cent of urban population) in 2020, digital adoption continues to be propelled by rural India – clocking a 13 per cent growth to 299 million internet users (31 per cent of rural population) over the past year," the report said. The study by internet companies body IAMAI with consulting company Kantar found that small towns account for almost two out of five active internet users (AIU) while the top 9 metros account for 33 per cent of the AIU in urban India.  According to the report, of the 1433 million (143.3 crore) population in India, 622 million individuals are AIU and this translates to about 43 per cent of the total population across urban and rural India. However, with a sizable population not accessing the internet actively in rural India, there is huge headroom for growth in the next few years, the report said. "This indicates that there's a lot of headroom for growth in rural India and this would help in bridging the urban-rural digital divide," the report said. As per the finding, nine out of ten AIU access the internet every day. On average, AIU spend around 107 minutes (1.8 hours) actively on the internet daily. "Though the proportion of daily users is marginally higher in urban India as compared to rural India, AIU in urban India is spending 17 per cent more time as compared to rural India," the report said. Mobile continues to remain the device of choice for accessing the internet in both urban and rural areas. "Given the affordability of mobile devices along with the availability of cheaper data plans, accessing the internet through a mobile device has clearly become the first choice," the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/number-of-active-internet-users-in-india-likely-to-reach-900-mn-by-2025-rural-may-lead-says-iamai-993334.html
03-06-2021||National||17 pilots of Air India, IndiGo, Vistara died in May due to Covid-19||A total of 17 pilots of Air India, IndiGo and Vistara died due to Covid-19 in May when the country saw the peak of the coronavirus pandemic's second wave, sources said on Thursday. IndiGo lost 10 pilots and Vistara two, aviation industry sources stated.  Air India officials said five senior pilots - captains Harsh Tiwary, G P S Gill, Prasad Karmakar, Sandeep Rana and Amitesh Prasad - of the national carrier died of Covid. Air India and Vistara did not respond to the queries sent by PTI on this matter. People who are being treated for Covid-19 or have recently recovered from Covid-19 are not considered eligible for vaccination. Air India had on May 4 said it would vaccinate all its employees against Covid-19 by the month-end as a pilots' body had demanded inoculation of the flying crew/ on priority basis citing risk to their lives from the deadly infection. Six days later, the carrier had to tell its employees that it would not be able to hold Covid-19 vaccination camps for them at the Delhi airport on May 11 and May 13 due to "non-availability" of vaccines. In a communication to employees on May 10, Air India said: "The proposed Covid vaccination camp at GSD Complex, Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) on May 11 and May 13 stands cancelled because government authorities have expressed inability to hold these camps due to non-availability of vaccines." "Fresh dates will be notified once we get re-confirmation from government authorities," it added. While IndiGo did not comment about the pilots' deaths, the carrier said it has given first dose to around 20,000 of its total 35,000 employees and its ground handling subsidiary Agile.  "We are committed to covering our entire workforce by mid-June," said Raj Raghavan, Senior VP & Head of Human Resources, IndiGo, in a statement to PTI.  IndiGo has a "robust" welfare scheme and a "benevolent policy" so that each family of the deceased pilot would be getting Rs 5 crore, the sources mentioned. They added that while there were barely a few pilots of IndiGo who tested positive during the first wave, almost 450 pilots of the carrier tested positive for Covid-19 during the second wave.  Private carriers such as Vistara and AirAsia India have given at least the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to around 99 per cent and 96 per cent of their eligible employees, respectively, as of now.  People who are being treated for Covid or have recently recovered are not considered eligible for vaccination. Meanwhile, after a delay due to non-availability of vaccines, Air India has started vaccinating its employees from May 15 onwards, the carrier's officials stated. Air India had on May 4 said it would vaccinate all its employees against Covid by the month-end as a pilots' body had demanded inoculation of the flying crew on priority basis citing risk to their lives from the deadly infection. Six days later, the carrier had to tell its employees that it would not be able to hold vaccination camps for them at the Delhi airport on May 11 and May 13 due to "non-availability" of vaccines. In a communication to employees on May 10, Air India said: "The proposed Covid vaccination camp at GSD Complex, Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) on May 11 and May 13 stands cancelled because government authorities have expressed inability to hold these camps due to non-availability of vaccines." "Fresh dates will be notified once we get re-confirmation from government authorities," it added. AirAsia India, Go First (formerly known as GoAir) and SpiceJet did not respond to PTI's queries on how many of their pilots have died due to Covid-19 in May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/17-pilots-of-air-india-indigo-vistara-died-in-may-due-to-covid-19-993345.html
03-06-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Serum Institute of India seeks nod to produce Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India||In your evening news brief, Validity of TET certificates extended from 7 years to lifetime; SC asks CBSE, CISCE to place on record objective parameters for assessment of Class 12 marks in two weeks, and Serum Institute of India seeks permission to manufacture Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India.  Here is the top news of June 3, 2021:   The Serum Institute of India has applied to the Drug Controller General of India or DCGI seeking permission to manufacture Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in the country, PTI sources told the news agency. The Pune-based firm has also sought approval for test analysis and examination. Russia's Sputnik V vaccine is currently being manufactured in India by Dr Reddy's Laboratories.   The Supreme Court has today asked the Centre to submit an objective criteria to assess Class 12 students within two weeks even as it appreciated the decision to cancel the CBSE board examinations. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari asked Attorney General K K Venugopal and I quote:  “We are happy with the Centre’s decision to cancel the board exam (CBSE and ICSE boards). But what is the objective standard principle you will apply" The court stressed the decision in the matter should be taken urgently within two weeks as many students want to take admissions in foreign universities. The court noted the criteria for final assessment has not been mentioned by a letter circulated by the Centre for adjourning the matter.   The validity of the Teachers Eligibility Test (TET) qualifying certificates has been extended from seven years to a lifetime, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal "Nishank" announced on Thursday Pokhriyal said this will be a positive step to boost employment opportunities for the candidates aspiring to make a career in the field of teaching.   Source: PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-serum-institute-of-india-seeks-nod-to-produce-covid-19-vaccine-sputnik-v-in-india-993358.html
03-06-2021||National||In talks with Pfizer, J&J, Moderna to source, locally manufacture Covid-19 vaccines: Foreign Secretary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is in discussion with Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson of the United States for importing and local manufacturing of anti-Covid-19 vaccines. “We are also part of the discussions with major vaccine manufacturers like Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, and Moderna about sourcing and possible local manufacturing of their vaccines in India,” Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla said while referring to the role Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) had been playing to support the response of the government to the pandemic. “We have also helped to expedite the introduction of Sputnik-V vaccines (from Russia)”. He was virtually addressing the World Health Organisation's South-East Asia Regional Health Partners' Forum on Covid-19. The MEA also on Thursday said that the Centre was making “all efforts to augment availability of vaccines”, whether through enhanced production in the country or through supply from abroad. “We remain engaged with (the) US vaccine manufacturers like Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, and Moderna as part of this effort,” Arindam Bagchi, spokesperson of the MEA, told journalists. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar was on a tour to Washington DC last week when he had meetings with top officials of the Biden Administration and discussed supply of the vaccines from the US to India, apart from stressing the need to ensure uninterrupted supply of raw materials required to manufacture the jabs. “Vaccines have complex supply chains. We have worked to ease regulatory disruptions to these supply chains with key partners through diplomatic interventions,” Shringla said on Thursday. “It is in our mutual interest to combat the global pandemic by expediting vaccination efforts”, the MEA spokesperson added later. The Modi Government itself sent out 107.15 lakh doses of the Made-in-India vaccines to foreign nations as grant till April 16, in addition to the 357.92 lakh doses exported commercially and 198.628 lakh doses as a contribution to the Covax initiative of the World Health Organization, Gavi – the Vaccine Alliance and others to ensure equitable access to anti-Covid-19 vaccines around the world. It, however, paused its “Vaccine-Maitri” initiative after shortage of jabs came to the fore and slowed down the inoculation programme in India. “We are currently purposing domestic vaccine production for our own vaccination programme,” the MEA spokesperson said, adding that it would not be right to talk about supply of vaccines from India when the focus was on bringing in adequate number of doses of the jabs from abroad.    During the first Covid wave last year, a global sourcing operation was launched to procure ventilators, PPE kits, test kits and others. These helped India to tide over the situation till domestic manufacturing scaled up to meet the demand, Shringla said. A total of 91 cargo flights were organised between April and August 2020 to bring in these supplies, he said. "The effort to procure urgently needed medical supplies was reactivated during the second wave. We have been a vital part of a global effort to source liquid medical oxygen, cryogenic ISO tankers, zeolites and essential medicines like Remdesivir, Tocilizumab and Amphotericin B. "These have been sourced from multiple nations and moved to multiple destinations in India," Shringla said, adding the MEA will continue to facilitate supplies of essential raw materials and components.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-talks-with-pfizer-jj-moderna-to-source-locally-manufacture-covid-19-vaccines-foreign-secretary-993361.html
03-06-2021||National||India steadfast in resolve to bring fugitives back to country, says MEA on Mehul Choksi issue||The Ministry of External Affairs on Thursday said India remains steadfast in its resolve that fugitives of the country are brought back and all efforts would continue to bring back Mehul Choksi, who is wanted in a major banking fraud here. "He (Choksi) is currently in the custody of Dominica where some legal proceedings are underway. We will continue to ensure that he is brought back to India," MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told reporters here at an online press briefing. He was replying to a batch of questions regarding Choksi, who had fled to Antigua but was recently found in Dominica. To another question regarding Palestine foreign minister Riad Malki writing to Indian External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to protest against India's decision to abstain from voting at UNHRC on Gaza violence, the MEA spokesperson said the position that India took was not new and the country has abstained on the previous occasions also. He also said Palestine has written similar letters to all countries that abstained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-steadfast-in-resolve-to-bring-fugitives-back-to-country-says-mea-on-mehul-choksi-issue-993393.html
03-06-2021||National||Shiv Sena activist posted controversial tweet, says Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar||Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Thursday said that a tweet from her Twitter handle, which triggered a controversy over the use of objectionable language, was posted by a Shiv Sena activist in a "fit of anger". The BJP, however, demanded an apology from the mayor over the tweet. Talking to reporters here, Pednekar, a Shiv Sena leader, said while she was attending a function in the Bandra-Kurla Complex here on Wednesday, her mobile phone was handed over to a party activist who posted the tweet. However, when she got her phone back, she immediately deleted the tweet, the mayor said. A row erupted on Wednesday when a Twitter user posed a question to the mayor about the status of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) global Covid-19 vaccine supply contract on the social media platform. "Tuzya Bapala" (to your father), replied Pednekar when the Twitter user asked "Contract konala dila??" (to whom contract has been given) while commenting on a Marathi news channel's tweet regarding the BMC's global tender on Covid-19 vaccine supply. Pednekar later deleted the objectionable tweet, but by that time it had gone viral on social media platforms. On Thursday, she said the Sena activist posted the tweet in a "fit of anger", but she immediately deleted it after she got her phone back and has also cautioned him against such acts. "I have learnt a lesson from this that the mobile phone should not be handed over even to a person even if he/she is close to you," Pednekar said. After the tweet went viral, opposition parties criticised the mayor over the post. BJP leader Kirit Somaiya on Thursday demanded an apology from Pednekar over the tweet. "I request the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Shiv Sena and Mumbai mayor to clarify whether it was really the reaction of mayor herself," he said. The mayor should tender an apology over her remark, the former BJP MP said. A three-time corporator from Lower Parel in South Mumbai, Pednekar was elected the 77th mayor of the city in 2019. She is also one of the spokespersons of the Shiv Sena, which has been ruling the Mumbai civic body, which goes to polls in early 2022, since more than two decades. During the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, Pednekar received praise from citizens for visiting hospitals and care centres without worrying about her life. Last year, she donned a nurse's uniform to boost the morale of health workers and other Covid-19 worriers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shiv-sena-activist-posted-controversial-tweet-says-mumbai-mayor-kishori-pednekar-993395.html
03-06-2021||National||PM Modi surprises students by joining online CBSE session||In a surprise interaction with class-12 students and their parents, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday asked them to utilise their time in a productive and creative manner following the cancellation of their exams and said they should never feel stressed about any examination. Joining the online interaction organised by the Education Ministry, Modi asked them how they are feeling following the cancellation of the board exams in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and what are they planning to do now. The prime minister asked the students whether they will watch IPL, Champion's League, or wait for the Olympics. He also told students that they should always remember the mantra of 'health is wealth' and enquired what do they do to remain physically fit. Several students shared their experiences with the prime minister about how the announcement brought relief for them and ended a long spell of uncertainty.  Modi told the students that the decision to cancel exams was taken in their interest Some parents also shared their thoughts about how students can focus now on their college admissions. The government on Tuesday decided to cancel the CBSE class 12 board exams amid the continuing Covid-19 pandemic across the country with Modi asserting that the decision was taken in the interest of students and the anxiety among students, parents and teachers must be put to an end. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Modi in which it was decided that the CBSE will take steps to compile the results of Class 12 students according to a well-defined objective criteria in a time-bound manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-surprises-students-by-joining-online-cbse-session-993401.html
03-06-2021||National||Antigua and Barbuda prefers repatriation of Choksi from Dominica to India directly, as per local media||Antigua and Barbuda prefer that fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi be repatriated from Dominica to India directly, the Cabinet of the Caribbean island country decided in a meeting, local media reported.  The Cabinet minutes published by local media show that "Choksi matter" was one of the agenda items discussed during the meeting on Wednesday where it was held that the business is now "problem" of Dominica and if he comes back to Antigua and Barbuda "problem reverts" to it. The meeting chaired by Prime Minister Gaston Browne and attended by all his ministers decided that law enforcement officials will continue to gather intelligence in the circumstances of Choksi's "departure" from Antigua, a media outlet Antigua Breaking News said.  "The preference of the Cabinet of Antigua and Barbuda is for Choksi to be repatriated to India from Dominica," the Cabinet minutes said. Later, speaking to media Information Minister Melford Nicholas said intelligence agencies briefed the Cabinet on the circumstances leading to Choksi's disappearance from Antigua and Barbuda but refused to say anything further calling the information classified.  When asked about the mystery woman allegedly involved in the disappearance, he said he cannot speculate on the matter. Choksi had mysteriously gone missing on May 23 from Antigua and Barbuda where he has been staying since 2018 as a citizen. He was detained in neighbouring island country Dominica for illegal entry after a possible romantic escapade with his rumoured girlfriend. His lawyers alleged that he was kidnapped from Jolly Harbour in Antigua by policemen looking like Antiguan and Indian and brought to Dominica on a boat. A Dominica High Court is hearing a habeas corpus petition filed on behalf of Choksi challenging his illegal detention. He was also brought before a Roseau magistrate, on the orders of High Court, to answer charges of illegal entry where he pleaded not guilty but was denied bail. Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi had fled India in the first week of January 2018 weeks before Rs 13,500 crore scam in Punjab National Bank rocked Indian banking industry. The duo allegedly bribed the officials of state run bank to get Letters of Undertaking on the basis of which they availed from overseas banks which remained unpaid. The allegedly corrupt officials did not enter these LoUs in the core banking software of PNB thus evading any scrutiny. The non payment of these LoUs or bank guarantees worth Rs 13,500 crore resulted in default and became a liability on bank. Modi escaped to Europe and was finally held in London where he is contesting his extradition to India while Choksi took citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda in 2017 where he had been staying since his escape from Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/antigua-and-barbuda-prefers-repatriation-of-choksi-from-dominica-to-india-directly-as-per-local-media-993404.html
03-06-2021||National||Plea in HC to stay Covaxin trial on children||A plea has been moved in the Delhi High Court seeking stay on the phase II/III clinical trials of Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine on the 2-18 age group. The application was moved in a petition filed in May for setting aside the permission granted by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to Bharat Biotech for conducting trials of its vaccine on children. The petitioner, Sanjeev Kumar, has claimed in his application that while the issue was pending before the high court with notices issued to the Centre and Bharat Biotech, the trials have commenced from June. He has said, in his plea, that since the court did not grant stay when it heard the matter, the government was going ahead with the trials. Kumar has contended that on July 15, the next date of hearing of the petition, the government and the company would say that the trials have commenced and thus, the plea challenging the permission granted by DCGI would become infructuous. The trial will be conducted on 525 healthy volunteers and the vaccine will be given by intramuscular route in two doses at day 0 (the first day) and day 28, according to the Health Ministry. Covaxin, which has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is being used on adults in India's ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive. Kumar, in his main petition, has raised an apprehension that the children who would be part of the trial could suffer adverse health or mental effects due to the testing of the vaccine on them. He has claimed that the children, who would be the test subjects, cannot be termed as volunteers as they are not capable of understanding the consequences of the trial for consenting to the same. Conducting the trial on healthy children would amount to "homicide", the petition has claimed and has sought criminal prosecution of the persons involved in such trials or those authorised to conduct the same, in the event of death or "loss of peaceful and pleasant enjoyment of life" of any of the toddlers or minors who are part of the trial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-hc-to-stay-covaxin-trial-on-children-993405.html
03-06-2021||National||Ex-CEA Arvind Subramanian to join Brown University as senior fellow||Former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian, who had resigned as a professor at Ashoka University in March this year, will join Brown University's Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs as a senior fellow on July 1. Subramanian, an eminent economist, had joined the Ashoka University as a professor in the Department of Economics in July 2020 and put in his papers on March 18 this year. His resignation came soon after political commentator Pratap Bhanu Mehta left the Sonipat, Haryana-based university. "Delighted to announce that on July 1, Arvind Subramanian will join @BrownUniversity as a senior fellow @WatsonInstitute, in partnership with @SouthAsianBrown. We greatly look forward to his teaching and intellectual affiliation with us. Welcome @arvindsubraman!," Ashutosh Varshney, Director, Center for Contemporary South Asia, Brown University, said in a tweet. Mehta, in his resignation letter to the Ashoka University, had said: "After a meeting with the founders, it has become abundantly clear to me that my association with the university may be considered a political liability. My public writing in support of a politics that tries to honour the constitutional values of freedom and equal respect for all citizens is perceived to carry risks for the university."             "It is clear it is time for me to leave Ashoka. A liberal university will need a liberal political and social context to flourish. I hope the university will play a role in securing that environment," he wrote. Subramanian was appointed as the chief economic advisor to the government on October 16, 2014, for a period of three years. He was given an extension in 2017. However, he quit the job with close to one year of his tenure remaining and returned to the US. Subramanian's official contract was till May 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-cea-arvind-subramanian-to-join-brown-university-as-senior-fellow-993417.html
03-06-2021||National||Not right time to talk about vaccine supply abroad: India||As the demand for Covid-19 vaccines rises globally, India on Thursday said it would not be right to talk about the supply of jabs to other countries at the moment as it is currently ramping up domestic production for its own inoculation programme. Elaborating steps taken by the government to augment vaccine supply for domestic use, Spokesperson at the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Arindam Bagchi said India remains engaged with US vaccine manufacturers like Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, and Moderna as part of this effort. "I just responded to a series of questions on what steps the government has taken to ensure adequate supply of vaccines from abroad. I think you will appreciate that against this background, it would not be right to talk about the supply of vaccines abroad just now as we have repeatedly conveyed," he said. "We are currently purposing domestic vaccine production for our own vaccination programme," Bagchi. After it started its own inoculation programme in January, India also supplied vaccine to other countries. In response to a question in Lok Sabha on March 23, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said India has supplied 600 million doses to 76 countries under the 'Vaccine-Maitri' initiative. Of the 600 million doses, around 341 million doses were supplied on commercial basis, while around 177 doses were supplied to GAVI's COVAX. The remaining 81 million were supplied as grant. However, it came to a halt after the deadly second wave of the coronavirus hit the country, killing thousands. The government also received flak for exporting jabs. However, the vaccine export ban by India has led to shortage in other countries. The government has been in talks with the US over the shortage of vaccines in the country. "We are also engaged with the US Administration to ensure that necessary components and raw materials for vaccine production in India are readily available. This issue was taken up most recently during External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's visit to the USA. It is in our mutual interest to combat the global pandemic by expediting vaccination efforts," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-right-time-to-talk-about-vaccine-supply-abroad-india-993418.html
03-06-2021||National||US Vice President Kamala Harris assures PM Modi of Covid-19 vaccine supplies over phone call||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and United States Vice President Kamala Harris spoke over the phone on Thursday. Harris informed Modi about the United States' plans to make anti-Covid-19 vaccines available to India and other countries under its "Strategy for Global Vaccine Sharing", which was announced by President Joe Biden in Washington DC on Thursday. Modi expressed his appreciation to the US Vice President for the decision of the Biden-Harris administration, as well as for all other forms of support and solidarity that New Delhi had received in recent days from Washington DC, businesses and the Indian-American community to respond to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Spoke to @VP Kamala Harris a short while ago. I deeply appreciate the assurance of vaccine supplies to India as part of the US Strategy for Global Vaccine Sharing,” Modi posted on Twitter. They discussed ongoing efforts to strengthen the health supply chain between the US and India, including in the area of vaccine manufacturing. They highlighted the potential of the India-US partnership as well as the Quad vaccine initiative in addressing the long-term health impact of the pandemic, according to a press release issued by the Prime Minister’s Office. The Prime Minister expressed the hope to welcome the US Vice President Harris in India soon after the normalisation of the global health situation. This was Harris's first phone call with Modi after she took over as the US Vice President on January 20 this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-vice-president-kamala-harris-assures-pm-modi-of-covid-19-vaccine-supplies-over-phone-call-993430.html
03-06-2021||National||HC to pronounce order on Juhi Chawla’s suit against 5G technology on June 4||The Delhi High Court is scheduled to pronounce on Friday its order on a lawsuit by actress-environmentalist Juhi Chawla against the setting up of 5G wireless networks in the country. Justice J R Midha will pass the order on the plea which has sought a direction to the authorities to certify to the public at large that how 5G technology is safe to humans, animals and every type of living organism, flora and fauna. During the arguments, the court had termed as “defective” the lawsuit and said it was filed for “media publicity”. It had also questioned Chawla for filing the suit without giving any representation to the government on her concerns related to the technology. The court had said the plaintiffs, Chawla and social worker Veeresh Malik and Teena Vachani, were required to first approach the government for their rights and if denied, they should come to the court. It had asked as to why as many as 33 parties have been added to the plaint and said it is not permitted under the law. The counsel for the Department of Telecommunications had said the 5G policy does not fall in the category of public nuisance and it is obviously not prohibited in law. The counsel representing private telecom companies had said launching of 5G technology is a policy of the government and as it is a policy, it cannot be a wrongful act. On the issue of public nuisance, he said it has to be first established by the plaintiffs that the policy is a public nuisance and they cannot just make averments and get the relief. The plaintiffs counsel had said that if the telecom industry’s plans for 5G come to fruition, no person, animal, bird, insect and plant on earth will be able to avoid exposure, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, to levels of RF radiation that are 10x to 100x times greater than what exists today. “This suit will reveal a complete sell-out by the regulatory agencies who, statutorily, have been tasked to protect the health and life of the public, but whose actions reveal an utter derogation of their own statutory duty in order to advance private interests...,” the plea has alleged. “Since ‘prevention’ is well-accepted to be far better than ‘cure’, immediate measures must be taken to protect humanity and the environment, in accordance with ethical imperatives as well as formal international agreements, before such harm is actually unleashed,” it said. The plea said that in April 2019, Brussels became the first major city in the world to halt any further steps in the 5G rollout on account of health hazards. “In fact, as recently as on May 5, 2021, the Parliament of Belgium, still not willing to allow 5G rollout in Brussels, invited 45 ordinary citizens drawn at random to address it on their concerns, assuring them that the 5G roll-out will not be permitted till they are heard by Parliament and their concerns are properly and fully addressed,” it said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-to-pronounce-order-on-juhi-chawla-s-suit-against-5g-technology-on-june-4-993436.html
03-06-2021||National||Bengaluru boys shine in PM Modi's impromptu interaction with CBSE students||The students appeared floored by the Prime Minister’s presence and lost no opportunity to thank him for canceling the Class 12 CBSE examinations due to the ongoing pandemic. “Hope I have not disturbed you. You were having fun,” Modi said joining the virtual meeting. Modi had a candid interaction with the students about their hobbies and exercise routines. “Sar salamat to pagdi hazaar,” was how Abhiram, a student of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Malleshwaram reacted when Modi asked him to express his views. He said besides studies he practiced yoga with his brother for 30 minutes every morning to keep fit in the time of pandemic. Nandan Hegde, another Benglaurean, welcomed the decision to cancel the Class 12 CBSE examination saying that these were certainly not the last exams the students would appear for. “There are many more exams to go. Health is also important,”’ he said. Modi exhorted the parents and the students to speak on any issue other than the Board exams and there was a need to set aside the anxieties and look forward. A fawning mother told the Prime Minister that it was a dream come true to interact with him. “Meeting you was much more greater than a meeting with Shahrukh Khan,” she said. Modi sought to know whether the students would spend time watching IPL, Olympics or Champion’s League matches now that the exams were canceled. Some parents also shared their thoughts about how students can focus now on their college admissions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengaluru-boys-shine-in-pm-modis-impromptu-interaction-with-cbse-students-993438.html
03-06-2021||National||Covid-19 relief package: Free ration provided to 55 crore people in May||The government on Thursday said it has provided 28 lakh tonne foodgrains free of cost to about 55 crore beneficiaries in May through ration shops under a scheme to provide relief to the people during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Also, about 1.3 lakh tonne of wheat and rice have been provided to 2.6 crore beneficiaries so far in June under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana. The information was provided by Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey at a media briefing. Elaborating on the implementation of the PMGKAY scheme, he said more than 63.67 lakh tonne foodgrains (around 80 per cent of total PMGKAY allocation for May and June 2021) have been lifted by states and UTs from FCI (Food Corporation of India) depot so far. Under the PMGKAY, the Centre is distributing free foodgrains for two months (May-June 2021). It is providing 5kg per person per month to approximately 79.39 crore beneficiaries covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). Nearly 80 lakh tonne foodgrains have to be issued under the PMGKAY scheme. This distribution is over and above the regular allocation to beneficiaries under the food law. "Around 28 lakh tonne foodgrains have been distributed by 34 States/UTs to around 55 crore NFSA beneficiaries for May 2021 and around 1.3 Lakh MT foodgrains have been distributed to around 2.6 Crore NFSA beneficiaries for June 2021, after following due Covid protocols," Pandey said. According to him, as of Thursday, under National Food Security Act, foodgrains have been distributed to around 90 per cent and 12 per cent of NFSA beneficiaries for May and June 2021, respectively, incurring a food subsidy of more than Rs 13,000 crore for May and June 2021. The food subsidy incurred for PMGKAY, so far, is more than Rs 9,200 crore for May and June 2021. Emphasising the importance of the 'One Nation One Ration Card' (ONORC), the secretary said it is an ambitious plan and endeavour of the department to introduce the nationwide portability of ration cards under the NFSA. Pandey said that currently, a monthly average of about 1.35 crore portability transactions are being recorded under the ONORC plan (including intra-state transactions). Further, a total of nearly 27.8 crore portability transactions have taken place all across states and UTs since the inception of the ONORC plan from August 2019, out of which almost 19.8 crore portability transactions have been recorded during the COVID-19 period (April 2020 to May 2021). Given the potential of the ONORC plan to ensure the access to NFSA foodgrains to migrant beneficiaries during the Covid-19 crisis, the food ministry "has been continuously pursuing with States/ UTs through video conference meetings/advisories/ letters etc to implement the programme to its full potential by proactively reaching out to the migrant beneficiaries, said an official release. Pandey also said ONORC has already been implemented in 32 states and UTs. He expects that the remaining four states and UTs -- Assam, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal and Delhi -- too would be implementing the scheme in the next few months. Bihar, Rajashtan and Andhra Pradesh are the top-performing states in ONORC transactions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-relief-package-free-ration-provided-to-55-crore-people-in-may-993439.html
03-06-2021||National||Disengagement process along LAC remains unfinished: India||The process of disengagement along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) remains unfinished and its early completion in the remaining areas could lead to de-escalation of forces in eastern Ladakh, which could pave the way for full restoration of peace and tranquillity, India said on Thursday. Responding to a question on China increasing its military deployment and raising new infrastructure at friction points along LAC, Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said, "The process of disengagement remains unfinished." India and China have agreed that in the interim they would maintain stability on the ground and avoid any new incidents, he said. "It is our expectation, therefore, that neither side should do anything that is not in keeping with these understandings." "An early completion of disengagement in the remaining areas could lead to de-escalation of forces in eastern Ladakh, which would hopefully lead to full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas and enable overall progress in the bilateral relationship," Bagchi said. India and China reached a five-point agreement to resolve the eastern Ladakh border standoff during talks between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi at a meeting in Moscow on September 10 on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) conclave. The pact included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC. India and China are locked in a military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year but they have completed withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. There was no visible forward movement in disengagement of troops in the remaining friction points as the Chinese side did not show flexibility in their approach on it at the 11th round of military talks with the Indian Army on April 9. There were reports of China further strengthening its positions in some of the friction points.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disengagement-process-along-lac-remains-unfinished-india-993451.html
03-06-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: More than 2K Uttarakhand police infected in second wave despite being vaccinated||More than 2,000 Uttarakhand police personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 during our nation’s brutal second wave, even though 93 per cent of them had been completely vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-more-than-2k-uttarakhand-police-infected-in-second-wave-despite-being-vaccinated-993459.html
03-06-2021||National||Issuance of national permit for trucks to be online from next month||Truck owners need not to visit RTOs for applying and obtaining national permit for vehicles from next month onwards as the process will be made online. The entire process will be made online through Vahan portal of Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, said an official from the Ministry. The Ministry has already sent and advisory to states on the issue. As soon as the application is loaded by applicant, the portal is designed in such a way that the application will be automatically forwarded to the concered RTOs concerned. After receiving the auto mails, it will be the responsibility of the RTOs to forward it to concerned and issue permit, said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/issuance-of-national-permit-for-trucks-to-be-online-from-next-month-993463.html
03-06-2021||National||Domestic air passenger traffic nosedives to 19.20 lakh in May, as per a report||Domestic air traffic nosedived to 19.20 lakh passengers in May from around 57.3 lakh in April, registering a sharp 65-67 per cent month-on-month contraction on account of the second wave of the pandemic, a report said on Thursday. With such a sharp fall, the domestic passenger traffic reached lower than the June-July 2020 levels, rating agency Icra said. At the same time, the airlines' capacity deployment for May was lower by around 54-55 per cent 27,700 departures, compared to about 60,300 departures in April this year, indicating the lower demand stemming from averseness of consumers to travel due to the rise in infections, it said. For May 2021, the average daily departures were around 900, significantly lower than around 2,000 in April 2021. The average number of passengers per flight during May was 72, against an average of 93 passengers per flight in April 2021, said Kinjal Shah, Vice President and Co-Group Head at Icra. “The gradual decline depicts the continuing stress on demand, driven largely by the second wave of Covid-19, limiting travel to only necessary travel, while both leisure and business travel have been curtailed due to various state-wide restrictions and the spread of the infections,” she noted. The international passenger traffic, which is being carried out under Vande Bharat Mission and air bubble pacts with various countries in the absence of regular commercial international flight services since late March last year, stood at around 1.4 lakh, a sequential decline of around 96 per cent, the report said. This was due to the cancellation of flights to/from India by many countries like the US, the UK, Singapore, Kuwait, France, Canada, Australia, Iran, Indonesia and the UAE, which had air bubble pact or are under the VBM, citing the increasing coronavirus cases, it added. The international operations through VBM or the ATB route were the only source of revenue for airlines and the cancellation of flights by the destination countries will further impact the beleaguered domestic carriers, the agency noted. After ramping up the domestic capacity deployment for airlines from 33 per cent in late May last year to 80 per cent in December, the civil aviation ministry has again reduced it to 50 per cent of pre-Covid levels with effect from June 1 due to resurgence of the second wave of the pandemic following the domestic airlines urging the government to allow to do so amid weak demand. Along with this, the ministry also raised the lower limit on fares by 13 to 16 per cent, while keeping the upper fare band limit unchanged. Since the demand for domestic travel itself is lower, the reduced capacity is unlikely to have any material impact on the airline operations, according to Icra. The lower airfare band has been increased by around 13-15 per cent, keeping the upper limits unchanged. This will allow airlines to recoup some part of the increase in aviation turbine fuel (ATF) prices, thereby cushioning some impact on the airlines' losses, the rating agency said. According to Icra, the fare increase may not materially impact the passenger traffic demand as in the current scenario, the travel is limited to only necessary travel. The inclusion of the aviation sector under ECLGS 3.0, which provides airlines access to additional funding to the extent of 40 per cent of their loan outstanding or Rs 200 crore, whichever is lower, at an attractive interest rate, will provide the much-needed-liquidity support to the airlines to help them manage their cash flows in the near-term.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/domestic-air-passenger-traffic-nosedives-to-1920-lakh-in-may-as-per-a-report-993480.html
03-06-2021||National||CVC seeks mandatory vigilance before offering jobs to retired govt employees||The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) has asked all government organisations to mandatorily take vigilance clearance before offering jobs to retired officials, warning against the "serious misconduct" of taking up jobs in the private sector without observing the mandatory cooling off period after retirement. The CVC said retired officials, on some occasions, take up full-time job/contractual assignments in the private sector, immediately after retirement from government organisations. "Post-retirement acceptance of offers by retired government officials without observing cooling-off period, constitutes serious misconduct on their part," the anti-corruption watchdog said in an order issued on Thursday. The order asked government organisations to formulate appropriate rules and guidelines for employees to ensure that this does not happen. It also said rules and guidelines should incorporate the procedure for seeking or obtaining permission before accepting offers from private sector entities during the cooling-off period, if not in existence. The government organisations should also revise or modify existing provisions to ensure that appropriate action can be initiated in case of violation of rules. The CVC said, "There is no defined procedure for seeking vigilance inputs before engaging retired government officials from the organisations where such retired officials were employed on full-time basis, prior to their retirement." The absence of a uniform defined procedure leads to a situation where officials with tainted past or with pending cases against them are engaged by the government organisations, the order said. "Such a situation not only leads to unnecessary complaints/allegations of favouritism but is also against the tenets of fairness and probity which is the basic principle governing," it said. "In respect of retired officers belonging to all India services, Group A officers of central government or their equivalent in other organisations owned or controlled by central government, before offering employment to them on contractual/consultancy basis, vigilance clearance from the employer organisation, from which the government officer had retired, should be necessarily obtained," the CVC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cvc-seeks-mandatory-vigilance-before-offering-jobs-to-retired-govt-employees-993491.html
03-06-2021||National||India unlikely to get much out of first tranche of US vaccine donation||India is unlikely to get much out of the first tranche of Covid-19 vaccines the United States will send out to other countries. The Covax is an initiative of the World Health Organization, Gavi – The Vaccine Alliance and others to ensure equitable access to anti-Covid-19 jabs around the world. The US decided to allocate through Covax 75% of the total 80 million doses of the anti-Covid-19 vaccines it would donate to other nations. Out of its first tranche of 25 million vaccines, it would send out 19 million through Covax, including approximately six million for South and Central America, seven million for Asia and five million for Africa.  India, Nepal, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Maldives, Malaysia, Philippines, Vietnam, Indonesia, Thailand, Laos, Papua New Guinea, Taiwan, and the Pacific Islands are the nations, which will share the seven million doses the US earmarked to be sent out to Asia through the Covax. New Delhi was hoping that a large share of the vaccines to be sent out by the US would come to India and partially help make up for the shortages of the jabs. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar was on a tour to Washington DC last week when he held meetings with US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and Secretary of State Anthony Blinken and proposed an India-America vaccine partnership. He also discussed with the US officials about the Biden Administration’s decision to send out 80 million Covid-19 vaccines to foreign countries. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government, however, is also continuing talks with the US companies, like Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson, for import and local manufacturing of Covid-19 vaccines. The Biden Administration a few weeks back announced that it would start sending out its stockpile of 60 million doses of the anti-Covid-19 vaccines developed by the Oxford University and the AstraZeneca plc to other countries. The US President, himself, said on May 5 that about 10% of the AstraZeneca vaccines in the possession of the American Government would be sent out to India, Brazil and other countries by July 4. AstraZeneca has not asked for authorisation for use of its vaccine in the US, hence it is unlikely to be used over the next few months for inoculating the Americans. But unless the US Food and Drug Administration conducts a quality check on the vaccine made in plants in America, the Biden Administration would not be able to start sending out the doses to any foreign country. Biden again said on May 17 that the US would send out an additional 20 million doses of the anti-Covid-19 vaccines, not just the ones developed by AstraZeneca, but also the ones from Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson’s.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-unlikely-to-get-much-out-of-first-tranche-of-us-vaccine-donation-993510.html
03-06-2021||National||PM Modi to chair meeting of CSIR society on June 4||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a meeting of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) Society on Friday via video conferencing, his office said.  The society is part of the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research under the Ministry of Science and Technology. Its activities are carried out through 37 laboratories and 39 outreach centres spread across India, the PMO noted, adding that eminent scientists, industrialists and senior officials form part of the society, which meets annually.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-chair-meeting-of-csir-society-on-june-4-993512.html
03-06-2021||National||DH Toon | Don't worry! Mandir wahi ban raha hai!||It appeared to be smooth sailing towards a second massive assembly poll victory in 2022 for the BJP in Uttar Pradesh — until the second wave of Covid-19 struck the country and its most populous state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-dont-worry-mandir-wahi-ban-raha-hai-993523.html
03-06-2021||National||Apology to god for our sins can help eliminate Covid-19, says Samajwadi Party MP||Terming the pandemic as “azaab-e-ilahi” (punishment of god), Samajwadi Party MP Shafiqur Rehman Barq here on Thursday said only apology to the almighty could help getting rid of it. “If the coronavirus were a disease, there would have been some treatment for it. It is not a disease but 'azaab-e-ilahi',” he told media. “We have all made mistakes. Muslims should sit in the court of Allah and Hindu brothers in the feet of God and pray for forgiveness for their sins. Only then will we get rid of Corona,” Barq said. Levelling serious allegations against the ruling BJP, he said that the saffron party was responsible for heinous crimes like murder, rape and mob lynching. “BJP is getting people murdered and lynched…it is getting men to rape women,” he said. “All these mistakes are also responsible for the havoc of Corona,” he added. He said the BJP would be subjected to questions and criticism as it was in power. “Many government policies have gone wrong but people make mistakes and they should be rectified. The current BJP government will be asked questions about the wrong policies as they are in power,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/apology-to-god-for-our-sins-can-help-eliminate-covid-19-says-samajwadi-party-mp-993531.html
03-06-2021||National Politics||BJP asks if AAP govt 'fudged' Delhi's Covid death tally, seeks white paper||The BJP on Thursday demanded a white paper from Delhi’s Aam Aadmi Party government on issues related to Covid-19, asking if the number of deaths was "fudged" to keep the official tally down and what were the reasons for the city’s high death rate. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra hit out at Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal over "unaccounted" deaths, citing a media report that municipal corporations in Delhi had issued 34,750 death certificates for April and May while the official Covid tally for the period was 13,201. "We want to hold the AAP accountable for what has happened," Patra said, accusing it of hiding the real tally. Addressing a virtual press conference, he noted that the number of death certificates for the corresponding period last year was 9,916, marking a rise of about 250 per cent this year. April and May saw the peak of the second wave of the pandemic. "Who are these people (whose deaths remain unaccounted for) as Delhi government does not want to even name them," Patra said, noting that many experts have sought an audit of these deaths. The fatality rate of 2.9 per cent in Delhi is more than double the overall national rate of 1.3 per cent, he said. "Did you fudge death numbers... You issue a white paper on the questions being raised by us," Patra said, addressing Kejriwal. The BJP leader also wondered why Delhi recorded over 14.25 lakh Covid cases when a state like Haryana, which has more population and area, has only 7.55 lakh cases. According to Patra, Kejriwal now claims his government is preparing for the third wave but people have no faith in him. Taking a swipe at the state government's recent announcement that liquor will be home delivered, Patra alleged that the promised oxygen cylinders have not been delivered at home but liquor will be. The BJP spokesperson asked if Covid testing was kept deliberately low when the pandemic was at its peak during April-May to "protect" the AAP government's image. He also questioned the government on why no new hospital was opened in the city during 2015-19. Patra dubbed the Delhi government minister Gopal Rai's reported comments about planting trees to avoid oxygen crisis "ignorant and insensitive". Raising the issue of the AAP and the Congress supporting farmer protests, he said the continuing stir made the venues where protestors have been camping fertile for spreading the infection. The AAP government should also address the issue of the plight of migrants in its white paper, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-asks-if-aap-govt-fudged-delhis-covid-death-tally-seeks-white-paper-993301.html
03-06-2021||National Politics||PM Modi calls Mukul Roy, enquires about his wife's health||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday called BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy to enquire about his wife’s health, who is currently hospitalized with post-Covid complications. Confirming the development, Roy’s son Subhangshu said, "The Prime Minister called my father and spoke to him regarding my mother’s health condition around 10.30 am.” The fact that the Prime Minister’s call to Roy comes a day after Trinamool Congress MP and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee visited his wife at the hospital, has sparked speculations about the political future of Roy. Subhrangshu heaped praises on Abhishek for his cordial behavior. "Abhishek’s visit to my mother was not just a courtesy call, but an outcome of his genuine concern. He always considered my mother as his aunt.” Speaking to reporters earlier in the day, Abhishek said he knew Roy’s wife since childhood and she is “like a mother” to him. Subhrangshu said Mamata Banerjee had also enquired about his mother’s health. His comments assume significance as, recently in an apparent dig at the state BJP leadership, he stated that “before criticising a government elected with people’s support, introspection is the need of the hour”. Roy, who was de-facto number two in the TMC, before joining the BJP in November 2017, is considered to be the ‘Chanakya’ of Bengal politics, did not seem to be much involved in BJP’s strategising for the Assembly elections, and was mainly confined to the Krishnanagar North constituency where he was fielded by the BJP. Although Roy emerged victorious, Subhrangshu failed to win from Bijpur constituency. He represented the constituency as a TMC MLA, before following in his father’s footsteps and joining the BJP in 2019. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh, however, refused to attribute much importance to Abhishek’s visit to Roy’s wife. "They (Abhishek and Roy’s wife) are old acquaintances. They can meet each other anytime,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-calls-mukul-roy-enquires-about-his-wifes-health-993375.html
03-06-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi steps in to tame Punjab fire||As a factional feud raged in the Punjab Congress, Rahul Gandhi on Thursday stepped in to seek an update from the three-member panel set up to iron out differences ahead of the Assembly elections early next year. Before meeting the Kharge panel, Singh, who reached the national capital on Thursday afternoon, held deliberations with Congress MPs from Punjab here. A section of the Congress led by Navjot Singh Sidhu have opened a front against the chief minister over his style of functioning and handling of the sacrilege issue related to the alleged desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib and the police firing on protestors in 2015. The Kharge panel, which has AICC General Secretary in-charge of Punjab Harish Rawat and senior leader J P Agarwal as members, is scheduled to meet the chief minister on Friday morning. The panel held talks with party MLAs, MPs and senior leaders including Ambika Soni, to seek their views about the party affairs in the state. “We are trying to narrow down the differences and contest the 2022 elections as a united force,” Rawat told reporters here. Meanwhile, the AICC set in motion the reshuffle of the organisation by appointing Urdu poet Imran Pratapgarhi as the Chairman of the AICC Minority Department. Pratapgarhi, who unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha elections of 2019 from Uttar Pradesh, succeeds Nadeem Javed. Besides, Congress President Sonia Gandhi also appointed four AICC Secretaries – Saptagiri Ulaka, Dipika Pandey-Singh, Imran Masood and Brijlal Khabri with directive to assist AICC incharges in Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Bihar respectively. AICC Secretary Sanjay Dutt has been tasked with assisting Rajiv Shukla who is incharge of Himachal Pradesh. Earlier, Dutt was in-charge of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-steps-in-to-tame-punjab-fire-993435.html
03-06-2021||National Politics||Alliances, choice of candidates led to Congress' loss in Assembly polls: Chavan panel||Choice of coalition partners, ticket distribution and weak organisation were some of the reasons cited by a five-member Congress panel for the party’s dismal performance in the recent round of assembly elections. The five-member panel, with Maharashtra Minister Ashok Chavan as the convenor, submitted the report of the party’s performance in Kerala, Puducherry and Assam to Congress President Sonia Gandhi. A report of the West Bengal whitewash will be submitted soon as deliberations were still on with the leaders. The Chavan Committee with Salman Khurshid, Manish Tewari, Vincent Pala and Jothimani as members was constituted after the meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on May 10 to assess reasons for the party’s shock defeat in Assam and Kerala – two states where it had pinned hopes on a victory. The Congress also lost the elections in Puducherry and failed to open its account in West Bengal where it was the second largest party in the state assembly. The Chavan Committee interacted with key leaders of the party in the three states, winning and unsuccessful candidates, district presidents among others. The committee members interacted with 150 members from the three states and held comprehensive deliberations to understand the reasons for the party’s defeat. Chavan submitted the report on the three states – Assam, Kerala and Puducherry – to the Congress President on June 1 and made suggestions to strengthen the party. Asked about the reports, Congress spokesman Abhishek Manu Singhvi termed it as the first step of the exercise to understand the reason for the party’s defeat. He said the next step would be to analyse the reports and take remedial steps. Gandhi had said at the CWC meeting that the Committee would look at every aspect of recent electoral reverses and come back with its findings. “These will yield uncomfortable lessons, but if we do not face up to the reality, if we do not look the facts in the face, we will not draw the right lessons,” she had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/alliances-choice-of-candidates-led-to-congress-loss-in-assembly-polls-chavan-panel-993502.html
03-06-2021||North and Central||Militant who shot at cop killed in encounter in Pulwama||A surrendered militant, who shot at and injured a constable inside a police camp in the Tral area of Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama district, was killed in a gunbattle with security forces in the early hours of Thursday, officials said. Mohammad Amin Malik was shot dead by the security forces following an overnight encounter, a police official said. The gunbattle between the surrendered militant and police broke out inside the Special Operations Group (SOG) camp in Tral on Wednesday evening. Malik allegedly snatched the rifle of constable Amjid Khan and shot at him. Khan was injured in the incident and evacuated to a hospital here for treatment. The ultra then hid himself inside the camp along with the rifle. The officials said Malik, a resident of Nagbal in the Tral area, had surrendered before security forces on May 30 along with a .12 bore rifle. The security forces tried to persuade the militant to surrender on Wednesday and even called his parents to convince him to lay down the arms, the officials said, adding that Malik, however, refused the offer. He started firing towards the positions of the security personnel, who retaliated, leading to his death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militant-who-shot-at-cop-killed-in-encounter-in-pulwama-993218.html
03-06-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh Board cancels class 12 exams||The Uttar Pradesh Board on Thursday cancelled the class 12 examination. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in which Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma, who holds charge of Secondary Education department, was also present. Additional Chief Secretary, Information, Navneet Sehgal told PTI that "examination for the UP board class 12 has been cancelled." Nearly 26 lakh candidates are registered for the class 12 board exams in the state. The state had last month cancelled class 10 UP Board exam following which nearly 30 lakh candidates, who had registered for it, were promoted to class 11. Many state boards have cancelled the class 12 exam after the Union government on Tuesday decided to cancel the CBSE Class 12 board exams amid the Covid-19 pandemic with Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserting that the decision has been taken in the interest of students and that the anxiety among students, parents and teachers must be put to an end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-board-cancels-class-12-exams-993260.html
03-06-2021||North and Central||Involve private doctors’ clinics in Covid-19 vaccination: OMAG||The federation of medical organisations has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to involve the private doctors and their clinics in India’s vaccination programme. There are 12,50,000 MBBS doctors and 4,50,000 post-graduate doctors besides lakhs from AYUSH or alternate medicines. The Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG), which is the federation of medical organisations, said involving private doctors and their clinics would give a major boost to and speed up the drive. “More than half of them are in the private sector and also have their clinics. They have been involved in vaccination programmes for other vaccines. As such, they can be utilised and authorised to carry out Covid vaccination,” OMAG secretary-general Dr Ishwar Gilada said. “Ironically, vaccinations are happening at workplaces, housing societies, community halls, grounds, and drive-ins, but private medical practitioners are not allowed to carry out vaccination,” Gilada said. Besides, he appealed that those who spread anti-vaccine rumours and misguide people, should be dealt with under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 and Disaster Management act 2005. On the issue of vaccine waste, OMAG pointed out: “Vaccine wastage cannot be tolerated and any wastage more than 2% is not acceptable. In fact, each vial of 5 ml has an extra dose. So it will be 11 doses per vial, rather than 10 doses. This can be done and taught by experienced people to augment 10% vaccination.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/involve-private-doctors-clinics-in-covid-19-vaccination-omag-993275.html
03-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC issues summons to yoga guru Ramdev on plea over false information on Coronil kit||The Delhi High Court Thursday issued summons to yoga guru Ramdev on a suit by Delhi Medical Association (DMA) seeking to restrain him from disseminating false information about Patanjali's Coronil kit that it is a cure for Covid-19. The high court orally asked the counsel for Ramdev to tell him not to make any provocative statement till the next date of hearing on July 13 and respond to the suit. DMA, on behalf of its doctor members, said Ramdev's statement affects as that medicine does not cure coronavirus and it is misleading.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-issues-summons-to-yoga-guru-ramdev-on-plea-over-false-information-on-coronil-kit-993283.html
03-06-2021||North and Central||Extra-marital affair no grounds to deny custody of child to mother: Haryana HC||A woman's extra-marital affair is not a ground to deny the custody of her child in a matrimonial dispute as it cannot be concluded that she will not be a good mother, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has held. The court also noted that in a patriarchal society, it is fairly common to cast aspersions on the moral character of a woman and more often than not these allegations are made without any basis. The order came following a habeas corpus petition filed by a woman from Punjab's Fatehgarh Sahib district, seeking custody of her four-and half-year-old daughter from her estranged husband who is an Australian citizen. Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal, while allowing the petition of the woman, directed that the custody of the girl be handed over to her mother who is presently residing in Australia. The petitioner's estranged husband had alleged that the woman was in an extra-marital relationship with a relative. “Aside of the bald assertion in the petition, no supporting material has been brought before this court. It would be worthwhile to note that in a patriarchal society, it is fairly common to cast aspersions on the moral character of a woman. More often than not these allegations are made without any basis or foundation," the court said. "Even assuming a woman is or has been in an extramarital relationship, the same by itself cannot lead to the conclusion that she would not be a good mother to deny her the custody of her child,” said the judge in a May 10 order.       However, in this case, these allegations against the petitioner being wholly unsubstantiated are not considered relevant to adjudicate the issue of custody of the minor child, as per the order. “The child would require love, care and affection of the mother for her development in the formative years. The support and guidance of the mother would also be imperative during adolescence. The mother is the natural guardian of the child till the age of five years in terms of Section 6 of the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956,” the judge wrote in his order.  In the petition, the woman had submitted that she had got married in 2013. Her husband was an Australian citizen and she later joined him in Australia. The couple had a daughter in June 2017. They later developed matrimonial differences. The petitioner had alleged that when they arrived in India in January 2020, her husband took away their daughter. The father of child contended that the minor was residing with him and his parents in a cordial family environment for almost a year and the change of custody at this stage would not be in the interest of the child especially when the petitioner was living alone and thus, would not be in a position to take care of the child.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/extra-marital-affair-no-grounds-to-deny-custody-of-child-to-mother-haryana-hc-993302.html
03-06-2021||North and Central||2 Covid positive senior citizens get antibody cocktail therapy at private Delhi hospital||Two Covid positive senior citizens with cardiac complications admitted at a private healthcare facility here have been administered monoclonal antibody therapy which is said to reduce the chance of hospitalisation by 70 per cent in patients with mild to moderate symptoms, the hospital said on Thursday. Sunirmal Ghatak (70) and Suresh Kumar Trehan (65) were on Tuesday administered a cocktail of Casirivimab and Imdevimab at BLK-Max Super Speciality Hospital as part of this single-dose infusion-based treatment. Ghatak, with a known cardiac problem, had undergone angioplasty with stenting in the past, the hospital said in a statement. Trehan reported to the hospital two days ago with severe breathlessness and was unable to lie down. He had no previous history of any ailment. His echocardiography showed strained heart with an ejection fraction of only 25 per cent, it said in a statement. Both of them had oxygen saturation level above 95 per cent and came to the hospital within three days of developing Covid-19 symptoms. The hospital successfully administered monoclonal antibody cocktail therapy to two of these Covid positive extremely high-risk senior citizen patients on Tuesday saving them from developing severe complications, it said. This was the first time that monoclonal antibody cocktail therapy was administered at the hospital. "Monoclonal antibodies are identical copies of an antibody that targets one specific antigen. This treatment has previously been used to cure infections such as Ebola and HIV. "According to studies, this 'Antibody Cocktail Treatment' for Covid-19 can prevent escalation of mild and moderate illness to severe which then requires hospitalisation in 70 per cent of the cases," said Dr Sandeep Nayar, Senior Director, BLK-Max Centre for Chest and Respiratory Diseases. The therapy is most suited for "high-risk Covid-19 patients" within the first 10 days of onset of symptoms and meet any of the listed criteria such as age being 65 years or above. The other criteria include obesity with a body mass index of more than 35, type one or type two diabetes mellitus, chronic kidney disease including those on dialysis, chronic liver disease, currently receiving immunosuppressive treatment, or if aged above 55 with either heart disease or hypertension or chronic lung disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-covid-positive-senior-citizens-get-antibody-cocktail-therapy-at-private-delhi-hospital-993318.html
03-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt school teachers working as frontline workers should be vaccinated immediately: DoE||Delhi government school teachers who have been working as frontline workers during the Covid-19 pandemic should be vaccinated on an immediate basis, the Directorate of Education (DoE) has directed. In a letter to district education officers and school principals, DoE Director Udit Prakash Rai has asked that vaccination be facilitated for the teachers at the earliest. "Government school teachers have been spearheading the Covid response of the Delhi government. Teachers have been deployed on several fronts to contain the spread of coronavirus. Teachers have gone beyond the call of duty in management of containment zones, airports, vaccination drive, ration distribution, oxygen management etc," the letter said. "The teachers of DoE who are the frontline workers for the Delhi government have led the efforts of the government in containing the infection and breaking the transmission. They have also spared no efforts in managing the second wave Covid-19 crisis which unfolded in the month of April and May 2021," it added. Rai has pointed out that it is imperative that the DoE ensures all the government school teachers get vaccinated on an immediate basis. "Accordingly, all DDES and HOSS are hereby directed to take all necessary steps towards vaccination of all the government school teachers. They should ensure that all the concerned teachers are facilitated and vaccinated at the earliest," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-school-teachers-working-as-frontline-workers-should-be-vaccinated-immediately-doe-993347.html
03-06-2021||North and Central||Army chief reviews security situation along LoC in Kashmir||Stating that the permanence of ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan depends on the actions of the neighbouring country, Army Chief General MM Naravane Thursday asserted that the army was fully prepared to deal with any eventuality as terror infrastructure across the border was intact. The Army chief’s two-day visit to Kashmir assumes significance as the ceasefire between India and Pakistan along the LoC completes 100 days. “The ceasefire along the LoC is holding as of now. The onus of making sure that the ceasefire holds is squarely on Pakistan. We are willing to observe the ceasefire as long as they do so,” he told a selected group of journalists at the end of his visit. Before India and Pakistan recommitted themselves to cease fire across the LoC and other contested sectors on February 25 this year, incidents of shelling from across the border in J&K had been on the rise. In the first 56 days of this year, 658 ceasefire violations were recorded while four Indian security personnel and several civilians were killed. However, the Army chief, who arrived in the Valley on Wednesday to review the security situation ahead of summer and amid the Covid-19 pandemic said other activities like terror infrastructure, including terrorist camps and presence of terrorists on the other side of the LoC, continued in Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir (PoK). “Therefore, there can be no slackening of our level of preparedness,” he said and added if Islamabad observes ceasefire in letter and spirit, small steps can lead to incremental gains. “There have been decades of mistrust between India and Pakistan. So, the situation on that score cannot change overnight. If Pakistan continues to desist from fomenting trouble in India, then small steps can lead to that level of trust that you are talking about,” Gen Naravane added. During his two-day visit, the Army chief visited units and formations of the Army, where he was briefed by the senior commanders on the existing security situation and the measures being taken to identify and target the overground workers (OGWs) network involved in radicalisation and recruitment of youth into militant ranks. Besides hinterland security issues, he was also given an account of the LoC situation in Kashmir including the tightening of the anti-infiltration grid by the 15-Corps Commander. He was informed that despite the pandemic, the army has kept close vigil at the LoC and defeated the nefarious designs of militants. The Army chief also called on J&K Lt Governor Manoj Sinha at Raj Bhawan and discussed the emerging challenges and road map for longterm peace in J&K on Wednesday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-chief-reviews-security-situation-along-loc-in-kashmir-993349.html
03-06-2021||North and Central||Apna Dal (S) leader arrested in Uttar Pradesh after celebratory firing video surfaces||A leader of the Apna Dal (Sonelal) has been arrested after an old video purportedly showing him firing with a gun during a function went viral on social media, police said on Thursday. Superintendent of Police Akash Tomar said the video went viral on Wednesday and the man involved was identified as Praba Shankar Shukla, who was stated to be a leader of the Apna Dal (S). "During probe, it was found that the video was of November 22, 2019," the SP said. An FIR was registered against him and he was arrested on Wednesday night, he said. His pistol has also been seized, the SP said, adding that proceedings to cancel his arms licence have been initiated. A detailed probe is on in the matter, Tomar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/apna-dal-s-leader-arrested-in-uttar-pradesh-after-celebratory-firing-video-surfaces-993356.html
03-06-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: Woman accuses doctors of gang rape during surgery||Four doctors of a government medical college in Uttar Pradesh's Prayagraj town, about 200 kilometres from Lucknow, were accused of gang-raping a woman patient during surgery. A case was registered by the police after the brother of the woman lodged a complaint, police sources said on Thursday. Sources said the woman had been admitted to the Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital, a part of MLN Medical College, on Saturday with intestinal complications. She was scheduled to undergo a major surgery on Saturday night. The woman was brought out of the operation theatre after a three-hour surgery. The brother of the patient said she wanted to tell him something, but could not speak due to the pain. ''She later wrote on a piece of paper that she was gang-raped by four people inside the operation theatre,'' the brother said. The principal of the medical college, S P Singh, said the allegations appeared to be false as there were two lady doctors inside the operation theatre as well, when the surgery was performed. He said a five-member committee, comprising senior doctors of the medical college, had been constituted to investigate the matter and a medical examination of the patient would also be conducted to verify the charge. ''It may be a ploy to malign the image of the medical college,'' he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-woman-accuses-doctors-of-gang-rape-during-surgery-993357.html
03-06-2021||North and Central||Hooch tragedy hits Aligarh again: Five dead, 22 hospitalised||Five people died and 22 more were hospitalised after consuming spurious liquor in a village here, days after another hooch tragedy resulted in the death of at least 35 in the district, police said on Thursday. On Wednesday night, some brick kiln labourers fell sick after consuming countrymade liquor dumped in a canal near Rohera village in the Jawan area, they said. "It appears that some persons involved in the spurious liquor trade dumped their entire stock in the canal fearing a raid," Senior Superintendent of Police Kalanidhi Naithani told reporters. This is the second hooch tragedy reported in the district in recent days. In the earlier case, at least 35 people died after consuming illicit liquor, while autopsies were conducted on a total of 87 victims. Officials fear some of them may have died of the same cause and many people have suffered eye damage and vision loss. In Wednesday's incident, the brick kiln workers found the liquor cartons dumped in the canal. They started celebrating but were taken ill shortly after consuming the countrymade brew. An alarm was raised and a police party from the nearby Jawan police station rushed to the spot and took the victims to a hospital. Chief Superintendent of Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College hospital, Dr Harris Manzur said five people have died so far, three of whom were brought dead. "Doctors are battling to save the lives of the remaining 22 victims," he said, adding that critically ill patients kept arriving at the hospital throughout the night. Till Thursday morning, 27 patients have arrived, and if some of them were brought in "earlier", more lives could have been saved, Manzur said. The first six hours are crucial in these cases, the doctor added. The police said a case was lodged against unidentified accused and an investigation launched. Since the first death in the other hooch tragedy was reported on May 28, post-mortem examinations have been done on 87 suspected victims, even though the official death toll remains 35. Thirty-four people have been arrested so far. Over the past few days, reports from several hospitals indicated a large number of victims of the previous hooch tragedy suffered severe eye damage and permanent loss of vision. Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Bhanu Pratap Kalyani said at least 13 patients suffered severe eye problems after consuming the spurious liquor last week. "Some of them have shown signs of recovery," he said. According to Dr Zia Siddiqui, eye specialist at the Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College hospital, "Treatment of six patients suffering from acute eye damage is underway. Two have suffered irreversible damage, and the remaining four are recovering." Dr Sanjay Bhargava, owner of a private hospital in the city, told media persons that 18 patients with eye damage were treated at his facility and 16 of them have recovered. According to medical experts, it will take some more time to asses the number of those who have suffered permanent eye damage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hooch-tragedy-hits-aligarh-again-five-dead-22-hospitalised-993360.html
03-06-2021||North and Central||Dera Sacha Sauda Ram Rahim Singh chief undergoes tests at PGIMS Rohtak after complaining of abdominal pain||Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, who is lodged in Sunaria jail, on Thursday underwent some tests at the PGIMS Hospital in Rohtak after he complained of abdominal pain. The 53-year-old sect head of the Sirsa-headquartered Dera was brought to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences under heavy police escort from Rohtak's Sunaria jail, officials said. He underwent some tests, including an abdominal CT scan, they said, adding that later the sect chief was sent back to the prison. Three weeks ago, Singh was admitted to PGIMS after he complained of dizziness and blood pressure fluctuation. At that time, the Dera chief was discharged after an overnight stay at the hospital. Singh was discharged after being found stable in an examination by a seven-member board of doctors. The Dera head has been lodged in Rohtak's Sunaria jail since 2017 following his conviction for raping two of his women disciples. In August 2017, he sentenced by a special CBI court in Panchkula to 20 years in jail in the two rape cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dera-sacha-sauda-ram-rahim-singh-chief-undergoes-tests-at-pgims-rohtak-after-complaining-of-abdominal-pain-993362.html
03-06-2021||North and Central||Superstition draws crowd in MP village to seek protection against Covid-19||Defying Covid-19 norms, a large number of people gathered at a village in Madhya Pradesh under the belief that a woman, supposedly blessed by a Goddess, can protect them from the viral infection, police said on Thursday. Following the gathering of over 150 people on Tuesday at Chatukheda village in Rajgarh, police registered a case against the woman and three other persons under the IPC and the Disaster Management Act, Khujner police station in-charge Umesh Yadav said. A video of the incident went viral on social media in which a temple priest was purportedly heard saying the woman was under the spell of "Pari Mata", a local deity, and the water offered by her would help them keep the coronavirus at bay, the official said. In the video, a large number of people, mostly women, were seen standing at a place in the village and most of them were neither wearing masks nor following the social distancing norms, he said. The district administration has banned all social and religious gatherings in the wake of Covid-19, he said. However, over 150 people gathered at the event on Tuesday, in violation of the collector's orders, the police official said. Khujner tehsildar Shambhu Singh Meena said on getting information about the gathering, he went to the village and perusaded people to return to their homes following which the crowd dispersed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/superstition-draws-crowd-in-mp-village-to-seek-protection-against-covid-19-993376.html
03-06-2021||North and Central||BJP abuses Kejriwal to evade giving answers on Covid vaccine availability: Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday slammed the BJP and accused it of "abusing" Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to evade giving answers on Covid vaccine availability. "Whenever asked where are the vaccines, the BJP leaders start abusing Kejriwal," the senior AAP leader said referring to BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra's press conference earlier in the day. Patra attacked Kejriwal over vaccine procurement and Covid-19 other issues during his press conference. "They do not seem to be concerned with availability of vaccines or the third wave of Covid-19. It seemed Patra was sent just to abuse Kejriwal," Sisodia said in an online briefing. Asserting that the BJP-ruled central government has "messed up" the Covid vaccination programme in the country, Sisodia alleged that vaccines were provided through the backdoor to private hospitals. He sought answers from the BJP as to how private hospitals were getting vaccines at a time when vaccination centres were being closed in the country due to shortage of doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-abuses-kejriwal-to-evade-giving-answers-on-covid-vaccine-availability-sisodia-993387.html
03-06-2021||North and Central||ED arrests RJD MP in money laundering case linked to fertiliser scam||RJD MP Amarendra Dhari Singh has been arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with a money laundering case linked to a scam related to IFFCO and Indian Potash Ltd and alleged payment of Rs 685 crore bribe, officials said on Thursday. The ED had filed a case based on CBI FIR which alleged that illegal commissions of around Rs 685 crore were given to the NRI sons of IFFCO Managing Director and CEO U S Awasthi and Indian Potash Ltd (IPL) Managing Director P S Gahlaut as well as others by overseas suppliers from 2007-14. The 61-year-old Rajya Sabha member, who is also a businessman. was arrested under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) from his residence in Defence Colony in south Delhi. According to the ED, the bribe transaction was facilitated allegedly by AgustaWestland case accused Rajiv Saxena. The Rajya Sabha MP is the senior vice president of a Dubai-based firm, Jyoti Trading Corporation, which has been named in the CBI FIR. According to the CBI, IFFCO and Indian Potash Ltd officials have been importing fertilisers and raw materials through Kisan International Trading FZE, a subsidiary of IFFCO in Dubai and other middlemen at a "highly inflated rate covering the commission meant for the accused". The commissions were allegedly given to Awasthi and Gahlaut. The money was allegedly transferred by the overseas suppliers to the accused through "sham transactions". Amol, promoter of Catalyst Business Associate, and Anupam, promoter of Catalyst Business Solutions, are the two sons of Awasthi who have been named in the FIR. Gahlaut's son Vivek is another person involved in the case. Pankaj Jain of the Dubai-based Jyoti Group of Companies and Rare Earth Group, his brother Sanjay Jain, president of Jyoti Trading Corporation and a beneficial owner of other entities of the Jyoti Group, senior vice-president of Jyoti Trading Corporation Amrinder Dhari Singh and chartered accountant Rajiv Saxena, who is also the promoter of Midas Metal International LLC and other companies, have been named in the FIR. An employee of Pankaj Jain identified as Sushil Kumar Pachisia and unidentified directors of IFFCO also find mention in the CBI FIR as accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-arrests-rjd-mp-in-money-laundering-case-linked-to-fertiliser-scam-993391.html
03-06-2021||North and Central||487 Covid cases in Delhi, lowest in over 2.5 months; death count below 50 after Apr 11||Delhi recorded 487 fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest daily count in over two-and-a-half months and 45 deaths on Thursday, while the positivity rate slumped to 0.61 per cent, according to data shared by the health department here. This is the first time the daily death count has gone below the 50-mark since April 11 when the tally was 48.  According to the latest health bulletin, these new fatalities pushed the death toll from Covid-19 to 24,447. On March 16, Delhi had recorded 425 cases and on March 17, the tally was 536, according to official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/487-covid-cases-in-delhi-lowest-in-over-25-months-death-count-below-50-after-apr-11-993407.html
03-06-2021||North and Central||Man held for killing neighbour's dog in Indore||A 53-year-old man was arrested on Thursday for allegedly shooting his neighbour's pet dog dead, after the canine bit his wife in Madhya Pradesh's Indore, police said. Narendra Vishvaiyya was arrested under section 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle, etc) of the IPC, Dwarkapuri police station in-charge Manish Mahor said. The accused, a resident of Sudama Nagar, was angry that the dog had allegedly bit his wife, and shot the animal with his licensed rifle on Wednesday night, the official said. A bullet hit the animal on the neck, killing him on the spot, he said. The accused had claimed that the dog had also bit others in the locality, the official said, adding that if the accused's claims are found to be true, appropriate legal action will be taken against the pet owner as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-held-for-killing-neighbours-dog-in-indore-993410.html
03-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi University likely to commence registration for admission to UG courses on July 15||Delhi University (DU) is likely to start its registration process for admissions to undergraduate courses on July 15, anticipating the fact that all school boards would have declared results by then, a senior varsity official said on Thursday. Following the cancellation of Class 12 board examinations by the CBSE and the CISCE in view of the coronavirus pandemic, officials said discussions will be held with the admission committee and the academic council of the university to finalise the process of admission to undergraduate courses. "The varsity is likely to commence the registration process by July 15. We anticipate that by that time most of the boards will not only decide what they are going to do but will also declare their results," said Rajeev Gupta, Chairman, Admissions, DU. Every year, the varsity's colleges declare cut-offs for courses and students meeting the criteria apply to the respective colleges. A decision from the Education ministry is also awaited on the Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET). "We will follow what the ministry says. We are awaiting their guidelines," Gupta said. Last year, the admission process was done completely online due to the first wave of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-university-likely-to-commence-registration-for-admission-to-ug-courses-on-july-15-993413.html
03-06-2021||North and Central||Over 2,800 prisoners in Delhi got interim bail, emergency parole during Covid-19 2nd wave||Over 2,800 prisoners have been released on interim bail or emergency parole from three Delhi jails, including Tihar, to decongest the prisons during the second wave of the coronavirus infection, officials said on Thursday. These include inmates who were released last year and then surrendered with no adverse report and also new prisoners who were eligible for such interim bail or emergency parole in view of the pandemic under the criteria laid down by a high-powered committee in its meetings on May 4 and 11. On March 16, 2020, the Supreme Court had taken suo motu cognisance of overcrowding in prisons across the country and had said it is difficult for jail inmates to maintain social distance to prevent the spread of coronavirus. It had directed all states and union territories to constitute high-level committees to consider giving parole or interim bail to prisoners and undertrials for offences entailing up to a seven-year jail term. Last year, around 5,500 undertrial prisoners and 1,184 convicts were released on interim bail and emergency parole from the three Delhi jails -- Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli -- during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Of them, 104 convicts and around 2,450 undertrials have not returned, officials said. Tihar, with a capacity of over 10,000 inmates, is one of the largest prison complexes in South Asia. This year, till May 28, a total of 1,990 undertrial prisoners have been released on interim bail. Till May 31, while 745 convicts have been granted emergency parole, the officials said. According to data provided by officials about the status of vaccination among the prison populace in Delhi, around 500 inmates of Tihar jail below the age of 45 years have been inoculated till now. The Delhi Prisons Department started a vaccination drive for inmates in the 45-plus age category on March 18, while inoculation of inmates in the 18-44 age group began on May 18. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said, "Currently, there are around 1,600 inmates (in the three prisons of Delhi) above 45 years of age and most of them have been vaccinated. Around 500 inmates below the age of 45 years in Tihar Jail have received the jabs." Since March this year, 381 cases of coronavirus infection have been reported among the prisoners of which 354 have recovered and there are 19 active cases, according to data provided by the prisons department. Eight inmates have succumbed to the disease during this time. Among the prison staff members, 221 staffers have been infected since March and of them, 214 have recuperated while seven are still undergoing treatment. Officials said that in view of the second wave of Covid-19 infections in the national capital, several measures have been taken to contain the spread of the infection in the prisons.   Inmates are no longer allowed to gather inside the library or for music and sports activities. The jails have been divided into several wards and the movement of inmates is restricted, the officials.  "We have sensitised the inmates about the virus and they have been told to follow social distancing norms," an official said. The first case of Covid-19 infection among the prison inmates was reported in Rohini Jail on May 13, 2020. The national capital's cumulative Covid-19 infection tally stands at 14,27,926 cases while the death toll stands at 24,447.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-2800-prisoners-in-delhi-got-interim-bail-emergency-parole-during-covid-19-2nd-wave-993437.html
03-06-2021||North and Central||Contempt can be proceeded only in respect of established wilful disobedience: SC||The Supreme Court Thursday said contempt action can be proceeded only in respect of established wilful disobedience of the order of the Court. A bench comprising Justices A M Khanwilkar and B R Gavai made the observation while discharging show cause notices to the authorities issued in respect of annulment of recruitment process of some employees of Uttar Pradesh Jal Nigam.  The apex court was hearing a batch of pleas challenging the orders issued by the Chief Engineer of Uttar Pradesh Jal Nigam at Lucknow pursuant to its judgment. The top court in its judgement had directed the Uttar Pradesh Chief Engineer to comply with the judgement of the Allahabad High Court of November 28, 2017 in a batch of writ petitions. In pursuance of the aforementioned decision of this Court, the Chief Engineer issued order dated December 4, 2018, thereby reengaging the petitioners and other appointees to their previous place of posting.  However, with a caveat that the said appointment was subject to the liberty granted by this Court and that no arrears would be paid by the respondent corporation. This order of the chief engineer, according to the contempt petitioners, is “in the teeth” of the decision of the top court and, therefore, the respondents be proceeded for having committed wilful disobedience of the order of this Court. Deliberating on it, the bench said “It is well settled that contempt action ought to proceed only in respect of established wilful disobedience of the order of the Court. “In exercising contempt jurisdiction, the primary concern must be whether the acts of commission or omission can be said to be contumacious conduct of the party who is alleged to have committed default in complying with the directions given in the judgment and order of the Court,” the bench said. While examining the submissions of the petitioners,, the bench noted that the orders passed by the High Court and the apex court do not contain explicit direction to reinstate the petitioners with continuity of service and back wages as such.  "Instead, the expression used is only to permit the petitioners to work on the posts" which were held by them at the time of their termination and "to pay them regular salary month by month" and "as and when the same accrues to them. Thus understood, it is not a case of wilful disobedience of the orders of the Court.", it said.  The apex court also granted liberty to the petitioners therein including applicants in intervention/impleadment applications to pursue their remedy before the High Court by way of writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution, if so advised.  “That writ petition be decided on its own merits in accordance with law keeping in mind the observations made in this judgment along with other pending or fresh writ petitions involving similar issues,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/contempt-can-be-proceeded-only-in-respect-of-established-wilful-disobedience-sc-993449.html
03-06-2021||North and Central||Punjab CM arrives in Delhi to meet 3-member AICC panel on Friday||Amid infighting within Punjab Congress, state Chief Minister Amarinder Singh will meet the three-member panel headed by Mallikarjun Kharge on Friday morning to resolve differences with MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu and take steps to strengthen the party at the grassroots level ahead of next year's Assembly polls. The panel constituted by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to resolve factionalism in the Punjab unit comprises Kharge, former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat and former MP J P Aggarwal. Meanwhile, the Punjab CM arrived in the national capital on Thursday. Sources said Singh will meet the panel members at 11 am on Friday morning. Congress leaders, including Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari, met the panel on Thursday along with some MLAs and discussed possible ways to end the infighting and prepare for the upcoming polls in Punjab. The panel also spoke to Rajya Sabha member from Punjab Ambika Soni and held deliberations with her. Of late, Soni has not been keeping well. Lok Sabha MP Tewari said there is no factionalism within Punjab Congress and this exercise is being done to strengthen the party and evolve a strategy before next year's elections. The MP added that it was normal for the Congress to hold such exercises to seek views of party leaders and he had given his suggestions to the panel. At a press conference, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said the committee was formed swiftly after the issue cropped up and a report would come out after internal discussions. "The issue has been taken seriously by the party leadership. The committee was set up in the shortest possible time and will give its report soon," Singhvi said. Congress spokesperson and youth leader Jaiveer Shergill said the ongoing discussions are not a “crisis management” exercise but that of “election preparation” where suggestions are being taken to ensure that the Congress comes on top in 2022. "The youth workers of Punjab Congress should get maximum opportunity in 2022," he said after meeting the panel members. After the day's deliberations with various party leaders from Punjab, AICC general secretary in-charge for Punjab Harish Rawat told media persons that they would meet CM Singh on Friday. "We will meet Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh tomorrow," Rawat told reporters. "We also talked to many party candidates who contested the last Punjab assembly elections in 2017. We are trying to iron out differences between various party leaders and will try to put up a united face in the 2022 Assembly elections in the state," Rawat also said. He also said all the three members of the panel spoke to Soni over telephone and held deliberations with her on how to strengthen the party. Soni had earlier sent a letter to Sonia Gandhi about the prevailing situation in Punjab Congress, amid an open war of words between the chief minister and his former cabinet colleague Navjot Singh Sidhu. Sources said the attempt behind setting up the panel was to resolve the issue of factionalism and minimise the internal rift within the party and present a united face. Sources added that in the bid to unite all factions, Sidhu may be included in the cabinet once again and elevated as deputy chief minister, along with some others including a Hindu and a Dalit face in Punjab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-arrives-in-delhi-to-meet-3-member-aicc-panel-on-friday-993534.html
03-06-2021||Oasis||Quality to forgive||What is the quality that singles out great people from the ordinary like us? I would say, without a doubt, a very exemplary quality that most great people possess is forgiveness. It is a quality where there is no rancour, hatred, anger, vindictiveness and revenge, but instead a pure outpouring from a sublime heart. Jesus Christ said: “Father, forgive them for they know not what they do”. This is greatness in essence, for Christ had nothing against the persons responsible for his crucifixion and ultimate demise. It is said a truly empathetic person, does not give rude retorts when chastised but will instead try to analyse why the other person is rebuking him: Could the other person be in a foul mood? Or is the other person mistaken about my intentions or motives? So, instead of retorting or retaliating in a rude, curt and caustic way, an emotionally mature person will assess the situation and answer diplomatically thus preventing an ugly argument and fight. A little thoughtful introspection and analysis with a modicum of forgiveness can go a long way in averting emotional disasters. Jesus was not the only saintly personality who displayed great forgiveness in the face of adversity. When Mahatma Gandhi was confronted by Nathuram Godse, who was about to assassinate him, instead of spewing forth a volley of curses like what we would have done, he instead uttered: "Hey Ram" and succumbed to the bullets. Thus, ended the life of the saintly personality who was considered one of the greatest men of the 20th Century. The man about whom Winston Churchill said, “generations will pass, and men will wonder how this great man walked the Earth in flesh and blood.” However, one may surmise, “We are neither Jesus Christ nor Mahatma  Gandhi. How do ordinary human beings like us show forgiveness especially when the other person is evil? A person whom we have crossed oceans for, but he is not willing to cross a puddle for us. For this attitude, one great motivational speaker had this to say, “you are not forgiving the other person to reform him/her which is well nigh impossible, but you are forgiving the other person for your own peace.” Sometimes, the peace comes at a very high price.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/quality-to-forgive-993515.html
03-06-2021||Opinion||Inter-faith harmony: Need of the hour||If we travel down the history lane to study religion, then we would find that almost every religious preceptor has ordained that love is supreme and that is why it is believed that one cannot have a true love for the creator if one does not love the creation. Hence religion begins with the love of man for man. Just as a child needs a good teacher to guide him in studies, society needs a good religious leader or a guru to make it understand the core of religion. That is why religious teachers are considered as conscience keepers of their community and their day to day lives are expected to be a practical demonstration of the moral values enshrined in their respective scriptures. Hence if they do not maintain their moral heights, whom shall the common man look up to? It has been rightly said that if the salt loses its savour, wherewith shall it be salted? Likewise, if the religious leaders lose their moral conscience, what will happen to the conscience of society? We all have been witness to a large number of communal riots that have taken place all over the world in the last century. However, if religious leaders all over the world stress upon the original religious concept of ‘love your fellow beings’ and inspire their followers to experience peace to live in harmony then there is no reason for any communal clashes or riots. In fact, all religions are based on the belief that each living being is an embodied soul, hence if the spiritual gurus can give grounding to their followers in soul consciousness, then most of the problems in the world would be solved. Today the need of the hour is to raise the awareness of the people to enlightened soul consciousness. If every individual realises his/her real identity then the task of social transformation would be much easier because most of the problems arise from the loss of identity and from an identity crisis. Lastly, if teachers of religion can teach and encourage the practice of meditation that enables the practitioners to come closer to their real self, to have freedom from the negativity of mind and experience peace and bliss that would, perhaps, be their greatest service, for it would eliminate tension and bring peace, happiness and health to society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/inter-faith-harmony-need-of-the-hour-993122.html
03-06-2021||Opinion||Don’t roil Lakshadweep||The Union Territory of Lakshadweep is in the news, albeit for all the wrong reasons. The residents of Lakshadweep and political parties have launched a campaign against the ‘reforms’ introduced by the recently named Administrator, Praful Patel. They have alleged that the ‘reforms’ are detrimental to the traditional social, cultural and economic character of the UT. But while the political situation ashore is on the boil, the security situation in the waters abutting Lakshadweep, the Malabar coast, the Maldives and Sri Lanka seems to have gone unnoticed largely. This region is emerging as a new hotspot. Lakshadweep is an archipelago of 36 islands that are located some 400 km to the west of Kerala. Of the 36 islands, only 10 are inhabited. The islands have a total land area of just 32 sq km but confer a 400,000-sq km Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) on the country. Lakshadweep, with its predominantly Muslim population, shares linguistic, cultural and religious affiliations with the people of Kerala. The increase in radical Islamist activities in Kerala and along the Malabar coast has often raised security concerns over the possibility of this religious radicalisation spilling over to the islands.    Post 26/11, there has been a perception in the minds of security agencies that terrorist organisations such as the Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed could exploit the religious sentiments of some disgruntled. Lakshadweep residents and utilise one or more islands as bases to launch attacks on mainland India. With this in mind, joint exercises involving the Indian Navy, Coast Guard and Marine Police, etc., are carried out regularly. The geographic proximity of Lakshadweep to the Maldives and Sri Lanka further enhances its criticality. The Lakshadweep Islands sit astride the Nine Degree Channel (which separates main Lakshadweep from Minicoy) and the Eight Degree Channel (separates Minicoy from Maldives). Through these channels pass the Sea Lines of Communication along which flows the heavy East-West maritime traffic that keeps the wheels of the global economy turning. India’s location enables her to keep a hawk’s eye on this important artery, but it also has to deal with inherent security implications. Maldives, which is about 564 km south of Minicoy, is unfortunately already in the grip of Saudi Arabia-funded Wahabism and Pakistan-sponsored radicalisation, which is a cause of grave concern. The recent explosion which injured former Maldivian president Mohamed Nasheed is an indicator of worsening times. China has been active in the Maldives with several projects there and is in occupation of some islands. Despite the regime change in 2018, Maldives, given its precarious finances, will find it difficult to ease China out. Sri Lanka is a fertile playground for Pakistan and the Easter blasts there in 2020 reportedly had an ISI connection. India’s influence in Sri Lanka has declined considerably in recent times and the 99-year leasing of Hambantota Port and the recent passage of the ‘Colombo Port City Bill’ practically makes China a southern neighbour. In terms of maritime threats, incidents of Somali piracy which had manifested in the vicinity of Lakshadweep a few years ago has reduced considerably. However, in March this year, the Indian Coast Guard intercepted three Sri Lankan fishing boats about 90 nautical miles south-west of Minicoy and seized 300 kg of heroin, five AK-47 rifles and 1,000 rounds of ammunition from the boats. Thereafter, in April, INS Suvarna intercepted a Sri Lankan boat west of Lakshadweep with heroin worth Rs 3,000 crore onboard. These seizures could well be just the tip of the iceberg. The consignments had reportedly originated from the Makaran coast and, after a mid-sea transfer, could have been destined for India, Sri Lanka or the Maldives. It is a well-known fact that drug smuggling channels can be used for other nefarious activities, including terrorism. Hopefully, the NSA-led ‘Trilateral Intelligence Sharing Dialogue’ between India, Sri Lanka and Maldives which took place in Colombo in November 2020 discussed these issues.   In a strategic sense, the islands are a crucial maritime bastion which protect our south-western flanks from maritime threats, especially of the asymmetric variety. They also extend our maritime reach further into the south-western Indian Ocean. However, there has not been much force accretion in Lakshadweep in recent years, possibly due to a continuously declining defence budget. The navy had set up an establishment called INS Dweeprakshak on Kavaratti Island in 2012. In addition, there are three naval detachments, one each on the islands of Kavaratti, Minicoy and Androth. Further, the Indian Coast Guard has a base on Kavaratti. The lone airstrip on Agatti can only handle Dornier-size aircraft and, contrary to what some strategists suggest, does not qualify as an ‘unsinkable aircraft carrier’ yet. India continues with its efforts to set up strategic infrastructure at Assumption Island in the Seychelles and at Agalega Island in Mauritius and carries out EEZ patrol in the waters of both these countries in accordance with her vision of being a ‘Net Security Provider’ in the Indian Ocean Region. But what happens closer home and at our doorsteps is equally important. India and Sri Lanka will need to enhance surveillance and patrolling on their respective sides of the International Maritime Boundary Line, emanating from the Gulf of Mannar. The Centre will need to move fast and address the genuine grievances of the islanders, if any, since vested interests may be at play and the internal security situation should not be allowed to slip out of control. Similarly, the waters around Lakshadweep and the southern tip of the country are in a churn and India must ensure that no one is able to fish in troubled waters. (The writer is a former naval officer and is currently a trustee of the Institute of Contemporary Studies, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/don-t-roil-lakshadweep-993131.html
03-06-2021||Panorama||India needs legal recognition of cryptocurrency as macro asset||Bitcoin, the first cryptocurrency (CC), was presented to the world in a 2008 White Paper by the pseudonymous Satoshi Nakamoto, as a functional alternative to currency issued by states through a public authority like central banks. Details of ownership and issuance of CC are stored in a cryptographically secured digital ledger, validated through blockchain. It is not issued by a sovereign or public entity. Indian CC holding is estimated to be Rs 100 billion. This esoteric fintech development swiftly embraced by investors has left regulators grappling with an ideal regulatory regime.      CC caught the attention of Indian regulators in 2013 with RBI’s sceptical stand followed by the finance ministry’s warning likening it to Ponzi schemes. Public Interest Litigations to ban CC were filed in 2017 in the Supreme Court. 2018 saw the Indian regulatory stance escalating from a cautioned approach to a ban with the finance minister discrediting CC as legal tender followed by the RBI essentially banning it by prohibiting exchanges from dealing in CC through stringent penalties. An attempt was made to legislatively sanction the ban through a 2019 bill based on recommendations of an Inter-Ministerial Committee.  A ray of hope for CC was a 2020 decision of the Supreme Court quashing the ban on it by characterising it as disproportionate and impeding the fundamental right to trade and commerce. The 2021 ‘National Strategy on Blockchain’ by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology paves the way for use of blockchain in various arenas which affirms faith in technology that edifies CC. Another step in recognising CC is the March 2021 amendment to the Companies Act which mandates reporting of CC holding by companies. Contradicting these enabling measures is the circulation of an unpublished bill of March 2021 banning private CC but provides an impetus to Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) or government-issued digital cash. There is no embargo on CC in India, but it does not enjoy regulatory treatment to foster its growth.  These disparate regulatory measures appear to be informed by two key apprehensions namely the use of CC as legal tender threatening official currency resulting in erosion of control of a public body over legal tender, and additional cost of preventing misapplication of CC to nefarious activities like terror financing and money laundering. CC’s intangible nature, volatile pricing, anonymity in holding, decentralised determination of value, and easy cross border reach which do not fit with conventional paradigms have made banning it attractive to Indian regulators.  Banning CC is likely to make it more desirable in creating a parallel illegal market, loss of tax revenues to the state, loss of returns to Indian investors, hamper financial inclusion and ease of business and impede global recognition of CC. After much vacillation, China banned CC to promote its CBDC, whilst most major economies are keen on harnessing the potential of CC through regulation rather than prohibition.  CC being inherently regulatory requires minimal external regulation. This does not imply deregulation. Some self-regulatory features like recording transactions on a tamper-proof digital ledger, finite supply, incentives to investors to maintain the system to create new CC and that developers oversee the system ought to assuage fears of a hands-off approach demanded of regulators. Strict regulation will greatly dilute CC.  The need of the hour in India is the legal recognition of CC as a macro asset. CBDC as legal tender can coexist alongside private CC as an asset.   Classification of CC as an asset class calls for light-touch regulation, one which facilitates investors and gives a formidable role to self-regulation by CC exchanges.  Investor centric regulation means protecting investors from theft, fraud, price manipulation and other practices which diminish the value of CC.  Some of these regulatory measures are licensing of and ensuring that exchanges maintain secure systems, a safety net to cushion losses and safeguards against hacking. Concerns of misapplication of CC may be addressed through disclosure by exchanges; stringent KYC norms; and permitting exchanges to evolve internal code of conduct for monitoring. The main thrust of the state’s role ought to be providing a robust legal regime by revamping privacy, property, foreign exchange, consumer protection, anti-money laundering, taxation, and criminal law, framing regulations to enable CC and educating CC investors.  CC is a burgeoning sector fraught with untold potential notwithstanding its arcane and intractable nature. It ought not to be wished away through a ban. Instead, India should seize this opportunity to bridge gaps in extant regulation through innovative light-touch regulation which is aimed at enhancing investor confidence in CC and augmenting the development of common global standards for the growth of CC. (The writers are advocates based in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/india-needs-legal-recognition-of-cryptocurrency-as-macro-asset-993124.html
03-06-2021||Panorama||GST Council meeting: An opportunity to bridge trust deficit missed||The much-delayed 43rd GST Council meeting finally happened last week. Coming as it did in the backdrop of a horrific rise in Covid infections and deaths, a shortage of medical essentials, stretched medical infrastructure, complete or partial lockdowns in nearly 60% of the country— all of which had a debilitating impact on the economy— there was a lot riding on the outcome of this meeting. There was a consistent demand from the states to exempt all Covid-related equipment and medicines from customs and IGST as a possible measure towards effectively combating the pandemic. The demands came from across the political spectrum but was more vehemently voiced by the opposition-ruled states, making what was a fairly reasonable ask, a political issue. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, reacting a few days before the meeting through a series of tweets, listed out the items already exempted from both basic customs duty and IGST, all of which incidentally were subject to conditions, and sought to elaborate that exemption was a bad idea since the taxes paid on inputs would stick to the final product and increase costs. The FM also highlighted the fact that out every Rs 100 collected, the states’ share was Rs 70.50. Newspaper reports also suggested that the Fitment Committees, which consist of officers drawn from the Centre and states, had also not recommended any exemption. So, it was evident that the GST Council meeting would be a contentious affair. The May 28 Council meeting recommended that IGST exemption on a host of commodities such as medical oxygen, oxygen concentrators and other oxygen and transportation equipment and Covid vaccines be extended even if imported on payment basis (as against the previous condition that the import should be free of cost) for donating to the government. Exemption would thus be from both basic customs duty and IGST till August 31, extended from the present June 30. This, in effect, means a relaxation of the condition and an extension of three months from the present position. A new drug for the treatment of Black Fungus has been added to this list. As regards the issue of extending the items for exemption, the Council decided to constitute a Group of Ministers “to go into the need for further relief to Covid-19 related individual items immediately.” The GoM has been tasked to submit its report by June 8; its recommendations would need the endorsement of the GST Council for the central government to thereafter issue the necessary notifications. The argument given that exemption adds to costs since the taxes paid on inputs sticks to the final products is valid. There is no gainsaying denying the fact that exemptions are not good in a value-added taxation scheme. They militate against the concept of VAT. But given the sheer number of exemptions which dot the CGST and IGST tariff, this is not a convincing argument especially at the present time. There were requests by some states for zero rating. This is not a good idea since the law as it stands now does not permit it, and it would require a major amendment. The decision to constitute a GoM to examine extending exemption to other individual items would mean an anxious wait for many. The need is now, and it would have cost the government very little in terms of revenue but would have been a huge step forward in regaining the trust of the states. The Finance Secretary, while explaining why exemptions were not considered, raised the issue that such exemptions would not reach the intended recipient since in the hands of a private hospital, they will still be charged to patients. Here, too, the state governments are equipped under the powers vested under the Disaster Management Act to enforce discipline in the private hospital space. They could have been suitably advised to do so. These gestures would have been small but would have had a huge impact. This was an opportunity missed in building bridges with the states. And so, very promptly after the Council meeting, we had the sight of some opposition ministers accusing the central government of lacking in ‘compassion’. ‘Compassion’, as has been mentioned by one commentator, has been shown in extension of timelines for filing returns, to the small taxpayers (under Rs 5 crore), in the capping of late fee for pending returns, and some beneficial dispensation for the larger taxpayer. These would reduce compliance burdens.  Some other simplification measures have also been recommended by the Council, as also reduction of/exemption from liability on supply of certain services— services supplied to an educational institution, for the conduct of examinations by the National Board of Examination, extension of maintenance-repair-operation (MRO) facility as available to the aviation sector and the shipping industry. The one real positive was the forthright mention in the press conference (not mentioned in the press release, strangely) that the central government would stand by its commitment to meet the GST compensation shortfall. This is one major bone of contention less. The compensation shortfall has been estimated to be around Rs 1.58 lakh crore— the amount dependent upon the revenue collection going forward in 2021-22. The FM also mentioned that a special Council meeting would be called to discuss the issue of extending the 5-year limit of compensation. This too is a welcome measure. And should a consensus emerge for an extension of the compensation timelines, the opportunity should also be used to examine if the very high 14% rate to calculate compensation should continue. The states should be persuaded to accept a more realistic 10-12%. There would be an argument that given the present fiscal position this may perhaps not be the right time, but this is an issue for which they can never be a right time. All in all, an opportunity was missed to address several concerns, and more importantly to reduce the trust deficit. The GST Council is too important an institution to be reduced to a political football. While it is “not the end of the road for India’s GST” as some political commentators have claimed, the fact remains that the Council needs careful nurturing— and the ball is firmly in the Centre’s court. (The writer is former chairman, Central Board of Indirect Taxes & Customs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/gst-council-meeting-an-opportunity-to-bridge-trust-deficit-missed-993133.html
03-06-2021||Panorama||Police brutality and nudge theory ||Over the past year, we have noticed an increase in the number of protests against violence in the country, from the brutal torture resulting in the death of Jayaraj and Bennicks in July 2020 to the curfew in J&K and to the farmers protest on Republic Day. In the protests, we observe that police personnel always use sticks, tear gas and batons as a skewed mechanism for crowd-control. This brings to the fore Maslow’s law of instrument which is a cognitive bias that involves an over-reliance on a familiar tool. Abraham Maslow has said: “I suppose it is tempting, if the only tool you have is a hammer, to treat everything as if it were a nail.” With violence putting police brutality in the spotlight, it is realistic to use Nudge theory, which is a concept in behavioural economics and is a positive reinforcement or indirect suggestion to implicitly steer people to make certain decisions. In recent times, despite its limitations, the theory has been put to use in social engineering and public policy.  A survey statistic reported that an average police officer works 14 hours a day— 6 hours more than what the Model Police Act of India recommends. Three out of four personnel said that the overwork affected their mental and physical health and one-third of them confessed that they would willingly give up the job in exchange for one with the same salary and perks. Also, considering the number of judicial cases pending and the salary of the policemen not on par with similar private bodies is a cause for frustration in a cop’s mind. The general suggestions for incentivising the police include providing sufficient leaves and monetary benefits. In the purview of the Nudge theory, we see that monetary incentives and benefits to policemen indirectly prevent them from misusing ‘lathi’ (stick)— this falls under the philosophical idea of ‘Libertarian Paternalism’ in Nudge Theory as coined by Cass Sunstein and Thaler in 2008. The core idea is that the choice architecture of people changes voluntarily due to how they reflect on the incentive and the bright enthusiasm it provides them with, as opposed to frustration in a non-incentivised environment. To do away with work-based frustrations, personal incentives like the choice of place in patrolling duty and health and salary bonuses in a timely manner are more important, especially when it comes to lower-ranked officials. In a 2018 survey of 15,562 respondents spanning 22 states on the perceptions regarding policing, the Lokniti team at the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS) found that less than 25% of Indians trust the police highly (as compared to 54% for the army). This is proof of the distrust and hostility of the public towards the police. To solve this problem, the right kind of nudge would be through the public such as having a provision of a community centre for every locality for easier problem resolution— i.e. providing a single-window interaction between the citizens in the locality and the police. This is analogous with the out-of-court case resolutions in the judicial system or the Bangalore One Centres created by the government in Karnataka. Another nudge could be a monthly or fortnightly meeting where local communities get to interact with the police regarding the issues they face. This appears like the decentralisation of police at the most possible level, closest to the citizens. In this way, it is possible to induce positive changes in an otherwise stringent, overworked and brutal environment of police officers through policies that utilise a ‘nudge’ in their due process. (The writer is a student of public policy, Mount Carmel College, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/police-brutality-and-nudge-theory-993517.html
03-06-2021||Panorama||India, Israel inflame Facebook’s fights with its own employees||When India’s government ordered Facebook and other tech companies to take down posts critical of its handling of the coronavirus pandemic in April, the social network complied. But once it did, its employees flocked to online chat rooms to ask why Facebook had helped Prime Minister Narendra Modi stifle dissent. In one internal post, which was reviewed by The New York Times, an employee with family in India accused Facebook of “being afraid” that Modi would ban the company from doing business in the country. “We can’t act or make decisions out of fear,” he wrote. Weeks later, when clashes broke out in Israel between Israelis and Palestinians, Facebook removed posts from prominent Palestinian activists and briefly banned hashtags related to the violence. Facebook employees again took to the message boards to ask why their company now appeared to be censoring pro-Palestinian content. “It just feels like, once again, we are erring on the side of a populist government and making decisions due to politics, not policies,” one worker wrote in an internal message that was reviewed by The Times. Discontent at Facebook has surged over its recent handling of international affairs, according to interviews with more than half a dozen current and former employees. For weeks, they said, employees have complained about the company’s responses in India and Israel. The workers have grilled top executives at meetings about the situations and, in one case, formed a group to internally report Palestinian content that they believe Facebook had wrongly removed. This week, more than 200 employees also signed an open letter calling for a third-party audit of Facebook’s treatment of Arab and Muslim posts, according to a person who saw the letter. The actions are another sign of internal unrest at Facebook as employee criticism broadens beyond domestic issues. For the past few years, workers largely challenged Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, on his handling of inflammatory posts from former president Donald J Trump. But since Trump left office in January, attention has shifted to Facebook’s global policies and what employees said was the company’s acquiescence to governments so that it could continue profiting in those countries. “There’s a feeling among people at Facebook that this is a systematic approach, one which favors strong government leaders over the principles of doing what is right and correct,” said Ashraf Zeitoon, Facebook’s former head of policy for the Middle East and North Africa region, who left in 2017. Facebook is increasingly caught in a vise. In India, Russia and elsewhere, governments are pressuring it to remove content as they try to corral the platform’s power over online speech. But when Facebook complies with the takedown orders, it has upset its own employees, who say the social network has helped authoritarian leaders and repressive regimes quash activists and silence marginalised communities. The result has played out in a kind of internal culture clash, with a growing movement of dissenting rank-and-file workers versus its global public policy team, which deals directly with governments, said the current and former employees. Many workers have argued that policy team members have been too willing to accede to governments, while policy team members said their colleagues did not appreciate the delicate dance of international relations. Dani Lever, a Facebook spokeswoman, denied that the company had made decisions to appease governments. “Everyone at Facebook shares the same goal, which is to give a voice to as many people around the world as possible, and we push back on overreaching government requests wherever we can,” she said. She added that Facebook removed content only after it was reviewed according to the company’s policies, local laws and international human rights standards. Of the employee discontent, Lever said, “Just as people off of the platform are debating these important real-world issues, people who work at Facebook are, too.” BuzzFeed News and the Financial Times earlier reported on some of the employee dissatisfaction at Facebook over Israeli and Palestinian content. A divide between Facebook’s employees and the global policy team, which is composed of roughly 1,000 employees, has existed for years, current and former workers said. The policy team reports to Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer. Many employees subscribe to the idea that Facebook should stand up to what they see as dictatorial governments. But the policy team, which operates in dozens of countries, often has to weigh the likelihood that a government will shut off the social networking service if the company does not cooperate with takedown orders, they said. Sometimes allowing some speech is better than none at all, they have said. Facebook has faced many tricky international situations over the years, including in Russia, Vietnam and Myanmar, where it has had to consider whether it would be shut down if it did not work with governments. That has led to the employee dissent, which has begun spilling into public view. That became evident with India. In April, as Covid-19 cases soared in the country, Modi’s government called for roughly 100 social media posts on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter to be pulled down. Many of the posts included critiques of the government from opposition politicians and calls for Modi’s resignation. Facebook complied with the orders and briefly blocked a hashtag, #ResignModi. The company later said the hashtag had been banned by mistake and was not part of a government request. But internally, the damage was done. In online chat rooms dedicated to human rights issues and global policy, employees described how disappointed they were with Facebook’s actions. Some shared stories of family members in India who were worried they were being censored. Last month, when violence broke out between Israelis and Palestinians, reports surfaced that Facebook had erased content from Palestinian activists. Facebook’s Instagram app also briefly banned the #AlAqsa hashtag, a reference to Al Aqsa Mosque, one of Islam’s holiest sites. Facebook later explained that it had confused the #AlAqsa hashtag with a Palestinian militant group called Al Aqsa Martyrs Brigade. Employees bristled. “We are responding to people’s protests about censoring with more censoring?” one wrote in an internal message, which was reviewed by The Times. Other employees wrote that Facebook’s Israel office was headed by Jordana Cutler, who previously worked for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. The employees said Ms. Cutler, who did not respond to a request for comment, was pushing an agenda favorable to Netanyahu’s government by taking down anti-Israeli content from Facebook. “The role of the public policy team for Israel, like the one for Jordan and Palestine, as well as others around the world, is to help make sure local governments, regulators and our community understand Facebook’s policies,” said Lever, the Facebook spokeswoman. “While these teams have local knowledge and understanding, their only charge is to serve as representatives for Facebook.” Zeitoon, the former Facebook executive, cast a wider net. “There is a feeling there is a significant tilt within Facebook’s management, a systemic approach that does not benefit Palestinians,” he said. “People are mad — they are challenging their bosses. They see this as emblematic of so many problems at Facebook.” The frustrations were vocalized on May 13 at an employee meeting that was held virtually. At the session, one worker asked Nick Clegg, who leads public affairs, to explain the company’s role in removing content tied to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, according to attendees. The employee called the situation in Israel “fraught” and asked how Facebook was going “to get it right” with content moderation. Clegg ran through a list of policy rules and plans going forward, and assured staff that moderation would be treated with fairness and responsibility, two people familiar with the meeting said. The discussion was cordial, one of the people said, and comments in the chat box beside Clegg’s response were largely positive. But some employees were dissatisfied, the people said. As Clegg spoke, they broke off into private chats and workplace groups, known as Tribes, to discuss what to do. Dozens of employees later formed a group to flag the Palestinian content that they said had been suppressed to internal content moderation teams, said two employees. The goal was to have the posts reinstated online, they said. Members of Facebook’s policy team have tried calming the tensions. In an internal memo in mid-May, which was reviewed by The Times, two policy team members wrote to other employees that they hoped “that Facebook’s internal community will resist succumbing to the division and demonisation of the other side that is so brutally playing itself out offline and online.” One of them was Muslim, and the other was Jewish, they said. “We don’t always agree,” they wrote. “However, we do some of our best work when we assume good intent and recognise that we are on the same side trying to serve our community in the best possible way.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/india-israel-inflame-facebook-s-fights-with-its-own-employees-993522.html
03-06-2021||Panorama||As UP burns in anger at Yogi govt, BJP worried about 2022 polls||It appeared to be smooth sailing towards a second massive assembly poll victory in 2022 for the BJP in Uttar Pradesh — until the second wave of Covid-19 struck the country and its most populous state. Uttar Pradesh, which was among the worst-affected states, witnessed chaotic scenes, with videos going viral of the attendants of infected patients wailing before hospitals after being denied admission and using harsh words for the ruling party leaders over shortage of oxygen, hospital beds and medicines. Worse, videos showing cremation ghats filled with burning pyres and dead bodies floating in the Ganga only lent credence to the charge that the Yogi Adityanath government had failed to manage the situation. Within the space of a couple of months, the saffron party found itself on the backfoot in this politically crucial state, which is scheduled to go to polls barely nine months hence. The party faced criticism for its failure to tackle the pandemic situation not only from the opposition parties but also from social activists and the citizens at large. Repeated claims by BJP politicians, including Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, that the government had managed to provide adequate medical facilities to Covid-19 patients, have failed to cut ice with the people.  For the BJP, the pandemic has come at a particularly bad time. It struck when the saffron party had already been pushed on the defensive in the state, especially in the 'Jat' dominated western region, due to the ongoing agitation by farmers against the Modi government’s new farm laws. That everything was not well on the ground for the BJP was evident in the panchayat polls in which the saffron party suffered humiliating defeats even in its strongholds of Varanasi, the Lok Sabha constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and Ayodhya and Mathura. BJP-backed nominees could win only 750 of the total 3,050 Zilla Panchayat seats. The Samajwadi Party managed to bag 760 seats. Although the state BJP leaders sought to put up a brave face and continued to claim success in the panchayat polls, sources in the saffron party said that the mishandling of the Covid-19 situation cost the party dearly in the polls. ''In the eastern and central regions, we had to face the anger of the people owing to the scarcity of oxygen and a large number of deaths while in the western region the farmers' protests against farm laws went against us,'' confided a senior UP BJP leader speaking to DH here. The performance in the panchayat polls, coupled with the fear of a possible backlash over the poor management of the pandemic, has forced the BJP to revisit its electoral strategy. Top leaders of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and the BJP, including Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, held a crucial meeting in Delhi where the UP situation was discussed. RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale rushed to Lucknow to hold ''strategy sessions'' with senior Sangh leaders the next day. A few days later, BJP national general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh also visited the state and held a series of meetings with state ministers and party leaders to “assess the fallout of the Covid mismanagement” for the party on next year's assembly polls. A senior UP BJP leader here admitted that the party was “worried” over the ''negative perception'' among the people about the Yogi government, though he attributed it largely to ''opposition propaganda.'' That the saffron party, notwithstanding the bravado, is very worried was reflected in the way it changed its plans to get into election mode and launch its election campaign in the state. Instead, it was forced to change the slogan it had coined for the campaign— “har booth par jeet” (victory in every polling booth)— to “har booth par vaccination” (vaccination in every polling booth). Santhosh also told party workers and leaders to reach out to the people, especially in the rural areas, and provide them succour. ''We must be seen to be standing with the people in their hour of grief and provide them all possible help,'' he told them. Another worry for the BJP, ahead of the polls, is the ongoing tussle within the party, which was evident from the outbursts of its own party leaders after five BJP legislators died from Covid-19 in the past few days.  Several BJP MPs and MLAs and at least one minister sharply criticised the Yogi government for failing to ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen and Remdesivir to Covid patients. There is also resentment amongst senior party leaders and ministers over the “style of functioning of the chief minister”. Sources said that Yogi Adityanath and deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya did not enjoy cordial relations and that Maurya made no attempts to hide his feelings toward the CM during his discussion with Santhosh. Although there were demands for Yogi to be replaced as chief minister, sources said that the national leadership of the party was not in favour of a change at this juncture as there was not much time before the polls. A leadership change just before the polls would send a wrong message to the people.  Political analyst J P Shukla said that there were still nine months to go for the polls and that the BJP could “manage” things by then. ''BJP has enough time to re-strategise,'' he said. With the opposition parties going all out to ensure that peoples' anger at the Yogi government and BJP remains undiminished in the run up to the polls, it would take much more than holding strategy sessions for the BJP to return to power in the state under Yogi Adityanath.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/as-up-burns-in-anger-at-yogi-govt-bjp-worried-about-2022-polls-993526.html
03-06-2021||Right in the Middle||A Chinese revelation||Recently, I had an interesting conversation with a long-time patient’s wife. She complained that her husband often switched to speaking in English from Punjabi whenever he downed a few pegs beyond his ‘normal’. She said the transformation was most visible when he was with his old friends; he would selectively use the choicest English expletives. This brought back memories of a medical conference I had attended in Beijing, some years ago. The First Army Hospital in Beijing had organised a medical workshop but only a couple of Chinese doctors could communicate in English. The Chinese Army doctors looked intimidating in their uniforms. The head of the team was a stocky fellow who could comprehend our questions and comments and managed to convey his responses in broken English. To facilitate a two-way interaction, the hospital had arranged a translator. After the conference, some of the foreign delegates were invited to a lavish resort for dinner, and my compatriot and I found ourselves on the guest list.  The resort looked warm and inviting— almost reminiscent of Rajasthani palaces— with opulent hallways adorned with old artifacts. But the sight of doctors in army uniform, wearing grim expressions spooked us. As luck would have it, my Indian friend and I were ‘honoured’ by seats next to the ‘chief’. The evening started with shots of Baijiu. Each guest was given a small flask of the liquor which could be refilled from many larger ones. The host started with a toast to the head of the hospital and then multiple rounds of toasts followed, to the first patient, to the last patient, to the tallest guest, to the best surgeon and so on. We were in a quandary— the grim expressions of our hosts seemed to threaten our sobriety. We soon realised that if we were to down each of the refilled toasts, we would soon pass out. We surreptitiously filled our flask with water and then started cheering the group to each toast with even more vigour than our hosts.  After a few drinks, the conversation turned more relaxed and uninhibited. The ‘chief’ pointed to his new smart watch and bragged about its advantages and functions, how it could be synched with his mobile phone in mix of drunken English and Chinese. Another few drinks, and our host prompted his colleagues to converse in English. He himself complimented us on our English and wanted us to confirm if his English was as good as ours. “It’s definitely good,” we assured him. He also exclaimed that after a few drinks all Chinese blurt out whatever English they know. It was hilarious and I was reminded of the common refrain in our part of India that it takes only a few drinks for Punjabis to proclaim their command over the Queen’s language.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-chinese-revelation-993123.html
03-06-2021||Right in the Middle||A marriage made in mid-air||A frequent flyer, I had had quite a few colourful 'seatmates', who made my trips memorable. Notably, they ranged from  Aishwarya Rai to musician Dr Balamuralikrishna. However, one 'seatmate', who made my trip more emotionally was an agitated gentleman, who boarded at the last moment with the rush of a raging bull in an early morning flight from Madras to Cochin, hopping via Coimbatore. He kept his hand baggage in the space between his legs, wiped his sweating brow with a crumpled handkerchief and met my inquisitive gaze with a wan smile. "Thank god, I made it in time, minutes before the captain started taxiing," he said. I nodded, smelling that he had a tale to tell. "Did you know sir, my daughter will be getting married this morning in Coimbatore?" This puzzled me. How can a father air dash to attend such an important event. He threw a bombshell: "Mind you, I am not rushing to Coimbatore to take part in the wedding. But to stop her suicidal marriage to a bearded, penniless poet, a villain of verses." My curiosity kindled. I did not ask, allowing him to gather his wits and pour out the tale. "I was in Pondicherry for the past few days to clinch an important land deal. Only late last night, I heard that my daughter was going to marry the good-for-nothing geek, who will not fit into our rich, conservative  family." A romantic love story of the genre of Ambikapathi-Amaravathi, Romeo-Juliet, Salim-Anarkali and so forth. I leaned towards him so I would not miss a single word. The flight took off. "We should land at Coimbatore by 8. I will rush to the Registrar’s office  I was told it is a bit far away. Anyway, their office will open by 10 only. I will see to it that she will not sign the papers and get married to that geek." We circled over Coimbatore airport three times. The air hostess announced: "Rain and heavy turbulence. The visibility is poor. We will skip Coimbatore and fly to Cochin." My 'seatmate' shot up like a rattled frog. "My god, it means another one hour to Cochin. Even if I take a fast taxi to Coimbatore from there, after landing, I will not be able to reach before 12 noon. That means that penniless poet and my daughter would have been registered as man and wife." He collapsed on his seat. His face registered a gamut of emotions, anger,  disappointment and helplessness— a thespian Sivaji Ganesan would have envied. I did not dare look in his direction. I closed my eyes. I thought turbulences are known to rock marriages. Paradoxically, this one was heaven sent to perform one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-marriage-made-in-mid-air-993516.html
03-06-2021||Second Edit||Judging the victim’s character in Tarun Tejpal case||The Goa Sessions Court’s acquittal of former Tehelka editor Tarun Tejpal in a rape case has caused deep misgivings due to the observations made by Additional Sessions Judge Kshama Joshi about the complainant. Tejpal was on trial on charges of sexually assaulting a junior colleague at a hotel in Goa on November 7 and 8, 2013. In acquitting Tejpal, the judge drew attention to lapses on the part of the investigation and prosecution to build a solid case against Tejpal.  The Goa government has challenged the trial court’s verdict in the Bombay High Court, and it is for the High Court to scrutinise the trial court’s judgement. But there are remarks about the complainant, her conduct, habits and attitudes in the judgement which are not relevant to the case and which should not have found mention in the judgement, much less influenced the verdict.     The judge remarked that the complainant’s behaviour was not indicative of a sexual assault on her. In Joshi’s perception, she “did not demonstrate any kind of normative behaviour” that a victim of sexual assault “might plausibly show”. She was neither “traumatised nor terrified” and this “completely belies” the prosecution’s case. Is there a “normative behaviour” for a sexual assault victim? What is the “normative behaviour” she should have displayed to convince the judge that she was indeed sexually assaulted? Even more mortifying is Joshi’s victim-blaming. If she was “terrified of him and not in a proper state of mind, why would she report to the accused and disclose to him her location,” the judge asks. The judge seems to have overlooked the context of the case and the power differential that exists at the workplace. The judge gave the accused the benefit of the doubt and hauled the victim over the coals, even criticising her for seeking the help of lawyers, feminists and members of the women’s commission before drafting her complaint. How is that wrong? The judge’s shaming and blaming of the complainant will deter other women from seeking justice in cases of sexual assault. The judgement has been criticised as unfair and defective for its questionable evaluation of evidence, poor inferences and wrong assumptions. The judge’s observations about the complainant’s conduct are not tenable and point to a misogynistic view that expects the victim of sexual assault, rather than the perpetrator, to feel ashamed and traumatised through what has turned out to be an inordinately long trial.  When judges make such observations as were made in this case, it is natural to conclude that such thinking influenced the verdict. That would amount to wrong application of the law on sexual crimes and violation of many Supreme Court directives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/judging-the-victim-s-character-in-tarun-tejpal-case-993129.html
03-06-2021||Second Edit||Don’t bank on RBI surplus year after year||The Reserve Bank of India’s annual report, released last week, had a special significance because it was the first report after the central bank moved its accounting year to April-March. Now the accounting year of the bank, the government and most other entities are aligned, and this helps in many ways. The shift meant that the annual report covered only nine months up to March 2021. The report was also important because the RBI decided to make a big transfer of Rs 99,122 crore to the government for a period of nine months, compared to Rs 57,127.53 crore for the whole of last year. It is much more than the Rs 53,511 crore budgeted by the government for the year. The unexpected extra income will help the government, which is hard-pressed for finances because both tax and non-tax revenues have sharply declined during the pandemic situation. The RBI was able to make the payment because it generated a larger surplus in the shortened year. Its expenditure went down by as much as 63% while the income shrank only 11%. This resulted in a much larger surplus than it had last year. It made a record gain of Rs 50,629 crore by way of income from foreign exchange transactions. The high level of foreign direct investments and portfolio investments facilitated this. This is significant because the high inflows happened when the economy was diminishing under the impact of lockdowns and other difficulties caused by the pandemic. An all-time high foreign exchange reserve of $590.3 billion was reached in January this year. A change in accounting system helped the RBI to book gains. All these may be one-time factors. It is debatable whether RBI should actively deploy its forex holdings or other reserves to generate a surplus and help the government with it year after year. The RBI has done much to support the economy in the past one year. It is time for the central government to do some heavy lifting in policy and fiscal terms. These considerations are important because the RBI report itself raises concerns over economic recovery and notes that “compared to financial crises, a health crisis can be more pervasive, persistent and debilitating in its impact on the real economy” and “letting down the guard is perilous’’. It has cautioned that the flattening of the infection curve will not lead to restoration of growth and pointed out that the persistence of weak demand and missing private investment in the economy are not good signals. There is greater need now to push public investment, and only the Centre will be able to do that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/don-t-bank-on-rbi-surplus-year-after-year-993525.html
03-06-2021||South||Southwest Monsoon arrives on Kerala coast||India's annual monsoon arrived on the Kerala coast on Thursday, the state-run weather office said, marking the start of the four-month rainy season crucial for the farm-dependent economy. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) declares the arrival of monsoon rains only after parameters measuring consistency of rainfall over a defined geography, intensity, cloudiness and wind speed are satisfied. Rains usually lash Kerala state, on India's southwest coast, from around June 1 and cover the whole country by mid-July. Timely rains trigger the planting of crops such as rice, soybeans and cotton.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/southwest-monsoon-arrives-on-kerala-coast-993313.html
03-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM distributes Covid-19 relief hampers, sends second installment of financial aid||The distribution of Covid-19 relief hampers, containing 14 essential commodities including wheat and sugar to beneficiaries was launched here on Thursday by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin. Also, he inaugurated the disbursal of the second installment under the Rs 4,000 cash assistance plan to help people whose livelihoods were affected due to the pandemic and the resultant curbs. Stalin gave away the cash assistance of Rs 2,000, which is the second installment and a bag containing the commodities to ten families at the Secretariat here marking the launch of the initiatives on the 97th birth anniversary of former Chief Minister M Karunanidhi on Thursday. The two initiatives are aimed at benefitting over 2.09 crore rice category ration card holders spread across Tamil Nadu and the first installment of Rs 2,000 was disbursed last month through Public Distribution System shops. In its manifesto for the April 6 Assembly polls, the DMK had promised Rs 4,000 cash assistance to people and after Stalin took over as the Chief Minister, he launched the scheme on May 10. The second installment disbursal, like the first, would cost the exchequer Rs 4,196.38 crore and the distribution of 14 essential commodities, Rs 844.51 crore, the government said in an official release. The pandemic relief pack contains a kilo each of wheat, salt and rava and half kilo each of sugar and urad dhal. Tamarind and Bengal gram 250 grams each and mustard, cumin, turmeric and chilli powders, all 100 gram each are part of the pack. Two tea packets (total 200 grams), a bathing soap and a bar of detergent also find a place in the bag. Minister for Cooperation, I Periyasamy, Food Minister R Sakkarapani, Chief Secretary V Iraianbu were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-distributes-covid-19-relief-hampers-sends-second-installment-of-financial-aid-993330.html
03-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM M K Stalin announces multi-speciality hospital & modern library in memory of Karunanidhi||A multi-speciality hospital with 500 beds, a world-class library in Madurai to be built at Rs 70 crores, “dream houses” for writers who have won national and international laurels, and free bus travel for trans women and the differently-abled. These are part of the six major announcements made by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on the occasion of the 98th birth anniversary of his father and five-time chief minister M Karunanidhi. A warehouse to store paddy at Rs 30 crore in Tiruvarur, the native district of Karunanidhi in the Cauvery delta region, and three awards carrying Rs 5 lakh each as prize money to writers who enrich Tamil literature are the other two announcements made by Stalin, who took over on May 7. Besides the fresh announcements, Stalin also launched several schemes on Thursday coinciding with his father’s birth anniversary like providing Rs 4,000 financial assistance and groceries to temple priests who do not get monthly salaries, and free ration kits to over 2 crore families due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The Chief Minister also handed over enhanced financial assistance of Rs 10 lakh to families of accredited journalists who lost their lives after being infected with the novel coronavirus. In the morning, Stalin released a video on his verified social media pages dedicating the party’s emphatic win in the April 6 assembly elections to Karunanidhi and visited his memorial on the Marina Beach to pay floral tributes. In a detailed statement, Stalin recalled Karunanidhi’s contributions in establishing world-class health care facilities in Tamil Nadu and announced that a multi-speciality hospital with 500 beds will be established in memory of his late father at the King Institute campus in Guindy in south Chennai. The hospital will be built at Rs 250 crore. Stalin also said Kalaignar Memorial Library with modern amenities will be set up in Madurai at Rs 70 crore in an area of 2.5 lakh square feet to help students, scholars, and researchers in enriching their knowledge. The institution will be set up on the lines of the Anna Centenary Library built by Karunanidhi in memory of Dravidian warhorse and DMK founder C N Annadurai, Stalin added. The Chief Minister said the government will institute a special award to honour writers who make rich contributions to Tamil literature. Three writers will be chosen every year for the award which will carry a citation and Rs 5 lakh as prize money. Besides, the government will construct ‘dream houses’ for authors who have won Jnanpith, Sahitya Akademi, and other awards of international and national repute in their choice of place in the state. He also announced that the free bus travel in town buses will be extended to trans women and differently-abled once public transport is resumed in the state post-Covid lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-m-k-stalin-announces-multi-speciality-hospital-modern-library-in-memory-of-karunanidhi-993378.html
03-06-2021||South||False charge of impotency in divorce case amounts to cruelty, says Kerala HC||Making a false allegation of impotency or erectile dysfunction against a spouse as part of a counter statement in divorce cases amounts to mental cruelty, the Kerala High Court has observed while nullifying the marriage of two doctors. A division bench of Justices A Muhamed Mustaque and Kauser Edappagath, while considering the matter of divorce between a doctor-couple, said making unnecessary accusations against one spouse amounts to "mental cruelty". "Casting aspersions of impotency or erectile dysfunction by one spouse against the other in the counter statement in matrimonial proceedings will undoubtedly constitute cruelty. Hence, we hold that the above act of the respondent making unnecessary accusations against the appellant amounts to mental cruelty," the court said in its order. The court, in its May 31 order, noted that the woman had alleged that her husband was impotent but "miserably failed to substantiate the imputation made by her." "Apart from the bald allegations in the counter statement, there is nothing on record to show that the appellant was suffering from erectile dysfunction," the court said. The court also pointed out that the husband was prepared to undergo a medical examination to disprove the contention but "no such steps had been taken by the respondent(wife)." The court was pronouncing an order of divorce between the couple who got married in 2008.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/false-charge-of-impotency-in-divorce-case-amounts-to-cruelty-says-kerala-hc-993379.html
03-06-2021||South||Kerala BJP chief rejects allegations of bribing tribal leader Janu to switch allegiance to NDA||Kerala BJP Chief K Surendran on Thursday refuted allegations that he bribed tribal leader and chairperson of Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party (JRP) C K Janu for contesting the state assembly elections as an NDA candidate. His response comes a day after an alleged telephonic conversation between him and JRP state treasurer Praseeda Azheekode was aired by various TV channels in which the BJP state president was purportedly heard talking about offering Rs 10 lakh to Janu. However, Janu has denied the charges levelled against her. The senior BJP leader also asserted that his party has no links to the Kodakara highway robbery case. Addressing the media, Surendran said the allegations were deliberately levelled by vested interests to tarnish the image of the BJP. Responding to a query on the audio clip, Surendran said hundreds of people call him everyday especially during the elections. "I am not saying that the conversation did not take place. But Janu has not asked for any money from me nor have I given anything to her. Let the probe agencies check the authenticity of the audio clip," he said. Janu has been charged with demanding Rs 10 crore from Surendran for election expenses, few assembly seats, and a berth in the Union Cabinet. Azheekode claimed that Janu settled for less and Surendran paid her Rs 10 lakh for immediate expenses. Janu unsuccessfully contested from Sulthan Bathery assembly constituency during the April 7 elections. Lashing out at the ruling Left over the highway robbery case, Surendran said the saffron party was being targeted unnecessarily. Surendran, in an apparent threatening tone, said those media houses which are publishing news against the BJP should bear in mind that "there is rule of law prevailing". "A section of the media is conniving with the CPI(M) not only to defame the BJP but to divert attention from the issue of controversial gold smuggling and related cases," the BJP leader alleged. Meanwhile, CPI(M) state secretary in-charge A Vijayaraghavan accused the BJP of using large amounts of black money in the last assembly election and said they have been exposed now. "They tried to overthrow the democratic process. The central investigative agencies are silent now, the people can see it. This proves that they are working as per the whims and fancies of the BJP," he said. According to police sources, senior BJP leaders in the state could be called for recording statements in the Kodakara case. A special investigation team probing the highway robbery of hawala money at Kodakara, has questioned RSS leader and BJP state organisation secretary M Ganeshan and party office secretary Gireesh. In an embarrassment to the saffron party, the investigators have also quizzed BJP Thrissur district general secretary K R Hari and Ayyanthole Area Secretary G Kashinadhan in connection with the case. According to a complaint filed by Shamjeer Samsudheen on April 7, an unknown gang had stopped his car on the Kodakara flyover and robbed Rs 25 lakh kept in the vehicle, when he was on his way to Kochi from Kozhikode. Though the complainant had said that only Rs 25 lakh was stolen, the investigators later found that the actual amount could be about Rs 3.5 crore and it was a hawala transaction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-bjp-chief-rejects-allegations-of-bribing-tribal-leader-janu-to-switch-allegiance-to-nda-993381.html
03-06-2021||South||US consulate hoists rainbow Pride Flag over its Chennai building||The United States’ consulate hoisted the rainbow Pride flag over the Consulate building to commemorate Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Intersex (LGBTQI+) Pride Month. The flag will remain displayed on the building through June 30.   “US President Joseph Biden, the US Mission to India, and the people of the United States stand in solidarity with the LGBTQI+ community across the globe as they work toward equal protection under the law, freedom from violence, and recognition of fundamental human rights,” US Consul General in Chennai Judith Ravin said. To commemorate Pride Month, the US Consulate General Chennai, with support from the American Film Showcase, will virtually screen the documentary film “Share” for students, emerging filmmakers, activists, and others interested in LGBTQI+ issues.  The June 30 virtual screening will be followed by a panel discussion with “Share” filmmakers Barna Szasz and Ellie Wen, and actor Tim Chau.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/us-consulate-hoists-rainbow-pride-flag-over-its-chennai-building-993389.html
03-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu's Covid-19 daily infections fall below 25,000 mark||Tamil Nadu posted 24,405 fresh coronavirus infections, pushing the total caseload to 21.72 lakh while 460 fatalities raised the toll to 25,665. Recoveries remained high with 32,221 people walking out of healthcare institutions, totaling to 18,66,660 till date, leaving 2,80,426 active infections, a medical bulletin said on Thursday. Among the districts, Coimbatore recorded the maximum number of cases adding 2,980 followed by Chennai with 2,062, Erode 1,671, Salem 1,253, Thanjavur 1,020 and Tiruppur 1,264. The state capital, however, leads in the number of total infections among districts with 5,11,258 cases overall. The number of deaths also remained high in Chennai with 7,291 till date. The number of samples tested today was 1,79,438 pushing the cumulative number of specimens examined so far to 2.81 crore. Chengalpet, Cuddalore, Kanyakumari, Madurai, Nagapattinam, Namakkal, Nilgiris, Tiruvallur, Tiruvarur, Tiruchirappalli, Villupuram reported new cases each in excess of 500 today while the rest was scattered across other districts. Among the 460 who died of the virus, 107 had no pre-existing illness. Five of them who tested positive today include returnees from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and West Bengal, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadus-covid-19-daily-infections-fall-below-25000-mark-993411.html
03-06-2021||South||AP CM Jagan urges other CMs to support a centrally-coordinated vaccination drive||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has urged his counterparts in other states to “speak in one voice and urge the Centre to take charge and responsibility of the vaccination drive like earlier.” In a letter written to several chief ministers, including Pinarayi Vijayan of Kerala, Reddy observed that “the vaccine drive is plagued by multiple coordination issues and the decision of giving the states a larger say in the vaccine procurement was something unwarranted.” “The fact remains that last month and a half has made us realise the challenges of this drive. It has also led to a significant deviation of resources from augmenting healthcare capacities in our respective states,” Reddy wrote in the letter addressed to Vijayan. Explaining the ground for the missive, Reddy said “he was dismayed” by the lack of response to the global tenders AP had floated for vaccine procurement. The deadline for submission was Thursday 5 pm. “But to my dismay, no one quoted and the reasons being the situation now being transformed into states vs Union and the approving authority being the Centre and so on and so forth. The situation no longer is in our control as far as vaccine procurement is concerned,” Reddy wrote. “Some states feel they are not getting enough vaccines (but) global tenders floated by them are not getting the desired responses. Any delay in vaccinating the people would come at a heavy price,” Reddy warned. Like AP, Uttar Pradesh has also not received any response and has reportedly extended the deadline till 10 June. “The need of the hour is to increase our vaccine availability, be it through any source. A centralised and coordinated vaccination, supported by the states, would lead to wonderful results for the country's people. Therefore, I would again urge you to lend your support and we as CM's speak in one voice and ensure that India overcomes this pandemic,” Reddy appealed. The communication is seen as yet another move by the YSRCP chief in the strong defence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is facing flak for the second wave case surge and the vaccine shortage in the country. In an unusual tweet on 7 May, Reddy found fault with a tweet by Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren criticising Modi's approach in dealing with the Covid-19 surge.  In a public display of support for Modi, normally expected of BJP leaders and CMs, Jagan had asked Soren “not to point fingers but to come together and strengthen the hands of the Prime Minister to effectively combat the pandemic.” The opposition parties from Congress to Trinamool Congress are unified in their attack on the central government over the healthcare system crisis and the vast number of Covid-19 deaths in the second wave. Some chief ministers like Arvind Kejriwal highlighted the crippling issues of vaccine unavailability and oxygen shortage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ap-cm-jagan-urges-other-cms-to-support-a-centrally-coordinated-vaccination-drive-993457.html
03-06-2021||South||Kerala govt to rework Covid death audit procedures||In the wake of widespread criticisms against Kerala's Covid death reporting, the state government is planning to change the existing Covid death reporting procedures. While the Covid deaths were finalised by a state-level death audit committee, hereafter the Covid deaths would be ascertained by district-level committees. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan directed that doctors should prepare criteria to determine the real cause of death. The fresh move of the government may also trigger a demand for the review of all Covid-related deaths reported in Kerala over the last one year. There were widespread allegations that many who died due to post-Covid ailments were also not considered as Covid victims. Meanwhile, several relaxations were announced in the ongoing lockdown norms in Kerala were being reimposed by the state government as the test positivity rate was remaining at around 15 per cent over the last few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-to-rework-covid-death-audit-procedures-993500.html
03-06-2021||South||Stalin announces Covid-19 assistance for 1.17 lakh Tamil Nadu policemen||Tamil Nadu government on Thursday announced a special financial assistance of Rs 5,000 each to 1.17 lakh policemen in appreciation of their work during the Covid-19 pandemic. Chief Minister M K Stalin said the financial assistance will be provided to 1,17,184 policemen till the rank of inspector. “The assistance is in recognition and appreciation of their work,” Stalin said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-announces-covid-19-assistance-for-117-lakh-tamil-nadu-policemen-993505.html
03-06-2021||South||Delhi High Court to pronounce verdict on plea to de-recognise YSR Congress Party on June 4||The Delhi High Court is scheduled to pronounce on Friday its verdict on a plea by the Anna YSR Congress seeking de-recognition of YSR Congress Party for using the ''YSR'' acronym. Justice Prateek Jalan will deliver the judgement which was reserved on April 7. The Anna YSR Congress Party, in its plea, has opposed the use of acronym YSR Congress Party in the letterheads of the ruling party in Andhra Pradesh. The Anna YSR has contended that the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy-led party was registered in the name of Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party and alleged that it is illegally using the letterheads with the acronym of YSR Congress Party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/delhi-high-court-to-pronounce-verdict-on-plea-to-de-recognise-ysr-congress-party-on-june-4-993509.html
03-06-2021||South||Mettur Dam to be opened for 'kuruvai' cultivation on June 12||For the second consecutive year, the sluices of the 87-year-old Stanley Reservoir in Mettur will be opened on June 12 for the cultivation of kuruvai (short-term crop) in eight districts in the fertile Cauvery Delta region. Chief Minister M K Stalin announced that water from the dam in Mettur, Salem district will be opened on June 12 to enable irrigation in 5.21 lakh acre land. The announcement preceded a series of consultations with the farmers’ association and officials from various departments over the past two weeks. The date was set keeping in mind the arrival of the southwest monsoon in Karnataka. However, the dam was not opened several times due to a slew of factors, including a delay on the part of Karnataka in releasing water to the state. Stalin said the government has carried out 647 desilting work for Rs 65.11 crore in the past few weeks to ensure that the water released from the Mettur dam reaches tail-end areas in the Delta region. The state government had last month appointed senior bureaucrats as special officers to oversee the desilting work in the region. “Since the water level at the dam standing at 97.13 feet and the water storage at 61.43 tmcft as on June 3 and due to forecast of rains this monsoon, the Chief Minister has announced the opening of the dam on June 12,” a statement from the government said. Due to the move, 5.21 lakh acre land will be irrigated in Tiruchirapalli, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Pudukkottai, and Cuddalore districts, the statement added. The release of the water on June 12 will ensure that farmers take up kuruvai (short-term crop) for the second year in a row. The Cauvery Delta, which was used to a three-crop formula – samba, kuruvai and thaladi – had come down to just one crop a year. Till about a decade ago, cultivation would take place in three seasons – Kuruvai (short-term crop) from June to September, Samba (long-term crop) from August to January and Thaladi from January to May – keeping the farmer busy for the whole year. While the first two seasons primarily cultivated paddy, farmers utilised the third season to cultivate pulses for centuries together with the progressive farming community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mettur-dam-to-be-opened-for-kuruvai-cultivation-on-june-12-993511.html
03-06-2021||South||Kerala Finance minister to unveil Budget on June 4||Kerala Finance Minister K N Balagopal will present the first Budget of the second Pinarayi Vijayan government on Friday. Though former Finance minister Thomas Isaac had presented a full Budget for 2021-22 fiscal on January 15, the House had only passed the vote-on-account for the first four months of the fiscal as the tenure of that governmentwas coming to an end. Balagopal told the media on Thursday that the Left government will fulfill the promises in its election manifesto. "There are financial constraints which we are all facing due to the pandemic.However, the previous government stood with the people and provided good governance.We will stand with the people and fulfill the promises given in the election manifesto," Balagopal said. The previous government had presented a welfare-oriented Budget hiking social welfare pensions, revising salary of government employees and giving relief for farmers besides making hefty allocations for higher education, employment and digital economy. Isaac took a record three hours 18 minutes to read out the last Budget.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-finance-minister-to-unveil-budget-on-june-4-993520.html
03-06-2021||State||Comedian B Jaya passes away||Senior Kannada actor B Jaya passed away at a hospital in Bengaluru on Thursday. The 76-year-old artiste was suffering from health issues after suffering a stroke about a month ago. Her last rites will be performed at Chamarajet here on Friday. Born in Kollegal in 1945, Jaya ventured into the industry with 'Bhakta Prahlada' (1958). She acted in over 350 films, TV serials and plays.  One of the first comediennes of the Kannada film industry, Jaya shared the screen with veterans, including T N Narasimharaju, Dwarakish, Dr Rajkumar, Kalyan Kumar, Uday Kumar, Vishnuvardhan and Ambareesh. Jaya's last was 'Amma I Love You' (2018). She recently attended a shooting in a yet to be released Kannada film. She bagged the best state-level award for supporting role in the film 'Gowdru' (2004-05). Kannada and Culture Minister Aravind Limbavali and Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy chairman Suneel Puranik have condoled her death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/comedian-b-jaya-passes-away-993432.html
03-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt mulls 'one-day' PUC exam in July/August||Under pressure from parents and students to emulate the Centre’s decision to cancel the Board exams, the Karnataka government is considering holding a ‘one-day’ exam for the II PUC students across Karnataka. Determined to go ahead with the exams, the state government is discussing the possibility of holding the examination either at the end of July or in the first week of August 2021. Sources in the department of Pre-University Education, who were present during the meeting chaired by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa told DH that Karnataka has decided not to cancel the examinations. “The qualification (II PUC) is essential for several jobs both at the government and in the private sector. There is no question of doing away with the II PUC examination,” the source said. Elaborating, the source said, “Tentatively, we are planning to hold a one-day exam by giving students a choice of any three subjects. The examination will be in the form of multiple-choice questions. During the meeting, it was also discussed to hold the exam in two sessions with reduced duration for each of the subjects.” According to the discussion, the examination can possibly be held either in the last week of July or the first week of August after assessing the Covid caseload across Karnataka. The Director of the Pre University Education also held a virtual meeting with all the deputy directors at the districts to gather opinion about the examination on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-mulls-one-day-puc-exam-in-july/august-993136.html
03-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt immerses unclaimed ashes of Covid victims||Ensuring dignity in death to Covid victims, the Karnataka government on Wednesday performed mass immersion of their ashes in River Cauvery near Belakawadi in Malavalli taluk of Mandya district. As Covid deaths reached an all-time high in Bengaluru in May, the state government had organised mass cremation of Covid deceased on the outskirts of Bengaluru. However, following the cremation, many families refused to collect the urns containing ashes fearing the stigma attached to the infected patients. A fortnight ago, Revenue Minister R Ashoka had even appealed to families who had cremated their family members at Tavarekere and Giddenahalli open-air crematoria to collect the clay urn containing the ashes of the dead. With no one turning up, urns started piling up at the crematoria. The government then announced that it will perform the ritual of immersion of ash. On Wednesday, Revenue Minister R Ashoka and Mandya District-in-charge Minister K C Narayana Gowda immersed the ashes of more than 500 Covid deceased in River Cauvery near Kashi Vishwanathaswamy temple. A team of 10 priests led by Vedic scholar Bhanuprakash Sharma, conducted the rituals. After the rituals, Ashoka said, “This is the most emotional moment of my life. Traditionally, on the third day of the death, the family members immerse ashes in the river and I believe today that sacred and emotional task has come to me. Despite repeated requests, no family member collected the ashes. But as I follow the principle of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam, I chose to perform the ritual.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-immerses-unclaimed-ashes-of-covid-victims-993138.html
03-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||4 in Mangaluru arrested for sharing derogatory posts||Mangaluru East police arrested four men for sharing derogatory posts against leader Sharan Pumpwell and women members of Durgavahini on social media. The arrested youth were identified as Bhavani Shankar (32) from Sullia, Naushad (27) from Bajal, Ravi alias Tikki Ravi (38) from Kavoor and Jayakumar (33) from Dharegudde. The four arrested had circulated derogatory posts on Sharan Pumpwell and women members on WhatsApp groups. During the interrogation, they claimed that they had forwarded the messages received by them. The police will look into the origin of the messages, Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/4-in-mangaluru-arrested-for-sharing-derogatory-posts-993293.html
03-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to administer over 60 lakh vaccines in June: CM B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka will administer "more than 60 lakh" doses of the Covid-19 vaccine this month, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Thursday. “With 1.41 crores doses administered so far, Karnataka will complete two crore jabs by the end of this month,” Yediyurappa said in a tweet, thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his “continued support” for Karnataka’s vaccination drive. According to data made public by the government, Karnataka will receive 45 lakh doses from the Centre in June. The state government will directly procure 13.7 lakh doses. The Centre will give Karnataka 37,60,610 doses of Covishield and 7,40,190 doses of Covaxin. Karnataka will directly procure 10,86,080 doses of Covishield and 2,84,760 doses of Covaxin. Tweeting these figures, BJP national general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh said it was the state government’s duty to allot “jab wise, district wise, target groups wise quotas”. Yediyurappa tweeted a couple of hours after Santhosh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-administer-over-60-lakh-vaccines-in-june-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-993311.html
03-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 14||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday said Karnataka will remain locked down till 6 am on June 14, with no new relaxations, to contain the spread of Covid-19. Yediyurappa said the government had taken the decision to extend the ongoing lockdown as the spread of the virus had not yet been completely curtailed. "The cases have come down but the spread of the virus is continuing. The government has taken this decision based on suggestions by experts," the CM said. The lockdown regulations will remain the same, he specified. After June 14, Yediyurappa said the state government will be ready to relax the norms, provided the cases come down. “If the test positivity rate reduces to 5% and if people cooperate, then the government is ready to completely relax norms and lift the lockdown,” he said.    Yediyurappa also announced a second relief package worth Rs 500 crore. The government will provide a compensation of Rs 3,000 for every person employed in power looms, film and Doordarshan, fisheries, muzrai staff and Imams in mosques. Also, ASHA workers will get a compensation of Rs 3,000 each, while Anganwadi workers will get Rs 2,000. As teachers in unaided schools struggle to make ends meet, the government has extended compensation of Rs 5,000 for them. Further, the government will also contribute Rs 5 crore towards lawyers' welfare fund, Yediyurappa said. The compensation amount will be processed within a week, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-lockdown-extended-news-rules-when-will-lockdown-end-june-14-covid-19-news-993335.html
03-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||‘Kannada ugliest language’: Karnataka to take legal action against Google||The Karnataka government on Thursday said it will take legal action against tech giant Google following outrage over a search result that showed Kannada as India’s "ugliest language". Kannada & Culture Minister Aravind Limbavali said a notice will be issued to Google. A Google query on "ugliest language in India" showed Kannada as the answer, screenshots of which were shared widely by users. The Google answer was sourced from a website, which was mass reported by users. By around 3 pm, Google altered the results for the search amidst widespread criticism. In a statement, Limbavali said he had directed the Kannada & Culture secretary to consult the law department and issue a notice to Google. Google, however, said sometimes the way any content is described on the Internet can yield "surprising results to specific queries". "Search isn’t always perfect. Sometimes, the way content is described on the Internet can yield surprising results to specific queries. We know this is not ideal, but we take swift corrective action when we are made aware of an issue and are continually working to improve our algorithms. Naturally, these are not reflective of the opinions of Google, and we apologize for the misunderstanding and hurting any sentiments," a Google spokesperson said.  Former chief minister and JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy asked why Google was insensitive towards languages. "Is it impossible for Google to regulate such hatred towards language in advance?" he asked. Noting that the webpage from where the search result was sourced from was deleted, Kumaraswamy asked what was the relief for the hurt suffered by Kannadigas. "The mistake of Google is not acceptable." Google eventually excluded the webpage from its search results. By then, videos and thousands of social media posts were shared criticizing the search result.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannada-ugliest-language-karnataka-to-take-legal-action-against-google-993336.html
03-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka lockdown extended: What's allowed, what's not||The lockdown was originally meant to end on June 7. Under the existing lockdown norms, shops selling essential goods are allowed to open from 6 am to 10 am, with the public allowed to use their vehicles to move around only for purchasing essentials, emergencies or vaccination. From Thursday, export-oriented businesses are allowed to operate in the state. Here is what's allowed and what's not allowed in the extended lockdown: What's allowed: 1. Only the Offices of the State Government and their Autonomous Bodies, Corporations such as Health, Medical Education, Police, Home Guards, BBMP etc shall function (outside containment zone). 2. Only the Offices of the Government of India, its Autonomous/Subordinate Offices and Public Corporations such as Defence, Defence PSUs, central armed police forces, telecommunication, etc shall function (outside containment zones). 3. All health Services, including hospitals, nursing homes, AYUSH and veterinary hospitals, to remain functional (outside containment zone). 4. All agriculture and allied activities are allowed. Shops and godowns, related to farming, custom hiring centres, machinery are permitted from 6 am to 10 am outside containment zones. 5. Operation of homes for children/disabled/mentally challenged/senior citizens/destitutes/women/widows outside containment zone to be functional. 6. All facilities in the supply chain of essential goods, whether involved in manufacturing, wholesale or retail of such goods through stores, or e-commerce companies shall be allowed to operate adhering to National Directives for Covid-19 management. Movement of all types of goods including empty goods vehicles will be allowed. 7. Shops dealing with food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, meat and fish, and animal fodder shall be allowed to function from 6 am to 10 am. Public Distribution System shops are allowed. Takeaway only is allowed from standalone liquor shops and outlets, from 6 am to 10 am. The sale of vegetables and fruits through pushcarts is allowed from 6 am to 6 pm. Milk booths and Hopcoms outlets are allowed from 6 am to 6 pm. Home delivery of essential items shall be encouraged 24x7 to minimise the movement of individuals outside their homes. Operations shall be subject to adhering to National Directives for Covid-19 management. 8. All food processing and related industries, banks, insurance offices and ATM, print and electronic media will be allowed to function. 9. Telecommunication, internet services, broadcasting and cable services shall be allowed. Employees and vehicles of Telecom and Internet Service providers shall be allowed unrestricted movement on producing valid ID card issued by their respective organisation/institution. 10. Construction activities with in-situ labourers/workers will be allowed outside the containment zone adhering to National Directives for Covid-19 management. Works related to pre-monsoon preparation/road construction activity is permitted. 11. Scheduled weddings are permitted strictly adhering to Covid-19-appropriate behaviour with a maximum of 50 people. 12. Cremation/funerals to be allowed with a maximum of 5 people. 13. All units/establishments which are directly engaged in exports are permitted to function with 30 per cent of their staff strength, strictly adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour. Department of Commerce & Industries will notify the list of permitted units/establishments. All such units which employ more than 1,000 persons shall do Covid-19 tests for at least 10 per cent of the employees randomly twice a week. Separate SOP will be issued for garments exporting units.  Restricted movement of individuals: 1. Intra-district movement of passenger vehicles and buses only in emergency cases and strictly adhering to the prevailing SOPs/guidelines issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Movement of Officers/personnel travelling with the valid ID card issued by their Organization/Institution to the place of work and back for permitted activities in these guidelines. 2. Movement of Officers/Staff of High Court of Karnataka, Officers/Staff of District Judiciary holding official ID Card are permitted even beyond office hours to attend official work at High Court, Home Office of Hon'ble Chief Justice/other Hon'ble Judges and respective offices at the districts. 3. Passenger vehicles including Airport Buses/Taxis/ Auto Rickshaws to and fro from Railway stations and airports are permitted. The movement will be allowed only on displaying valid travel documents/tickets. 4. Autos and taxis (including cab aggregators) are permitted for travel related to an emergency purpose.  What's not allowed: 1. Metro rail services will not be allowed across the state. 2. Taxis (including auto-rickshaws) and services of cab aggregators, except while hired for emergency and as permitted in these guidelines 3. Schools, colleges, educational/coaching institutions, etc will remain closed. Online/distance learning shall continue to be permitted and shall be encouraged. 4. Hotels, restaurants, and hospitality services will not be permitted, except those meant for housing health/police/Government officials/ healthcare workers/ stranded persons including tourists, quarantine facility and step-down Hospitals. However, hotels, restaurants and eateries shall be permitted to operate kitchens for take away/home delivery of food items only. No vehicles will be allowed to be used by persons for taking parcels/takeaway. The only movement by walk is allowed for this purpose. However, hotels, restaurants and eateries can use vehicles for home delivery. 5. All cinema halls, shopping malls, gymnasiums, sports complexes, stadia, playgrounds, swimming pools, parks, entertainment parks, clubs, theatres, bars and auditoriums, assembly halls, and similar places will be closed. 6. All social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other gatherings and large congregations are not allowed. 7. All religious places, places of worship shall be closed for the public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-lockdown-extended-whats-allowed-whats-not-993312.html
03-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||S T Somashekhar backs IAS officer Shilpa Nag||Cooperation Minister S T Somashekhar, who is in charge of Mysuru district affairs, backed IAS officer Shilpa Nag and said her resignation will not be accepted “at any cost”. “Shilpa Nag is an efficient, honest officer. At no cost we will accept her resignation,” Somashekhar told reporters Thursday. “She’s been honestly working in the Mysuru City Corporation. I got to know that she has complained of mental harassment and I’ve told the chief minister about this. The chief secretary is also visiting Mysuru for a review on Friday. Let’s see,” he said. Asked if the government will act against Rohini, Somashekhar said: “The MCC commissioner told me about this last week. I’m visiting Mysuru. We will solve the problem.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/s-t-somashekhar-backs-ias-officer-shilpa-nag-993392.html
03-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Cancellation of class 12 exams may leave Karnataka students in lurch||The decision by the CBSE and ICSE boards to cancel class 12 examinations has mounted pressure on the Karnataka government to announce the decision about II PU examinations soon. Experts and stakeholders feel that the decision to cancel the examinations will impact the admission process, where the state board students will be deprived of seats at the undergraduate admission level. Even though the Centre’s decision will not make any impact on admissions to professional courses through JEE and NEET, those who aspire for engineering and other courses through Karnataka Common Entrance Test (KCET) will find it difficult to get through as the II PU/class 12 marks will be considered here. For admission to professional courses through KCET, the 45% eligibility in PUC (PCMB) is a must and 50% of PUC and KCET marks will be considered while announcing the merit list. “Online classes were not available for a majority of students from rural parts. Even if the state decides to do away with the II PU exams and promote students based on their previous performance, that would be difficult for lakhs of students as they have missed preparatory and mid-term exams,” said the principal of a private unaided college in Bengaluru. Even I PU was not easy for this batch of II PU students, as they were unable to perform well due to the pandemic and due to lack of access to online classes. “If the government decides to cancel II PU exams, it cannot consider I PU performance to decide the promotion as many students were unable to perform well due to the pandemic. This would cause real injustice to students,” said an official from the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA). Also, students will have tough competition in admission to other courses like BA, BSc and BCom. “As the other boards have already announced the cancellation of examinations, those students will get admissions to general degree courses. The state board students will have to compete for the leftover seats,” said the principal of a government PU college in Bengaluru. There is demand from various stakeholders, including private PUC colleges and schools, to conduct the examination. However, students and parents have mixed opinion.  Academician V P Niranjanaradhya said, “The PUE department should look for new options and not look at cancelling examinations. It should concentrate on rectifying the flaws in the system. In the interest of students and parents, it should announce a decision about examinations soon.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cancellation-of-class-12-exams-may-leave-karnataka-students-in-lurch-993427.html
03-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Now, family task forces to contain Covid-19 in Karnataka villages||As part of its efforts to reduce cases in rural areas, the Karnataka government is now constituting a team of volunteers to monitor people in home isolation in villages.  According to a circular in this regard, gram panchayats have been asked to constitute a family task force, which will operate under the existing Gram Panchayat Task Force. This family task force will include bill collectors, ASHA workers, members from Self-Help Groups and other citizen volunteers from the village. One such task force has to be constituted for every 50 families, according to Panchayat Raj principal secretary Uma Mahadevan. These task forces will monitor people under home isolation. They will visit homes and enquire about the health of family members. If the families are from vulnerable communities, then the task force members will arrange for food and medicine for them.  Speaking to DH, Mahadevan said only families that have a separate room and a bathroom will be asked to isolate themselves at home. The rest will be asked to admit themselves to Covid Care Centres. "The Family Task Force will ensure that those who cannot isolate themselves at home, move to a Covid Care Centre," she said. The members will also give telecounselling to families twice a day, in order to help people measure temperature, oxygen levels and pulse rates. That apart, the official has also asked staff at the village level to ensure that those in Covid Care Centres are also monitored through telecounselling. All the homes in the village must be provided with the telephone number of gram panchayat task force helpline number, the government directions stated.  Further, these task forces will also help the district administration is identifying community halls and schools in their respective villages, which can be used for vaccination. If anyone is found to have tested positive during vaccination, such people should immediately be shifted to the Covid Care Centres, the circular said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/now-family-task-forces-to-contain-covid-19-in-karnataka-villages-993429.html
03-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Third Covid wave: Parents may be allowed into wards to look after kids||In the predicted third wave, along with doctors and other medical staff, even parents of infected children may be in the frontline as the Karnataka government is discussing allowing parents into Covid-19 wards. This follows reports that children below the age of 18 years may be more vulnerable to Covid during the third wave. The health and family welfare department is considering allowing parents into the paediatric Covid-19 wards. Explaining this to DH, sources in the department of health and family welfare and department of medical education said this had been discussed in the recent meeting of the Technical Advisory Committee for Covid and the task force constituted to study the expected third wave.  "It is under discussion to allow parents of children below teenage to the Covid-19 wards if the cases are mild and moderate," the sources said. This is mainly because it would be difficult for the medical staff at the hospitals to handle children below the age of nine years as they are dependent on their parents. "We have to allow at least one of the parents into the ward to manage/handle kids," they said. The Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) is planning to train parents and nursing staff to handle children in Covid wards. Speaking to DH, Dr Sacchidanand, vice-chancellor of RGUHS, said, "We are planning for a virtual training programme for parents and nursing staff as they may need to deal with kids, which is not an easy task." "Nursing staff cannot handle the kids by themselves. Parents need to be allowed. The parents should be trained to wear PPE kits, monitor oxygen levels and other basic things. We are planning for a virtual training for this. We will also connect them to counsellors and psychiatrists to keep themselves mentally strong to handle the situation," Sacchidanand said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/third-covid-wave-parents-may-be-allowed-into-wards-to-look-after-kids-993431.html
03-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Decision on Karnataka board exams to be taken on June 4||The fate of board examinations in Karnataka will be decided on Friday as the Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar will address the press conference around 10 am. According to the information available from sources, the minister had convened a meeting with the officials of the department of pre-university education and Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) and also gathered opinions from several experts, including Prof M K Sridhar, a member of National Education Policy Draft Committee. According to the sources, the minister is still firm about conducting examinations. He even sought support from all other ministers and elected representatives to conduct the examinations for both second PUC and SSLC. "He gathered opinions from us on both fronts. We have provided information about both options to conduct examinations and options available to promote children. But even we have no idea what will be the decision," said one of the senior officials from the department of primary and secondary education.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/decision-on-karnataka-board-exams-to-be-taken-on-june-4-993440.html
03-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to get 58.71 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses in June: Sudhakar||Karnataka Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Thursday announced that the state will get 58.71 lakh vaccine doses in June. Out of this, 48,46,690 will be Covishield doses and 10,24,950 doses will be Covaxin. Out of 58.71 lakh doses, the Union government will supply 45 lakh doses to the state for free while the state government will procure 13.7 lakh doses directly from the manufacturers.  The next tranche of Covaxin doses will come on June 6 when 75,000 doses will be supplied to the state. This comes as a huge relief to Covaxin recipients in the state who are waiting for their second dose. To help those due for Covaxin second dose, the BBMP has made the vaccine available at 27 select primary health centres and government hospitals across eight zones in the city. The next tranche of Covishield on the other hand will come on June 9 when 2,61,190 doses will be supplied to the state. Till 7.21 pm on Thursday, as per the Co-WIN dashboard, Karnataka had administered 1,41,54,710 doses out of which 1,13,63,561 is the first dose and 27,91,149 is the second dose. This includes 1,26,07,000 doses of Covishield and 15,47,710 Covaxin doses. While 24,99,951 people have been administered the first dose while 5,99,776 have received both the doses in the BBMP limits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-get-5871-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-in-june-sudhakar-993442.html
03-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: 18,324 new cases, 514 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka continued to witness a slight increase in daily cases of Covid-19 as the state on Thursday reported 18,324 fresh infections, taking the tally to 26.53 lakh. The day also saw 24,036 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases. The state had reported 14,304 and 16,387 fresh cases on June 1 and June 2 respectively. With 514 deaths the toll in the state went upto 30,531. Achieving a "milestone", over 3 crore samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,50,168 were tested on Thursday alone. "Karnataka will cross 3 crore Covid-19 tests today. With 196 ICMR approved labs across the state, more than 82 per cent of the tests conducted in Karnataka are RT-PCR tests. Congratulations to all our laboratory staff on achieving this remarkable milestone," state Health Minister K Sudhakar said earlier in the day. Out of the 18,324 new cases reported on Thursday, 3,533 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 7,672 discharges and 347 deaths. As of June 3 evening, cumulatively 26,53,446 Covid-19 cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 30,531 deaths and 23,36,096 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin. Total number of active cases in the state stood at 2,86,798. While the positivity rate for the day was 12.20 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was 2.80 per cent. Out of 514 deaths reported on Thursday, 347 were from Bengaluru Urban, while Hassan and Mandya reported 14 each, Mysuru 12, Bengaluru Rural and Uttara Kannada 11, Belagavi, Chamarajanagar and Koppal 10, followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 3,533, Hassan 2,078, Mysuru 1,573, Tumakuru 979, Belagavi 839, Shivamogga 767, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 11,74,275, followed by Mysuru 1,47,228 and Tumakuru 1,05,995.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-18324-new-cases-514-deaths-in-karnataka-993533.html
03-06-2021||West||Man held for sexually harassing, confining wife in Maharashtra's Solapur||A man has been arrested for allegedly sexually harassing his 41-year-old wife and confining her at home with their three daughters for over one and half years in Maharashtra's Solapur district, police said on Thursday. The police raided the house in Zende Gulli area of Pandharpur city on Monday and rescued the woman and her daughters, while her husband has been arrested under section 376 (rape) among other relevant provisions of the IPC, an official said. The matter came to light when the victim managed to throw an SOS note outside her home, which was picked up by a woman and the police were alerted, the official said. The Nirbhaya squad of the Pandharpur city police kept a vigil on the house and rescued the victim and the girls, aged between eight to 14 years, following a verification, he said. During the probe, the victim told the police that she had been forcibly confined inside a room in the house for over one and a half years for failing to give birth to a boy, he said. In her complaint, the victim also stated that her husband sexually harassed her and forced her to have multiple abortions, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-held-for-sexually-harassing-confining-wife-in-maharashtras-solapur-993261.html
03-06-2021||West||Mumbai likely to get 87,000 Covishield doses on June 4: Mayor||Mumbai is expected to get a supply of 87,000 doses of Covishield vaccine against Covid-19 on Friday and the inoculation drive would resume in the city the next day, Mayor Kishori Pednekar said on Thursday. Due to the unavailability of enough vaccine doses, the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Mumbai was suspended on Thursday at centres run by the city civic body and the Maharashtra government, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) earlier said. Of the total 342 active Covid-19 vaccination centres in Mumbai, 243 are managed by the BMC and 20 by the state government. Talking to reporters here, Pednekar said they are expecting a supply of 87,000 doses of the Covishield vaccine on Friday, following which the vaccination drive would resume the next day. She also said they will try to administer both the doses of vaccine to students who are set to go abroad for higher studies by August. The BMC is not going to purchase Covid-19 vaccines from any agents, she said. According to the BMC's update, so far 33,74,261 people have been administered Covid-19 vaccine doses in Mumbai, including 49,833 doses given on Wednesday. Meanwhile, expressing concern over the rising cases of mucormycosis in Mumbai, Pednekar said the BMC has procured the necessary injections for the treatment of the disease, also known as black fungus. The BMC is taking adequate steps to curb the cases of the fungal infection, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-likely-to-get-87000-covishield-doses-on-june-4-mayor-993267.html
03-06-2021||West||Maharashtra cancels Class 10, 12 board exams||The Maharashtra government on Thursday formally announced the cancellations of the Class X and XII board examinations in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The board exams for (SSC) Class X and (HSC) XII stands cancelled,” state Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar announced after a review meeting of the Disaster Management Unit chaired by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Last month, the government decided to cancel the Class X examinations, however, the formal announcement was made after the DMU meeting. The board would give mass promotion to Class 10 students and the results will be declared in June based on the marks obtained by the students in Class IX exam and Class X internal exams. As far as the Class XII exams are concerned, on Sunday, Thackeray appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take a national decision. The Centre cancelled the CBSE Class XII exam – enabling the states to take similar decisions. On Wednesday, at the weekly cabinet meeting the issue was discussed after which School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad said that the proposal has been sent to the DMU. The modalities of Class XII promotions would be worked out soon. Meanwhile, state Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant said that his department was ready for the CET examination both online or offline.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cancels-class-10-12-board-exams-993306.html
03-06-2021||West||BJP objects to Goa govt's decision on premarital counselling||The BJP on Thursday objected to the Goa government's decision to make premarital counselling mandatory in state, citing that the move will create "hassles" for couples. The minister had claimed that several cases of divorce were taking place with within 6 months to one year of the marriage, and said religious institutions may also be roped in for the counselling plan. "We (BJP party) are opposed to the idea of premarital counselling. The party has already taken up the issue with the chief minister," Tanavade said. The process of going through premarital counselling will create hassles for couples before their wedding, the BJP leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-objects-to-goa-govts-decision-on-premarital-counselling-993317.html
03-06-2021||West||Covid-19 restrictions to be lifted in 18 Maharashtra districts||Coronavirus restrictions will be lifted from Friday in 18 out of 36 Maharashtra districts where the positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy have dipped considerably, the state government said. Disaster Management Minister Vijay Wadettiwar made the announcement after a meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority here on Thursday. The lockdown-like restrictions, imposed in April this year when the second wave of the pandemic intensified, would be lifted in 18 districts where the positivity rate is 5 percent or less and the occupancy of oxygen beds in hospitals is less than 25 percent, he said. These 18 districts are Aurangabad, Bhandara, Buldhana, Chandrapur, Dhule, Gadchiroli, Gondia, Jalgaon, Jalna, Latur, Nagpur, Nanded, Nashik, Yavatmal, Washim, Wardha, Parbhani and Thane. All restrictions would be lifted in these districts, he said. Restrictions in Mumbai would be relaxed partially, but the travel by local trains, the state capital's lifeline, would not be open to the general public as of now, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-restrictions-to-be-lifted-in-18-maharashtra-districts-993351.html
03-06-2021||West||Maharashtra policemen walk 4 km carrying injured woman on makeshift stretcher||A team of policemen walked 4 km carrying a woman on a makeshift stretcher to a hospital after she was found injured near rail tracks in the Western Ghats section between Khandala and Karjat stations in Maharashtra. The woman is now recuperating at a government hospital in Pune and is reported to be in a stable condition, officials said on Thursday. According to the railway police, the incident took place on Monday when the woman, Asha Waghmare (42), was found lying besides the tracks near Jamrung in the ghat section. A team of four-five policeman rushed there and carried the woman on a makeshift stretcher made of saree and bamboo sticks in the hilly section. They later used an ambulance to rush her to a primary health care centre in Karjat, around 120 km from Mumbai. "On Monday, we received information from the Lonavla railway station master that a woman was lying near the tracks in the ghat section near Jamrung," Lonavla railway police sub-inspector Vishnu Gosavi told PTI.  Since the spot was 20 to 22 km away from Lonavla, officials from the Karjat railway station, which was relatively closer to the spot, were informed, he said. A team of policemen and porters from the Karjat railway station immediately to the spot. The woman, who had received injuries on her back, was found lying near the tracks. Since it is a hilly terrain with a deep gorge on one side, it was difficult to arrange any transport to take her to hospital, said Gosavi. "Hence, the policemen, without wasting any time, prepared a makeshift stretcher with a saree and bamboo sticks and walked at least 4 km carrying the woman to reach Palasdhari railway station," he said. In the meantime, an ambulance was called at the Palasdhari station. "From there, the policemen ferried the woman in the ambulance to a hospital in Karjat. She was later taken to the government-run Sassoon General Hospital in Pune for further treatment," he said. The woman is now recuperating at the hospital, the official said, adding that she is a resident of a nearby hamlet in the ghat section. "As per information provided by the woman, she got injured after being hit by a running train at a curve in the ghat section while she was trying to cross the railway tracks," the official said. Her family members were tracked and informed about the incident, he said. A senior railway police official lauded the rescue team, comprising policemen P M Sarkale, D K Gangurde, M P Gaikwad, P A Turdar and a Homeguard. "They did a commendable job and would be rewarded," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-policemen-walk-4-km-carrying-injured-woman-on-makeshift-stretcher-993372.html
03-06-2021||West||Mumbai's Dharavi reports one new Covid-19 case||For the first time in four months, Mumbai's Dharavi area reported just one new coronavirus case on Thursday, a senior official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. The slum-dominated area had not detected a single case on Wednesday, he said. The tally of infections in Dharavi stands at 6,829, of which 6,451 patients have recovered from the disease and 19 are undergoing treatment, the official said. Dharavi became a hotspot of coronavirus infection at the start of April, with 99 cases reported on April 8 alone. Spread over 2.5 sq km, Dharavi is considered to be Asia's largest slum, with a population of over 6.5 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-dharavi-reports-one-new-covid-19-case-993397.html
03-06-2021||West||Communication gap within MVA leads to faux pas over Covid-19 unlock||The communication gap within the Maha Vikas Aghadi in Maharashtra came out in the open leading to a faux pas when a senior minister announced Unlock 2.0 measures only to be clarified later by the Uddhav Thackeray-government that the proposals are under consideration. As the confusion over the Lockdown/Unlock spread like wildfire, the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government came under a major embarrassment and fire from opposition BJP. The developments took place hours after Thackeray presided over a meeting of the Disaster Management Unit on Thursday. After the meeting, state Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar told reporters in Mumbai that a five-level unlockdown plan – depending on the positivity rate and oxygenated bed occupancy in districts - which he said would come into force from Friday. After the briefing, Wadettiwar, a senior Congress leader left for Nagpur. Even as he boarded the flight, the Directorate General of Information and Public Relations, in a brief press statement announced that the order had not come in force. “The spread of Covid-19 has not ended completely…in some places in rural areas the cases are rising,” it said, clarifying that the lockdown-type restrictions under ‘Break-the-Chain’ initiative have not yet been lifted. "However, depending on reduction in positivity rate, we are working out relaxations," it said. After Wadettiwar landed in Nagpur, when reporters asked him about the developments, he said: “What I said is that in principle a decision has been taken…the final announcement would be made by the Chief Minister.” According to him, the state has been divided into 43 units - districts and municipal corporations and accordingly a phased-wise plan would be announced. "There is no question of taking credit...I say again that in principle a decision has been taken and a note has been made by the department," he said, adding that in his Mumbai news conference he missed out saying "in principle". Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, took a dig at the MVA and tweeted: “What is open, what is closed? Where and till when? Lock or Unlock? Press conference or Press release? Immaturity or fighting for credit?” Generally, the practice is that the Chief Minister’s Office announces the Lockdown/Unlock measures along with a notification of the DMU, which often is preceded or succeeded by a webcast by Thackeray.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/communication-gap-within-mva-leads-to-faux-pas-over-covid-19-unlock-993400.html
03-06-2021||West||This village in Maharashtra is still untouched by Covid-19||The picturesque Kalbhonde village – nestled along the boundaries of the Thane, Nashik and Ahmednagar districts of Maharashtra – has recorded what is arguably its greatest feat. The village has zero Covid-19 cases – and has successfully battled the first wave last year and the current second wave. However, people of Kalbhonde have started preparing for the third wave. Kalbhonde – which has a population of 1,560 people and is spread over 1,800 hectares - is located in the Shahapur taluka of Thane district and is far from towns and cities. “We followed all the guidelines that have been passed on to us by authorities,” Bhalchandra Khadke, the Police-Patil of Kalbhonde village said. According to Khade, the village had been tracking the news of the pandemic since the beginning. “In March, 2020, we came to know about the cases and then the lockdown was imposed…we gauged that the issue is serious and we sat together and decided to ensure that we would not allow coronavirus to enter our village,” he said. The first important thing that the village did was to study its symptoms and list the preventive measures. “We decided on the priorities listed out and informed each and every villager of its dos and don’ts…in consultation with the village elders, we literally sealed the village,” Khade told DH over phone from Kalbhonde. Isolation centres were made near the village's entry points so that villagers who work outside could be put up there. “Anyone who enters the village is sanitized fully,” he said, adding that villagers were not allowed until and unless it was absolutely necessary and unavoidable. “But all protocols were followed,” he said. Several NGOs, who were helping tribal villages and hamlets, too approached Kalbhonde but they preferred transfers to Gram Panchayat accounts. “Our people work in farmlands elsewhere…but the village people cultivate rice, dals, vegetables, and roots.  “We also have ponds from where we get fish and crabs,” he said, adding that the agenda was to keep minimum contact with the outside world. “The village worked closely with Asha workers, Aanganwadi sevikas and school teachers in fighting the pandemic,” he said. Asked about the vaccination drive, he said: “Registration of all villagers in the 18-44 category and 45+ group is fully complete. However, vaccination is yet to start.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/this-village-in-maharashtra-is-still-untouched-by-covid-19-993455.html
03-06-2021||West||Pune airport becomes hub of Covid vaccine supply||The Pune Airport has emerged as a hub of distribution of  Covishield, the Covid-19 vaccine developed by the Serum Institute of India. More than 10 crore doses of the Covid vaccine have been supplied between January 12-May 27, official sources said. This means approximately 9,052 units (approx. 2,89,465 kgs) have been transported through various airlines from Pune Airport to different destinations such as Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Bhopal, Goa, Jaipur, Port Blair, Vijayawada, Bhubaneshwar, Patna, Lucknow, Chandigarh, Leh, Karnal, Hyderabad, Guwahati, Ranchi, Jammu, Cochin, Dehradun, Srinagar and Trivandrum. “India's airports across the country are contributing by ensuring seamless transport & shipment of vaccines and other essential medical supplies across the length and breadth of the country,” officials said. The entire team at Pune Airport including AAI and all stakeholders are ensuring seamless and smooth dispatch of Covishield vaccine. There is a dedicated team of AAI, AAICLAS, CISF, Serum Institute, Airlines and IAF which ensures coordination and priority handling of flights carrying vaccines out of Pune Airport. The airport has also been transporting the vaccines internationally. Around 2,16,000 doses (570 kgs) of Covid vaccine have been transported to Suriname, Saint Kitts, St. Vincent and Grenadines, Antigua and Barbuda, St. Lucia from Pune Airport by chartered flight in February, 2021. PVC vaccine approximately 161 pieces (3,670 kgs) was transported to Kolkata and Covid-19 testing kit were transported from Pune Airport to Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-airport-becomes-hub-of-covid-vaccine-supply-993501.html
