04-06-2021||First Edit||Cancelling board exams: An obvious decision delayed too long||The decision to cancel the holding of the CBSE and ISC Class 12 examinations was not unexpected. It was the most viable option available. The proposal has been discussed for months and has even been examined in the Supreme Court. Some state boards have already announced their decision to cancel their exams and others are bound to follow suit. Bringing lakhs of students to the examination halls for many days would have been an unwise proposition now. Protocols and precautions would not have worked, and the exams would have aggravated the pandemic situation. Students and their parents were worried about it and the prolonged uncertainty over the matter had added to their anxiety. Now that a decision has been made, there would be a sense of relief. However, the roadmap from here on is not clear. The Class 12 or Plus 2 examination is the gateway examination for students to graduation courses in all subjects. In the absence of marks and credits from that examination, criteria need to be formulated to judge students on their relative merits for admission. Some institutions may hold entrance tests, which may also present problems. It has been stated by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) that “steps will be taken to compile the results of Class XII students as per well-defined objective criteria in a time-bound manner.” The CBSE has also said that it would come up with “objective criteria” for evaluating students. It has been proposed that internal assessment of students during Class 12 may be used to judge merit. There is also a proposal that students’ performance from Class 9 to 12 should be taken into consideration. It is necessary to ensure that there is no rat race for admissions based on cut-off marks that are fractions short of 100%. The fairest and most transparent system will have to be evolved, though it is likely that there will be some complaints. For the long term, the crisis gives an opportunity to evolve a system that looks beyond marks in a single exam to judge a student. It is unfortunate, however, that the decision was made so late and that too after the matter was taken to the Supreme Court and it had to be the Prime Minister himself to take the call. It was clear many weeks, if not months, ago that holding these exams would be difficult. All the boards and the education ministry had enough time to consider the issue and to take a decision. Different plans for different scenarios could have been chalked out, and a difficult matter like formulation of criteria to judge the merit of students should not have been left to be decided in a hurry in the last minute.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/cancelling-board-exams-an-obvious-decision-delayed-too-long-993914.html
04-06-2021||Hubballi-Dharwad||9,000 Amphotericin B vials allotted to Karnataka to tackle 'black fungus': CM B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa stated that 9,000 vials of Amphotericin B to treat mucormycosis ('black fungus') patients have been allotted to the state on Friday, and they would be properly distributed among districts. "Authorities concerned have been instructed to focus on treating mucormycosis properly, and also to make preparations required to face the possible third wave of Covid-19. Plans are made to protect children from the possible third wave," he said. For total relaxation of lockdown norms, the Covid-19 positivity rate has to come down below 5 per cent. In rural areas, Covid-19 patients should be treated at Covid Care Centres instead of home isolation, he said. Admitting that confusion is created due to a tussle between Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Shilpa Nag and Mysuru Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri regarding Covid-19 management, Yediyurappa stated that the confusion would be cleared by Saturday. "I will attend to this issue immediately after returning to Bengaluru," he noted. All have to work hard to contain the Covid-19 spread and the public should also cooperate, he added. Health Minister K Sudhakar noted that the Technical Advisory Committee headed by Dr Devi Shetty has submitted the preliminary report regarding the possible third wave of Covid-19, and the final report is expected in a week. A senior IAS officer has been given the responsibility to distribute Amphotericin B medicine to hospitals treating mucormycosis patients in various districts, he said.  Earlier, Yediyurappa chaired a Covid-19 management review meeting in which Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, Mines & Geology Minister C C Patil also took part.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/9000-amphotericin-b-vials-allotted-to-karnataka-to-tackle-black-fungus-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-993810.html
04-06-2021||In Perspective||Vaccinate, for the sake of our children||Yesterday, June 4, was the International Day of Innocent Child Victims of Aggression. While framing this Resolution, the UN probably visualised the brutal acts of aggression against children in times of war. It did not anticipate a different kind of brutality that would victimise them. Covid-19 has invaded their lives socially, emotionally and pathologically. Apart from the health hazards, their studies have been interrupted, their social lives disrupted. For the millions of disadvantaged children in India who did not have access to schools, playgrounds, parks— or even properly ventilated homes— these last 15 months of forced confinement have threatened their physical and mental health in insidious ways. Deprived of simple childhood activities, these children are potential victims of many diseases. It is time the central and state governments turned their attention to protecting them from the ravages of corona, especially in the wake of its new variants and after-effects like fungal infections. It is also time to forget political differences and personal vanities. True, grave political blunders have aggravated the pandemic. But this is not the time for recrimination or regret. We have to move on to save our children. We are all in this together and must pull together. This is not the time for political bickering. In fact, it is no time for politics of any sort. Let the best brains in the country come forward to save future generations from the deadly after-effects of Covid-19. India’s child population is one of the largest in the world. So, it will be an uphill task to protect this segment. As scientists and doctors have repeatedly stated, the one and only way of doing this is by vaccination. According to specialists working in paediatric infectious diseases, we may have taken a huge step towards ending the pandemic with vaccines like Pfizer’s now available for children between 12 and 18 years. Clinical trials for six-month-old babies are also underway in many countries. India must import more vaccines for the sake of its children.     But there are many hurdles to cross here. Public resistance to get vaccinated is the biggest hurdle. In a country where every charlatan orchestrates the actions of a gullible public, it is a herculean task to implement these safeguards. Superstitions and pseudo-religious beliefs are clear deterrents to immunisation. Yet, despite such constraints, we did overcome several epidemics and pandemics in the past. How did India eliminate smallpox, influenza and the plague? How did it put an end to life-threatening childhood diseases like diphtheria, measles and whooping cough? How did polio become history and tetanus just a bad dream? The magic of vaccination saved millions of lives. Today, a new-born baby is protected against jaundice with hepatitis B vaccine soon after birth. She is protected against tuberculosis and pneumonia with a BCG and PCV vaccine immediately after. She then receives DPT shots to protect her from diphtheria, pertussis and tetanus during her first three months; she is administered an MMR vaccine as well to guard her against measles, mumps and rubella. This is followed by the routine varicella vaccine to keep away chicken pox. The polio virus vaccine is dropped into her mouth periodically thereafter to save her from crippling polio; she is protected against typhoid and cholera throughout her adolescent years with seasonal inoculation. Her life has been protected against crippling and fatal diseases with a mere jab.   If the public has already accepted these preventive measures and allowed new-born babies and young children to be compulsorily vaccinated against life-threatening or crippling diseases, what makes it different or difficult for governments to make the Covid-19 vaccine mandatory in the interest of children’s health? True, public resistance based on superstition is not easy to tackle.  It is a belief system like religion and almost impossible to change, especially when popular ayurvedic pundits publicly denounce both science and modern allopathic medicine. Stories of the difficulties faced by WHO or UNICEF during the polio or smallpox eradication drive reveal that public acceptance of such programmes have always met with stiff resistance. Entire communities have been bribed with gifts or cash to accept them. In India, educating people to gain their acceptance of vaccinating against Covid- 19 may be a good long-term solution. But sadly, the coronavirus will not wait. It will diminish half the world’s population if left unchecked. So, we may have to adopt more creative methods if all else fails. Schools can mandate vaccination as a prerequisite for admission and promotion. They can also mandate students to produce valid vaccination certificates to be able to appear for the school final examinations. Cinema theatres and restaurants, clubs and sports facilities, malls and shopping centres could all deny admission to adolescents without proof of vaccination. Likewise, travel by train, air, bus or metro should be barred to youngsters who are not vaccinated. If we adopt stern measures like these, Covid-19 may be found only in history books.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/vaccinate-for-the-sake-of-our-children-993909.html
04-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Davangere MLA to vaccinate people of his constituency free of cost||Davangere South Assembly Constituency MLA Shamanur Shivashankarappa has made arrangements to vaccine eligible people of the constituency free of cost in their respective wards. Speaking to media persons, on Thursday evening, former minister S S Mallikarjun, son of MLA Shamanur Shivashankarappa said the country is in crisis and the Karnataka government has stated that it would vaccinate all people by December this year. "We decided to purchase vaccine by paying Rs 4 crore and administer the vaccine to people of the constituency free of cost. We had ordered 60,000 vials of Covishield. We have received 10,000 vials." He also made it clear that people of all political parties would be administered vaccines. Another 50,000 vials of the Covishield vaccine are expected to arrive next week, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/davangere-mla-to-vaccinate-people-of-his-constituency-free-of-cost-993536.html
04-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada experiences rainfall as Southwest monsoon sets in||With the IMD announcing the setting in of Southwest monsoon over Kerala, Mangaluru and surrounding areas have been receiving showers since Friday morning. The pre-monsoon showers in the last few days have provided relief from the scorching heat in Dakshina Kannada district and helped overcome water woes of peak summer. As a precautionary measure to avert any mishap during the monsoon rains, the district administration has deployed Home Guards on the beaches on the coast in Mangaluru. Accordingly, two Home Guards each have been deployed at eight beaches in and around Mangaluru with the aim to save the lives of visitors when the sea is rough during monsoon. The Home Guards will monitor the movement of visitors at Someshwara, Ullal, Mogaveerapattana, Fathima, Tannirbavi, Panambur, Surathkal and Sasihithlu beaches. In addition, five- member teams have been set up at Sampaje, Subrahmanya Snanaghatta, near Uppinangady Temple, Hosamata bridge, Bantwal, Ullal, Mulki to carry out rescue operations during floods. As per the available statistics, Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts have received more than the average normal pre-monsoon showers in the month of April and May this year. As against the normal average rainfall of 54.6 mm in April, Dakshina Kannada district has received 125.9 mm rainfall while the normal rainfall in April in Udupi is 25.9 mm. However, the district has received 94 mm rain. Owing to Tauktae cyclone, Udupi district received 396.1 mm rain in May while DK received 394.5 mm rainfall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-experiences-rainfall-as-southwest-monsoon-sets-in-993614.html
04-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||170 grams of MDMA seized in Mangaluru, 3 held||CCB sleuths and Konaje police arrested three persons including a student and seized 170 grams of MDMA near Mangalore University at Konaje. The value of the drugs seized is over Rs 10 lakh. The trio were transporting MDMA for selling it in Mangaluru and Uppala in Kasargod, said City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar to mediapersons. The arrested are Abdul Manaf, a student studying in a college in Bengaluru; Ahmed Masooq, who works in a shop selling sports accessories at Nelamangala in Bengaluru, and Mohammed Muzambil, who works in a hotel in J P Nagar in Bengaluru. All three hail from Uppala in Kasargod, said the Commissioner. Acting on a tip-off, the police personnel started tracking the trio from Hassan and caught them at Konaje. During the investigation, the arrested revealed that they were selling MDMA for Rs 6,000 per gram. The trio had procured the synthetic drug from an African national in Bengaluru. The team from Mangaluru is already in Bengaluru as part of the investigation, the Police Commissioner informed. The team of police personnel are also looking for the consumers who were relying on the arrested for the synthetic drugs in Mangaluru and Uppala. The police will also verify whether the arrested had customers in Mangalore University campus as well. The trio were also involved in drug peddling in Bengaluru and had even sold ganja in Mangaluru in the past. A case has been registered at Economic Offences and Narcotics Police Station in Mangaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/170-grams-of-mdma-seized-in-mangaluru-3-held-993643.html
04-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||IAS officers' rift will be resolved in a day or two: Somashekhar||District in-charge Minister S T Somashekhar on Friday said that rift between two IAS officers is beyond his limits and the issue will be resolved in a day or two. The Chief Secretary is visiting the district and resolve the issue. When asked about the rumours that a few politicians provoked Nag to overtake the DC, the Minister also said his sole intention is to control Covid situation and he has no time to think about unnecessary issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ias-officers-rift-will-be-resolved-in-a-day-or-two-somashekhar-993646.html
04-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru DC Sindhuri defends herself, claims she sought details of CSR funds with MCC Commissioner||Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri on Friday defended herself and said, she asked MCC Commissioner Shilpa Nag the details of CSR funds and ward wise details of Covid-19 cases. Speaking to reporters, Sindhuri said, "The district administration needed funds for Vaidyara Nade Halli Kade programme and thus we asked the Commissioner to shared the amount but, she claimed that the funds were totally utilised for Covid management in the city. Thus, I asked her the details where she invested the amount." The DC also said that there was a mismatch in Covid-19 numbers. "And thus, I urged her to give correct information," the DC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-dc-sindhuri-defends-herself-claims-she-sought-details-of-csr-funds-with-mcc-commissioner-993667.html
04-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru corporators stage protest against DC Rohini Sindhuri after MCC Commissioner Shilpa Nag resigns||The corporators of the city on Friday launched a protest in support of Mysuru City Corporation Commissioner Shilpa Nag, who resigned from her post on Thursday. The corporators, irrespective of their political party, came together and protested against Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri for allegedly harassing the Commissioner, who announced her resignation from the IAS. All 64 corporators held placards carrying the message, 'I stand by the Commissioner'. The corporators demanded the state government to transfer the DC immediately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-corporators-stage-protest-against-dc-rohini-sindhuri-after-mcc-commissioner-shilpa-nag-resigns-993672.html
04-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Konkan Railway gears up for smooth operations during Southwest monsoon||The 740-km long Konkan Railway route is all set for the Southwest monsoon. This year as the fight against the second wave of Covid-19 strengthens, Konkan Railway continues to be fully committed to the welfare of its passengers. All efforts are being made to maintain track and passenger amenities ensuring all safety-related guidelines, said Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd Deputy General Manager Girish R Karandikar,  All planned safety works on this route from Kolad to Thokur have been completed. Special attention has been given to catch water drain cleaning and inspection of cuttings. The large-scale geo-safety works executed along the railway line in the last few years have significantly reduced the incidences of falling of boulder and soil slip, thus ensuring safe running of trains. No major disruption to train services had occurred on account of boulder fall during monsoons in the last eight years, Karandikar said. The Konkan Railway will conduct monsoon patrolling as per the prescribed guidelines to ensure safe running of trains. About 681 personnel will patrol the Konkan Railway route during the monsoon. Vulnerable locations will be patrolled round the clock and stationary watchmen will be deployed for 24 hours at critical locations. Speed restrictions will be imposed at vulnerable locations. BRN-mounted excavators have been kept ready at strategic points for quick movement in case of any emergency, he explained on the safety measures. Instructions have also been issued to loco pilots to run the trains at a reduced speed of 40 kmph in case of heavy rainfall when visibility is limited. Self-propelled ARMVs (Accident Relief Medical Van), with the provision of Operation Theatre and emergency medical aid have been kept ready at Ratnagiri and Verna (Goa). The ART (Accident Relief Train) has also been kept ready at Verna (Goa). Both loco pilots and guards of trains have been provided with Walkie-talkie sets as well as every station on Konkan Railway is equipped with a 25 Watt VHF base station. Emergency Communication (EMC) sockets have been fitted at an average distance of 1 km along the Konkan Railway route that enables the patrolmen, watchmen, loco pilots, guard and other field maintenance staff to contact Station Master and control office during any emergency situations.  Self-recording rain gauges have been installed at nine stations – Mangaon, Chiplun, Ratnagiri, Vilwade, Kanakavali, Madgaon, Karwar, Bhatkal and Udupi – which will record the rainfall in the region and alert officials in case of increased rainfall. Flood warning systems for bridges have been provided at 3 locations – Kali river (between Mangaon and Veer), Savitri river (between Veer and Sape Wamane), Vashishti river (between Chiplun and Kamathe) – and will alert officials in case of flash flood in the river when water flow reaches above danger Level. Anemometers have been installed at four locations – Panvel viaduct (between Ratnagiri and Nivasar), Mandovi bridge (between Thivim and Karmali ), Zuari bridge ( Karmali and Verna) and Sharavati bridge (between Honnavar and Manki) to monitor the wind velocity, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/konkan-railway-gears-up-for-smooth-operations-during-southwest-monsoon-993688.html
04-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Will bestow Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar award soon: Somashekar||Mysuru district in-charge minister S T Somashekar on Friday said that 12 dignitaries will be given the Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar Award once the state-wide Covid-19 lockdown is lifted. Somashekar, who paid floral tribute to the statue of Nalwadi Wadiyar on his birth anniversary, said last year, a committee headed by then Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar was formed but it was not possible to honour the dignitaries due to Covid-19. All the dignitaries will be honoured with the award in the days to come, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/will-bestow-nalwadi-krishnaraja-wadiyar-award-soon-somashekar-993691.html
04-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLA Vedavyasa Kamath tests positive for Covid-19||Mangalore City South MLA D Vedavyasa Kamath has been tested positive for Covid-19. Taking to Twitter and Facebook to announce the same, the MLA said that he gave his swab for testing after being affected by fever. "The report is tested positive for Covid-19. I am in home isolation and fine. The public should take utmost care of their health,” he wrote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mla-vedavyasa-kamath-tests-positive-for-covid-19-993711.html
04-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Elephant Kusha released into Bandipura forest||The captive elephant Kusha could not join his mate in the forest of Dubare. Instead, he was released into the forest of Moolehole wildlife division of Bandipur in Chamarajanagar district on Thursday evening after placing a radio caller on him. With the help of tamed elephants from Dubare, the elephant was taken in a vehicle belonging to the elephants' rapid action force of Dubare elephant camp to Bandipur. According to the direction of the principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) and chief wildlife conservator, a radio was placed on Kusha and he was released into the forest of Moolehole under the Bandipur Tiger Conservation area.  Kusha, who had left the Dubare camp a year ago for mating, did not return. The forest department captured and brought him back to the camp on March 30. However, he did not oblige his mahout and was confined to the kraal once again for training.  Animal enthusiasts, condemning the department’s move, alleged that it has been depriving the elephant of its natural habitat. The elephant was also separated from its mate, which can have a psychological impact on the animal, the animal rights activists had claimed. The animal lovers also pointed out that the elephant was tied with metal chains. A letter in this regard was sent to MP Maneka Gandhi who eventually asked the experts from the People for Animal organisation --- Savitha Nagabhushan and Dr Amar Deep Singh --- to visit Dubare and inspect the health of Kusha. Following pressure from various quarters, the government decided to release the elephant back into the wild in the wake of ethical questions raised over its recapture. Kusha knew the Dubare reserve forest. He had tears in his eyes while boarding the lorry before leaving for Bandipur. The forest officials had said that Covid-19 regulations had resulted in the delay in the implementation of the government’s order to release Kusha into the forest from the Dubare elephant camp. Kushalnagar RFO Ananyakumar said, "On the direction of the senior forest department officials, Kusha has been released into the forest of Moolehole." DRFO K P Ranjan said, "Kusha did not create any scene while boarding the lorry to shift him to Bandipur."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/elephant-kusha-released-into-bandipura-forest-993768.html
04-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||MCC members, workers stage protests, seek deputy commissioner’s transfer||Support poured in for Mysuru City Cororation (MCC) Commissioner Shilpa Nag, with corporators, employees of the MCC and pourakarmikas staging a protest, demanding the transfer of Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri in Mysuru on Friday. The MCC office turned into a protest venue, with corporators, cutting across party barriers, joining the protest. Holding banners that read ‘I support Shilpa Nag’ and ‘Transfer Rohini Sindhuri’, they raised slogans against the DC. As soon as Shilpa Nag offered to resign, citing harassment by the DC, on Thursday evening, the corporators, led by acting Mayor Anwar Baig, held a meeting and decided to stage a protest on Friday. Anwar Baig said, “All corporators support the MCC commissioner. The government should not accept her resignation for any reason, when she submits.” Corporator Ayub Khan alleged that the DC acts like a politician. She has been harassing the officials. She should be transferred and Nag should continue as MCC commissioner, he said. District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar visited the protest venue at 2.30 pm and held a discussion with the corporators and others. Requesting for two days time, to take a decision, he appealed to them to drop the protest. Ayub Khan said, “The minister has assured to take a decision by Monday morning. As per his request, we are withdrawing the protest. Future course of action will be decided on Monday.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mcc-members-workers-stage-protests-seek-deputy-commissioner-s-transfer-993841.html
04-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||MCC chief denies Sindhuri’s allegation over CSR funds||Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Shilpa Nag has denied the allegation of Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri that the commissioner failed to furnish the details of CSR funds collected for Covid-19 management. In a statement, the commissioner has clarified that MCC or other government entities cannot accept donations in cash. Only PM Cares and CM Cares Fund can, all donations received by the MCC are only in kind. Nag stated that the press statement regarding Rs 12.53 crore being collected in 20 days’ was made by the DC herself in a CSR meeting with corporates on May 26, in the absence of the MCC Commissioner. Further, many donations were received by the DC office directly, which the MCC does not hold information,” the commissioner said. The allegations that the CSR report was not furnished are completely far from the truth. MCC commissioner was appointed as the District Nodal Officer for CSR funds on May 5 by the DC herself and order on removal of MCC Commissioner as the District Nodal Head for CSR were issued on June 1. “All the undistributed items were handed over to Deputy Director of Mysuru Palace Board, immediately after the order. A comprehensive report listing all items received has also been submitted. It details the quantity, names of donors, handed over details, undistributed and returned. CSR items to the new CSR nodal officer appointed by the DC on May 25. Despite this, misleading details about MCC continue to pour in by the DC,” she said. “Based on DC’s directives, the collected aid in kind was handed over to the DHO and government hospitals periodically, which has been routed to the rural areas. It has to be noted that many of the high value items like ambulances, ventilators, ICU beds, oxygen concentrators, and cardiac monitors were collected by the DC office and government hospitals directly and whereabouts of these are not known to the MCC. This also includes other CSR initiatives in pipeline, like the two 25KL oxygen plants in district hospital and KR Hospital, 500 LPM oxygen plant being set up by Infosys and others,” the Commissioner clarified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mcc-chief-denies-sindhuri-s-allegation-over-csr-funds-993843.html
04-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||BJP leader accused of violating norms for son’s wedding||State BJP ST Morcha vice president and PLD Bank president Mallesh conducted his son’s wedding violating the lockdown norms imposed by the government, at a temple in Parvathy Betta, Gundlupet taluk, on Friday. Parvathy Betta belongs to Muzrai department and the people’s entry has beenrestricted due to Covid lockdown. Mallesh had allegedly used his influence to open the temple and conduct the marriage, violating the norms, it is alleged. Around 50 people had participated in the wedding, according to sources. Reacting to this, Tahsildar Ravishankar said, “Mallesh had taken permission for conducting the wedding at his house. Now, we have received information that the wedding was conducted at the temple in Parvathy Betta. We will verify and take necessary action.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bjp-leader-accused-of-violating-norms-for-son-s-wedding-993845.html
04-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Most elected representatives back Nag; Mysureans disapprove such stand||Even as the rift between two women IAS officers of Mysuru reached its peak on Thursday, with Mysuru City Corporation Commissioner Shilpa Nag offering to resign, accusing Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri of high-handedness, most of the people’s representatives have thrown their weight behind the former. However, a section of the citizens are against projection of the support of people’s representatives to one of the officer, as the support of the entire population of Mysuru district. H Raghavendra, a retired lecturer, said, "We might have voted a particular politician, in the absence of a better option. That does not mean that their opinion can be imposed on us. One should understand that if all politicians, except some exception like MLA G T Devegowda, are supporting a particular person, it implies that they are ‘ganging’ up against the other person.” Raghavendra said that if the MCC commissioner has resigned, the basic question should be, where is the resignation letter? J B Rangaswamy, a retired deputy commissioner of police, said, “Even though complaining against a senior officer is not wrong, bringing caste and language reference in public cannot be justified. One should understand that if the government finds fault, in managing the Covid pandemic, the DC, the overall in-charge of the district, will be held responsible and not the MCC Commissioner, whose jurisdiction is limited to the city. So, if a higher officer tries to extract work, it should not be described as harassment.” “The phrase used by the MCC commissioner, ‘There should not be such a DC for any district’ sounds like borrowed words of a politician. Regarding mental torture, the MCC commissioner had a lot of options to air her grievances, to her higher officials. As the DC has no powers to initiate any action against the MCC commissioner, her fear and taking the extreme step of resigning gives rise to suspicion,” Rangaswamy said. “Strangely, ever since the DC took charge on September 29, 2020, she is under attack by various politicians. Some of them were personal comments. She was insulted for following the Covid protocol and wearing mask in a meeting. There were attempts to fix her for the Covid deaths in a neighbouring district. Now, the issue of constructing a swimming pool on the premises of the official residence of the DC, Jalasannidi, has been raised. The proposal was a few years old and was approved during her tenure. If she has used or misused Covid funds for its construction, she should be punished,” Rangaswamy said. S Prabhamani, president of Sevayana, running an old age home, said that if the DC has erred, there is a system in the government, to address it. “Defaming a fellow officer through the media cannot be justified. If the commissioner was harassed, she could have complained to her higher officers, with proper evidence. How can somebody offer to resign as a top bureaucrat?” she asked. "It is unfortunate that the people’s representatives are projecting their personal opinion as people’s opinion, to target an official at a time she is under pressure, managing the Covid crisis," Prabhamani said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/most-elected-representatives-back-nag-mysureans-disapprove-such-stand-993846.html
04-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Will bestow Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar award soon: Minister||District In-charge minister S T Somashekar on Friday said that 12 dignitaries will be presented Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar Award once the state-wide Covid-19 lockdown is lifted. Somashekar, who paid floral tributes to the statue of Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar on his 137th birth anniversary, said, “A committee, headed by then Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar was formed last year. But, it was not possible to felicitate the dignitaries due to Covid-19. All the dignitaries will be honoured with the award in the days to come.” Mysuru and Bengaluru witnessed development during his period. Nalvadi developed roads, choultries, free hospitals, parks, buildings, educational institutions, hostels among the others. He eradicated Devadasi system and other social evils in the society by introducing stringent laws. MLAs G T Devegowda, S A Ramadass, Tanveer Sait, B Harshavardhan, L Nagendra, MP Pratap Simha, City Police Commissioner Chandragupta, Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, MUDA Chairman H V Rajeev and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/will-bestow-nalvadi-krishnaraja-wadiyar-award-soon-minister-993847.html
04-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Minister prays to Chamundeshwari to protect ‘sincere officer’||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar on Friday expressed his helplessness over the rift between the two women IAS officers -- Shilpa Nag and Rohini Sindhuri -- and said that Sri Chamundeshwari Devi will look into everything. Mysuru City Corporation Commissioner Shilpa Nag offered her resignation, citing harassment by Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri on Thursday.  To a query on resolving the issue between the officers, Somashekar said, “Chamundeshwari Devi is watching everything from the Chamundi Hill. I have prayed to the Devi, to protect the honest one. I have no role to play in this regard. The matter is beyond my limit. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar will resolve the issue.” Somashekar said that his priority is to manage the Covid pandemic and he has no time to look into such matters. “The officials and people’s representatives should leave their ego and work for the welfare of the people. It is our responsibility to protect the people during the emergency,” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-prays-to-chamundeshwari-to-protect-sincere-officer-993854.html
04-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three of family charred to death as car catches fire||Three members of a family from Bengaluru were charred to death while two others sustained serious injuries, as their car rolled into a ditch and caught fire, near Halagur, Malavalli taluk, Mandya district, on Friday morning. The deceased are Sheik Faisal (44), his daughter Suhana (12) and son Sheikh Aihil (6). Faisal’s wife Mehak, 33, and another daughter Mahaira, 11, have sustained serious injuries. They were shifted to Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru. According to the officials, the car hit a roadside stone and rolled into a ditch and caught fire. The victims are residents of KG Halli in Bengaluru. They had been to a friend’s farmhouse near Kollegal and were returning, when the mishap occurred. Faisal, a civil contractor, was driving the car, when the mishap occurred. The police said that he lost control over the car near the petrol bunk in Halagur town, when the vehicle hit a roadside stone and rolled into the ditch. It caught fire instantly and three of them were charred to death. Locals rushed and rescued the other two in the car.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-of-family-charred-to-death-as-car-catches-fire-993856.html
04-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Litterateur Vasanth Kushtagi passes away||Veteran writer Vasanth Kushtagi died of a heart attack in Kalaburagi on Friday. He was 85. Kushtagi was admitted to Gulbarga Heart Foundation hospital for low blood pressure a week ago but breathed his last as he failed to respond to the treatment. He is survived by three sons and a daughter.  With over more than 60 books to his credit, he had a deep knowledge of Dasa literature. He is known as professor, litterateur, writer, journalist, critic, linguist, and social activist. Kushtagi has made a great contribution to the language of Kalyana Karnataka in various forms. He was the recipient of the Karnataka Rajyotsava Award and was once the president of Kalaburagi District Kannada Sahitya Sammela. His name was in the forefront while choosing the president for Kannada Sahitya Sameelana held in Kalaburagi in 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/litterateur-vasanth-kushtagi-passes-away-993864.html
04-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP to approach disgruntled Karnataka legislators individually||Following the recent outburst against the state government by Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar, the BJP leadership has decided to approach such disgruntled legislators individually and address their concerns. The decision was taken following a meeting with state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel, senior ministers and party leaders on Friday. Kateel is expected to meet Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa shortly to discuss the issue. Speaking to DH, BJP general secretary N Ravikumar said that leaders at the meeting were of the view that approaching the press with complaints was not right. This was with regard to Yogeshwar and other leaders, he said. “Leaders of the party and ministers have talked to these legislators about their complaints. Kateel will soon meet Yediyurappa and chart out a strategy to address all concerns,” he said. According to Revenue Minister R Ashoka, there was no talk of a BJP Legislature Party meeting yet. “We will meet the legislators individually,” he said. BJP’s performance in the recently concluded bypolls and elections for 11 local bodies was reviewed. Apart from that, upcoming by-elections and local body polls were also discussed in the meeting, he said. Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan and Forest Minister Arvind Limbavali, along with general secretaries of the party’s state unit, were among those who took part in the meeting. The meeting gained significance amid rumours of renewed attempts to unseat Yediyurappa. Though criticism by the disgruntled MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal had subsided during the course of the Covid-19 second wave, Yogeshwar had dropped a bombshell with his dig at the CM and his son-BJP vice-president B Y Vijayendra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-to-approach-disgruntled-karnataka-legislators-individually-993859.html
04-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Compromise solution likely to purge dissidence in Karnataka BJP?||Although BJP vice-president B Y Vijayendra has approached the party central leadership on ‘disciplining’ the dissidents seeking action against them, the response to past instances of indiscipline has not inspired confidence in Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s camp. After leaders, like MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and MLC A H Vishwanath, embarrassed the government with their statements, it was recently the turn of Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar. These developments are being interpreted as the steady fallout of continued factionalism in the BJP state unit, leading to numerous rumours on Yediyurappa’s ouster. Meanwhile, demands of a reshuffle of the party unit have also grown, following complaints by the Yediyurappa faction that representation in the state unit was skewed towards those who are loyal to BJP national general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh. According to sources, any move towards replacing Yediyurappa or disciplinary action against Yatnal was fraught with the risk of disturbing BJPs crucial Lingayat vote bank. This has forced some in the party ranks to rethink their strategy and allow Yediyurappa to complete his term, sources said. Also, some argue that a new chief minister will have effectively just one year, which is insufficient. Commenting on the recent outburst by Yogeshwar, a senior BJP leader said that he was unhappy as his demand to be appointed as in-charge minister for Mysuru district was rejected. While Yogeshwar wanted to bolster his status as a Vokkaliga leader after being put in-charge of Mysuru, his demands could not be met as Cooperation minister S T Somashekar was already doing a fine job, he said. “Moreover, this would have lead to constant battles between him and Vishwanath, who also hails from the district,” he said, noting that Vishwanath blamed Yogeshwar for his loss in the 2019 bypolls. Whether the high command will heed the call for the minister’s ouster from the Cabinet remains to beseen. Reshuffling the party unit, despite demands by the Yediyurappa camp will not be easy and a compromise solution might be likely to avoid a stalemate, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/compromise-solution-likely-to-purge-dissidence-in-karnataka-bjp-993860.html
04-06-2021||Main Article||Ecosystem key to human health||Every year, June 5 is observed as World Environment Day to create awareness about environmental protection. It offers a global platform for advancing discourse, articulating and advocating actions and inspiring positive change towards environmental issues affecting our entire planet. It reminds us that we humans are not alone on this planet. A huge biological ecosystem co-exists with humans. Ecosystems and their biodiversity form the basis for economic growth, sustainable development and human wellbeing. The theme for World Environment Day 2021 is ‘ecosystem restoration’, which emphasises a re-imagination, re-creation and restoration of our ecosystem. The day will also mark the launch of the ‘UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration 2021-2030’. In the next decade, the United Nations, with the support of countries, partners and people, will focus on preventing, halting and reversing the loss of degraded natural ecosystems. Ecosystems support all life on earth. Healthy ecosystems enhance livelihoods, protect the climate, and maintain biodiversity. The wellbeing of the human population in the coming decades will depend on conservation and restoration of ecosystems, thereby contributing to sustainable development. Deciphering the connection between ecosystem restoration, climate change, food and nutrition security, ‘One Health’ and sustainable development is important for protecting our future. These issues are interconnected and interdependent. For instance, we live in a world where food systems are threatening the environment and environmental degradation from a variety of sources is threatening food systems. There are clear linkages and pathways linking ecosystem degradation, climate change and human health. Rapid and potentially irreversible climate change poses a direct threat to human health. Extreme changes in the weather and environment can increase existing health problems, as well as create new ones. These include physical and mental effects of heat, vector-borne diseases, water-borne diseases, air pollution, extreme weather events, increased risk of chronic diseases and impact on food and nutrition security. This is also reflected in the concept and approach of ‘One Health’, which recognises that the health and wellbeing of humans, animals and the environment are intricately linked to each other. One Health is a collaborative, multi-sectoral and transdisciplinary approach — working at the local, regional, national and global levels — with the goal of achieving optimal health outcomes recognising the interconnection between people, animals, plants, and their shared environment. It involves breaking down the silos between animal health, environment, and human health so that we can track diseases wherever they are found and help prevent and swiftly respond to outbreaks. A large number of infectious diseases are zoonotic, which means they originate in animals and are subsequently transmitted to humans. Worldwide, nearly 75% of all human infectious diseases that emerged in the past three decades originated in animals. Between SARS in 2002 and Covid-19, there were epidemics of MERS, Ebola, Zika, avian flu and swine flu. When animal species are pushed into smaller and smaller spaces, such as through deforestation, they pass pathogens to each other, to humans, livestock and pets. The Covid-19 pandemic has reinforced the relevance and importance of One Health principles in the global governance of infectious diseases, in particular, on international efforts to prevent and contain diseases. It has also demonstrated that the rapid spread of such novel pathogens can have a significant impact on human health, the global economy and sustainable development. Apart from the spread of zoonotic diseases, some of the global issues One Health addresses include environmental contamination, habitat use conflicts, biodiversity loss, antimicrobial resistance, and ecosystem degradation. Tedros Adhanom, the Director General of World Health Organisation, reminds us “We cannot protect human health without considering the impact of human activities that disrupt ecosystems, encroach on habitats, and further drive climate change. These activities include pollution, large-scale deforestation, intensified livestock production and the misuse of antibiotics, along with how the world produces, consumes and trades food.” He also flagged the need for more science, better data and bolder policies across multiple sectors “with a whole-of-government and whole-of-society approach.”   It is important to view ecosystem restoration, climate change, food & nutrition security, One Health and sustainable development in a holistic manner, rather  than in silos. For instance, more than half of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are related to ecosystem restoration: zero hunger, good health & wellbeing, clean water & sanitation, affordable & clean energy, sustainable cities & communities, responsible consumption & production, climate action, life below water, and life on land. Hence, if we advance the coordinated and concerted action towards preventing, halting and reversing the degradation of ecosystems during the next decade, we would also be able to catapult the agenda of sustainable development. Additionally, we need to remember that the deleterious consequences of ecosystem degradation will be heavily borne by the world’s women and the poor. This brings two additional Sustainable Development Goals: ‘gender equality’ and ‘reduced inequality’ to the discourse. We must design and deliver trans-disciplinary and trans-sectoral interventions to address these inter-related challenges posed by ecosystem degradation, climate change, food and nutrition security. The actions to address these challenges must be coordinated and aligned with the principles of the One Health approach. These collaborative efforts will help accelerate progress towards the SDGs. The UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration is a global rallying cry for the protection and revival of ecosystems all around the world. The health sector must join hands and engage in this global endeavour as a key stakeholder to protect our future. (The writer is Vice President – Academics, Public Health Foundation of India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/ecosystem-key-to-human-health-993916.html
04-06-2021||National||BSP sacks 2 MLAs, including legislative party leader Lalji Verma, for anti-party activities||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Thursday sacked its legislative party leader in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly Lalji Verma and another legislator Ram Achal Rajbhar for anti-party activities during the recently concluded panchayat polls. Shah Alam, the BSP MLA from the Mubarakpur seat in Azamgarh district has been appointed as the legislative party leader. The BSP said the two sacked leaders will not be invited to any party programmes and they will also not be given poll tickets. However, Verma, the MLA from Katehari and Rajbhar from Akbarpur, both in Ambedkar Nagar district, expressed their strong desire to stay in the party. In a statement issued here, the Mayawati-led party said, "Two MLAs -- Lalji Verma and Ram Achal Rajbhar -- have been sacked from the party for anti-party activities during panchayat polls."  "Verma has been removed from the post of leader of the legislative party and Shah Alam alias Guddu Jamali will replace him in the Assembly as the legislative party leader," it said. The move has taken BSP leaders and workers by surprise. "Only Behenji (Mayawati) knows the reason behind this decision. Both these (MLAs) were among the senior-most leaders of the party who had stood by it all along," a senior party functionary said on the condition of anonymity. "There has to be some major reason for this decision at the time when Assembly elections are near. The two leaders had been the strength of the party and stood with Mayawati all along in the party's struggles and had also been ministers. There are very few leaders of their stature left in the party now," he said. Despite being expelled, Verma hoped that he will be given an audience with the BSP president and an opportunity to explain his viewpoint. "I was in the hospital during the panchayat elections and could not actively take part. Behenji inquired about my health thrice. There was nothing wrong," he told PTI. "I came to know of this action only now. I was not allowed to explain my viewpoint. It appears that since I was out of action because of my health, some people got a chance to give wrong inputs to the party president leading to this action," he said. Verma, however, asserted that has no plans to join any other party. Asked about his future plans and rumours about his joining another party, he said "I want to remain in the BSP." "The party has performed well in the panchayat elections in my district. I had never imagined that such a thing can happen to me. I will try to meet the party president through the mediation of party leaders," Verma said. Rajbhar said that he does not know the reason that led to the BSP expelling him. "I am dedicated to the party and will remain a party soldier. It is my resolve to continue working for it and ensure that Behenji becomes chief minister once again," he stressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsp-sacks-2-mlas-including-legislative-party-leader-lalji-verma-for-anti-party-activities-993537.html
04-06-2021||National||Over 22.37 crore administered Covid-19 vaccine in India so far||The total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 22.37 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. It said 14,20,288 people between 18 and 44 years received the first dose of vaccine and 27,203 beneficiaries of the same age group received the second dose on Thursday. Cumulatively, 2,40,54,868 people in this age group have received their first dose and 86,568 beneficiaries got their second shot since the start of phase three of the vaccination drive. Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years, the ministry said.  Of the 22,37,27,632 who have received Covid-19 vaccine, 99,24,634 are healthcare and 1,59,18,192 frontline workers who have taken the first dose, 68,26,409 healthcare and 86,04,747 frontline workers who got the second shot, while 2,40,54,868 individual in the 18-44 years age group have taken the first dose and 86,568 people in the same group have received both doses. Besides, 6,85,51,044 beneficiaries aged between 45 and 60 years have been administered the first dose and 1,10,74,273 people in the same age group have been given the second shot. Also, 5,96,72,572 senior citizens have taken the first dose of vaccine and 1,90,14,325 people above 60 years have taken the second dose.  As on day 139 of the vaccination drive, 26,24,971 vaccine doses were given.  At least 24,04,166 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 2,20,805 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine according to a provisional report till 7 pm, the ministry said. The final report would be completed by late in the night. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the health ministry underlined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-2237-crore-administered-covid-19-vaccine-in-india-so-far-993539.html
04-06-2021||National||GoM to submit recommendations for GST exemption on Covid materials by June 8: Conrad K Sangma||Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma on Thursday chaired a meeting of Group of Ministers constituted to examine the need for GST concession on Covid-19 materials and said they will submit their recommendations by June 8. "We will make sure that we submit our recommendations before the 8th of this month," Conrad told reporters after chairing the GOM meeting via video conferencing here. The 8-member GOM was constituted by the Finance Ministry to examine the need for GST concession or exemption and make recommendations on Covid-19 vaccines, drugs, and medicines for coronavirus treatment, testing kits for its detection.  The other items include medical grade oxygen, pulse oximeters, hand sanitisers, oxygen therapy equipment such as concentrators, generators and ventilators, PPE kits, N95 masks, surgical masks, temperature checking equipment, and other items required for Covid relief. The other members include Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitinbhai Patel, Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, Goa Minister for Transport and Panchayati Raj, Housing, Protocol and Legislative Affairs Mauvin Godinho, Kerala Minister for Finance KN Balagopal, Telangana Minister for Finance T Harish Rao, and UP Minister for Finance Suresh Kr Khanna. The GoM chairman said, "We are happy with the recommendations and we are hopeful that they will be accepted by the GST Council, which will make a decision on this."  Refusing to divulge further details on the recommendations, Sangma said the GOM has discussed almost all the items recommended by the GST Fitment Committee and the basic principle was to see that tax reductions would give benefit directly to the people. "Therefore, items that are personal-oriented that people or patients have to directly buy, we made sure that we bring down the concession and the rates to the amount possible so that in these difficult times, maximum relief can be given. "Based on that, large numbers of recommendations have been given and there have been several items where we have recommended the rates to be reduced so that the people can directly get the benefit," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gom-to-submit-recommendations-for-gst-exemption-on-covid-materials-by-june-8-conrad-k-sangma-993540.html
04-06-2021||National||Bharat Biotech-Ocugen Covaxin pact for US market now extended to Canada||Bharat Biotech and Ocugen Inc have announced the extension of their Covaxin commercial supply pact to include Canada market. The two companies had in February announced “a definitive agreement” to co-develop, manufacture, supply, and commercialise Covaxin for the United States. As per the deal, Ocugen and Bharat Biotech would share the profits from Covaxin sale in a 45:55 ratio. The business intent between the Pennsylvania and Hyderabad based firms was first announced in December. BBV152 or Covaxin is co-developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research. “Covaxin has demonstrated an excellent safety record in human clinical trials and in vaccine administration under emergency use in India. Our goal for all vaccines developed at Bharat Biotech is to provide global access. With its potential effectiveness against multiple existing and emerging variants, we believe that Covaxin is an important vaccine for everyone, including children, based on its unique yet traditional vaccine platform,” said Dr Krishna Ella, Chairman and Managing Director, Bharat Biotech. In return of the grant of the rights to commercialize Covaxin in Canada, Ocugen will make an upfront payment and milestone payment upon first commercial sale in Canada to Bharat Biotech, in addition to sharing the profit from Covaxin sales in Canada. Similar to the US profit share arrangement, Ocugen will retain 45 % of the profits from the sales in Canada, Bharat Biotech said in a statement on Thursday. “As we work towards the submission of the emergency use application in the US, we will simultaneously seek authorization under interim order for emergency use in Canada. We believe Covaxin has the potential to play a key role in saving lives from Covid-19 in the US and Canada, as well as across the globe, due to the strong immune response it generates against multiple antigens,” said Dr Shankar Musunuri, board chairman, CEO, and co-founder of Ocugen. Under the terms of the agreement, Ocugen will be responsible for clinical development and regulatory approvals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-ocugen-covaxin-pact-for-us-market-now-extended-to-canada-993557.html
04-06-2021||National||Will organise free Covid vaccination camps for those aged 18 yrs and above: Gambhir||An undeterred BJP MP Gautam Gambhir on Thursday said he will organise free Covid vaccination camps, hours after the Delhi government's drug controller informed the Delhi High Court that his foundation has been found guilty of unauthorisedly stocking and distributing Fabiflu medicine to coronavirus patients. Earlier on the day, Gambhir invoked freedom fighter Bhagat Singh in a tweet and said, "I am a man and all that affects mankind concerns me - Sardar Bhagat Singh!". In another tweet, the cricketer-turned-politician announced that the Gautam Gambhir Foundation (GGF) is organising free vaccination camp with hospitals. The announcement came after the Delhi government's drug controller informed the Delhi High Court on Thursday that the Gautam Gambhir Foundation has been found guilty of unauthorisedly stocking, procuring and distributing Fabiflu medicine to Covid-19 patients. The High Court said the BJP MP did a lot of charity but caused a lot of shortage of drug and inconvenience to the society. The high court deprecated the manner in which a huge quantity of the drug was procured and said genuine patients who needed the medicine at that particular time could not get it as the bulk stock was taken away by cricketer-turned-politician Gambhir. Gambhir said it was time to come together and save lives instead of indulging in blame game. "We are tying up with certain hospitals to provide vaccination with proper guidelines and the cost will be borne by GGF," he said in a statement. The month-long vaccination programme will be organised for those aged 18 years and above. Around 10,000 vaccines will be purchased by the GGF from private hospitals for vaccination, the statement said. Gambhir's announcement came amid an acute shortage of vaccines in Delhi for people aged 18-44 years which has forced the Arvind Kejriwal government to close vaccination centres for this category. The AAP has also blamed the BJP-ruled Centre of messing up the Covid vaccination drive in the city. The programme is likely to start next week and everyday around 150 people will receive the jab, added the statement. Gambhir, through his foundation, had previously distributed various Covid-related items, including oxygen cylinders, concentrators and Fabiflu. The High Court was hearing a PIL seeking lodging of an FIR over allegations that politicians are able to procure and distribute in huge quantities the Covid-19 medicines even as patients were running from pillar to post to get them. The drug controller also submitted that action will be taken without delay against the foundation, drug dealers as also in other such cases which would be brought to its notice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-organise-free-covid-vaccination-camps-for-those-aged-18-yrs-and-above-gambhir-993567.html
04-06-2021||National||Witnessing Covid chaos in India's hospitals, graveyards, crematoriums||By Danish Siddiqui, Covering the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic as it tore through cities, towns and villages was overwhelming at times. Patients died at home, in their cars on the way to hospital and outside emergency wards because there were no beds for them. India has recorded more than 2.8 crore coronavirus cases, and daily new cases sometimes exceeded 4,00,000, although by Thursday, June 3, that had come down to around 1,35,000. On a per capita basis its Covid-19 death toll is relatively low, but deaths were rising while in Europe and the United States they are in decline. Some Indians said what made the devastation of April and May harder to accept was that they believed the worst of the pandemic was over in February, when the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths were far below today's. In the middle of that month, the number of daily new cases was around 9,000. Election rallies went ahead, markets teemed with people and huge crowds of worshippers attended religious festivals. In much of the rest of the world, large gatherings were forbidden as governments fought to slow the spread of the virus. Prime Minister Narendra Modi resisted calls for a repeat of the strict lockdown he ordered last year. Instead he asked states to impose local curbs in the worst affected areas. The health ministry did not respond to a request for comment on the government's Covid-19 policies. In April, I travelled to Haridwar, a holy Hindu city along the river Ganges, to cover the Kumbh Mela, a festival where people believe that bathing brings salvation from the cycle of life and death. Millions of devotees showed up. My trip to Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital in New Delhi later that month came as a shock. I had been to the same hospital - the largest in the capital - a few months back, and at that time things were organized and under control. This time, as I stepped into the emergency room, it was different. There were scenes of chaos. Gasping for air, two men wearing oxygen masks shared a bed. People struggled to get oxygen and the attention of medics, themselves overwhelmed with the number of new patients. Some relatives pleaded with me to diagnose their loved one, mistaking me for a doctor because I was wearing PPE gear. Others who saw my camera urged me to document the pain their family was suffering. "We are definitely overburdened," Suresh Kumar, the hospital's medical director, told me at the time, as dozens of new patients arrived. "We are already working at the full capacity, (or) rather double of the capacity." Since my April visit, the emergency has eased. Kumar said this week hospital admissions had fallen from around 200 per day at the peak of the second wave to single digits, although the intensive care unit remained full as patients stayed in hospital for longer periods of time. "We are more comfortable with the oxygen supply, we have enough drugs, we have better infrastructure, we have more ICU beds, we have more trained manpower and now we can handle any future wave," Kumar told Reuters by telephone. Holy Family Hospital, another hospital in the Indian capital, where I documented a 27-hour workday shift of a junior doctor in early May, did not respond to a request for comment this week on its current situation. Invisible enemy At graveyards and crematoriums, the scenes were grim. Mass cremations took place in crematorium parking lots to cope with the number of bodies, and the intense heat the pyres generated sometimes prevented me from getting close to take photographs and video. At graveyards, multiple burials were held at the same time. On several occasions I put down my cameras to attend prayers, as I knew the victims being buried that day. I only found out about their deaths when I met common acquaintances there. I also visited rural areas, where some hospitals were close to collapsing under the number of patients seeking treatment for Covid-19. At the emergency ward of Bijnor Government Hospital, four people with breathing difficulties died in front of me in less than an hour. "There is no doubt about it, the number of infected persons is quite large," Ramakant Pandey, the top district official in Bijnor, told me on the day of my visit. Manoj Sen, the medical superintendent of the hospital, this week said case numbers had fallen drastically.  "At that time we were not expecting the number of cases and we were also not prepared," he said. "There was a shortage of oxygen and manpower both. But now we are prepared well." Some victims and their families stood out vividly. Outside a mortuary, a brother and sister dressed in identical blue uniforms of the bank where they worked consoled their mother after their father died. At a graveyard, a young man wailed as he begged his recently deceased father for forgiveness, believing it was he who had given him the virus. The pandemic has also brought out the best in people. Indians I have covered are doing extraordinary things, be it a 26-year-old doctor battling to save lives, or teams of Sikh volunteers dispensing free oxygen to people desperate to keep loved ones alive. I have been a journalist for almost 14 years, witnessing tragedies around the globe. But I never thought I would see misery and death on this scale in New Delhi, the city I grew up in. At the height of the Covid-19 surge in May, 448 people in the city died from the disease in a single day. This is a battle with an invisible enemy, and it feels like there is nowhere to hide.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/witnessing-covid-chaos-in-indias-hospitals-graveyards-crematoriums-993578.html
04-06-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on June 4||With 1,32,634 fresh cases, India's Covid-19 tally has climbed to 2,85,74,350, while the daily positivity slightly rose to 6.21 per cent, the health ministry said on Friday. The death toll has climbed to 3,40,702 with 2,713 more people succumbing to it. The number of active Covid-19 cases was recorded below 20 lakh for the third consecutive day, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am.  Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  2,84,74,350 as of June 4, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  3,40,702  as of June 4, 2021   Total Vaccination: 22,41,09,448 No. of people discharged: 2,65,97,655   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-june-4-993579.html
04-06-2021||National||Increasing manufacturing of Covid vaccines in India may prove game-changer: Biden Admin||An increase in manufacturing capacity of Covid-19 vaccines in India has the potential to be a game-changer well beyond its borders, the Biden Administration said Thursday. "It's important to us because India has suffered immensely from the outbreak. Virtually, no element of Indian society has been left untouched by this horrible scourge. That is why we have spoken of the focus on increased manufacturing in India," State Department spokesperson Ned Price told reporters. "The increased manufacturing capacity in India, the volume of capacity has the potential to be a game-changer well beyond India's borders. And that's precisely why this arrangement was reached and announced in the context of the Quad," he said. Early this year at the first virtual Quad summit composed of leaders from Australia, India, Japan and the United States, it was decided to work together to increase the Covid-19 vaccine manufacturing capacity of India. So far the United States has contributed $500 million in Covid-19 assistance to India. This includes $100 million from the government alone. The entire US government, including Secretary of State Tony Blinken, has led an effort to galvanise the private sector to chip in, he said. “We have been really gratified to see that, together between the US government contributions as well as private sector contributions, we have seen some $0.5 billion in support go to India in its time of need,” he said. The Biden Administration on Thursday announced that it will send 25 million of its vaccines to other countries, including India. “There remain some 55 million doses that the administration has committed to send abroad by the end of this month,” Price said, adding that the announcement in this regard could come in the coming weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/increasing-manufacturing-of-covid-vaccines-in-india-may-prove-game-changer-biden-admin-993591.html
04-06-2021||National||The Covid-19 pandemic — a free run for India's scammers||From fake medicines to fire extinguishers disguised as oxygen cylinders and recycled personal protective equipment, India's coronavirus hell has been lucrative for its ever-inventive army of scammers, with sometimes deadly consequences. Komal Taneja's husband Chandrakant died gasping for breath at his New Delhi home last month after the oxygen canister that they paid Rs 15,000 for on the internet never arrived. "We desperately tried to find a hospital bed for a week... Two private hospitals asked us for Rs 10 lakh in advance," Komal, her voice cracking on the phone, told AFP. "Then we came across a contact online promising an oxygen cylinder delivery within an hour of making the Rs 15,000 payment. When we did, they asked for more money, and then stopped responding," Komal added. Chandrakant, 36, who worked at the stock market, died on May 1, leaving his homemaker wife looking for a job to help look after his ailing parents. India has a long history of audacious scams ripping off ordinary people, including beyond its borders. In just one typical case, in December police busted a call centre that allegedly defrauded 4,500 Americans out of Rs 1.4 crore. Impersonating US officials, they told victims that their bank accounts were being used by drug cartels and that the only option was to convert their assets into bitcoin -- which the gang would then cash in. One elaborate scam involving police and doctors that emerged in 2019 saw hundreds of villagers in Haryana declared dead in road accidents to claim insurance. Investigators say many scammers have turned their attention to ripping off desperate Covid-19 patients and relatives as India suffers a devastating coronavirus surge. Narang, a private company executive in Noida, said he was swindled by a sophisticated scam when he was desperately looking for an oxygen concentrator for a sick friend. "I came across a link for a supplier which looked genuine, and even had a catalogue with different models. The prices too were competitive," Narang told AFP. "I spoke with a person on the phone. He asked for about Rs 45,000 in two instalments. I was sure it was genuine and even recommended this supplier to another acquaintance. The device never arrived. His case is one of at least 600 investigations launched by police in New Delhi alone in recent weeks with people desperately looking for oxygen, hospital beds and drugs. "These criminals saw it as an opportune moment to make an entry," senior Delhi police officer Shibesh Singh told AFP. His Crime Branch teams have already arrested many scammers, including a gang that made and sold counterfeit doses of the antiviral drug Remdesivir for up to 40 times the market price. "These people were producing fake vials which cost them about Rs 20 and (they) sold it in the market for anything above Rs 10,000," Singh said. In another case, a gang repainted fire extinguishers and sold them as oxygen cylinders, while another posed as doctors offering non-existent hospital beds. This week, six men were reportedly arrested on suspicion of washing, repackaging and selling several tonnes of used surgical gloves from hospitals. "We can only urge the people to be extra cautious while approaching such contacts for online help," Singh said. Some victims are demanding tough punishments. "Hang them all," said Narang. "If not that, then the government should ensure life imprisonment. This isn't just mental or financial, they are playing with human life."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-covid-19-pandemic-a-free-run-for-indias-scammers-993594.html
04-06-2021||National||Petrol in Mumbai nears Rs 101-mark in 2nd hike in June||Fuel prices were hiked after a two-day pause, with petrol in Mumbai now nearing the Rs 101-mark. Petrol prices were hiked by 27 paise, while the price of diesel has been increased by 28 paise In the country's financial capital, petrol now costs Rs 100.98 per litre, while diesel is currently at Rs 92.99 per litre. In the national capital, a litre of petrol is worth Rs 94.76 and diesel costs Rs 85.66 per litre. In Bengaluru, petrol now costs Rs 97.92 per litre and diesel Rs 90.81. In Chennai, a litre of petrol now costs Rs 96.92 per litre, while a litre of diesel is priced at Rs 90.38. A litre of petrol in Kolkata costs Rs 94.76 and diesel sets you back by Rs 88.51. More to follow... Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-in-mumbai-nears-rs-101-mark-in-2nd-hike-in-june-993597.html
04-06-2021||National||India records 1.32 lakh new Covid-19 cases, 2,713 deaths in 24 hours||India reported 1,32,364 new coronavirus infections taking the country's total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,85,74,350, while the recovery rate crossed 93 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,40,702 with 2,713 fresh deaths, while the active cases were recorded below 20 lakh for the fourth consecutive day, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 20,75,428 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 35,74,33,846. The daily positivity was recorded at 6.38 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for 11 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 7.27 per cent. The active cases have reduced to 16,35,993 comprising 5.73 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 93.08 per cent.    A net decline of 77,420 cases has been recorded in the Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 22 consecutive days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,65,97,655, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.19 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on  November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 2,713 new fatalities include 643 from Maharashtra, 514 from Karnataka, 460 from Tamil Nadu, 153 from Kerala, 108 each from West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh. A total of 3,40,702 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 97,394 from Maharashtra, 30,531 from Karnataka, 25,665 from Tamil Nadu, 24,447 from Delhi, 20,895 from Uttar Pradesh, 15,921 from West Bengal, 14,840 from Punjab and 13,139 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-132-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-2713-deaths-in-24-hours-993603.html
04-06-2021||National||India will be a 'significant recipient' of US Covid vaccines, says envoy Sandhu||India will be a "significant recipient" of US vaccines, the country’s envoy here has said as President Joe Biden announced details of his administration’s decision to send 2.5 Crore Covid-19 shots to countries across the globe. US President Joe Biden on Wednesday announced that the US will allocate 75 per cent - nearly 1.9 crore of the first tranche of 2.5 crore doses - of unused Covid-19 vaccines from its stockpile through the UN-backed COVAX global vaccine sharing programme to countries in South and Southeast Asia as well as Africa. The move is part of his administration’s framework for sharing 8 crore vaccines globally by the end of June. According to a White House fact sheet, nearly 1.0 crore vaccines will be shared through COVAX. Of these approximately 60 lakh for South and Central America to the following countries: Brazil, Argentina, Colombia, Costa Rica, Peru, Ecuador, Paraguay, Bolivia, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Panama, Haiti, and other Caribbean Community (CARICOM) countries, as well as the Dominican Republic. Approximately seven million for Asia to the following countries: India, Nepal, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Maldives, Malaysia, Philippines, Vietnam, Indonesia, Thailand, Laos, Papua New Guinea, Taiwan, and the Pacific Islands, it said. “India will be a significant recipient of US vaccines as India has been included in both the identified categories in the allocation announced today- direct supply to neighbours and partner countries, and under the COVAX initiative,” India’s Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, told PTI. Vice President Kamala Harris personally made a call to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday to inform him about the administration’s decision. “I deeply appreciate the assurance of vaccine supplies to India as part of the US Strategy for Global Vaccine Sharing. I also thanked her for all the support and solidarity from the US government, businesses and Indian diaspora,” the prime minister said in a tweet. We also discussed ongoing efforts to further strengthen India-US vaccine cooperation, and the potential of our partnership to contribute to post-Covid global health and economic recovery. Officials in New Delhi said that Modi and Harris discussed ongoing efforts to strengthen the health supply chain between the US and India, including in the area of vaccine manufacturing. They highlighted the potential of the India-US partnership as well as the QUAD vaccine initiative in addressing the long-term health impact of the pandemic. The prime minister also said he hopes to welcome Vice President Harris in India soon after the normalisation of the global health situation. Sandhu described the phone call as “an important conversation” focusing on vaccines, post-Covid global health and economic recovery. “The removal of the Defence Production Act priority ratings would further strengthen vaccine supply chains including for manufacturers AstraZeneca and Novavax,” Sandhu said, reflecting on other important decisions taken by the Biden administration. “These developments are reflective of the firm commitment of the leadership of both India and US to work in partnership on global issues,” Sandhu told PTI. Sandhu on Thursday also had a substantive discussion with Surgeon General Dr Vivek Murthy. “We discussed India – US cooperation to contain the global pandemic, including in vaccines, and potential collaborations to ensure affordable healthcare,” the Ambassador said in a tweet. India is currently witnessing the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. So far, the country has recorded over 2,84,41,986 confirmed Covid-19 cases, including 3,37,989 deaths. The Biden administration had been under pressure to send the excess Covid-19 vaccines with the US to nations like India, which are facing severe vaccine shortages. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, who visited the US last month, also said that the Covid-19 pandemic and vaccines were an important part of his discussions in the US. He also said the endeavour was to expand the production of vaccines in India with assistance from the United States.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-be-a-significant-recipient-of-us-covid-vaccines-says-envoy-sandhu-993608.html
04-06-2021||National||Allegations about WhatsApp's policy consent 'trickery' explained||The Centre said in its affidavit before the court that the Competition Commission of India (CCI) had formed the prima facie opinion that the Facebook-owned messaging app had violated certain provisions of Competition Act, 2002 “in the garb of policy update". What is the policy update? WhatsApp update to its terms of service has drawn criticism as it changes the way it processes user data and partners with Facebook to integrate with products across the social media platform, allowing businesses to employ user data for targeted marketing. If the updated privacy policy is accepted, the user would give the app permission to share user details like phone numbers and transaction data with businesses. However, WhatsApp has repeatedly said that the update would not touch people’s communications with friends or family on the platform, clarifying that end-to-end encryption for private messages would continue, and logs of users' messaging and calling would not be kept. What is the Centre contesting? The government told the court that WhatsApp’s intention was to “force” unsuspecting users into accepting the updated terms and its aim was to move all existing users to the updated 2021 privacy policy before the Personal Data Protection (PDP) Bill becomes law. The government claims the PDP would seek to protect individual personal data, create a framework for processing personal data and establish a data protection authority to do so. The government alleges that WhatsApp’s access to the personal, sensitive personal and business data of crores of Indian users and its status as an “essential digital service” made it all the more important for its privacy policy to be checked. The Centre also contends that the new update privacy policy violates the Information Technology Rules of 2011 and the app may be blocked from implementing the new policy until a final decision on the validity of its policy is reached. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allegations-about-whatsapps-policy-consent-trickery-explained-993618.html
04-06-2021||National||Petrol crosses Rs 100/litre mark in Leh, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana||After Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, petrol price has crossed the Rs 100-per-litre mark in Leh, in almost all districts of Andhra Pradesh and parts of Telangana after fuel prices were again hiked on Friday. Petrol price was increased by 27 paise per litre and diesel by 28 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The hike - 18th in the last one month - took fuel prices across the country to a historic high. In Delhi, petrol hit an all-time high of Rs 94.76 a litre, while diesel is now priced at Rs 85.66 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Petrol price is well above the Rs 100-per-litre mark in all districts of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra - the states which levy the highest value-added tax (VAT) in the country. Retail prices have risen after an increase in international oil prices on investors' optimism that improving demand and a dwindling supply glut may mean the market can absorb any additional production from OPEC and its allies. Brent crude - the global oil-price benchmark, has risen above $71 per barrel for the first time in two years. Following the relentless price increase, fuel rates in places like Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Leh have witnessed unprecedented levels. Petrol is sold at over Rs 100 per litre in almost all districts of Andhra Pradesh, except Vizag where it costs 99.75 a litre. Diesel in Vizag is priced at Rs 94.08 per litre. In Telangana, petrol prices crossed the psychological level in Adilabad (Rs 100.57) and Nizamabad (Rs 100.17). Petrol costs Rs 100.43 a litre in Leh. Rajasthan levies the highest VAT on petrol and diesel in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Mumbai on May 29, became the first metro in the country where petrol was being sold at over Rs 100-a-litre mark. Petrol now costs Rs 100.98 per litre in the city and diesel comes for Rs 92.99. At Bellary, in Karnataka petrol is being sold at Rs 99.83 per litre. In Bengaluru, petrol is priced at Rs 97.98 per litre and diesel at Rs 90.87. The increase on Friday is the 18th increase in prices since May 4, when state-owned oil firms ended an 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during assembly elections in states like West Bengal. In 18 increases, petrol price has risen by Rs 4.36 per litre and diesel by Rs 4.93 a litre. Rates are at the highest in the country in Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan where petrol comes for Rs 105.81 a litre and diesel for Rs 98.64 per litre. Madhya Pradesh's Shahdol district has petrol priced at Rs 105.18 a litre and diesel at Rs 96.31. Oil companies revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on the average price of benchmark fuel in the international market in the preceding 15-days, and foreign exchange rates. Members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and their allies, a group known as OPEC+, earlier this week agreed to continue relaxing curbs on oil production, signalling their confidence in improving oil demand and a drop in the global supply glut. The rollout of vaccines is helping governments to reduce coronavirus restrictions and resume more normal economic activity. That will help pare global oil stocks - which at one point last year threatened to overwhelm the world's ability to store them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-crosses-rs-100/litre-mark-in-leh-andhra-pradesh-telangana-993619.html
04-06-2021||National||Defence Ministry clears Rs 43,000 crore plan to build six submarines in India||More than 13 years after the Centre accepted the necessity of having a second batch of conventional submarines to guard Indian waters, the Defence Ministry on Friday approved a Rs 43,000 crore global tender to build six under-water boats at an Indian yard with technology from a foreign vendor. The Defence Acquisition Council headed by the Defence Minister Rajnath Singh cleared the long-awaited project, which would be the first Strategic Partnership programme of the Narendra Modi government that announced the scheme in its first year in office to boost the manufacturing sector. All the six submarines will be fitted with air independent propulsion technology that would allow such diesel-electric boats to stay under water for a longer duration. Three from the first batch – the Scorpene class submarines INS Kalvari, INS Khandari and INS Karanj – have been inducted in the Navy while the fourth and fifth, Vela and Vagir, are under sea trial. The sixth submarine of Project-75 is being outfitted now. The new batch of six submarines will be built either by Mazagon Dock Limited or the L&T, which will win the final bid. They are the two Indian shipyards that have been selected by the Defence Ministry last year for the submarine construction under Project-75I.. The five foreign vendors in contention are Rosoboronexport (Russia), Naval Group (France), Daewoo (South Korea), Thysenkrupp Marine Systems (Germany) and Navantia (Spain). They would have to tie up with the Indian vendors for submitting the bids, which will be examined first by the Defence Ministry and subsequently by the Cabinet Committee on Security before the final contract is awarded. "This is a landmark approval, being the first case processed under the Strategic Partnership model. This would be one of the largest ‘Make in India’ projects and will serve to facilitate faster and more significant absorption of technology,” a Defence Ministry spokesperson said in a statement. India is critically short of submarines while China is ramping up its underwater fleet. Way back in 1999, Indian Navy planned to acquire 24 diesel electric submarines over the next 30 years. Even though the plan and the deadlines were modified twice later, the targets set up in the 2008-2022 indigenisation plan is way off the mark as Indian Navy currently operates 15 diesel electric and two nuclear-powered boats. Even if everything goes according to the plan, sources said it would take at least 10 years to induct the first submarine from P-75I. In addition, the DAC approved procurement of air defence guns and ammunition at an approximate cost of Rs 6,000 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-ministry-clears-rs-43000-crore-plan-to-build-six-submarines-in-india-993637.html
04-06-2021||National||PM Modi speaks to Milkha Singh, enquires about his health||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday spoke to legendary sprinter Milkha Singh, who has been ailing, to enquire about his health. Modi expressed hope that Singh, who was on Thursday admitted to a Chandigarh hospital, will be back soon to bless and inspire athletes, who will be participating in the Tokyo Olympics, government sources said. Fondly called "flying Sikh", Singh, who recently contracted Covid-19 infection, was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the hospital due to dipping levels of oxygen. The 91-year-old is in a stable condition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-speaks-to-milkha-singh-enquires-about-his-health-993639.html
04-06-2021||National||PM Modi hails Indian scientists for developing vaccines within year of Covid-19 outbreak||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday lauded Indian scientists for developing made-in-India vaccine against Covid and boosting other measures to fight the pandemic within a year of its outbreak. Addressing a meeting of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) Society via video conferencing, he cited India's experience in the previous century to say that it used to wait for years to lay its hands on innovations achieved abroad, but its scientists are now working shoulder to shoulder with their counterparts outside. They are working at the same quick pace, he said. Noting that the world is grappling with the biggest challenge in a century, the prime minister praised the scientific community, saying it is perhaps unprecedented that vaccines were prepared within a year. On the occasion, Modi reiterated his call for an "Aatmanirbhar Bharat" (Self-reliant) and strong India, saying the Covid-19 crisis may have slowed its pace but our resolve remains the same. India wants to be self-reliant in a number of sectors, ranging from agriculture to astronomy, disaster management to defence technology, vaccine to virtual reality, and biotechnology to battery technology, he asserted. He said India is now showing the way to the world in sustainable development and clean energy, and is playing an important role in progress in other countries with its role in software and satellite development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-hails-indian-scientists-for-developing-vaccines-within-year-of-covid-19-outbreak-993654.html
04-06-2021||National||All you need to know about Biological-E’s Covid-19 vaccine||Hyderabad-based Biological-E is all set to hand India its second homegrown Covid-19 vaccine after striking a deal with the union government to earmark 30 crore doses to be available in the near future. Developed jointly with Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, the vaccine candidate has been nurtured by the Centre since the early stages of its development through more than Rs 100 crore in funding from the Department of Biotechnology, which also assisted in conducting all animal challenge and assay studies. What is the Biological-E vaccine? The vaccine uses recombinant-protein technology, which involves inserting DNA encoding an antigen to stimulate an immune response in cells that usually beefs up existing immunity. It is a two-dose vaccine that has to be administered through an intramuscular injection 28 days apart. When will the vaccine be available? The vaccine rollout will likely begin earliest by August. How much will the vaccine cost? The government will make an advance payment of Rs 1,500 crore for 30 crore doses, which works out to an advance of Rs 50 per dose. This is far cheaper than the Rs 150 that the government pays per dose of Covishield and Covaxin.  Though the price of the vaccine has not been disclosed as yet, the company’s Managing Director Mahima Datla recently told The Times of India that it would be one of the most affordable vaccines in the market.  Is the vaccine safe? Since the vaccine is still undergoing stage 3 trials, there is no available efficacy data at the moment. However, the government has said that Biological-E’s proposal had been examined and recommended for approval after due diligence by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-you-need-to-know-about-biological-e-s-covid-19-vaccine-993658.html
04-06-2021||National||Abhinav Bindra congratulates Tokyo-bound athletes for 'exceptional' feat amid the pandemic||India's only individual Olympic gold medallist Abhinav Bindra on Friday lauded the Tokyo-bound athletes for showing great determination and achieving the "exceptional" feat of qualifying for the Summer Games in the face of the Covid-19 adversity. Bindra, the country's greatest Olympian, posted a heartfelt message, congratulating all Indian athletes who have qualified for the Tokyo Games, starting July 23. "Many congratulations to each one of you for having defeated every challenge that dared stand in your way and securing qualification for the Tokyo Olympics 2021," Bindra wrote. "For every athlete, the journey to the Games takes years of rigorous training and is full of hardships and setbacks, it takes immense dedication and resilience to reach where you are now, where only a few special women and men from our nation have gone," he added. So far, 100 athletes have qualified for the Tokyo Games, including 56 men and 44 women. "Your rare feat is all the more exceptional considering how the ongoing pandemic would have forced you to change your respective training plans in order to prepare for these Olympic Games," Bindra said. "However, you persevered through these uncertain times by sheer will and determination, to emerge as true champions; as Olympians." The 38-year-old, who created history by winning the country's first and only individual Olympic gold medal at the 2008 Beijing Games, hoped the athletes would be "able to highlight the power of sport to bring people together in these difficult times." "The thrill of competing at the greatest sporting event in the world and being recognized as the best sports persons in your country remains unprecedented. I am sure you will be itching to light up Tokyo with your unrelenting resolve and skills," Bindra said. "I want to offer you all my good wishes and support. As an Olympian, you will forever have the opportunity to be an ambassador of the spirit of Olympism and promote friendship respect and excellence wherever you go and whatever you do." The former world champion in 10m air rifle also offered his assistance to any athlete who wishes to speak to him. "I am proud of you and wish you all the very best as you embark on your quest of bringing more Olympic glory to India. "If you require any assistance or even if you just want to discuss my experiences at the Games, I am here always available..." he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/abhinav-bindra-congratulates-tokyo-bound-athletes-for-exceptional-feat-amid-the-pandemic-993664.html
04-06-2021||National||Team sent to bring back Choksi to India departs Dominica, heads home||India's multi-agency team that had gone to Dominica to bring back Mehul Choksi is headed back home on a Qatar Airways private jet after the island nation's high court adjourned the hearing on the fugitive diamantaire's habeas corpus petition, sources said. Publicly available flight data showed that the jet took off from the Melville Hall Airport in Dominica at 8.09 PM (local time) on June 3 and is travelling towards Madrid. The multi-agency team of officials is also returning, the sources said. The team led by CBI DIG Sharda Raut was stationed in Dominica for nearly seven days to bring back Choksi, who is wanted in the Rs 13,500-crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam, to India. On Thursday, the Dominica High Court adjourned the hearing on Choksi's habeas corpus petition. A habeas corpus petition is filed for producing before a court a person who is under arrest or in unlawful detention. It is likely that the next hearing may take place after a month and the businessman will remain in Dominica, local media reported. Judge Bernie Stephenson will decide the next date of hearing after meeting both sides, media outlet Antigua News Room said. The adjournment is to allow lawyers of Choksi and the Dominica government "to agree on the language to be used with respect to the injunction filed to prevent his removal from Dominica", it said. Thursday's hearing was conducted through videoconferencing with a group of protesters standing outside the High Court building in Roseau carrying placards with messages seeking to know the truth about the controversy. "Who brought Choksi to Dominica?" read one of the placards, the photo of which was published by many media outlets. The judge had on Wednesday ordered production of Choksi before the magistrate to face charges of illegal entry into Dominica. The 62-year-old wheelchair-bound diamantaire, who has a pending Interpol Red Notice against him, arrived before presiding Roseau Magistrate Court in black shorts and a blue T-shirt from the Dominica-China Friendship Hospital, where he is undergoing treatment. His application for bail was rejected. Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi had fled India in the first week of January 2018, weeks before the PNB scam rocked the Indian banking industry. The duo allegedly bribed officials of the state-run bank to get Letters of Undertaking (LoU) on the basis of which they availed loans from overseas banks that remained unpaid. The allegedly corrupt bank officials did not enter these LoUs in the core banking software of PNB, thus evading scrutiny. The non-payment of these LoUs or bank guarantees worth Rs 13,500 crore resulted in default and became a liability on the bank. Choksi had mysteriously gone missing on May 23 from Antigua and Barbuda, where he has been staying since 2018 as a citizen since he fled Delhi. He was detained in neighbouring island country Dominica for illegal entry after a possible romantic escapade with his rumoured girlfriend. His lawyers alleged that he was kidnapped from Jolly Harbour in Antigua by policemen looking like Antiguan and Indian and brought to Dominica on a boat. Modi escaped to Europe and was finally held in London, where he is contesting his extradition to India. Choksi took the citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda in 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/team-sent-to-bring-back-choksi-to-india-departs-dominica-heads-home-993677.html
04-06-2021||National||SC rejects plea against advance bail to journalist in rape case||The Supreme Court on Friday rejected a plea to cancel anticipatory bail granted to a Mumbai-based TV anchor in a rape case lodged here in February this year.   A bench of Justices Navin Sinha and Ajay Rastogi said there is no ground made out to interfere with the Delhi High Court order.   Senior advocate Nithya Ramakrishnan, appearing for the victim, claimed that the High Court granted bail disregarding statutory changes in the rape law, and it also virtually granted benefit on doubt on a selective reading of Section 164 CrPC statement too. The HC failed to consider for 50 days, the accused evaded arrest, she said.   The bench queried the victim’s counsel, "Our question is, purely for purpose of bail only, a question of normal human conduct and understanding." "If a man and woman are in a room, and man makes a request and woman complies with it, do we need to say anything more at this stage?" the bench asked. The victim’s counsel contended the IPC stated that to each act there has to be unequivocal consent. "If there is a particular act man wants to indulge in, and there is no consent, then it is an offence, and there was no continued consent," she said. The bench, however, replied that it is not impressed with the argument.   The court was hearing a plea by the rape victim challenging the Delhi High Court's order of May 13 granting pre-arrest bail to Mumbai TV journalist Varun Hiremath.  The High Court had granted interim protection to Hiremath on the condition that he would join the investigation whenever required.  A Delhi court had earlier issued a non-bailable warrant against Hiremath. The trial court had in March declined to entertain Hiremath’s anticipatory bail application in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rejects-plea-against-advance-bail-to-journalist-in-rape-case-993683.html
04-06-2021||National||Visas of foreigners stranded in India due to Covid-19 extended till August 31||The government on Friday extended the visas of foreign nationals, stranded in India due to the Covid-19 pandemic, till August 31 on gratis basis or free of charge. The Ministry of Home Affairs said this was done as a number of foreign nationals who came to India prior to March 2020 on valid visas got stranded in the country due to the non-availability of normal commercial flight operations on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. Last June 29, the MHA had initially issued an order conveying that the Indian visa or stay stipulation period of such foreign nationals expiring post June 30, 2020 shall be deemed to be valid until 30 more days from the date of resumption of normal international flight operations, on gratis basis. However, an official statement said, such foreign nationals have been applying for extension of their visas or stay stipulation period on a monthly basis. "The matter has now been reconsidered by the MHA in the light of non-resumption of normal commercial flight operations, and it has accordingly been decided that the Indian visa or stay stipulation period of such foreign nationals stranded in India will be considered as deemed to be valid till 31.08.2021 on gratis basis without levy of any overstay penalty," it said. These foreign nationals will not be required to submit any application to the FRRO/FRO concerned for extension of their visas, it added. Such foreign nationals may apply for an exit permission to the FRRO/FRO concerned before exiting the country, which would be granted on gratis basis without levy of any overstay penalty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/visas-of-foreigners-stranded-in-india-due-to-covid-19-extended-till-august-31-993690.html
04-06-2021||National||India tops US in number of people getting first vaccine dose||India has overtaken the US in terms of number of people who have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, the government on Friday said and noted that the vaccination campaign will be further intensified in the coming days. Addressing a press conference, NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul said 43 per cent of the 60 plus population has been covered with at least one dose and over 45 years, 37 per cent of the population has been covered. Citing the ourworldindata updated on Thursday, India, in terms of number of people who received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, has administered 17.2 crore doses and the US which was leading the pack is 16.9 crore. "We have overtaken the US in terms of number of people who have received at least a single dose of Covid-19 vaccine. It is reassuring that we are steadily improving and intensifying the vaccine campaign and it will be intensified so much more in the days to come," Paul said. "I want to appeal to enhance the pace of their vaccination and I want to appeal to senior citizens to get themselves vaccinated. Let us hope to make it to 50 per cent in the coming few weeks," he said. Paul said while the second wave is declining in the context of global data it may be worth mentioning that Covid cases per 10 lakh population in India are 20,519, while the world average is still higher at 22,181. "So even with the second wave the overall burden experienced, adjusted for population, is relatively modest. Covid deaths per million in India are 245 per million population, while the world average is 477," he said. Noting that this situation was achieved due to strong action by the people of India, states, UTs, municipalities, districts, villages, panchayats and families, Paul asked the people to maintain discipline even when the restrictions are lifted. "What is working is we are not back to wearing masks more diligently, what is working is now the testing is more generous. What is working is we have imposed restrictions in many many districts and that is making it difficult for the virus to reach other people. "It is not the wish of the virus to forget us but we are making it difficult for the virus to travel. The connotation is when we reverse this process the situation can again become unacceptable and that is something we need to keep in mind," he said. He said if containment measures, Covid-19 appropriate behaviour or vaccination pace slackens, the situation can again go into a difficult phase. "...if we suddenly get into the same behaviour what we were doing in January and February as a society it (peak) will come back again in a certain way," he said. Paul underscored the need to buy time to achieve high vaccination coverage. "We have to buy time and we have to buy time particularly to ensure that we achieve a high coverage of our vaccination and that is the duration of intense discipline that we want to exercise. "So remember the journey is still tough and we have to be responsible. This situation is a result of efforts and these efforts need to be continued in a calibrated way for us to open up but not to allow the virus to overtake us," he said. Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said there has been a continuous decline in the daily new Covid-19 cases. "Almost 68 per cent decline in Covid cases has been noted since the highest reported peak of cases on May 7," he said. He said there has been a decrease in active cases by more than 21 lakh since the peak of active cases on May 10. Registering a decline of 56 per cent after around 50 days, active cases have been recorded at 16,35,993. "The number of districts reporting more than 100 average daily new Covid-19 cases have decreased from 538 (between April 29 to May 5) to 257 (between May 27 to June 2)," he said. Agarwal said there has been a steady decline in weekly case positivity even while testing increased multifold since the last four weeks. "The number of districts reporting less than 5 per cent case positivity has increased from 92 (on week ending May 7) to 377 (on week ending June 3)," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-tops-us-in-number-of-people-getting-first-vaccine-dose-993705.html
04-06-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Despite chaos and despair, scamsters make hay||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-despite-chaos-and-despair-scamsters-make-hay-993709.html
04-06-2021||National||Delhi High Court dismisses Juhi Chawla's 'publicity' 5G suit, imposes Rs 20 lakh fine||The Delhi High Court on Friday dismissed a plea by actor Juhi Chawla against introduction of 5G technology and imposed a Rs 20 lakh fine for abusing the process of law. Justice J R Midha held that the suit filed by her and two others was also defective and not maintainable. It also contained unnecessary, unverified and vexatious assertions, the court said. The plaintiff (Chawla and others) wanted an inquiry by the court into the matter which was not permissible, the bench said.  It also noted she did not approach any of the 33 defendants named in her suit and instead sought a declaration from the court, which cannot be allowed under the law, the bench said. The bench also took serious view of Chawla sharing the link of virtual hearing on her social media account which led to repeated disruption by unknown persons who sang Bollywood songs of films in which she acted. The court directed the Delhi police to conduct necessary investigation against the people to proceed against them under the law. The court also noted Chawla did not pay the court fees for her suit and directed her to pay Rs 1.95 lakh within one week. During the hearing in the matter on June 2, the court had questioned Chawla for directly filing a suit against setting up of 5G wireless networks without giving any representation to the government. The court insisted that plaintiffs, Chawla and two others, should have gone to the government first, before coming to the court. After hearing the arguments in the matter, the court reserved its order. The plea filed by Chawla, Veeresh Malik and Teena Vachani, claimed that 5G wireless technology can be a potential threat to provoke irreversible and serious effects on humans and it could also permanently damage to the earth's ecosystems. The plea contended that radiation would be 10 to 100 times greater than the existing levels, and no living species on the planet would be able to survive round the clock exposure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-high-court-dismisses-juhi-chawlas-publicity-5g-suit-imposes-rs-20-lakh-fine-993714.html
04-06-2021||National||Provide injections for 'black fungus' treatment to people for free: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to PM||Amid rising cases of mucormycosis, also called 'Black Fungus', Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to make injections for its treatment available to the people free of cost. She also asked him to make public the total number of people suffering from the disease in each state. The number of patients with mucormycosis, which has a 50 per cent mortality rate, has crossed 11,000 in the country and there is a shortage of injections, she said. She also questioned the Central government's seriousness in dealing with the disease and asked "why adequate steps have not been taken yet" to mitigate the suffering of the people as "they are not getting injections for its treatment". In her appeal to the prime minister, Vadra highlighted the suffering of the people and raised the issue of the high price of injections used in treating mucormycosis. She said patients have to spend lakhs of rupees on injections as the treatment for mucormycosis is not covered under the Ayushman Bharat health scheme. "There is a shortage of injections for treatment of mucormycosis. We have faced a shortage of medicines during the pandemic even though we are the 'world's pharmacy'. Who is responsible? The injection is expensive and is not even covered under the Ayushman Bharat scheme. Modi ji please take immediate steps in this direction," she said on Twitter. "Everywhere, cases of black fungus (mucormycosis) are rising fast. The patients suffering from this serious disease are not getting the Liposomal Amphotericin B injections used for treating it. A large number of people are appealing for these jabs," she said. Vadra highlighted that a recent video showing a child from Indore appealing for these injections for her father has pained many and news of soldiers not getting the jabs in two Army Hospitals in the national capital have also come to light. "Time demands that you take immediate steps in this direction so that people's lives can be saved. Your government's attitude towards this disease is not serious. Keeping in view the number of cases, the availability of these injections is very less," she said. There were 8,848 mucormycosis patients in the country till May 22 which rose to 11,717 after May 25. In only three days, there was a rise of 2,869 cases. There should be no laxity in the treatment of this disease as it has 50 per cent mortality, the Congress general secretary said. Noting that lakhs of rupees are spent for treating black fungus and its injection is not even covered under the Aayushmaan Bharat scheme, Vadra said, "My appeal to you is to include the treatment for this disease in the scheme or the injections be provided free of cost to all patients." "What is the reason that after May 25 the number of cases of black fungus is not disclosed, while the Centre is regularly making public the number of injections provided to states," she posed. Vadra asked that why is data of black fungus cases not being made public when the number of coronavirus cases is being published. "My appeal to you is to make public the total number of mucormycosis cases every day and the government should take steps to increase the production and availability of this injection used for treating the disease so that people afflicted by it do not suffer," the Congress leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/provide-injections-for-black-fungus-treatment-to-people-for-free-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-to-pm-993715.html
04-06-2021||National||India managed Covid second wave 'very well', need to prepare for third wave, says NITI Aayog member Saraswat||India has managed the second Covid wave very well as the number of fresh cases have come down significantly, NITI Aayog Member V K Saraswat has said even as he emphasised that preparations need to be in place to deal with the third wave that might impact the younger population more. Saraswat further said that India's epidemiologists have made very clear indications that the third wave of Covid-19 is inevitable and is likely to start from September-October, so the country should vaccinate as many people as possible. "I think we have done reasonably well. We have managed the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic very well, as a result Covid-19 numbers have come down significantly. "... we have been able to manage (the second wave Covid-19) with the help of our science and technology activities, creating oxygen banks, making large number of industries to support oxygen supply. Using railways, using airports, using the military for transporting liquid oxygen," he told PTI. From a daily case count of over 4 lakh, the number of new Covid-19 cases has been hovering around 1.3 lakh in the last few days. Saraswat said India's management of the first wave of Covid-19 pandemic was good and the kind of discipline which had been introduced at that time, gave the country a lot of confidence to control the second wave of the pandemic. "We did a fantastic job (of managing the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic), what we call emergency management," he asserted. The Niti Aayog member pointed out that all indications were there that there might be a second wave of Covid-19, but epidemiologists' studies did not show it was going to be such a strong wave. "... activities like marriages, religious functions that took place during this time resulted in a certain amount of accelerated spread of Covid-19," he noted. Saraswat noted that in the first wave of Covid-19, intensity was not vigorous, which indicated that the country will be able to manage the second wave with the kind of infrastructure created last year in terms of ventilators, hospital beds and ICU beds. "But in the second wave, the virus had a different characteristic which resulted in an indirect attack on lungs in a big way, which resulted in a large number of people demanding oxygen at a very early stage of infection.               "So, this mutant caught us unaware. As a result, we found that we are not in a position to meet the increased demand of oxygen and some of the medicines which were needed at that particular stage," he argued. The B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2 variants of Covid-19, first identified in India, are highly infectious. The UN health agency named the B.1.617.1 variant of the Covid-19 as 'Kappa' while the B.1.617.2 variant was dubbed 'Delta. Asked how prepared India is to deal with the third wave of Covid-19, Saraswat said India's epidemiologists have made very clear indications that the third wave is inevitable and might impact the younger population more. "We expect by July-August, we have to take all preparations because the third wave is likely to start from September-October onward," he said, adding that lockdowns should be opened in a gradual manner. According to Saraswat, despite the fact that India is going to have certain relaxations on the lockdowns, severe implementation of the pandemic norms of usage of masks and maintaining the social distances should be enforced by the states in a big way. "We have to also see the infrastructure which we have also created, continues to remain in position and should be augmented further. So that we don't run into the crisis which we ran into during the second wave as far as the oxygen availability in the country is concerned," he said. India reported 1,32,364 new coronavirus infections taking the country's total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,85,74,350, while the recovery rate crossed 93 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-managed-covid-second-wave-very-well-need-to-prepare-for-third-wave-says-niti-aayog-member-saraswat-993718.html
04-06-2021||National||Decline in water availability due to increase in human, cattle population: Javadekar||There has been a decline in availability of water due to an increase in human and cattle population, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Friday, emphasising on the need to save water. In his keynote address at the curtain raiser event of TERI's World Sustainable Development Summit (WSDS) 2022 and discussion on sustainable, equitable and resilient water use, Javadekar said new technologies must be used to ensure zero wastage of water. The event comes ahead of World Environment Day, which is celebrated on June 5. "India has only four per cent water share of the world's fresh rainwater resources. So, there is a basic necessity to save, reuse and repurpose. When India became independent, the availability of water was 5,000 litres per capita now it has become 1,100 litres. There is a basic decline in availability of water due to human and cattle population growth," he said. India has 18 per cent of the world's human population and 18 per cent of the cattle population of the world. The minister said efforts should be made in the field of agriculture to save water as it was consuming nearly 85 per cent of the water. "Agriculture is consuming nearly 85 per cent of the water. So, the first saving should come from agriculture. There are new technologies like sprinkling, drip irrigation and other methods to save water which should be used," he said. Javadekar also highlighted the issue of sinking of rivers and lauded the Ken-Betwa River linking project, saying such projects are environmentally important. "The best news this year has been the Ken-Betwa agreement between Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh because if the deficit rivers get water from overflowing rivers, that really helps. In Gujarat also, two local rivers are exchanging their waters. Such projects are environmentally important," he said. Acknowledging that several rivers were sinking, the minister said there was a need to replenish water sources in forests where major rivers originated. "Rivers are also sinking. In forest areas the major rivers originate. We have decided to augment water and fodder in jungles so that animals also don't come out of the habitat," he said. The minister also spoke about light detection and ranging (LiDAR) technology being used for conducting surveys of forests in all states. "This year we have used a new technology called the LiDAR survey (light detection and ranging), which will be for all states. We have selected one forest campus in each state and all are being surveyed through this technology. After this our detailed project reports (DPRs) will be ready and after rains, work on watershed development at correct places will start in all states,” he said. Javadekar also said that the Ministry of Environment has provided funds through the Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) for this survey and Rs 40,000 crore has already been given for compensatory afforestation programme. "For 15 years, this money was not getting used because of the Supreme Court judgement. We changed the basis of the Supreme Court decision and distributed funds to all states. I am warning the states repeatedly that these funds be used for the purpose they are meant for,” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/decline-in-water-availability-due-to-increase-in-human-cattle-population-javadekar-993732.html
04-06-2021||National||Centre announces project to support startups developing innovative solutions for elderly||Aiming to encourage the youth to find innovative solutions to help senior citizens, the government on Friday announced a project to select, support and create a one-stop access point of elderly care products and services by credible start-ups. Elaborating on the Seniorcare Ageing Growth Engine (SAGE) project, Secretary of the Department of Social Justice R Subrahmanyam said the cause of the elderly has to be taken up at the national level and everybody has to come together for it. "We want to encourage well-meaning youth and the private sector to step in and bring forth innovative products, processes and services for the elderly which is presently not there," he told PTI. "These innovative solutions may not be commercially viable immediately, so we need to support them for some time," he said. As part of the project, start-ups will be selected on the basis of innovative products and services which they should be able to provide across sectors such as health, housing, care centres, apart from technological access linked to finances, food and wealth management and legal guidance, the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment said in a statement. The start-ups can apply to be a part of SAGE through a dedicated portal which will be open from Saturday. The selection will be done by an independent committee of experts. The first set of selected start-ups will be hosted on the portal within a period of two months and a fund of Rs 1 crore as one-time equity will be granted to each of them. The SAGE project aims to identify, evaluate, verify, aggregate and deliver products, solutions and services directly to the stakeholders. The ministry will act as a facilitator, enabling the elderly to access the products through these identified start-ups, the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment said. The project is shaped by the recommendations of an empowered expert committee report on start-ups for the elderly. Asked if the project has been announced keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic, he said the concept was thought of before the second wave struck. "We have seen that in the pandemic many innovative ideas have come and this will help in better preparedness of the country as and when the next wave strikes," Subrahmanyam said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-announces-project-to-support-startups-developing-innovative-solutions-for-elderly-993737.html
04-06-2021||National||CBSE panel to work out criteria for assessment of class 12 students, submit report in 10 days||The Central Board of Secondary Education has constituted a 13-member committee to draw up the criteria for evaluation for Class 12 board exams, officials said. The Committee, comprising officers from the Education Ministry, CBSE, representatives of schools, University Grants Commission, will decide the objective criteria and submit its report in 10 days. The CBSE had cancelled the Class 12 examinations on June 1 owing to the raging Covid-19 pandemic, a decision welcomed by the students and parents alike. The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations also followed suit and cancelled Class 12 exams. On Friday, the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) also announced the cancellation of the Class 12 examination. “(NIOS) Students will be evaluated based on objective criteria to be announced soon. This will benefit around 1.75 lakh students,” Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-panel-to-work-out-criteria-for-assessment-of-class-12-students-submit-report-in-10-days-993753.html
04-06-2021||National||'Do not propagate any religion', Court tells IMA chief in suit alleging forced conversion of Hindus||A Delhi court has told Indian Medical Association president J A Jayalal not to use the platform for propagating a religion and concentrate on the welfare of the fraternity and progress in medical field. Additional District Judge Ajay Goel noted "admission" of Dr Jayalal of an interview given to 'Christian Today' on March 30 wherein "he gave credit to Jesus for reducing the Corono outbreak", saying it is "not in good taste" and "seemingly not in harmony with the Constitution". "Saying Christianity and Allopathy is the same and is the gift by the western world would be the most inaccurate assertion. Sushrata who was an Indian is considered God of surgery, which is an integral aspect of Allopathy," the court said. Dr Johnrose Austin Jayalal was nominated as president of the IMA, the largest council of health professionals in India, in December 2020. Acting on a suit filed by Rohit Jha to restrain Jayalal from denigrating Hinduism and Ayurveda, the court, however, said no injunction was required to be passed due to his assurance that he shall not indulge in such kind of activity. It was expected that he will not give any such occasion to people to believe otherwise or indulge in any activity contrary to the principles enshrined in Constitution and shall maintain the dignity of position. "Such a platform cannot be used to propagate any individual’s views on any religion," the court said, adding the exclusive promotion of a particular religion by an institution defies the secular character of the Constitution and denies the constitutional value and morality. Jha alleged Jayalal was misusing his position as president of the IMA and launched a malicious and defamatory campaign against Hindu religion in the garb of proving superiority of Allopathic medicines over Ayurveda in treatment of Covid patients.  The court said the present suit seems to be offshoot of verbal dual on Allopathy Vs Ayurveda. However, it decided to examine the matter as Jayalal maintained he never made any allegations against Hinduism and never tried for any conversion but he remained disinclined to give such a statement on oath. With regard to his assertion against Ayurveda, Jayalal, for his part, submitted that he was not against it but was against mixopathy. To this, the court said every form of treatment is important, having its own benefits and drawbacks depending upon circumstances. Albeit, any kind of unguarded or loose comment cannot be expected from anybody chairing the responsible post, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/do-not-propagate-any-religion-court-tells-ima-chief-in-suit-alleging-forced-conversion-of-hindus-993759.html
04-06-2021||National||Centre asks states to set up special search committees to find 'unsung heroes' for Padma awards||The Centre has asked all states to set up special search committees to find out talented people who could be nominated for Padma awards but so far have been left out of consideration despite their exceptional contributions. The Narendra Modi government has been honouring many "unsung heroes", who are contributing to society in different ways, with Padma awards. The letter from the Union Home Ministry to chief secretaries of all states and Union Territories was sent as the central government opened the window for receiving applications on the online portal 'padmaawards.gov.in' from June 1 to September 15 for the Padma awards to be announced on the eve of Republic Day 2022. The home ministry said it has been observed in the past that while nominations are received in respect of a large number of people, there could be several talented persons who are left out of consideration despite exceptional contribution in their field. Often many such persons may get overlooked primarily for the reason that they may not seek publicity or attention in the public domain, it said. "It is, therefore, requested to make concerted efforts in identifying such persons whose excellence and achievements deserve to be recognised and make suitable nominations in their favour. It goes without saying that recognition of such deserving persons will only add to the prestige of these awards. "In the above background, I request you to kindly send suitable nominations for the Padma awards to be announced on the occasion of Republic Day, 2022. In this regard, it is suggested that you may constitute a Special Search Committee for identifying, considering and finalising your recommendations or nominations," the letter by Home Ministry Joint Secretary R K Singh said. The states were told that while finalising recommendations, they should keep in mind that the persons recommended are pre-eminently worthy of the awards, looking at their lifetime achievements. The criteria for selection should invariably be 'excellence plus' and the highest standards should be applied while recommending persons for these awards. The existence of an element of public service in the achievements of the person recommended for the award would be a desirable factor. As the Padma awards are the second-highest civilian award of the country, it should also be considered whether the recommended person has earlier been given any national award or a state award in his or her field, the letter said. Efforts may be made to identify talented persons from among women, weaker sections of the society, SCs and STs, and 'divyangs' who deserve to be considered for the award. The decoration is normally not conferred posthumously. However, in highly deserving cases, the government could consider giving an award posthumously if the demise of the person proposed to be honoured has been recent, say within a period of one year preceding the Republic Day on which it is proposed to announce the award, it said. A higher category of Padma awards can be considered in respect of a person who has earlier been conferred an award, provided a period of at least five years has elapsed. However, in exceptionally deserving cases, a relaxation can also be considered. Government servants, including those working with PSUs, except doctors and scientists, are not eligible for the Padma awards. The nominations or recommendations should contain all relevant details specified in the format available on the portal, including a citation in narrative form (maximum 800 words), clearly bringing out the distinguished and exceptional achievements or service of the person recommended in his or her respective fields or discipline. While recommending a person online, it should be ensured that all the necessary details are properly filled.  The Padma awards -- Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri -- are among the highest civilian awards of the country. The award seeks to recognise 'work of distinction' and is given for distinguished and exceptional achievements or service in all fields or disciplines, such as art, literature and education, sports, medicine, social work, science and engineering, public affairs, civil service, trade and industry among others. All persons without distinction of race, occupation, position or sex are eligible for these awards. Apart from the state governments, Union Territory administrations, central ministries, NGOs and individuals themselves can send their nominations for the Padma awards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-states-to-set-up-special-search-committees-to-find-unsung-heroes-for-padma-awards-993760.html
04-06-2021||National||B.1.617 Covid-19 variant drove surge in India in last 2 months||The surge of Covid-19 cases in the country in the last two months shows a correlation with the rise in B.1.617 variant of the SARS-CoV-2, according to INSACOG, a grouping of 10 national laboratories. April and May witnessed a deadly second wave of coronavirus cases that swept through the country stretching the healthcare infrastructure to its limits. According to INSACOG, the B.1.1.7 lineage of the virus, which was first identified in the United Kingdom is declining in proportion across India in the last one and half month. The B.1.1.7 variant of the coronavirus has been named 'Alpha'. The B.1.617 lineage of SARS CoV-2 was first reported from Maharashtra but it is now seen in other states such as West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Telangana. "The current surge in cases seen over the last two months in some states shows a correlation with the rise in the B.1.617 lineage of SARS CoV-2," the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG) said. The B.1.617 lineage has further evolved into three sublineages – B.1.617.1, B.1.617.2 and B.1.617.3. Early data shows B.1.617.2, dubbed as Delta by WHO, has higher transmission advantages over the other two sub-lineages. B.1.617, initially termed as double mutant, has three new spike protein mutations. Two mutations -- E484Q and L452R -- are in the area important for antibody-based neutralisation. The third mutation -- P681R in B.1.617 -- along with the reversion of E484Q allows its sub-lineage to be more infectious. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has termed it as 'Variant of Concern'. B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.3 sub-lineages have two receptor binding domain mutations --- L452R and E484Q. The former has seven spike mutation while the latter has seven to eight. In the case of B.1.617.3, it has nine to 10 spike mutations and two receptor binding domain mutations --- L452R and T478K. In the case of all the three sub-lineage, it has the potential to reduced antibody efficacy and potential reduced neutralisation by vaccine sera, which, however, remains to be established. The Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG) is a grouping of 10 National Laboratories that was established by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on December 25 last year. It has been carrying out genomic sequencing and analysis of Covid-19 viruses and correlating epidemiological trends with genomic variants. Genomic variants of various viruses are a natural phenomenon and are found in almost all countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/b1617-covid-19-variant-drove-surge-in-india-in-last-2-months-993761.html
04-06-2021||National||India's Covid-19 vaccine inequity worsens as rural areas languish||Urban Indians are getting Covid-19 shots much faster than the hundreds of millions of people living in the rural areas, government data shows, reflecting rising inequity in the nation's immunisation drive. In 114 of India's least developed districts - collectively home to about 176 million (17.6 crore) people - authorities have administered just 23 million (2.3 crore) doses in total. That's the same number of doses as have been administered across nine major cities -- New Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Pune, Thane and Nagpur -- which combined have half the population. The disparity was even stronger last month, after the government allowed private sales of vaccines for adults aged under 45 years, an offer which favoured residents of cities with larger private hospital networks. For the first four weeks of May, those nine cities gave 16 per cent more doses than the combined rural districts, data from the government's Co-WIN vaccination portal shows. "My friends from the city were vaccinated at private hospitals," said Atul Pawar, a 38-year-old farmer from Satara, a rural western district of Maharashtra, India's wealthiest state. "I am ready to pay, but doses are not available and district borders are sealed because of the lockdown." The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare did not respond to a request for comment. India has administered more than 222 million (22.2 crore) doses since starting its campaign in mid-January - only China and the United States have administered more - but it has given the required two doses to less than 5 per cent of its 950 million (95 crore) adults. Rural India is home to more than two-thirds of the country's 1.35 billion people. While urban areas account for a disproportionately large share of the confirmed Covid-19 cases, those concerned about the spread of the virus in the countryside say statistics undercount cases in villages, where testing is less comprehensive. The health system in several regions in India collapsed in April and May as the country reported the world's biggest jump in coronavirus infections, increasing pressure on the immunisation programme. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government offers vaccines to vulnerable people, healthcare workers and those aged over 45 for free. Since last month, individual states have also been expected to procure vaccines for younger adults, or to provide them commercially through the private sector. Poorer states say this leaves their residents more vulnerable. The eastern state of Jharkhand, where nearly all districts are categorised as poor, this week urged Modi to give it free vaccines for all age groups. In many states the doses for those under 45 are available mostly or entirely in urban areas. Some officials say this is intentional, as the infection spreads more easily in crowded cities. "It's because of high-positivity" in urban areas, said Bijay Kumar Mohapatra, health director of the eastern state of Odisha, explaining the state's decision to prioritise cities. Major international and domestic firms such as Microsoft , Pepsi, Amazon, Reliance Industries , Adani Group and Tata Motors have organised inoculations for their employees, in many cases in partnership with private hospitals. Most of these companies and the huge private hospitals that serve them are located in urban centres. Vaccination rates in rural areas have also been depressed because of patchier internet access to use the complex online system for signing up for shots, and possibly because of greater hesitancy among villagers than among city dwellers. Lucrative Deals India's Supreme Court criticised the government's handling of the vaccination programme this week and ordered it to provide a breakdown of shots given in rural and urban areas. "Private hospitals are not equally spread out" across the country and "are often limited to bigger cities with large populations", the top court said in its order dated May 31. "As such, a larger quantity will be available in such cities, as opposed to the rural areas," it said. Private hospitals may prefer to sell doses "for lucrative deals directly to private corporations who wish to vaccinate their employees". Dr. Rajib Dasgupta, head of the Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health at New Delhi's Jawaharlal Nehru University, said the risk of inequity was that parts of India would build up immunity disproportionately. "It can leave the rural population relatively more vulnerable."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-vaccine-inequity-worsens-as-rural-areas-languish-993774.html
04-06-2021||National||PM Modi calls Mauritius PM, condoles death of Anerood Jugnauth||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday called his counterpart in Mauritius, Pravind Kumar Jugnauth, to convey condolences on the demise of his father Anerood Jugnauth, the former leader of the island nation in Indian Ocean. The Prime Minister recalled Anerood Jugnauth's long public life in Mauritius, during which he served as both Prime Minister and President for many years. India will observe state mourning on Saturday as a mark of respect for the former leader of Mauritius. Highlighting the deep respect for Anerood Jugnauth in India, including among all political parties, the Prime Minister appreciated the seminal role he played in the evolution of India's very special friendship with Mauritius, according to a press-release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs. Modi called him a 'proud Pravasi Bharatiya' and said that India had been privileged to honour him with both the Pravasi Bharatiya Samman and the Padma Vibhushan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-calls-mauritius-pm-condoles-death-of-anerood-jugnauth-993776.html
04-06-2021||National||Serum Institute gets DCGI's nod to manufacture Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India||The DCGI has granted permission to the Serum Institute of India (SII) to manufacture the Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine in India for examination, test and analysis with certain conditions, official sources said on Friday. The Pune-based firm has collaborated with Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, Moscow in Russia for developing Sputnik V at its licensed Hadapsar facility.  "The DCGI has granted permission to the Serum Institute to manufacture the Sputnik Covid-19 vaccine in India for examination, test and analysis at its licensed Hadapsar facility with certain conditions," an official source said. The company had submitted an application to the DCGI in this regard on Thursday.   According to the four conditions set by the DCGI, the Serum Institute will have to submit a copy of the agreement between it and the Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology for transfer of cell bank and virus stock and submit the copy of the agreement for technology transfer with Gamaleya. Further, the SII has to submit a copy of the RCGM permission to import cell bank and virus stock and a copy of the RCGM permission to initiate research and development of viral vector vaccine Sputnik V, the sources said. The SII on May 18 had also applied to the Review Committee on Genetic Manipulation (RCGM), Department of Biotechnology seeking clearance for import of strains/seed lots and cell banks, and for carrying out research and development, the official sources said. The RCGM has raised some queries over SII's application and has sought a copy of material transfer agreement between the Pune-based firm and the Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology.   Russia's Sputnik V vaccine is currently being manufactured by Dr Reddy's Laboratories in India. The SII plans to seek restricted emergency use permission of the vaccine in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-gets-dcgis-nod-to-manufacture-covid-19-vaccine-sputnik-v-in-india-993783.html
04-06-2021||National||NIOS cancels Class 12 exams in view of Covid-19||The National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) has cancelled its Class 12 examination in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' announced on Friday. "Keeping the safety and security of our students on priority, NIOS cancels class 12 examinations. Students will be evaluated based on objective criteria to be announced soon. This will benefit around 1.75 lakhs students," the minister tweeted. According to S K Prasad, Director (Evaluation, NIOS), students who are not satisfied with the assessment will be given the option to appear in a public examination or an On-Demand Examination (ODE) when the situation becomes conducive. "In such circumstances, the result of the concerned learner in public examinations or ODE will be treated as final," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nios-cancels-class-12-exams-in-view-of-covid-19-993790.html
04-06-2021||National||PM Modi to address World Environment Day event on June 5||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address an event on the World Environment Day on Saturday via video-conferencing. The Prime Minister's Office said he will also release the 'Report of the Expert Committee on Road Map for ethanol blending in India 2020-2025'. To commemorate the World Environment Day, the government is releasing E-20 notification directing oil companies to sell ethanol-blended petrol with percentage of ethanol up to 20 from April 1, 2023; and BIS specifications for higher ethanol blends E12 & E15. These efforts will facilitate setting up of additional ethanol distillation capacities and provide timelines for making blended fuel available across the country, the PMO said. It will help increase the consumption of ethanol in the ethanol-producing states and the adjoining regions, before the 2025, it said. Modi will also launch a pilot project of E 100 dispensing stations at three locations in Pune, and interact with farmers to gain insight on their firsthand experience, as enablers under the Ethanol Blended Petrol and Compressed BioGas Programmes, the PMO said. The event is being jointly organised by the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas and the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. The theme for this year’s event is 'promotion of biofuels for better environment'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-address-world-environment-day-event-on-june-5-993805.html
04-06-2021||National||42 IAS officers including many DCs transferred in Haryana||In a major administrative reshuffle, the Haryana Government on Friday transferred of 42 IAS officers, including many deputy commissioners, with immediate effect. Among those transferred include Kurukshetra Deputy Commissioner Sharandeep Kaur Brar who was made commissioners of the Panchkula Municipal Corporation, an official statement said. Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran administrator and Hisar’s Urban Estate additional director Amarjit Singh Mann was posted as the Charkhi Dadri DC. Gurgaon Municipal Corporation’s Commissioner and Gurgaon-based Shri Mata Sheetla Devi Shrine Board’s Chief Administrator Vinay Pratap Singh was posted in his place in Hisar. Kaithal DC Sujan Singh was made AYUSH director. Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, also the chief administrator of Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board was posted as Gurgaon Municipal Corporation’s commissioner besides the chief administrator of Shri Mata Sheetla Devi Shrine Board there. Ambala DC Ashok Kumar Sharma has been posted as Haryana State Warehousing Corporation Ltd’s managing director. Charkhi Dadri DC Rajesh Jogpal was made HSVP’s administrator, Hisar and additional director, Urban Estate, Hisar. Sonipat DC Shyam Lal Poonia was made Jhajjar DC. Urban Estates Department Special Secretary and Yamunanagar DC Mukul Kumar, who was also the member secretary of the Haryana Backward Classes Commission has been posted as Kurukshetra DC.  The other officers who have been transferred include Mahavir Kaushik, Narhari Singh Banger, Pradeep Kumar, Dhirendra Khadgata, Dharmender Singh, Sushil Sarwan, Shakti Singh, Pradeep Dahiya, Anish Yadav, Manoj Kumar and Vikram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/42-ias-officers-including-many-dcs-transferred-in-haryana-993806.html
04-06-2021||National||Adar Poonawalla thanks Biden, Jaishankar for policy change to boost vaccine production||Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla on Friday thanked US President Joe Biden and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar for a policy change that will boost the production of Covid-19 vaccines in India and globally. Confident of the availability of Covid-19 vaccines in the US, the Biden administration has removed Defense Production Act priority ratings on AstraZeneca, Novavax and Sanofi vaccines. While the firms will continue to make these three vaccines, this action will allow US-based companies that supply these vaccine manufacturers to make their own decisions on which orders to fulfil first. Sharing the link of a press briefing by White House Covid-19 response team and public health officials, Poonawalla said, "Thanks to the efforts of @POTUS, @WhiteHouse, & @DrSJaishankar, this policy change will hopefully increase the supply of raw materials globally and to India; boosting our vaccine production capacity and strengthening our united fight against this pandemic." Earlier in April, Poonawalla had tweeted, "Respected @POTUS, if we are to truly unite in beating this virus, on behalf of the vaccine industry outside the U.S., I humbly request you to lift the embargo of raw material exports out of the U.S. so that vaccine production can ramp up. Your administration has the details".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adar-poonawalla-thanks-biden-jaishankar-for-policy-change-to-boost-vaccine-production-993809.html
04-06-2021||National||Indian Navy's lone nuclear-powered attack submarine on its way back to Russia||Indian Navy's only nuclear-powered attack submarine, the INS Chakra, which was taken on lease from Russia, is believed to be on its way back to the country of its origin, people familiar with the development said on Friday. INS Chakra, an Akula class vessel, was taken on lease from Russia in 2012. It was the second nuclear-powered attack submarine that India had taken on lease from that country. The submarine is returning to Russia as its lease period is learnt to be coming to an end, the people familiar with the development said. The first nuclear-powered submarine, also called Chakra, was taken in 1988 under a three-year lease from the then Soviet Union. Some pictures of INS Chakra returning to Russia came out on social media. However, there was no official comment on the matter. In 2019, India sealed a USD 3 billion deal with Russia for leasing another nuclear-powered attack submarine for the Indian Navy for a period of 10 years. Under the deal, Russia will have to deliver the Akula class submarine, to be known as Chakra III, to the Indian Navy by 2025.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navys-lone-nuclear-powered-attack-submarine-on-its-way-back-to-russia-993817.html
04-06-2021||National||'Black fungus': Centre allocates additional 1.21 lakh vials of Amphotericin B to states, UTs||The government allocated additional 1,21,000 vials of Amphotericin-B to various states, Union Territories (UTs) and central institutions on Friday, according to Union minister Sadananda Gowda. Amphotericin-B is used to treat mucormycosis, also known as 'black fungus' infection. "Additional 1,21,000 vials of #Amphotericin-B have been allocated to all the States/UTs and Central Institutions today," the Minister for Chemicals & Fertilizers said in a tweet. Mucormycosis affects the sinuses, brain and lungs, and can be life-threatening in diabetic or severely immuno-compromised individuals such as cancer patients or people with HIV/AIDS.  The doctors in India are documenting an alarming number of cases of mucormycosis among patients with Covid and those who have recently recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/black-fungus-centre-allocates-additional-121-lakh-vials-of-amphotericin-b-to-states-uts-993819.html
04-06-2021||National||Delta variant found in over one-third of Covid-19 samples from Varanasi||Over one-third of Covid-19 samples analyzed from Varanasi were found to be of the Delta variant by the Banaras Hindu University and CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology researchers. B.1.617.2, a strain of coronavirus, has been named Delta by the World Health Organization earlier this week. It is classified as a Variant of Concern, showing high transmission of the Covid-19 infection. Varanasi, represented by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Parliament, was one of the worst affected districts of Uttar Pradesh in April-May. Most of the samples collected from the city and adjoining areas by the BHU researchers were in April. CCMB, Hyderabad has sequenced the genome of 130 Covid-19 samples to know the strains.  “Just as in most parts of India, the B.1.617.2 (aka Delta) was the most common variant in the samples we studied. They were found among 36 % of the total samples. Other VoCs such as the B.1.351, detected in South Africa for the first time, were also found in this area”, said Dr Rakesh Mishra, advisor, CCMB. In addition to Delta, at least six other major strains of coronavirus were detected to be circulating in Varanasi, the BHU-CCMB collaborative study has found. Genome sequencing, the process of determining the DNA sequence of an organism, helps chart a particular virus strain's journey like the UK variant carried from London to Delhi and Punjab. Constant genome surveillance informs about the spread, mortality caused by a variant and if it is ignoring the vaccines, researchers say. “The Varanasi study confirms yet again that the Delta is the most widespread coronavirus variant in the country right now. But at the same time, we must keep an eye on the other emerging variants in the country to prevent another unprecedented surge of Covid-19 cases”, Mishra says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delta-variant-found-in-over-one-third-of-covid-19-samples-from-varanasi-993820.html
04-06-2021||National||US to consult with Modi govt on how many vaccine doses India should get out of its donation||President Joe Biden’s administration will discuss with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government before deciding on the exact number of Covid-19 vaccines India will get out of the doses the United States will donate to other countries from its own stockpile. Chuck Schumer, the majority leader of the American Senate, however urged the Biden Administration to ensure “a robust allotment” for India out of the Covid-19 vaccine doses the US would donate to other countries. Schumer recently wrote to Biden, recalling that India had helped the US in the hour of need by sending much-needed Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) during the early days of the pandemic. “Now, it is time for us to give back and help the people of India.” “In terms of the actual number of doses, we’ve done some notional planning but the refinement of the actual dose numbers will be determined in consultation with governments and their health experts, the state of their vaccine plans and delivery, and with (the) COVAX,” Gayle Smith, the US State Department’s coordinator for the global Covid-19 response, said. The Biden Administration on Thursday announced the allocation of the total 25 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccines, which the US would send out as the first tranche of the total 80 million doses it pledged to donate to other countries. India is the only country which would receive vaccines from both the two components of the first tranche of the US donations – directly as well as through the Covax, an initiative of the World Health Organization, Gavi The Vaccine Alliance and the others to ensure equitable access to Covid-19 jabs around the world. "The President made a commitment to ensure that India received doses and giving them, not just an allocation under the regional portion of this, through Covax, but an additional allocation from our discretionary portion was something that he wanted to do,” Jake Sullivan, the US National Security Advisor, told journalists. India will in fact get just a small portion of the 13 million – six million directly and seven million through the Covax initiative supported by the WHO – vaccine doses, which the US earmarked for more than 25 countries. Smith, however, said that India would get a “substantial” number of vaccines from the US. “So we want to be careful about putting a number out there out because we want to work all of those pieces to make sure we’ve got the numbers right. But I think they will be substantial numbers” she told journalists on Friday. The first tranche of the vaccines to be donated by the US will comprise mainly the ones developed and manufactured by the Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson. Though the Biden Administration pledged to share with other nations 60 million AstraZeneca vaccines, lying in storages and unlikely to be used in the US in the coming months, it would have to wait for the clearance from the Food and Drug Administration. Smith said the US would try to match vaccines to the national inoculation programmes run by the governments of the foreign countries where its donation would reach. The US would also have to take into account factors such as regulatory approvals and cold chain facilities, she said on Friday. The Modi Government is mainly using the Covaxin developed by its Bharat Biotech Limited and the AstraZenaca’s vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India and branded as Covishield in India for the nationwide inoculation campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-to-consult-with-modi-govt-on-how-many-vaccine-doses-india-should-get-out-of-its-donation-993821.html
04-06-2021||National||Over 2 lakh kg Covid-19 biomedical waste generated daily in May||Over two lakh kilograms of biomedical waste was generated each day last month by hospitals in India dealing with Covid-19 patients, a new report revealed on Friday. The report titled 'State of India's Environment 2021', released by the Centre for Science and Environment, said 2,03,000 kg of Covid-19 biomedical waste was produced daily in May this year and it was roughly 33 per cent of India's non-Covid biomedical waste. It said the Covid-19 biomedical waste generated per day in May was 46 per cent more than in April when 1.39 lakh kg of such waste was produced daily. In March, the daily figure was 75,000 kg, according to the report. April and May witnessed a deadly second wave of coronavirus cases that swept through the country stretching the healthcare infrastructure to its limits. The report by the Centre for Science and Environment found that Kerala, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Delhi and Karnataka contributed 50 per cent of Covid-19 biomedical waste generated in May. All these states were hit particularly hard by the second wave of the Covid-19 contagion. The report also said the biomedical waste generated per day in 2017 was 5.59 lakh kg and the quantity of waste treated daily was 519 kg. In 2019, 6.19 lakh kg biomedical waste was generated and 545 kg was treated daily. India still disposes of 12 per cent of its hospital waste without any treatment with Bihar and Karnataka faring the worst, it said. "In 2019, India treated 88 per cent of its biomedical waste, down from 92.8 per cent in 2017,” the report authored by Kiran Pandey and Rajit Sengupta, said. Biomedical waste includes cultures, stocks of infectious agents, associated biologicals, human blood and blood products, contaminated sharps, amputated body parts and isolation waste. Although it is a small proportion of the total waste generated (around 1 per cent), it needs special handling due to its highly toxic contents that can pose a severe threat to human health, the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-2-lakh-kg-covid-19-biomedical-waste-generated-daily-in-may-993823.html
04-06-2021||National||The mystery of Covid-19 origin: Was the red flag first raised in Delhi?||Recent Western research and intelligence reports have sparked a clamour for a detailed investigation into whether the novel coronavirus behind Covid-19 was engineered in a Chinese laboratory from where it escaped, triggering a cover-up. But long before the lab-origin theory gained any acceptance, and as far back as January last year, a clear red flag about the virus was raised not in the US or the UK, but in a laboratory at IIT-Delhi, where a group of Indian biologists detected four unusual gene insertions in SARS-CoV-2. Their research paper — released as a pre-print (a publication that has not been peer-reviewed) on January 31, 2020 but withdrawn two days later — was the first scientific study that hinted at the possibility of the engineering of the novel coronavirus, as they noticed “something odd” when they studied the protein structure of the virus. "We identified four unique inserts in the 2019-nCoV spike glycoprotein that are not present in any other coronavirus reported till date. To our surprise, all the four inserts have been mapped to short segments of amino acids in the HIV,” the team at Kusuma School of Biological Sciences at IIT Delhi had reported in their study. “This uncanny similarity is unlikely to be fortuitous," they concluded. In the 22-page paper, the IIT team noted that the inserts — which are absent in other coronaviruses — are critical for the virus to identify and latch on to their host cells in humans and for its replication inside the body. "We agree that statistical possibility of finding one insert is natural, two inserts is acceptable and three inserts may be rare but still statistically possible. But four inserts? What is the statistical possibility of finding four inserts and all in the spike protein?" principal investigator Bishwajit Kundu told DH. A withdrawal notice on the pre-print server said the researchers "intend to revise it in response to comments received from the research community on their technical approach and their interpretation of the results". After the initial brouhaha fuelled conspiracy theories, the Indian team rewrote the paper and tried to publish it in journals over the next four months, but were turned down by everyone. As other groups independently reported each of their initial findings, the IIT team finally shelved the project and moved to other areas. After more than a year, media scrutiny and public ridicule, members of the team are still not willing to talk much on the controversial paper. But sources close to them told DH that the researchers stand by their original finding of 'something odd' in the virus in terms of the duration of its evolution and acquisition of gene inserts. British professor Angus Dalgleish and Norwegian scientist Birger Sorensen recently grabbed attention by claiming to have discovered "unique fingerprints" in Covid-19 samples that could only come from “manipulation in a laboratory”. Reports have said that Antony Fauci — the lead member of President Trump’s coronavirus task force — was aware of the Indian research, but chose to ignore the findings. Fauci is even understood to have described the findings as "outlandish". But with the Joe Biden administration now ordering a probe into the origin of SARS-CoV-2, more voices demanding a close look into the origin of the virus are being heard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-mystery-of-covid-19-origin-was-the-red-flag-first-raised-in-delhi-993827.html
04-06-2021||National||PM Modi reviews Covid-19 vaccination drive; says wastage on higher side, must be brought down||The government is helping vaccine manufacturers get more production units, financing and supply of raw materials, the PMO said on Friday after Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the progress of the country's Covid-19 vaccination drive. While reviewing the status of vaccine wastage in various states, Modi said the wastage numbers are still on a higher side and that steps need to be taken to bring them down. He was briefed by officials about the current availability of vaccines and the roadmap for ramping it up. He was also apprised about the efforts being taken to help various vaccine manufacturers ramp up the production of vaccines. "Government of India is actively working with vaccine manufacturers ad helping them in terms of facilitating more production units, financing and supply of raw materials," the PMO said. The prime minister also took stock of the status of vaccination coverage in healthcare workers as well as frontline workers, besides those in 45-plus and 18-44 years age groups, the PMO said.  Officials also briefed him on various measures being taken on the tech front to make the process of vaccination more people-friendly. He was briefed on advance visibility being provided to states on vaccine availability, with officials noting that states have been asked to pass on this information to the district level so that there is no inconvenience to people. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Commerce and Industries Minister Piyush Goyal and I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar, besides a number of top bureaucrats, attended the meeting, the PMO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-reviews-covid-19-vaccination-drive-says-wastage-on-higher-side-must-be-brought-down-993831.html
04-06-2021||National||SC dismisses Bihar govt's plea against Rs 10 lakh compensation to kin of youth killed in police firing||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to interfere with the Patna High Court's directions to the Bihar government to pay Rs 10 lakh compensation to the father of 18-year-old Munger boy Anurag Poddar. The victim had died in an alleged police firing on the procession going to immerse the idols of Goddess Durga on October 26, last year. A bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and M R Shah dismissed a special leave petition filed by the Bihar government challenging against the High Court order of April 7. "We find no ground to interfere with the judgement and order in exercise of power under Article 136 of the Constitution," the bench said in the order. The High Court had then directed the state government to pay Rs 10 lakh compensation to the father of  Poddar. It had also decided to monitor the investigation to be carried out by the CID. It had also noted that the investigation by the Munger police did not progress well. The High Court had then acted on a petition filed by slain youth's father Amar Nath Poddar. Advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava, who represented the petitioner, sought a CBI probe and Rs five crore compensation in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-bihar-govts-plea-against-rs-10-lakh-compensation-to-kin-of-youth-killed-in-police-firing-993833.html
04-06-2021||National||Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine unlikely to be given to kids in India||The Pfizer-BNT Covid-19 vaccine is unlikely to be used in children even after it comes to India, NITI Ayog member Vinod Paul said on Friday, observing that the Indian requirement is far more than what would come from the pharmaceutical giant. While Indian officials are negotiating with the company for a likely supply of 5 crore doses between July and October, Paul said India would be needing 25-26 crore doses to vaccinate the entire population of children aged 12-18 years. "Child cohort is not a small cohort. My rough guess is that if it is between 12 to 18 years, this itself is about 13 to 14 crore population and for which we will need about 25-26 crore doses. We can’t have some people getting and others not getting. So we will have to take this into account when we strategize and make a decision based on how many doses of which vaccines are available," he said.  A Pfizer spokesperson told DH that its vaccine has been approved for pediatric use in the USA, Canada and Algeria, and recently received approval for use in the EU. Paul said no decision on granting indemnity to any foreign or Indian Covid vaccine-manufactures had been taken yet and such decisions would be taken in "totality and in the interest of people." The company has asked for indemnity before bringing out its vaccine to the Indian market. "We have checked with other countries and the World Health Organisation. Indeed they have supplied vaccines only after such indemnities have been given. This appears to be the fact. We are in negotiation with them but there is no decision at the moment."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pfizer-covid-19-vaccine-unlikely-to-be-given-to-kids-in-india-993861.html
04-06-2021||National||39 lakh people displaced in India in 2020 due to climate disasters, conflicts: Report||As many as 39 lakh people in India were displaced in 2020 due to climate disasters and conflicts, making it the fourth worst-hit country in the world to have such a high number of internal displacements, a new report said on Friday. The top three countries with high internal displacements last year were China, Philippines and Bangladesh, where over four million people were displaced, according to the State of India's Environment Report 2021 released by the Centre for Science and Environment. The report stated that 76 per cent of the internal displacements globally in 2020 were triggered by climate disasters. It said 4.05 crore people were displaced in the world that year, out of which, 3.07 crore people were displaced due to climate disasters and 98 lakh due to conflicts and violence. In India, 39 lakh people were displaced in 2020 due to climate disasters, conflicts and violence, the report stated. However, most of the displacements occurred due to major climate disasters like avalanches and landslides in Jammu and Kashmir, flood in Tamil Nadu, glacial lake outburst in Uttarakhand, Cyclone Nivar in Puducherry and Cyclone Burevi in Kerala and Tamil Nadu, it said. It also said that an average of around 3.73 million people a year were displaced between 2008 and 2020, the majority by flooding during the monsoon. “India is also prone to other sudden and slow-onset hazards, including earthquakes, tsunamis, cyclones, storm surges and droughts,” it said. The report projected that India could see 2.3 million internal displacements every year due to earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, cyclonic winds and storms. According to the report, the last decade saw the highest number of cyclonic storms over the north Indian Ocean since the 1970s. Between 1971 and 2020, 127 cyclonic storms hit India, out of which, the maximum cyclones (33) were recorded between 2011 and 2020. Five cyclonic storms occurred in 2020 alone. While Cyclone Amphan crossed the West Bengal coast over Sundarbans on May 20 this year and claimed 90 lives and about 4,000 livestock, Cyclone Nisarga crossed Maharashtra coast on June 3. It claimed four lives and 2,000 livestock. Cyclone Nivar crossed Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts close to north of Puducherry and claimed 12 lives and 10,836 livestock over Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Lastly, Cyclone Burevi claimed nine lives and 200 livestock. Cyclone Gati made landfall over Somalia coast. The report stated that 21 major weather events claimed over 1,374 lives in 2020. Heavy rains, floods and thunderstorms were responsible for over 51 per cent of the deaths. Lightning was responsible for 33 per cent of the deaths. The data shared in the report revealed that out of the 1,374 deaths in the country, 300 people died in Bihar alone. In Uttar Pradesh, 189 people lost their lives, while 144 people died in Jharkhand due to extreme weather events. In Assam, heavy rain and flood took 129 lives in 2020, while 73 people died in Maharashtra and 72 each in Madhya Pradesh and Kerala, it said. Other states where people died due to extreme weather events are Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Rajasthan, the report added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/39-lakh-people-displaced-in-india-in-2020-due-to-climate-disasters-conflicts-report-993880.html
04-06-2021||National||Railways aims 'net zero carbon emitter' before 2030||Indian Railways on Friday said it is working in mission mode to become the largest Green Railways in the world and is moving towards becoming “net zero carbon emitter” before 2030. "The national transporter is looking at helping the environment with steps ranging from massive electrification, water and paper conservation, to saving animals from being injured on railway tracks," said the Railways in a statement.  Electrification has increased nearly ten times since 2014. Capturing the economic benefits of electric traction in an accelerated manner, the national transporter has planned to electrify balance broad gauge routes by December 2023 to achieve 100% electrification at such routes. Head-On-Generation systems, Bio-Toilets and LED lights recreate the train itself into a travel mode that’s kinder to the environment while maintaining comparable passenger comfort, the Railways said. Dedicated Freight Corridors are being developed as a low carbon green transportation network with a long-term low carbon roadmap, which will enable it to adopt more energy-efficient and carbon-friendly technologies, processes and practices. MoU signed between Railways and Confederation of Indian Industry in July 2016 for the facilitation of green initiatives in Railways. 39 workshops, 7 production Units, 8 loco sheds and one store's depot have been ‘GreenCo’ certified. These include 2 platinum, 15 gold and 18 silver ratings. Total 19 railway stations have achieved Green Certification including 3 platinum, 6 gold and 6 silver ratings. 27 more Railway buildings, offices, campuses and other establishments are also green certified including 15 platinum, 9 gold and 2 silver ratings. In addition, over 600 railway stations have been certified for implementation of the environmental management system to ISO: 14001 in the last two years. A total of 718 stations have been identified for ISO: 14001 certifications, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-aims-net-zero-carbon-emitter-before-2030-993881.html
04-06-2021||National||Over 33.5 lakh Covid-19 vaccines administered on June 4, total tops 22.75 crore||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 22.75 crore, with 33,57,713 doses being administered Friday, the Union Health Ministry said. It said 16,23,602 beneficiaries in the age group 18-44 years received their first dose and 31,217 in the same category their second dose on Friday. Cumulatively, 2,58,45,901 people in the age group across 36 states and union territories have received their first dose and 1,18,299 their second dose since the vaccination drive began for them from May 1. Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years for the first dose, the ministry said. The total of 22,75,67,873 include 99,44,507 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 68,40,415 HCWs who have taken the second dose. It also includes 1,60,45,747 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 86,34,525 FLWs who have taken the second dose. As many as 2,58,45,901 and 1,18,299 individuals in the 18-44 years age group have received the first and second dose respectively. Besides, 6,96,94,235 and 1,11,86,697 beneficiaries aged over 45 to 60 years old have been administered the first and second dose respectively. As many as 6,01,48,354 and 1,91,09,193 beneficiaries above 60 years have taken the first and second dose. As on Day-140 of the vaccination drive (June 4), a total of 33,57,713 vaccine doses were given, the ministry said. It said 31,01,109 beneficiaries were vaccinated for their first doses and 2,56,604 beneficiaries their second dose, according to the provisional report till 7 PM. Final reports would be completed for the day by late night. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-335-lakh-covid-19-vaccines-administered-on-june-4-total-tops-2275-crore-993885.html
04-06-2021||National||DH Toon | Second Covid-19 wave ebbs in India||Low pay, 24-hour shifts and severe shortages of staff and protective gear have left many doctors on the frontlines of India's brutal pandemic surge near breaking point and fearful for their lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-second-covid-19-wave-ebbs-in-india-993913.html
04-06-2021||National||Farmers to protest against farm laws on June 5 with 10 questions||Protesting farmers will greet leaders of BJP and RSS with 10 questions as they hold demonstrations outside the residences and offices of BJP lawmakers across the country on Saturday. In districts where there is no BJP MP or MLA, the protest would take place outside district magistrate's office The decision to ask questions was taken on June 4, the birthday of farmer leader Rakesh Tikait. As farmer bodies' protest against the contentious farm laws has crossed more than six months and there is no indication from the government on withdrawing the laws, farmers' bodies have announced to observe June 5 as 'Sampoorna Kranti Divas' by burning copies of the Central farm laws in front of the offices of BJP MPs and MLAs. The Unions have also tried to latch on to the public outrage against their public representatives due to the problems they faced during the coronavirus pandemic, to give teeth to their protest against farm laws. A statement by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) said the questions include, "Why the party's public representatives did not raise their voice for farmers, who are sitting in protest around Delhi for last six months, where were they when people were dying due to absence of oxygen and medicine during the pandemic, why the loans of farmers were not waived off and they were not given any package like corporates, what happened to the promise of doubling the farmers' income by 2022... "Why farmers did not get remuneration for their produce as per M S Swaminathan Committee report, why sugarcane farmers were not paid their dues within 14 days, why agriculture court was not set up, what happened to the promise of giving 200 days employment under MGNREGS, why power sector is being privatised, what steps were taken to kids of farmers orphaned during Corona and what was done to provide compensation to family members of Corona victim farmers, a statement by BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said.  The protest outside the residence and offices of BJP MPs and MLAs tomorrow will mark the one year of the promulgation of these laws as ordinances by the Centre as it was on June 5 last year when President Ram Nath Kovind had promulgated the two ordinances  -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) Ordinance 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance 2020. On May 26, the farmer unions had observed "Black Day'' in various states to mark the six months of their agitation and send a message against the Modi government that completed its seven years on May 30. On May 21, Morcha had written to the Prime Minister, seeking his immediate intervention to resume discussions to address the issue. The last talk between the Govt and farmers had taken place on January 22, which was the 11th round of conversation between them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-to-protest-against-farm-laws-on-june-5-with-10-questions-993919.html
04-06-2021||National Politics||Urge Centre to prepare for third Covid wave: Intellectuals in open letter to Oppn||More than 185 intellectuals, including noted historians Romila Thapar and Irfan Habib and economist Kaushik Basu, have written an open letter to the opposition parties suggesting them to use their influence to ensure the central and state governments prepare for a possible third wave of the coronavirus. Noting that the visuals of deceased lying on roads during the second wave and bodies floating in rivers have pricked the world's collective conscience, they said it was heartwarming that amidst the pandemic, most political parties are "willing to work in a non-partisan manner in the peoples’ interest". "Yet, despite the offer to cooperate and work with the union government, it is shocking that the government of India has neither welcomed the suggestions, nor created a truly national task force comprising all parties, state governments, experts and civil society to tackle the unprecedented situation India is facing," it said. The letter said millions of Indians are scrambling to access basic healthcare services such as hospital beds, ventilators, oxygen, essential medicines, ambulances, etc. "The visuals of the deceased lying on roads, floating in rivers and riverbeds has pricked the world's collective conscience," the letter said. The signatories to the letter include Magsaysay awardee and activist Wilson Bezwada, former Amnesty International Secretary General Salil Shetty, former UGC Chairman Sukhadeo Thorat, former UPSC member Purshottam Aggarwal, and several academicians from Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), New York University, University of Siena (Italy), University of Sao Paulo, University of Pennsylvania, and Princeton University among others. "It is very distressing that, despite a history of successful mass-vaccination campaigns in the past 70 years, the government has outsourced the procurement of vaccines to severely stretched state governments, at differential and exorbitant rates. Likewise, expert advice is repeatedly ignored, while obscurantist, unproven remedies are encouraged. "Large rallies and religious congregations were organised, and there was no preparation to enhance the availability of oxygen, vaccines, and beds," it said. The letter suggested the parties to consider a series of measures. "There is a need to immediately reach out to, and support, the efforts of these citizen and civil society groups. Since these are already acting as aggregators of requests from citizens in need, progressive parties can support them by securing help for them or connecting them to the right authorities and systems," it said. Parties must also support and sponsor citizen/civil society initiatives, "which are hamstrung because of restrictive policies regarding fund-raising imposed by the government", it said. The letter also suggested the parties to use their influence to urge the union and state governments to prepare in advance for the imminent third wave. "Just to cite one example, children (who may also be impacted by the third wave) will need different oxygen masks, which hospitals don't have in adequate quantities. Parties can work with citizen groups to map demand, and try to secure their supply," it said. It urged the parties to leverage their connections to stock on oxygen refills, food etc which might be needed during the third wave. "Parties must leverage their connections to stock these in advance, and work with citizen groups to disburse them as and when they are needed. The more we prepare in advance, the more lives we can save," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/urge-centre-to-prepare-for-third-covid-wave-intellectuals-in-open-letter-to-oppn-993560.html
04-06-2021||National Politics||India under PM Modi successfully fought Covid: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday said India under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi successfully fought the battle against Covid-19 and managed to bring disease curve down with the help of 135 crore citizens. "Now, the cases are dipping, the number of patients is decreasing. The oxygen requirement has come down to 3,500 MT from 10,000 MT. This indicates that the Covid-19 curve is going down," Shah said. He also said the speed of India's vaccination drive is the fastest in the world and it will further gain momentum in future to cover maximum number of people in the shortest possible time, as envisioned by the PM. Shah was speaking via video conference after virtually inaugurating nine medical oxygen plants set up at government-run hospitals in different parts of Gujarat. The plants have been set up by an NGO - Vallabh Youth Organisation - at government-run hospitals in Tilakvada, Sagbara, Ahmedabad (Sola civil), Daskroi in Ahmedabad district, Kalavad, Kapadvanj, Bhanwad, Mehsana and Porbandar. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani joined the virtual event from Gandhinagar. Shah said the government succeeded in controlling the spread of the virus and bringing the curve down through collective efforts. "As you might have seen in media (reports), even highly developed countries struggled to tackle the pandemic. On the other side, we fought the battle with patience and planning," he said. He said in other countries, only governments were fighting against the coronavirus. "In India, along with the government, 135 crore citizens also fought this battle under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi. This is the reason for our success," said Shah. He paid tributes to all those who lost their lives due to the coronavirus. The minister also thanked frontline workers, doctors, nurses, NGOs and volunteers for helping the people in their hour of need. "Non-governmental organisations helped people in all possible ways. When migrants were going back home (last year), NGOs provided them food, water, shelter and helped them reach their destinations. The government could not have done it all alone," he said. As the new Covid-19 cases (per day) are coming down, Shah said the demand for medical oxygen is also decreasing. As against the daily demand of 1,000 metric tonnes of oxygen in the country earlier, the demand suddenly shot up to 10,000 MT during the second wave of Covid-19, he said. Currently, the demand stands at 3,500 MT, he added. The Centre pressed into service trains and defence aircraft to transport medical oxygen and cryogenic tankers across the country to save the lives of Covid-19 patients when the demand for the life-saving gas was very high, he noted. "While 15,000 MT of oxygen was transported through trains, cryogenic tankers for oxygen storage were transported using Army aircraft," he said. Shah further said that while 162 PSA oxygen plants were approved under the PM Cares Fund after the first wave of Covid-19, another 1,051 were approved this year. Th Centre purchased one lakh oxygen concentrators through the PM Cares Fund, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-under-pm-modi-successfully-fought-covid-amit-shah-993574.html
04-06-2021||National Politics||Doctors need protection from Covid, BJP govt's callousness: Rahul Gandhi||Critical of the government's handling of Covid, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said doctors need protection from coronavirus and the BJP dispensation's callousness as he made an appeal to save them. Gandhi has criticised the government's policies to check the spread of the pandemic and the vaccination drive. "Doctors need protection from coronavirus as well as BJP governments' callousness. Save the saviours," he said on Twitter. Doctors need protection from Coronavirus as well as BJP governments’ callousness. Save the saviours! Congress leader Jairam Ramesh also attacked Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy for asking all states to speak in one voice on vaccines. "All I ask Jagan is: who made the vaccine issue Union vs States? Who unilaterally decided the Union government will abdicate vaccinating 18-44 year olds? Why weren't states consulted before this policy was rolled out? Why don't you ask the PM these questions," Ramesh questioned him. Reddy had said that in a "states versus Union" situation, the chief ministers should should "speak in a single voice" on vaccines and urged them not to indulge in politics by pointing fingers at Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Earlier, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik wrote a letter to all chief ministers for a consensus on centralised procurement of vaccines by Government of India in view of the challenges faced by states. "Spoke to some CMs who shared my views. No state is safe unless all states adopt vaccination as a top priority and execute it on war-footing," he had said. Some non-NDA ruled chief ministers have criticised the Centre over its vaccination policy and urged the central government to procure vaccines for them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/doctors-need-protection-from-covid-bjp-govts-callousness-rahul-gandhi-993684.html
04-06-2021||National Politics||Those calling inflation a calamity should stop eating, says BJP MLA||BJP MLA in Chhattisgarh and former state minister Brijmohan Agrawal has stoked a controversy as he said that those who call inflation a national calamity should stop eating food and using petrol. The Congress, which is in power in the state, termed his statement "shameful" and said the day is not far when the saffron party will ask those who oppose the BJP-led Centre to leave the country. Talking to reporters on Thursday, Agrawal said, "If the inflation is a national calamity, then I think those who are calling it so should stop eating and drinking. They should quit food and stop using petrol." "I think if Congressmen and those who have voted to Congress will do so, the inflation would automatically come down," he said. A video of the MLA making the statement has gone viral on social media platforms. When contacted, Agrawal said on Friday, "While interacting with reporters, I satirically made a statement that if Congressmen stop eating and using petrol, inflation would decline as the state Congress chief had termed inflation as a national calamity." He said he made the statement in a lighter vein while speaking to reporters after the press meet and it was not his intention to ask anyone to stop having food or using petrol. Slamming him over the statement, Chhattisgarh Congress's communication wing in-charge Shailesh Nitin Trivedi said the BJP can't even realise the pain of people who are bearing the brunt of the price rise. "Making such a vague statement is very shameful. They will later say that those who oppose the Centre should quit India," he said. On Saturday, Congress leaders and workers will stage a state-wide protest in front of their houses against the Centre over the issue of price hike.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/those-calling-inflation-a-calamity-should-stop-eating-says-bjp-mla-993687.html
04-06-2021||National Politics||BJP takes swipe at Congress over internal fight in Punjab, raises questions over party's commitment to fight Covid-19||Taking a swipe at the Congress over its internal fight in Punjab, the BJP on Friday asked whether the party was committed to fight the Covid-19 pandemic in the state. "Today, the entire (Congress) party and the government of Punjab are in Delhi. Who will look after Punjab? Ignoring Punjab for their internal fight. This is a big sin of Congress," Union minister Prakash Javadekar told a press conference at the BJP headquarters. This came after Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh met a three-member committee, set up by the Congress high command to resolve infighting in the party's state unit, at All India Congress Committee (AICC) headquarters here.  The three-member panel is headed by the Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and has AICC secretary general in-charge of Punjab Harish Rawat and former MP J P Aggarwal as its other members.  Singh had arrived in the national capital on Thursday.    Javadekar used the opportunity to target Rahul Gandhi, saying the Congress leader, instead of giving lectures to others, should first consider how to set things right in place in the state ruled by his party. "I would suggest to Rahul that instead of giving lectures to others, he should first think how works can be done properly in his state," he said. The BJP leader said while Punjab is badly hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, there is no proper management of inoculation drive in the state. The state government is also not paying adequate attention to testing and other measures that need to be taken to contain the spread, he alleged. "For the last six months, an internal fight has been going on (within the Congress in Punjab)," he said. Referring to media reports that claimed the Punjab government has allegedly sold some vaccines out of those procured under the state quota to private hospitals at a higher rate, Javadekar accused the Amarinder Singh dispensation of "making a profit" from vaccination. "It's dangerous news. They (Punjab government) got over 1.40 lakh doses of Covaxin at Rs 400 each. And they gave some of the vaccines to 20 private hospitals at Rs 1000 each. The state government wants to make a profit from the vaccination. What kind of government is this?" he charged. Javadekar said the Centre has so far given a total of 22 crore vaccines to the states free-of-cost. "They should pay attention to their management so that people of Punjab get relief. This is the demand and expectation of the people today," he added. Singh and his former cabinet colleague Navjot Singh Sidhu are engaged in a bitter war of words. Sidhu has publicly attacked the chief minister over an SIT report on the sacrilege issue in Punjab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-takes-swipe-at-congress-over-internal-fight-in-punjab-raises-questions-over-partys-commitment-to-fight-covid-19-993703.html
04-06-2021||National Politics||After Bengal drubbing, BJP aims to corner Mamata Banerjee at the national level||Following its drubbing at the hands of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the West Bengal Assembly elections, the central leadership of the BJP has instructed the state unit to hold regular meetings with party leaders of other states regarding post-poll violence in the state.  BJP sources said that the aim is to drum up public opinion against the TMC and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee at the national level by highlighting the post-poll violence in Bengal through campaigning in other states. State BJP sources said that due to the lockdown-like situation in West Bengal, it is not possible to hold protest demonstrations. “So the party leadership has decided to campaign on the post-poll violence issue at the national level by informing party leaders in other States,” one of the sources said.  The source also said that cornering TMC supremo Banerjee at the national level is also a key objective of the initiative. The BJP has pressed into service leaders such as state president Dilip Ghosh, Leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari, Kailash Vijayvargiya and Bhupendra Yadav.  So far the state BJP leadership has held meetings with party leaders of 13 states and one Union Territory. The state BJP president has held meetings with BJP leaders in Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, Himachal Pradesh, Adhikari have spoken to party leaders in Gujarat and  Meghalaya. Vijayvargiya held meetings with party leaders in Bihar, Punjab, Uttrakhand and Yadav held meetings with Assam and Nagaland. BJP sources said that while emphasis has been given on BJP ruled States, the party leadership is keen on intensifying the campaign even in Opposition-ruled states such as Chattisgarh and Rajasthan where the saffron party has a considerable organisational presence. Ever since the Assembly election results have been declared, BJP has been alleging that their workers are coming under attack from TMC cadres across Bengal. They alleged that while many have fled from their home, those who want to return are being forced to pay a “fine” to the TMC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/after-bengal-drubbing-bjp-aims-to-corner-mamata-banerjee-at-the-national-level-993743.html
04-06-2021||National Politics||BJP in shock over its workers’ rebellious mood, Yogi govt's days numbered: Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav||Asserting that the Yogi government’s days are numbered in Uttar Pradesh, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday claimed the BJP leadership is in shock over the “rebellious attitude” of party workers, allegedly ignored by the government. The BJP leadership is in shock over the “rebellious attitude” of party workers and those of the RSS, who have gone in “hibernation as they were ignored” by the government, claimed Yadav. "This has driven the top leadership of the BJP to hold “constant meetings and brainstorming (sessions) in AC rooms from Delhi to Lucknow", Yadav said. "But the situation is that if they try to persuade one leader, the other one gets angry. To bridge the rift between the government and the organisation, the leaders are tweeting only," he said. The former chief minister apparently referred to the recent visits of the BJP’s two central leaders from Delhi to Lucknow to meet the top brass of the party leaders and the state government, which they described as routine.  Yadav also asserted that the Samajwadi Party has secured a greater reach and acceptance among the public and the BJP leader has grown apprehensive of it. The former chief minister also accused the state government of suppressing the number of government employees and health and other frontline workers who died while discharging their anti-Covid duties. He said the government was suppressing the number because it wants to save the money to be given as compensation to its employees' families. That is why the government is not releasing any list of its employees who died on duty, he said. “The government is trying to befool people with fudged data. It wants to save itself from paying the money by hiding deaths of its employees on duty due to Covid,” said Yadav. “To hide its failure, it has been claiming fewer deaths of government employees due to Covid-19. Had the government’s intentions been clear, it would have had no hitch in releasing the list of its employees who died due to Covid," Akhilesh said in a statement issued here. He said the SP workers would reach every village and meet families of each Covid victim and ask about their grievances. "It is expected from the party workers that they will help the needy people and not let anyone sleep hungry," he said. The people are more fed up with the government's misrule than the pandemic, said Yadav, adding lakhs of people died of Covid-19 and black fungus infection due to the carelessness in treatment. He said the BJP will no longer be successful in tricking people to vote for them during the next assembly elections in 2022. In 2022, the “BJP's farewell is certain” and so is the formation of a socialist government, he said, adding the people have made up their minds for it. “This has made the BJP scared and it has triggered talks of reshuffle in the party and the government in UP,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-in-shock-over-its-workers-rebellious-mood-yogi-govts-days-numbered-samajwadi-party-chief-akhilesh-yadav-993750.html
04-06-2021||National Politics||AIADMK united on keeping Sasikala family out of the party: Palaniswami||Former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday said the AIADMK was “united” in not allowing any member of the V K Sasikala family back into the party, days after the ousted interim general secretary gave ample hints that she will soon take the political plunge. Palaniswami, who was chosen by Sasikala as Chief Minister in February 2017 before she proceeded to Bengaluru to serve a four-year jail term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case, maintained that the long-time aide of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa was not a member of the AIADMK. “She (Sasikala) is not with the AIADMK. Above all, she stated before the elections that she was quitting politics. She is not talking to any AIADMK leader or cadre. She is only talking to the AMMK cadre. But some people are trying to create confusion in the AIADMK (using Sasikala’s outreach),” Palaniswami told reporters at the party headquarters here. Palaniswami, who is the joint coordinator of AIADMK, and refuted reports of any rift between him and coordinator O Panneerselvam. The Leader of Opposition said he came to the headquarters as Friday was an “auspicious day” and there was no formal meeting, in response to questions on OPS being absent. Though they never shared the best of relations, OPS and EPS were forced to put up a united face in the run-up to the assembly elections. After the party's defeat, the differences between them widened, and they now function independently by releasing separate statements on matters of public importance. Though Palaniswami said Sasikala has “quit politics”, a statement issued by the former AIADMK leader on March 3 had merely said she was “stepping aside” from politics. Palaniswami’s comments on Sasikala comes days after she spoke to her supporters over the phone and assured them that she will come soon and “set right” the AIADMK. Responding further to questions on Sasikala, Palaniswami said AIADMK deputy coordinator K P Munusamy has also reiterated the party’s position vis-à-vis Sasikala. “He (Munusamy) has made it clear that she (Sasikala) has no place in the AIADMK. She is not part of the AIADMK. Party cadre is clear that none from the (Sasikala) family should be taken back into the party. We went to election after deciding on this,” Palaniswami said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aiadmk-united-on-keeping-sasikala-family-out-of-the-party-palaniswami-993782.html
04-06-2021||National Politics||Ahead of Assembly polls, Navjot SIngh Sidhu likely to return to Punjab government||Congress appeared to explore a role for party rebel Navjyot Singh Sidhu in the Punjab government to quell the factionalism in state unit ahead of the Assembly elections next year. Sidhu, who joined the Congress in 2017, has found himself on the margins of the party after he quit the Punjab government over a tiff with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh in 2019. Singh met the three-member panel chaired by veteran leader Mallikarjun Kharge to put resolve the differences within the Punjab Congress. The Kharge panel, which as senior leaders Harish Rawat and J P Agarwal as members, has been interacting with party MLAs, MPs and other leaders since Monday. Congress may ask the chief minister to reshuffle his council of ministers to accommodate the disgruntled leaders, including Sidhu. Congress leadership is keen to avoid a major flare up in the state unit as the party’s prospects of retaining power in Punjab were higher as the opposition has been in a disarray. Sidhu, who aspires to be the Punjab Congress chief, has been critical of the chief minister for his handling of the sacrilege case and his style of functioning. After Sidhu’s attacks on Singh grew over the past few weeks, the cricketer-turned-politician was the target of a vigilance department probe, an action that saw rebels rally behind him. When Singh met the Kharge-led panel, he is learnt to have come prepared over Sidhu’s “misdemeanours” as a minister in the government and his latest actions. Sidhu is considered close to Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. “The meeting was to discuss the preparations for the Assembly elections scheduled early next year. These are our inner party discussions and I don't propose to share them with you,” the chief minister told reporters after the meeting with the three-member panel. Rawat, the AICC General Secretary in-charge of Punjab, said the Kharge panel will submit their report to Congress President Sonia Gandhi sometime next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ahead-of-assembly-polls-navjot-singh-sidhu-likely-to-return-to-punjab-government-993791.html
04-06-2021||National Politics||BJP's two-day huddle on assembly polls and Covid-19 pandemic to begin on Saturday; challenges galore||Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP chief J P Nadda will huddle with party general secretaries Bhupender Yadav, C T Ravi, Dushyant Gautam, D Purandeswari, Arun Singh, Dilip Saikia, Kailash Vijayvargiya, Tarun Chugh and others on Saturday and Sunday. They will discuss the Covid-19 pandemic and the political scenarios in states like Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand which will go to the polls in less than nine months and Gujarat which will witness polls in December next year. This will be the first such offline meeting of senior BJP leaders after the second wave of Covid-19 hit India. A three-day RSS top brass meet is underway in Delhi to discuss the current issues. Since RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat is in Delhi till at least tomorrow, some senior BJP leaders are expected to call on him.  The meeting at the residence of Home Minister Amit Shah will be attended by nearly a dozen general secretaries and senior office bearers. It is coming days after RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosable (second in command in Sangh) camped in Uttar Pradesh for four days to take stock of the socio-political situation there and reviewed the Covid-19 relief work done by RSS workers amid criticism that the Yogi Adityanath government could not perform well in the time of crisis. Hosabale and BJP's UP in-charge Sunil Bansal had huddled in a closed-door meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi. The back to back meetings come in the backdrop of concerns in the saffron backward over the impact of the pandemic on BJP's poll prospects.  Some MLAs of the ruling party in UP have voiced concern over the state of affairs, but BJP does not seem to have any other option apart from Yogi Adityanath. On Friday, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav claimed that the BJP government’s days are numbered in Uttar Pradesh and the saffron party leadership is in shock over the “rebellious attitude” of its workers.  BJP General Secretary (Organisation) B L Santosh also interacted with party leaders in UP. With 80 Lok Sabha seats, UP has great significance in the political arena of India. The outcome of the assembly elections there will be viewed as a mood reading of people for the next general elections. So, the stakes are high. Besides UP, the party has also concerns in other states. In Punjab, the BJP lost its age-old ally Shiromani Akali Dal, which walked out of the NDA last year opposing the enactment of three contentious farm laws that triggered a farmer agitation in Delhi borders. On Saturday, farmers would be holding demonstrations outside the residences of MPs and MLAs to mark the one year of the promulgation of these laws as ordinances by the Centre. BJP is trying to make up for the loss of its ally in Punjab by latching on to the division in Congress state unit, between Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu. "Today, the entire Congress party and the government of Punjab are in Delhi. Who will look after Punjab? Ignoring Punjab for their internal fight. This is a big sin of Congress," Union minister Prakash Javadekar said, questioning Congress's commitment to fighting the pandemic. However, a division in Congress will hardly compensate BJP's loss of SAD as an ally. In West Bengal, after BJP failed to stop Mamata Banerjee's hattrick victory, many TMC deserters are making a beeline for 'Ghar Wapsi' and the ruling party is in a mood to oblige. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday called Bengal BJP leader Mukul Roy and enquired about his wife's health. The conversation happened amid a buzz of an imminent reshuffle of the Union Cabinet in the coming days.  Keen to keep its house in order in Bihar and placate Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, BJP on Friday sacked its own MLC Tunnaji Pandey who had launched an attack on Kumar. In Uttarakhand, the party changed the Chief Minister by sacking Trivendra Singh Rawat and replacing him with Tirath Singh Rawat in March, while it replaced Sarbananda Sonowal with Himanta Biswa Sarma as the CM in Assam in May. Sonowal is likely to be inducted at the Centre, most probably in the Union Cabinet or some senior role in the party organisation. Modi-Shah's home state Gujarat is also in a bit of disarray after the Covid-19 pandemic. Even in the last Assembly polls, Congress had confined the BJP to a substantially low tally of 99. The assembly polls in 2022 could be a tough hurdle for the Vijay Rupani-led Gujarat BJP to cross, though Congress is not in a good position there organizationally.  Besides poll realities, the party chief will also take stock of the Covid-19 relief works done by BJP workers, as the pandemic has posed tough challenges for the BJP ahead of elections in crucial states. The key BJP Parliamentary Board also awaits reconstitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-two-day-huddle-on-assembly-polls-and-covid-19-pandemic-to-begin-on-saturday-challenges-galore-993793.html
04-06-2021||National Politics||Congress upset as Central Vista not named after Gandhi family: Anurag Thakur||The Congress is upset over the Central Vista project as it is not named after "Gandhi Family", BJP leader and Union minister Anurag Thakur said on Friday, accusing the opposition party of hypocrisy as megaprojects of similar nature are underway in the states ruled by it. Asserting that the Central Vista project belongs to the people of India, Thakur said it will shape the policies and programmes that will transform the lives of the poor and propel India as an economic powerhouse. "Unlike in the Congress party, it is neither named nor owned by one ‘family’. I can understand the frustration of the Congress party as they have missed an opportunity to name it after the ‘Gandhi Family’. Congress leadership needs lessons in civics, the official residences and offices belong to the nation, not an individual,” he said. Taking on Congress for its opposition to the project, the Minister of State for Finance asked party leader Rahul Gandhi that why did he not ask chief ministers of Rajasthan, Chattisgarh and Congress-supported Maharashtra chief minister who have granted approval to the projects similar to Central Vista. The minister, in a statement, claimed that the Congress-ruled Rajasthan government has given approval to reconstruction and infrastructure work to the tune of Rs 125 crore. The Maharashtra government is constructing a residential hostel facility at Nariman Point for its legislators worth Rs 900 crore, he added. "The congress is in the business of peddling false narratives which fall like a pack of cards when presented with transparent facts. The demand for a new Parliament building arose decades ago; in 2012 Jairam Ramesh wrote a letter regarding this. The flip flop and hypocrisy of the Congress leadership is evident in full display,” Thakur said. Welcoming the Delhi High Court's decision to dismiss a plea to halt Central Vista work amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the Hamirpur MP said projects of national importance were delayed for decades during the Congress rule, but “this is Modi era" and the Union government has not only completed old ones but also delivered new projects much before the deadline. The Central Vista project aims to redevelop a 3.2-km stretch, called the Central Vista, that lies at the heart of Lutyens' zone in Delhi built by the Britishers in the 1930s. The project involves demolishing and rebuilding several government buildings, including iconic landmarks, and constructing a new Parliament building.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-upset-as-central-vista-not-named-after-gandhi-family-anurag-thakur-993799.html
04-06-2021||North and Central||Bholath legislator Sukhpal Khaira, 2 rebel AAP MLAs join Congress||Bholath Assembly segment legislator Sukhpal Singh Khaira and two rebel AAP MLAs Jagdev Singh Kamalu and Pirmal Singh Khalsa joined the Congress on Thursday, at a time the ruling party in Punjab is embroiled in infighting and factionalism. All of them have tendered their resignation as MLAs to the Assembly speaker, officials said. Khaira returned to the Congress nearly six years after quitting it. He had joined the AAP in December 2015 and was elected from Bholath assembly seat in 2017. He resigned from the primary membership of the AAP in January 2019 and had floated his own outfit -- Punjabi Ekta Party. Jagdev Singh Kamalu is a legislator from Maur seat and Pirmal Singh Dhaula an MLA from Bhadaur. Both are first-time legislators. The MLAs were inducted into the Congress party before Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh was to head for Delhi to attend a meeting with a three-member panel formed to resolve differences among its leaders in Punjab. Amarinder Singh and his former cabinet colleague Navjot Singh Sidhu have been at loggerheads in the recent past. Sidhu has publicly criticised the chief minister over the 2015 sacrilege issue in Faridkot's Kotkapura. "Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, before leaving for Delhi today, welcomed Sukhpal Khaira, MLA and former Leader of Opposition, and his two AAP MLA colleagues namely Jagdev Singh Kamalu, MLA Maur and Pirmal Singh Dhaula, MLA Bhadaur into the party fold," according to a tweet of the Punjab Congress. In a Facebook post of the Punjab Congress, the chief minister said induction of the three senior leaders has been approved by Congress president Sonia Gandhi. He said since the AICC General Secretary (in charge of Punjab) Harish Rawat and state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar were busy in the consultation process with the three-member committee in Delhi, their blessings would be sought within a few days. Amarinder Singh said he was of the firm opinion that the Congress party stands strengthened with the joining of Khaira and his colleagues. Patiala MP Preneet Kaur, who was also present during the joining ceremony here, said the three legislators shall prove to be a big asset for the party. The induction of three rebel AAP MLAs comes at a time when a three-member panel formed by the Congress has been meeting party leaders including MLAs, ministers and MPs in Delhi to hear out their concerns. The panel is led by Rajya Sabha MP Mallikarjun Kharge while All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Punjab Affairs Harish Rawat and former MP J P Aggarwal are its members. After joining the party on Thursday, Khaira said, "Congress was the only viable platform that can save India from the fascist and fanatic rule of the BJP." In a statement, he also said only the Congress party can prevent the Badals from "looting" Punjab. Khaira said he and his colleagues, after due diligence, have decided to join the Congress in the larger interest of the country and that of Punjab. Earlier in a Facebook post, Khaira thanked party president Sonia Gandhi and leader Rahul Gandhi. The former leader of the opposition in the Punjab Assembly heaped praise on Chief Minister Amarinder Singh for his stand on the three Central farm legislations and river water issues. He also said justice will definitely be delivered in the 2015 sacrilege and subsequent police firing incidents in Faridkot's Kotkapura. Khaira termed his decision of joining the Aam Aadmi Party a "political blunder" and that it was a "mistake". Alleging that there was "complete dictatorship" in the Arvind Kejriwal-led party, he claimed that several leaders like Sucha Singh Chhottepur, Dharamvira Gandhi and Gurpreet Ghuggi were "victims" of the AAP leadership. They were also "humiliated" and it was important for them to "expose" the AAP leadership, Khaira claimed. Reacting to the development, AAP MP Bhagwant Mann said Khaira used to attack the Congress when he was the leader of the opposition and asked him whether "sand and transport mafias" had now ended in the state. AAP leader Raghav Chadha said the three MLAs were expected to join the Congress. "For us, Punjab's issues are more important. We do not give any attention towards such opportunist people," Chadha said. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal claimed that the Congress and AAP were "playing a fixed match" and that the main opposition had continuously allowed its MLAs to shift their loyalties to the Congress as part of an "unofficial tie-up". This is a constitutional and democratic "fraud" perpetrated on the people of Punjab, he said. Khaira had been critical of the AAP leadership, decrying lack of autonomy in the party's state unit. He had even criticized Arvind Kejriwal after he had tendered an apology to Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia after accusing him of being involved in drugs trade. Along with a few AAP legislators, Khaira had rebelled against the AAP after he was unceremoniously removed as the Leader of Opposition of the Punjab Assembly in 2018. After quitting the AAP, Khaira had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Bathinda seat on his Punjabi Ekta Party ticket. The AAP has been seeking disqualification of Khaira as an MLA under the anti-defection law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bholath-legislator-sukhpal-khaira-2-rebel-aap-mlas-join-congress-993538.html
04-06-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh High Court asks junior doctors to end strike, medicos quit en masse||The Madhya Pradesh High Court on Thursday directed the striking junior doctors in the state to resume their duties within 24 hours but the protesting medicos remained defiant and nearly 3,000 of them resigned from their posts and announced they will challenge the ruling. The HC termed the four-day-old strike as "illegal". Nearly 3,000 junior doctors working in the six government medical colleges of the state resigned en masse from their posts on Thursday and submitted their resignations to the dean of their respective colleges, Madhya Pradesh Junior Doctors Association (MPJDA) president Dr Arvind Meena told PTI. The strike, which began on Monday, will continue till their demands are fulfilled, he said. The junior doctors have put forward multiple demands before the state government, including a hike in stipend and free treatment for them and their families if they contract the deadly coronavirus infection. Meena said the state government has already cancelled their enrollment for the third year PG and therefore they wont be able to sit for examinations. He further informed the MPJDA will appeal against the HC judgement in the Supreme Court. Meena claimed members of the Medical Officers Association and the Federation of Resident Doctors Association will also join their agitation. He said junior and senior doctors of Rajasthan, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Bihar, Maharashtra and AIIMS Rishikesh, among others, have supported their strike. Meena claimed on May 6, the government authorities promised to fulfil their demands but nothing happened after that, forcing them to stop work. Asked about the governments decision to raise their stipend by 17 per cent and whether they will resume duties after relevant orders are issued, Meena said remained non- committal. The government has promised to raise the stipend by 24 per cent and till they raise it to that limit, the strike will continue," he said. Earlier in the day, the high court at Jabalpur termed the statewide strike called by the JDA as illegal and directed the protesting junior doctors to return to work by 2.30 PM on Friday. A division bench of Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq Ahmed and Justice Sujoy Paul said in case the striking doctors do not resume duties within the set timeframe, the state government must take stern action against them. The bench condemned the JDA's decision to go on a strike at the time of a pandemic and said such a step cant be encouraged during a health crisis. The HC was hearing a petition against the strike filed by Jabalpur-based advocate Shailendra Singh. Meanwhile, at a press conference in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh medical education commissioner Nishant Warwade said Minister of Medical Education Vishvas Sarang had met JDA representatives a number of times and taken several positive steps for resolving the matter. Warwade said as per the Consumer Price Index (CPI), a 17 per cent increase in stipend of junior doctors has already been approved and soon orders to this effect will be issued. Depending on the prevailing CPI, the stipend will be further enhanced, the senior bureaucrat said. Besides hiking stipend, the government is also implementing medical insurance schemes for them, he said. Like other officials and employees, ESMA (Essential Services Maintenance Act) is also applicable to doctors and it is expected the striking medicos will get back to treating patients which is their moral duty, Warwade said. The Act provides for the maintenance of certain essential services, including those related to health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-high-court-asks-junior-doctors-to-end-strike-medicos-quit-en-masse-993599.html
04-06-2021||North and Central||Punjab Congress infighting: Amarinder Singh meets party panel in Delhi||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday met the three-member panel set up by the Congress high command to resolve infighting in the party's state unit and apprised it of efforts to unite the party, as well as preparedness for the upcoming assembly polls, according to sources. Singh met the panel headed by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge at the party headquarters at Akbar Road here. AICC secretary general incharge for Punjab Harish Rawat and former MP J P Aggarwal are members of the panel. Singh and his former cabinet colleague Navjot Singh Sidhu have been engaged in a bitter war of words. Sidhu has publicly attacked the chief minister over an SIT report on the sacrilege issue in Punjab. The Congress panel has already met Sidhu, party MPs, MLAs and former PCC chiefs besides a host of other leaders in the last four days. Sources said the panel has also apprised former party chief Rahul Gandhi of the developments and deliberations with various leaders from Punjab. The panel, set up by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, is likely to present its report to her by the weekend or early next week. A change in the Punjab cabinet and the party is imminent ahead of next year's assembly elections, they said. As part of reconciliation efforts and to unite the party, the sources said, Sidhu may be included in the Punjab cabinet once again and elevated as deputy chief minister. The leadership may also be working to replace Sunil Jhakar as the state Congress chief, a post which Sidhu has been eyeing for long. Jakhar has completed his tenure but has been asked to continue as the state unit chief by the Congress high command.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-congress-infighting-amarinder-singh-meets-party-panel-in-delhi-993641.html
04-06-2021||North and Central||As BJP terms its leader’s killing ‘security lapse’, J&K Police issues new security advisory||As the ruling BJP termed the recent killing of one of its leaders by the militants as “a security lapse”, Jammu and Kashmir Police have issued a fresh advisory to protected persons asking them not to venture out without proper security assessment. “No protectee should go anywhere without PSOs. Visits are allowed only after ground assessment of local threats is done. The request is to all protectees not to violate SOPs and risk their lives unnecessarily (sic),” Kashmir police chief, Vijay Kumar, said in a tweet. The fresh advisory came after the militants shot dead a BJP councillor, Rakesh Pandita, in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Wednesday night when he was visiting his friend’s house. Pandita had been provided with two personal security officers (PSOs) and secure accommodation in Srinagar by the authorities. However, when militants attacked him, Pandita was without any PSO as he defied the standard operating procedure (SoP) and went to his native village in Pulwama without his security. But the BJP general secretary Ashok Koul while terming Pandita’s killing a “security lapse” questioned why not security agencies were aware that three militants were roaming in the area? “Is this not a security lapse?” he said and asked the government to admit lapses on its part.  Sources said after the incident a revamp in the security cover of protected persons has been started by J&K police and new SOPs are being formed to foil any bid from militants to target politicians, especially those associated with the Saffron party. In 2020, five BJP leaders were killed in a spate of targeted killings by the militants. There was a review of the security arrangement and most of the BJP leaders had been provided with secured accommodation in Srinagar, besides two or three PSOs. “If only two PSOs were with him (Pandita), they would have killed the militants before they killed him. The job of the police is to provide security to anyone who is on the target of militants,” a senior police officer told DH. Asked whether there was any security lapse on part of the police in Pandita’s killing, he said, “If the protected person himself violates the SOPs, he becomes an easy target for the militants. Going to a volatile place like Pulwama without security and informing the concerned police is just like committing suicide,” the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/as-bjp-terms-its-leader-s-killing-security-lapse-jk-police-issues-new-security-advisory-993653.html
04-06-2021||North and Central||SC rejects plea against HC order granting anticipatory bail to journalist in rape case||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a plea challenging the Delhi High Court order granting anticipatory bail to a Mumbai-based journalist in a rape case lodged against him by a 22-year-old woman. “We find no reason to interfere. The special leave petition is dismissed,” said a vacation bench of Justices Navin Sinha and Ajay Rastogi while rejecting the plea filed by the complainant. The high court had on May 13 granted anticipatory bail to journalist Varun Hiremath in the case. The complainant has alleged that she was raped by the accused at a five-star hotel in Chanakyapuri on February 20. Hiremath had approached the high court after his anticipatory bail plea was dismissed by a trial court here on March 12. On the basis of the woman's complaint, an FIR under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 376 (punishment for rape), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) was registered at the Chanakyapuri Police Station here. Senior advocate Nitya Ramakrishnan, appearing for the petitioner, argued in the apex court that accused had earlier absconded for 50 days and he also evaded the non-bailable warrant. In her plea filed in the top court, the petitioner has alleged that the accused has not faced custodial interrogation even for a day in the case despite not co-operating in the police investigation. “By a minute, critical and erroneous assessment of the section 164 statement of the complainant-petitioner, and a summary evaluation of the nature of ‘consent’ at a stage where the accused has not even faced a day’s custodial interrogation, the high court has erroneously granted anticipatory bail in such heinous offences as rape and assault,” said the plea, drawn by advocate Jai Anant Dehadrai. Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) deals with recording of confession and statement before a magistrate. The petitioner said that after the high court had on April 9 granted him interim protection from arrest, the accused had appeared before the investigating authority. It claimed that the FIR and section 164 CrPC statement of the complainant “both categorically record that the petitioner pushed him away multiple times and that she also vehemently said no”. The counsel for the accused had earlier claimed before the trial court that there was a history of sexual relationship between the complainant and the journalist. The accused's counsel had also highlighted WhatsApp and Instagram chats between the complainant and the accused before the trial court "in order to show the love and passion between them". The trial court, while rejecting his anticipatory bail plea, had said that consent cannot be implied from the complainant's previous experiences with the accused and if the woman stated in her evidence before the court that she did not consent, the court shall presume that she did not.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-rejects-plea-against-hc-order-granting-anticipatory-bail-to-journalist-in-rape-case-993659.html
04-06-2021||North and Central||4-member panel formed to look into oxygen shortage deaths: Manish Sisodia||The Delhi government has formed a four-member expert committee to look into the deaths due to the shortage of oxygen during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic and is awaiting the lieutenant governor's approval, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Friday. During the second wave of coronavirus, there was an oxygen crisis and there were reports that the oxygen shortage led to deaths at some hospitals, Sisodia said in an online briefing. "We took the issue seriously and took a decision to form a four-member committee to look into the matter. It is a committee comprising medical experts. We have sent the file for the L-G's approval," he said. "This committee will meet twice a week and will look into each case and decide whether the death happened due to the shortage of the life saving gas. As soon as the L-G approves the file, this committee will start functioning," he said. The government has also announced that it will give a compensation of Rs 5 lakh to the families of those victims who succumbed due to the shortage of oxygen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-member-panel-formed-to-look-into-oxygen-shortage-deaths-manish-sisodia-993663.html
04-06-2021||North and Central||Bikaner hospital aids district in cutting oxygen use: Report||Careful monitoring and innovative rationing of oxygen supplies in Bikaner’s only government hospital has helped the district drastically cut down on its oxygen use and save lives amid the country’s second coronavirus wave. The efforts of these nurses have helped halve the daily per patient oxygen intake to 2.1 cylinders and have taken the district, which depends on the hospital for 70% of its caseload, from the top of Rajasthan’s per patient oxygen use table in April to among the lowest in May. Oxygen became a precious commodity in the country in late April and early May as the massive second Covid wave flooded hospitals with patients and strained their medical supplies. Many patients lost their lives as hospitals’ oxygen supplies ran dry. However, Bikaner had not lost a single patient to lack of oxygen, District Magistrate Namit Mehta told the daily. The Bikaner hospital’s initiative was also acknowledged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a recent meeting with district magistrates. PBM realised in April that the per patient consumption would not be sustainable as the caseload grew, despite having its own tank. With this in mind, the hospital assigned each nursing student supervision duties for 30 beds at the end of April. The hospital didn’t stop at monitoring. It also deployed an engineering tweak and rearranged oxygen beds so that “high-flow” and “low-flow” patients got the amount of oxygen they required and wastage was minimised. As of Thursday, Rajasthan had 27,408 active Covid cases, with Bikaner accounting for 1,002 of them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bikaner-hospital-aids-district-in-cutting-oxygen-use-report-993682.html
04-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi man calls PCR, threatens to kill PM Modi; held||A 22-year-old man was arrested from northeast Delhi's Khajuri Khas area after he called the Police Control Room (PCR) and allegedly threatened to kill Prime Minister Narendra Modi, officials said on Friday. The accused, who has been identified as Salman alias Arman, told police that he made the call as he "wanted" to go to jail. He is addicted to drugs and was sent to a juvenile correction home in 2018 in a murder case, they said. The accused called the PCR on 112 around Thursday midnight and threatened to kill PM Modi, the police said. The number from which the call was received was immediately traced and shared with the district police unit, which then located him to Khajuri Khas, a senior police officer said. According to preliminary investigation, Salman was under the influence of drugs at the time of making the call. He was scolded by his father around 10 pm. During interrogation, the senior officer said, the man told police that he made the call as he "wanted" to go to jail. When asked why he wanted to go to jail, he said, "Wahin mann lagta hai mera (I like being there)." Salman also told police that he is addicted to drugs and that he took some smack around 7 pm on Thursday, he said. Senior officers of the Delhi Police will further interrogate him with Intelligence Bureau officials in accordance with the protocol before taking any legal action, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-man-calls-pcr-threatens-to-kill-pm-modi-held-993695.html
04-06-2021||North and Central||SC to examine Asaram Bapu's treatment at Ayurveda centre||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to examine the possibility of temporarily shifting godman Asaram Bapu to an Ayurvedic treatment centre on his plea for post-Covid recovery. A bench of Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari issued notice to the Rajasthan government on a petition filed by Asaram.  The Rajasthan High Court order dismissed his plea for temporary suspension of sentence to avail ayurvedic medical treatment.  The top court noted that it had "no expertise" to delve into the medical condition of the petitioner and declined to grant bail to Asaram for temporarily shifting him to an Ayurvedic centre.  However, the top court has sought a reply from the Rajasthan government on his plea for Ayurvedic treatment. Senior Advocate Sidharth Luthra, representing Asaram, submitted his client is an 83-year-old person, and has been convicted for life imprisonment, and his bail was pending in Gujarat too. Luthra cited a medical report from AIIMS of May 19, which showed he was given multiple blood transfusions to increase his haemoglobin level due to gastrointestinal bleeding.   The counsel informed the court that Asaram wanted to be treated at Prakash Deep Institute of Ayurved at Raiwala, Uttarakhand. The bench, however, asked why he required bail, and said the court can ask the government to examine the possibility for his treatment.  Luthra pointed out that his client had bleeding, and was put on blood thinners and oxygen.  “He needs two months’ time to recuperate. His weight loss is drastic too," Luthra said.   The High Court had dismissed Asaram’s application for temporary suspension of sentence and directed the district and jail administration to ensure that proper treatment at a suitable medical institution.  Asaram is serving a life term at Jodhpur Central Jail in connection with the rape of a minor girl. On May 5, he had tested positive for Covid-19 and was shifted to AIIMS, Jodhpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-to-examine-asaram-bapus-treatment-at-ayurveda-centre-993699.html
04-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt, students appeal in HC against order allowing pvt schools to charge annual fees||Several appeals, including one by the AAP government, have been moved in the Delhi High Court against its single judge's decision allowing private unaided recognised schools to collect annual and development charges from students for the period after the lockdown ended in the national capital last year. The petitions moved on behalf of the students studying in the private unaided schools have contended that the single judge's May 31 decision was based on incorrect facts and law. The single judge, in his May 31 judgement, had quashed two office orders of April and August 2020 issued by the Directorate of Education (DoE) of the Delhi government forbidding and postponing collection of annual charges and development fees, saying they were "illegal" and "ultra vires" the powers of the respondent (DoE) stipulated under the Delhi School Education (DSE) Act and the Rules. The single judge had said that the Delhi government has no power to indefinitely postpone collection of annual charges and development fees by private unaided schools as it would unreasonably restrict their functioning. The Delhi government, in its appeal, filed through its standing counsel Santosh K Tripathi, has contended that its orders of April and August last year were issued in larger public interest as due to the lockdown people were in financial crisis. The DoE has contended that "charging fees is not the only source of augmenting the income" and therefore, any observation to the contrary will not only be prejudicial to the interest of the private unaided schools, but it will be difficult to regulate them. The DoE has said schools, if unregulated, will determine their own fee structure "as per their whims and fancies" and therefore, it was duty bound to not allow any other head of fees other than those necessary to be charged as 'fees'. The appeals on behalf of the students have claimed that establishment costs, like repairing of buildings, administrative expenses, rent and hostel expenses, are not applicable when the schools are closed. They have also contended that the charging of annual and development fees was only deferred and not stopped and the schools could have charged the same once the pandemic situation normalised. The pleas on behalf of the students and that filed by DoE have also contended that the conditions imposed by the Supreme Court on Indian School, Jodhpur vs. State of Rajasthan, could not have been made applicable to Delhi, as the education laws in both states are different. The single judge had said that schools shall collect annual fees with a deduction of 15 per cent as was allowed by the apex court in the Indian School case. The single judge had also said the amount payable by the students have to be paid in six monthly installments from June 10. The other directions of the apex court, that were incorporated in the May 31 judgement, were — it would be open to the schools to give further concession to their students or to evolve a different pattern for giving concession, management shall not debar any student from attending online classes or physical classes or withhold exam results on account of non-payment of fees and students name for Board exams shall also not be withheld over non-payment of fees/arrears. The May 31 decision had come on the plea moved by Action Committee Unaided Recognized Private Schools, which represents 450 private unaided schools, through advocate Kamal Gupta. The organisation had challenged the two office orders of April and August last year of the DoE on grounds that they curtail the rights of the private unaided recognized schools to fix their own fees. The organisation had also contended that to restrict the collection of fee to certain heads or amounts was illegal and without any authority or jurisdiction. It had also said that the DoE has limited jurisdiction to regulate fees, that too only to prevent commercialisation and profiteering.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-students-appeal-in-hc-against-order-allowing-pvt-schools-to-charge-annual-fees-993707.html
04-06-2021||North and Central||Please allow us to open IOA office for Olympic-related work, Batra writes to Arvind Kejriwal||Indian Olympic Association (IOA) President Narinder Batra has requested Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to allow them to operate from their office premises for completing administrative work linked to the upcoming Tokyo Olympics. Due to the Covid-19 surge in the national capital, the Delhi government had ordered shutting down of all premises that don't fall under the essential category. However, the number of cases has reduced in recent days and the capital is inching towards easing of restrictions. "We request and appeal to You Sir to allow the office of Indian Olympic Association to function from Monday 7th June 2021 to enable IOA to upload the mandatory required data," Batra wrote in his letter to Kejriwal. Batra had announced on Thursday that India will have a 190-member contingent with around 125 to 135 athletes in Tokyo. The administrative work which includes filling up forms and other operational work isn't always possible to be completed from home, Batra wrote. "The Indian contingent for Tokyo Olympics has to go to Tokyo in July 2021. A lot of exhaustive data is to be filled online for approximately 240 athletes and officials going to Tokyo," he stated. "This work requires tremendous amount of time and we are now running out of time due to lockdown and will make it difficult to complete uploading the data by working from home," he further wrote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/please-allow-us-to-open-ioa-office-for-olympic-related-work-batra-writes-to-arvind-kejriwal-993720.html
04-06-2021||North and Central||DU mulling fee waiver for students orphaned by Covid-19||The Delhi University is considering giving fee waiver to students who have lost their parents to the novel coronavirus infection, officials said on Friday. The varsity has written to its colleges to conduct a survey and prepare a list of such students who have lost either one or both their parents to the virus. "Delhi University has written to its colleges to conduct a survey of students who have lost their parents due to coronavirus. We have sought a report in the matter by Monday," Dean of Colleges, Balaram Pani told PTI. According to officials, there are three types of colleges under the Delhi University. These are colleges maintained by trusts; those maintained by the varsity; and the colleges fully or partially funded by the Delhi government. There are 28 colleges fully or partially funded by the Delhi government, including 12 that are fully funded by the AAP dispensation. The principal of one of the colleges funded by the Delhi government said, "We welcome the initiative. Once the decision is finalised by the varsity, we will put it forth our governing body and get it approved. Since ours is a college funded by the Delhi government and it is a financial matter, we will need to get it approved by the governing body." P C Joshi, acting vice-chancellor of the varsity, underlined that the varsity is "actively considering" the fee waiver matter. At a prayer meeting held in the memory of varsity employees who lost their lives to the infection, the VC stressed that providing free education to all Delhi University (DU) students who lost their parents in this pandemic till they are studying here is going to be a key area for the administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/du-mulling-fee-waiver-for-students-orphaned-by-covid-19-993728.html
04-06-2021||North and Central||Cattle 'smuggler' lynched by cow vigilantes in Uttar Pradesh||A suspected cattle 'smuggler' was allegedly killed and his three accomplices injured when they were attacked by a mob, comprising cow vigilantes, in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura district, about 400 kilometres from here, on Friday. According to the sources, the cattle 'smugglers' had 'stolen' the cattle from Hathras district in the state and were taking them to the neighbouring state of Haryana, when they came under attack from the mob near Sumora village in the district in the wee hours of Friday. The mob was led by Chandrashekhar, a self-styled 'Baba', who owned a 'goshala' (cow shelter) at Ajnaukh village in the district, sources said. Police said that there was a heavy exchange of fire between the cattle 'smugglers' and the villagers in which one of the 'smugglers' identified as 'Shera', a resident of UP's Bulandshahar district, was killed. Three others were caught by the villagers and were handed over to the police after being thrashed by them. Some reports said that the mob lynched one of the 'smugglers' while his three accomplices were seriously injured. Sources said that the police recovered six cattle kept in a mini truck. The injured were admitted to the hospital. It was not immediately clear how Chandrashekhar Baba came to know that there were cattle smugglers in the mini truck and how he was able to gather so many people to attack them. Police sources said that the matter was being investigated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cattle-smuggler-lynched-by-cow-vigilantes-in-uttar-pradesh-993731.html
04-06-2021||North and Central||Delta variant accounted for 60% of Delhi's Covid-19 cases in April: Study||The rapid surge in cases during Delhi’s fourth Covid-19 wave was mainly driven by the Delta variant, which likely has immune-evasion properties and accounted for 60 per cent of the cases in April, according to a new study. The Delta variant, B.1.617.2, is 50 per cent more transmissible than the Alpha variant, B1.117, first discovered in the UK, say researchers from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB). Prior infections, high seropositivity and partial vaccination are “insufficient impediments” to the spread of the Delta variant, found the scientists. They traced the factors contributing to the scale and speed of the fourth wave that started in April in Delhi and compared them to the preceding three waves last year. “We find that this surge of SARS-CoV-2 infections in Delhi is best explained by the introduction of a new highly transmissible variant of concern (VOC), B.1.617.2, with likely immune-evasion properties," the researchers noted. The variant may have led to insufficient neutralising immunity in people, despite high seropositivity, and social behaviour may have augmented the surge by promoting transmission, they added. Neutralising immunity consists of naturally occurring antibodies that play an important role in the immune system. To determine whether SARS-CoV2 variants may be responsible for the April 2021 outbreak in Delhi, the researchers sequenced and analysed community samples from Delhi from the previous outbreak in November 2020 until May 2021 and related it to effective reproductive number (Rt). The effective reproductive number is the expected number of new infections caused by an infectious individual in a population where some individuals may no longer be susceptible. The yet-to-be-published paper, posted on the preprint repository MedRxiv on Thursday, noted that the incidence of the Alpha variant was “minimal” in Delhi in January, rapidly increasing to 20 per cent in February, and 40 per cent in March. However, the rapidly spreading Alpha variant was overtaken in April by the Delta variant, first found in Maharashtra, the authors of the study noted.  The proportion of the Delta variant increased from 5 per cent in February to 10 per cent in March, before overtaking the Alpha variant by April, and accounting for 60 per cent of the sequenced samples, according to the paper. This increase in the proportion of the Delta variant was paralleled by a large increase in the positivity rate, the researchers said. The positivity rate in Delhi had jumped to over 36 per cent by April third week, meaning one in every three samples being tested was found to be positive for Covid-19. On April 20, Delhi saw the highest spike in daily cases since the beginning of the pandemic with 28,395 people testing positive. “While much more remains to be done, three takeaways for now are: Delta (B.1.617.2) is more transmissible than Alpha (B.1.1.7), there seems to be greater immune escape and reinfection, and fully vaccinated breakthroughs were disproportionately due to Delta,” said Anurag Agarwal, director, CSIR-IGIB in a tweet. The researchers also found that breakthrough infections – catching the virus even after vaccination -- were disproportionately high because of the Delta variant. However, they are yet to determine whether the variant also leads to increased case fatality ratio (CFR). “Overall, we note that B.1.617.2 is capable of creating very fast-rising outbreaks with vaccination breakthroughs,” the authors wrote in the paper. “We would re-emphasise that prior infections, high seropositivity and partial vaccination are insufficient impediments to its spread, as seen in Delhi, and strong public health response will be needed globally for its containment,” they added. The Delta variant of Covid-19 has now become the dominant VOC in the UK and may also come with an increased risk of hospitalisation, health officials in Britain have said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delta-variant-accounted-for-60-of-delhis-covid-19-cases-in-april-study-993769.html
04-06-2021||North and Central||Milkha Singh stable in ICU, gets call from PM Modi||Legendary Indian sprinter Milkha Singh is "better and more stable" as he battles Covid-19 in the ICU of the PGIMER hospital here and also received a phone call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi enquiring about his health on Friday. In a statement, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) said that Milkha is better than Thursday when he was brought to the hospital with dipping levels of oxygen. "On the basis of his medical parameters today, his condition has been observed better and more stable than yesterday," PGIMER's official spokesperson, Prof Ashok Kumar, said. Kumar said that Milkha is being closely monitored by a team of three doctors at PGIMER. "Many thanks to Prime Minister@narendramodi for taking time out of his busy schedule and call dad to find out about his health," Jeev said in a tweet. Modi on Friday spoke to Milkha and expressed hope that the iconic former athlete will be back soon to "bless and inspire athletes, who will be participating in the Tokyo Olympics" Milkha was discharged from a private hospital in Mohali on Sunday last where he received treatment for the infection. He, however, continued to be on oxygen support at home also. Milkha's 82-year-old wife Nirmal Kaur, who had also contracted Covid-19 days after her husband got the infected, continues to be in the ICU of the Fortis hospital. The Fortis hospital had earlier said that the couple were being treated for Covid pneumonia. Jeev had reached Chandigarh from Dubai on May 22. His elder sister, Mona Milkha Singh, who is a physician in the United States, has also reached here. Milkha is suspected to have contracted the infection from a house help. The legendary athlete is a four-time Asian Games gold-medallist and 1958 Commonwealth Games champion but his greatest performance remains the fourth-place finish in the 400m final of the 1960 Rome Olympics. His timing at the Italian capital was a national record for 38 years till Paramjeet Singh broke it in 1998. He also represented India in the 1956 and 1964 Olympics and was bestowed the Padma Shri in 1959.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/milkha-singh-stable-in-icu-gets-call-from-pm-modi-993772.html
04-06-2021||North and Central||Punjab buckles under 'vaccine scam' charge, asks private hospitals to return stock||Under flak from the Opposition for "diverting" Covid-19 vaccines to private hospitals, the Punjab government on Friday asked them to return all stock meant for the 18-44 age group. The dramatic turnabout came after Opposition parties – Shiromani Akali Dal, Aam Aadmi Party and Bharatiya Janata Party –- slammed the Congress government for “selling” to private hospitals doses meant to be administered free. “The order of providing one-time limited vaccine dose to 18-44 years age group population through private hospitals has not been taken in the right spirit and is hereby withdrawn,” the government note said. “Further, it has been decided that the private hospitals should return forthwith all the vaccine doses available with them,” Vikas Garg, who is in charge of Punjab’s Covid vaccination programme, said in the order.  Once they get their own direct supplies from the manufacturers, the private hospitals will also return to the state government the doses they have already used up. Hours before the development Friday evening, state Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said he has ordered a probe into the allegations. Sidhu stressed that his own health department was not concerned with the procurement or distribution of the vaccine. His department was involved in conducting coronavirus tests, treatment and administering the vaccine, he told reporters. He said the vaccine supply made available to his department is administered free of cost at government hospitals and the camps held by it. But SAD, which had on Thursday accused the Amarinder Singh government of “diverting” Covid vaccines to private hospitals at “hefty margins”, continued its attack. “The health minister should resign immediately. He cannot escape responsibility,” SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said. The BJP demanded action by the Centre against the state government. The AAP called it a “vaccine scam” and alluding to remarks made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in another context said this was a true case of turning adversity into opportunity. AAP leader Raghav Chadha alleged that the government did not administer free the vaccine doses received under the state’s quota but sold them off to private hospitals, making “hefty profits”. “This is a scam of thousands of crores,” he alleged. “We had heard that state governments generate funds to buy vaccines, but in Punjab the state government is generating funds from vaccines,” he told reporters.  He said the health minister cannot evade responsibility. Chadha said people now have to cough up Rs 3,100 for two doses of Covid vaccine at private facilities when they should be getting them free. “The Congress is busy with its infighting, they are not bothered about people's welfare,” he charged. “The government itself is on ventilator now and they have realized that they are not coming back to power, and that's why they are indulging in as much looting as they can,” he said. BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh said a criminal case should be registered against all those involved in the “vaccine scam” under which the vaccine provided by the Centre for the poor, working class was “sold” at “commercial rates” to private hospitals. They, in turn, “made huge money out of it at the cost of the poor and the needy people”, his statement said. He alleged that the state government “sold” 40,000 Covaxin doses at Rs 1,060 each out of the 1.14 lakh doses it received last month from the Centre for Rs 420 each. He claimed these were sold to 20 private hospitals, which in turn sold them for Rs 1,560 per dose. All this has been happening when Punjab last month recorded among the highest fatality rates in the country, the BJP leader said and demanded that the Centre should take action against the state government. Chugh said it was “pure black marketing” by the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-buckles-under-vaccine-scam-charge-asks-private-hospitals-to-return-stock-993792.html
04-06-2021||North and Central||Centre seeks answer from Punjab govt over alleged sale of Covid vaccine to private hospitals||The Centre has sought a clarification from the Punjab government following media reports alleging that it "sold" Covid-19 vaccine to private hospitals and "earned a profit". Prima facie, it is in clear violation of the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy, said Additional Secretary in the Health Ministry Vandana Gurnani to the principal secretary of the Punjab government's Health Department. "As you are aware, from May 1, 2021, the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy has come into force. According to this strategy, private sector hospitals are directly procuring Covid-l9 vaccines from the vaccine manufacturers," the letter said. "The state government is, therefore, requested to confirm the veracity of this news article and send a clarification to MoHFW immediately in this regard," she said. Under flak from the opposition for "diverting" Covid vaccines to private hospitals, the Punjab government on Friday asked them to return all stock meant for the 18-44 age group.  The dramatic turnabout came after opposition parties – Shiromani Akali Dal, Aam Aadmi Party and Bharatiya Janata Party –- slammed the Congress government for "selling" to private hospitals doses meant to be administered free. "The order of providing one-time limited vaccine dose to 18-44 years age group population through private hospitals has not been taken in the right spirit and is hereby withdrawn," the government note said. "Further, it has been decided that the private hospitals should return forthwith all the vaccine doses available with them," Vikas Garg, who is in charge of Punjab's Covid vaccination programme, said in the order. Once they get their own direct supplies from the manufacturers, the private hospitals will also return to the state government the doses they have already used up. Hours before the development Friday evening, state Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said he has ordered a probe into the allegations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-seeks-answer-from-punjab-govt-over-alleged-sale-of-covid-vaccine-to-private-hospitals-993795.html
04-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi reports 523 fresh Covid-19 cases, 50 deaths; positivity rate at 0.68%||Delhi recorded 523 fresh Covid-19 cases and 50 fatalities on Friday, while the positivity rate stood at 0.68 per cent, according to data shared by the health department here. According to the latest health bulletin, these new fatalities pushed the death toll from Covid-19 here to 24,497. On Thursday, Delhi had recorded 487 cases of Covid-19, the lowest daily count in over two-and-a-half months and 45 fatalities. This was the first time the daily death count had gone below the 50-mark since April 11 when the tally was 48. The positivity rate on Thursday had stood at 0.61 per cent. On March 16, Delhi had recorded 425 cases and on March 17, the tally was 536, according to official data.  On Friday, 523 cases were recorded with a positivity rate of 0.68 per cent, while THE death count was 50, the latest bulletin SAID. The infection rate, which had reached 36 per cent in the last week of April, has come down to below 1 per cent now. Meanwhile, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal held two key meetings on Friday to discuss preparations for the anticipated third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. He held an important meeting with the expert committee and then with the preparation committee later.  The Delhi government had on May 27 set up a 13-member committee to prepare an action plan for a possible third wave of Covid-19 after assessing the current status and projected requirement of the health infrastructure such as hospitals, oxygen plants and drug supplies in the city. Another eight-member expert committee was set up to devise a strategy for mitigation and management of the third wave. Also, keeping an eye on the anticipated third wave of the pandemic, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Friday visited two healthcare project sites at Aruna Asaf Ali Hospital and LNJP Hospital. Delhi has been reeling under a brutal second wave of the pandemic that is sweeping the country, claiming a massive number of lives daily, with the recent oxygen supply shortage issue at various hospitals, adding to the woes. Since April 19, both daily cases and single-day deaths count had been spiralling up, with over 28,000 cases and 277 deaths recorded on April 20; rising to 306 fatalities on April 22. On May 3, the city registered a record 448 deaths, as per the official data. However, the number of cases has shown a downward trend and the positivity rate too has been shrinking in the last several days. The number of deaths per day, has also been showing a decline in the last couple of days. The national capital had recorded 648 cases and 86 fatalities on Monday, 623 cases and 62 deaths on Tuesday, 576 cases and 103 fatalities on Wednesday. On May 15, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said, "The virus is reducing in Delhi slowly and steadily, and I hope it diminishes completely and does not rise again. However, we are not going to become negligent in any way", while sounding a tone of caution. A total of 77,174 tests, including 53,688 RT-PCR tests and 23,486 rapid antigen tests, were conducted a day ago, according to the health bulletin on Friday. The number of cumulative cases on Thursday stood at 14,28,449. Over 13.9 lakh patients have recovered from the virus. The number of active cases decreased to 8,060 on Friday from 8,748 a day before, the bulletin said. The number of people under home isolation dipped to 3,813 from 4,233 on Thursday while the number of containment zones dropped to 14,324 from 16,287 a day before, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-523-fresh-covid-19-cases-50-deaths-positivity-rate-at-068-993830.html
04-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal discusses preparations for possible third wave of Covid-19||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday held meetings with two committees set up for preparations of a possible third wave of Covid-19 and several related issues including oxygen management and ICU beds. The government set up an eight-member ‘Expert Committee’ on May 27 to devise a strategy for mitigation and management of the third wave of Covid-19. "Experiences of other countries tell us that we should make preparations keeping in mind a possible third wave. CM held a meeting with the Expert Committee in this regard. Many important issues were discussed during the meeting," the CM's office said in a tweet. Later, Kejriwal held a meeting with a 13-member 'Preparation Committee' set up to prepare an action plan for a third wave of Covid-19 after assessing the current status and projected requirement of the health infrastructure such as hospitals, oxygen plants and drug supplies in the city. "The government has started preparations on many fronts, be it oxygen management or ICU beds," the CM office said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-discusses-preparations-for-possible-third-wave-of-covid-19-993855.html
04-06-2021||North and Central||Cash reward raised for information on suspended UP IPS officer||Uttar Pradesh police has increased the cash reward for providing information leading to the arrest of the IPS officer, wanted in the mysterious death of a businessman here, from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh. The reward was increased on orders of the Additional Director General of Police (ADG), Prayagraj Range, Prem Prakash. Manilal Patidar, suspended as the Superintendent of Police (SP) of Mahoba, has been absconding for the last eight months, said Additional SP Rajendra Kumar Gautam. In September last year, hours after a video about Patidar demanding a bribe of Rs 6 lakh went viral on social media, Indrakant Tripathi was found with a bullet injury in his car under suspicious circumstances. A case of attempt to murder was registered against Patidar. Later, Tripathi died during treatment at a hospital in Kanpur and the case was converted to murder. Later, on the basis of the Special Investigation Team’s report, it was converted to Section-306 IPC (abetment of suicide).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cash-reward-raised-for-information-on-suspended-up-ips-officer-993877.html
04-06-2021||Opinion||‘The point was to win,’ writes Barack Obama||By Ezra Klein, “My entire politics is premised on the fact that we are these tiny organisms on this little speck floating in the middle of space,” Barack Obama told me, sitting in his office in Washington. I was the one who had introduced the cosmic scale, asking how proof of alien life would change his politics. But Obama, in a philosophical mood, used the question to trace his view of humanity. “The differences we have on this planet are real,” he said. “They’re profound. And they cause enormous tragedy as well as joy. But we’re just a bunch of humans with doubts and confusion. We do the best we can. And the best thing we can do is treat each other better, because we’re all we got.” How Obama navigated the differences we have on this planet is the primary topic of “A Promised Land,” the first volume of his presidential memoirs. One passage, in particular, had stuck in my mind for weeks. Obama is reflecting on the Tea Party uprising, and the thrumming undercurrent of racism that powered it. He recalls the din of cable news chatter debating the Tea Party’s true nature, and the pressure that built for him to render his presidential verdict. He admits that his White House wanted nothing to do with this debate, in part because it had “reams of data telling us that white voters, including many who supported me, reacted poorly to lectures about race.” I’m going to quote what Obama writes next at length: "More practically, I saw no way to sort out people’s motives, especially given that racial attitudes were woven into every aspect of our nation’s history. Did that Tea Party member support 'states’ rights' because he genuinely thought it was the best way to promote liberty, or because he continued to resent how federal intervention had led to an end to Jim Crow, desegregation, and rising Black political power in the South? Did that conservative activist oppose any expansion of the social welfare state because she believed it sapped individual initiative, or because she was convinced that it would benefit only brown people who’d just crossed the border? Whatever my instincts might tell me, whatever truths the history books might suggest, I knew I wasn’t going to win over any voters by labelling my opponents racist." Poet Robert Frost famously said that “a liberal is a man too broad-minded to take his own side in a quarrel.” This is not quite true of Obama, but it is nearly true of his authorial style. “A Promised Land,” which covers the first half of his presidency, is not 700 pages long because it limns so many events. It’s 700 pages long because it presents so many different views of Obama and his motivations. Over and over again, Obama tries to make clear that his assailants have a point, that his perspective is bounded by experience and self-interest. This is true in his personal recollections, which give ample space to Michelle Obama’s doubts about his decision to pursue a political career, and it is true in his political remembrances, which always try to inhabit his critics' arguments, or at least their sentiments. But what strikes me about that passage is that you can see Obama’s idealism and calculation shimmer into a single point. After suggesting that the motivations of his Tea Party critics were unknowable, he resolves the argument by saying the politics of it were thoroughly knowable. Whatever his own intuitions might tell him — whatever “truths the history books might suggest” — to cry racism, or even to coolly point it out, was to lose votes, and neither his version of hope nor of change would be helped along by defeat. In our national story, Obama is framed as a practitioner of a kind of anti-politics — an almost naïvely optimistic figure who rose to power downplaying our divisions only to find his administration’s legacy swallowed by them. But his book is a reminder that the inverse story has always been just as true: Obama is thoroughly a politician, and because he understood the depth of our divisions, he treated them gingerly, at times fearfully. In a particularly striking moment, Obama reveals that across the entirety of his presidency, his single largest drop in white support came when he criticized the white police officer who arrested Henry Louis Gates Jr., a Black Harvard professor, on the porch of his own home. “It was support that I’d never completely get back,” Obama writes. Much in our politics is not what it seems. Contrary to the aesthetics of our current political debate, there is a deep optimism in the confrontational politics of the modern left and a quiet pessimism in the caution with which Obama speaks. To ask the question bluntly: Who truly believes America to be a racist country? The political voices who state that view clearly, because they think Americans can be challenged into change, or the ones who try to avoid even implying the thought, because they fear the power of the backlash? When I brought up that passage about the Tea Party, Obama was frank in describing his calculations. “One of the ways I would measure it would be: Is it more important for me to tell a basic, historical truth, let’s say about racism in America right now? Or is it more important for me to get a bill passed that provides a lot of people with health care that didn’t have it before?” He admitted that there was “a psychic cost to not always just telling the truth,” and fondly referenced the “Key & Peele” skits about Luther, his anger translator. But he didn’t worry over whether he’d been wrong to bite his tongue. One thing that occurred to me as we were talking is that Obama’s view of his own political situation echoes the current reality of the Democratic Party. Barack Hussein Obama, a Black man running for office during the era of the War on Terror, understood the deck was stacked against him. If he was going to win, he would need the support of people inclined to view him with suspicion. He would need to not just speak to their hopes, but to defuse their fears. To hear Obama tell it, those fears were not just that too much change would come too fast, but that those who fought that change, or just worried over it, would be judged or cast out. “People knew I was left on issues like race, or gender equality, and LGBTQ issues and so forth,” Obama told me. “But I think maybe the reason I was successful campaigning in downstate Illinois, or Iowa, or places like that is they never felt as if I was condemning them for not having gotten to the politically correct answer quick enough, or that somehow they were morally suspect because they had grown up with and believed more traditional values.” Democrats, too, face an unforgiving context: Their coalition leans young, urban and diverse, while America’s turnout patterns and electoral geography favour the old, rural and white. According to FiveThirtyEight, Republicans hold a 3.5 point advantage in the Electoral College, a 5-point advantage in the Senate and a 2-point advantage in the House. Even after winning many more votes than Republicans in 2018 and 2020, Democrats are at a 50-50 split in the Senate, and a bare four-seat majority in the House. Odds are that they will lose the House and possibly the Senate in 2022. This is the fundamental asymmetry of American politics right now: To hold national power, Democrats need to win voters who are right-of-centre; Republicans do not need to win voters who are left-of-centre. Even worse, Republicans control the election laws and redistricting processes in 23 states, while Democrats control 15. The ongoing effort by Texas Republicans to tilt the voting laws in their favour, even as national Republicans stonewall the For the People Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights Act, is testament to the consequences of that imbalance. Most Democrats I know are panicked over the convergence of their geographic disadvantage and the Republican assault on democracy. In my view, they’re right to be. Their situation is dire, and if the Republican Party could reorient itself around more competent candidates, it could become catastrophic. Obama has argued that Senate Democrats should abolish the filibuster and pass the legislation necessary to protect American democracy. I wish they’d listen to him on that. But as of now, the Democrats’ democracy agenda is imperilled, and so are they. In our conversation, Obama gamely tried to suggest that there was a bright side to the Democrats’ structural disadvantage. “That does mean Democratic politics is going to be different than Republican politics,” he told me. “Now, look, the good news is, I also think that has made the Democratic Party more empathetic, more thoughtful, wiser by necessity. We have to think about a broader array of interests and people. And that’s my vision for how America ultimately works best and perfects its union.” In other words, the Democratic Party, like Obama, has been forced into a more pluralistic form of politics by its geographic disadvantages. The 2016 and 2020 elections tell the tale. The Republican Party reacted to Obama by indulging its rage and nominating Donald Trump and won the presidency despite losing the popular vote. The Democratic Party responded to Trump by strategically nominating the candidate they thought had the best chance of winning over Trump voters, Joe Biden, and came perilously close to losing the presidency despite dominating the popular vote. Toward the end of our conversation, I asked Obama if he still believed you could change people’s politics through policy. He replied with the central what-if of the last decade. “Let’s say a Joe Biden or, the person who was running, Hillary Clinton, had immediately succeeded me, and the economy suddenly has 3% unemployment, I think we would have consolidated the sense that, oh, actually these policies that Obama put in place worked,” he said. “The fact that Trump interrupts essentially the continuation of our policies, but still benefits from the economic stability and growth that we had initiated, means people aren’t sure.” Biden is “essentially finishing the job,” Obama told me. We’ll see. If Joe Biden and the Democrats pass HR 1 and some version of the American Families and Jobs Plans, then the Obama-Biden approach to politics will have proved itself out. But if they fail to pass HR 1 or the American Families and Jobs Plans, and then lose the House and Senate in 2022, how open will liberals be to hearing about the virtues of more candidates in the Obama lineage? Not very, I suspect. Coalitions are less emotionally satisfying than confrontations; pluralism doesn’t go nearly as viral as division. The politicians who preach the harder path have to be able to deliver. Obama knew this full well. “The point was to win,” he writes. “I wanted to prove to Blacks, to whites — to Americans of all colours — that we could transcend the old logic, that we could rally a working majority around a progressive agenda, that we could place issues like inequality or lack of educational opportunity at the very centre of the national debate and then actually deliver the goods.” This is another way in which the reality of our politics defies the aesthetics of our politicians. The true agents of Democratic radicalization right now aren’t leftists in the House but senators like Joe Manchin and Kyrsten Sinema, who by indulging Republican obstructionism and preferring the preservation of the filibuster to the protection of democracy, are imperiling the entire theory of politics they claim to support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-point-was-to-win-writes-barack-obama-993566.html
04-06-2021||Opinion||The curious turn in UP politics with Yogi-Modi stand-off||Even as floating dead bodies in the Ganga and unabated deaths due to acute shortage of oxygen have made headlines in Uttar Pradesh over the past two months, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath continues to be full of self-praise for his “management” of the second wave of Covid-19 while proclaiming how he was preparing the state for an impending third wave. However, speculation is rife that the coming days may not have good news in store for the saffron-clad sadhu-turned-politician who was all set for a showdown with none other than the man who installed him on the coveted chair of UP chief minister four years back. Today, if there is a stand-off between him and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, it is he who is responsible for bringing things to such a pass. Yogi’s “autocratic” style of functioning has often been a subject of debate in both the BJP and RSS circles, where a large chunk of the ruling party’s legislators have been raising red flags against him. The common complaint was that Yogi was largely guided by the bureaucracy while party functionaries were ignored and meted out step-motherly treatment. Mismanagement of the second corona wave was also attributable to him being surrounded by sycophants. The complaints by partymen talked about the wide gap between tall claims and ground reality. A senior minister in the Yogi government was understood to have gone to the extent of pointing out the failure of the chief minister in ensuring the completion of a single expressway out of the several projects undertaken by the government four years ago. Perhaps with a view to setting his development record straight, the party high command decided to air-drop a seasoned bureaucrat from Delhi. Pat came Arvind Kumar Sharma, a Gujarat–cadre IAS officer, who took premature retirement and was promptly nominated as a member of the Legislative Council (MLC) in UP. Known for his proximity to Modi with whom he had worked since 2001 when Modi became Gujarat chief minister for the first time, Sharma was understood to have been drafted for a deputy chief minister’s position in Lucknow. With two deputy CMs – Dinesh Sharma and Keshav Prasad Maurya - already in place, it was pretty obvious that Arvind Kumar Sharma would replace one of them. It would have been understandable if the objection to this ex-bureaucrat’s induction had come from either of them. But the loudest voice of dissent came from none other than Yogi Adityanath, who apparently saw Arvind Kumar Sharma as some kind of a check on him. Without giving it a second thought, he is stated to have flatly refused to accommodate Sharma. And that was what gave rise to a cold war that seems to have blown into an open stand-off between him and the prime minister now. It is widely believed that Yogi chose to remain oblivious of the fact that his detractors were growing in numbers. His “yes-men” who keep hovering around him led him to believe that he had become larger than life and that he had the potential of becoming a natural successor to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Perhaps that was what prompted Yogi to believe that he could have his way with anything. And that reflected not only in his refusal to accommodate Sharma but even in the introductory meeting with him. Apart from avoiding even an appointment with Sharma, Yogi is believed to have been somewhat impolite and curt with the man who had put in his papers as secretary to the Government of India only to carry out the wishes of the prime minister who wanted him as his pointsman in Lucknow. Initially, the prime minister’s wishes were conveyed to Yogi by UP Governor Anandiben Patel, who air-dashed to Lucknow after cutting short her visit to Bhopal, where she holds the dual charge of Madhya Pradesh as well. But after the hour-long meeting, which made it loud and clear that Yogi was a hard nut to crack, some in the top brass of the RSS and BJP were activated. RSS national deputy chief Dattatreya Hosabale was the first to arrive in Lucknow, where he spent three days holding parleys with a host of UP ministers, legislators and senior BJP as well as RSS functionaries to gather feedback on Yogi and his style of working. It is another matter that Yogi neither has his roots in the RSS nor has any close or old association with the BJP. He grew out of his private outfit called the Hindu Yuva Vahini, which often openly opposed the BJP in the past. Close on the heels of Hosabale came two very senior ruling party leaders - B.L. Santhosh and Radha Mohan Singh – who also carried out the same exercise as the RSS bigwig. They also met Yogi, who is believed to have stuck to his guns as far as Sharma was concerned. With all three back in Delhi on Thursday, deliberations have already begun at the highest level to take the final call on Uttar Pradesh. If Yogi remains adamant about not taking Sharma on board as deputy chief minister, Prime Minister Modi is also firm about ensuring compliance with his wishes. Sharma’s profile has grown manifold in the five months that he has been in Lucknow since he was nominated an MLC. And that is thanks to none other than Yogi Adityanath’s visibly immature handling of the issue. Any seasoned politician would have got over the Sharma episode as a routine exercise that could have gone casually noticed and without multiple and repeated headlines that he has been getting because of Yogi’s resistance. How far will Yogi be able to defy Modi may be a million-dollar question. But it was also unthinkable that Modi would succumb to the defiance by a loud-mouthed rabble-rouser chief minister, simply because of the political constraints on account of the impending state elections barely eight months away. Only if Yogi had cared to look back into the pages of recent history, perhaps he could have avoided the current misadventure. After all who does not know the fate of Kalyan Singh, who got virtually reduced to a minion after he revolted as UP chief minister against then prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. That too when Kalyan Singh was a much bigger name than what Yogi is today and Modi is far too different from Vajpayee when it comes to dealing with dissent or defiance. Those arguing in favour of the saffron-clad Yogi describe him as “invincible” simply because he is seen as the biggest Hindutva icon, who fits most ideally into the ‘Hindu Rashtra’ dream of the RSS. However, when it comes to scoring on the question of actually fulfilling the dreams that the RSS had nurtured over the decades - Ram Mandir at Ayodhya, abrogation of Article 370, or abolition of ‘triple talaq’ – would Yogi stand anywhere close to a Narendra Modi who is credited with each of those? The next few days would bring out the answer to these riddles, thereby determining not only the political destiny of Uttar Pradesh but also the political clout enjoyed by UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath as also the political stature and strength of prime minister Narendra Modi. (The writer is a Lucknow-based senior journalist and political commentator) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-curious-turn-in-up-politics-with-yogi-modi-stand-off-993631.html
04-06-2021||Opinion||Does Ramdev’s rancorous rage suit the government?||Baba Ramdev’s serial abuse of modern medicine and its practitioners has led to both anger at the persistence of his egregious statements and bewilderment at the government’s inaction. His ‘apologies’ for one appalling statement invariably segue into another set of aggressive, malicious and slanderous comments. Is the government really helpless before the businessman Baba? Can it advocate universal vaccination when Ramdev openly questions its efficacy asserting that “1,000 doctors have died”, after full vaccination? Under public criticism, Ramdev has backtracked and offered up his alter ego, Balkrishna, for vaccination. He deflected the question when asked if he would take the vaccine, with: “Why does a hatta-katta (strong and muscular) man like me need to take anything?”  Section 54 Centre of the Disaster Management Act could be evoked against Ramdev for spreading falsehood and alarm about the Covid pandemic. The Centre has been quick to evoke Section 51 of the same Act against the Chief Secretary of West Bengal, two hours before he was due to retire for disobedience. So is the government deliberately turning a blind eye to Ramdev’s misdemeanours? The Act’s provisions cover spreading fake news and rumours. Ramdev cannot absolve himself by saying he was only reading out a forwarded message when he said that Allopathic medicine was “stupid and bankrupt” and that “more patients have lost their lives due to allopathic medicines than lack of medical oxygen or shortage of beds”. The Indian Medical Association has asked the government to act against him under the provisions of the Epidemics Diseases Act for endangering the life, health and safety of Covid patients. However, no Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government either at the Centre or in the states will act against Ramdev. Ramdev knows that there is some public receptivity for his statements arising from people’s frustration with the pandemic’s devastation. But he misdirects and channels public anger towards modern medicine rather than against the BJP government’s mishandling of the pandemic, by populating the public sphere with red herrings. But the ruling dispensation also values Ramdev for his network of Pantanjali Ayurveda agents/franchisees and yoga disciples. They can be politically leveraged during elections. In March 2010 Ramdev launched a movement called “Bharat Swabhiman” and declared that he would launch a political party to contest all Lok Sabha seats in 2014. His vast network of supporters and franchisees was obviously part of these political calculations. One might also recall that he was unsuccessfully wooed by Arvind Kejriwal as well. Once Ramdev saw the tide turn in Narendra Modi’s favour in the run-up to the 2014 general election, he threw his weight behind the BJP. The BJP used Ramdev as a force multiplier in the 2014 election campaign. His contribution to the BJP’s stunning victory was acknowledged by Arun Jaitely. In a hyperbolic statement, he said that “The role played by Ramdev in awakening the voters is similar to the struggles of Mahatma Gandhi and Jayaprakash Narayan who stayed away from power.” Amit Shah, then party president, also commended Ramdev’s contribution and promised that his endeavours to promote Ayurveda and yoga would have government support. That promise was kept. Ramdev’s business empire benefitted from his proximity to the BJP government. BJP chief ministers were open-handed in giving him free public land to set up herbal parks, factories, cowsheds, universities and schools. He was given Z-plus security and the Central Industrial Security Force was deployed to guard his private business enterprise at Haridwar. Ramdev’s controversial Coronil for treating Covid-19 was promoted by the Union Health Minister and BJP-rule Haryana has included Coronil in the free Coronavirus kits for public distribution. The media, especially TV channels, love Ramdev and his oafish antics because they get sackfuls of advertising revenue from his Patanjali Ayurved. Additionally, unlike other advertisers, Ramdev attracts viewers by his verbal gladiatorial displays. Ramdev doesn’t lose an opportunity to market his remedies on TV and never fails to name a clutch of his branded products. Or miss an occasion to point to the underbelly of modern medicine – unscrupulous hospitals ordering unnecessary medical tests, overcharging patients and prescribing costly branded medicines.  So, even if this Baba is decried as a snake oil salesman who is damaging the government’s healthcare strategies to control the pandemic, it does not matter to the BJP. It is a price they seem willing to pay for the political capital he brings to the party.  (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/does-ramdev-s-rancorous-rage-suit-the-government-993679.html
04-06-2021||Right in the Middle||Shah Rukh Khan-inspired mantra||I’m not a great fan of Shah Rukh Khan but, like passive smokers, I have been a passive watcher of some of his movies due to circumstances beyond my control; taking an occasional glance at a scene when my daughters are having their daily dose of King Khan’s long list of blockbusters. But the title of one of his movie’s, Main Hoon Na, has almost become my daily mantra since our recent relocation to Bangalore after 22 years abroad. As cost-cutting has become compulsive, calling a plumber or a carpenter, or even our friendly ‘all-in-one’ electrician, is considered a luxury while self-help and multi-tasking a necessity. Be it fixing the kitchen sink or replacing a bulb or silencing the noisy wardrobe door, the job has to be done ‘in house’ and on such occasions, the collective eyes of the entire household falls on me— and I, with false bravado, of course, say 'Main Hoon Na' to avoid extra expenses. But the job has never been as easy as I had so conveniently assumed all these years. The kitchen sink is unfriendly, the overhead bulb uncooperative and almost comes off intact with the holder, and the wardrobe door refuses to slide without letting the whole world know of its very existence. To add to my woes, the tool kit does not come in handy. The cutting plier, much to my chagrin, never fits the item to be repaired or replaced— it is either too big or too small. The round screwdriver is never found when needed the most while the ‘business’ part of the good old hammer comes off the hook when just one more 'hammering' is needed to finish, if not fix, the job. The most complex of all matters is the simple job of removing a rusty nail. All the workouts in the gym down the years is of no help here nor the lessons painstakingly learnt during practical classes in school and college. A little extra effort, more out of misplaced enthusiasm to please the ‘family audience’, resulted in the nail snapping right at the surface of the wall. The tricky job became trickier as I could feel the remaining part of the adamant nail by my fingernails but could not grip it with any tool, including my proud possession— the Swiss knife, to pull it out. Now weeks have gone by and the wife, though not completely satisfied, is not incessantly complaining about the kitchen sink or the overhead bulb. The TV occasionally goes off or at times the hairdryer refuses to do its job or the wardrobe door refuses to slide but my daughters know whom to summon, and I unfailingly enter saying 'Main Hoon Na'. However, the naughty nail on the wall even to this day looks at me straight in my eye and mocks ‘Main bhi Hoon Na.’||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/shah-rukh-khan-inspired-mantra-993908.html
04-06-2021||Second Edit||Callous approach of BBMP, ministers||A project ostensibly to check the spread of coronavirus through aerial spraying of a disinfectant was fortunately suspended before it took off, raising the question of why it was announced with such fanfare in the first place. Revenue Minister R Ashoka had announced that the disinfectant would be sprayed initially over Shivajinagar and K R Market and then over the rest of the city after an evaluation of its efficacy by the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board. The company that was to undertake the spraying claimed that the “organic” disinfectant had been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research and the Department of AYUSH. But BBMP Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said the project was put on hold until its public health and environmental impacts were studied. The WHO has repeatedly said that streets, pavements, buildings and trees are not “reservoirs of infection of Covid-19” and as such spraying of disinfectants does not eliminate the virus. Rather, the disinfectants may cause other health hazards. On what basis then did the government decide to spray some unknown chemical over citizens’ heads? In another move, Forest Minister Arvind Limbavali and the BBMP decided to affix red warning tape on the houses of Covid-19 patients convalescing at home. This amounts to government-driven stigmatisation of those suffering from a health issue and is illegal. The Supreme Court had frowned on the practice and had directed that it be stopped immediately. The directive is yet to be complied with. Even more shockingly, and unmindful of the Karnataka High Court’s observation that those infected must not be named and shamed, Limbavali directed “volunteers” to identify home-isolated patients and to “spread awareness” about them in the neighbourhood. Last year, the BBMP had drawn flak after it sealed the houses of some Covid patients with metal sheets and barricades, forcing the then BBMP Commissioner Manjunath Prasad to issue an apology. But the BBMP has gone ahead and done the same thing again, albeit with tape this time. Will Commissioner Gaurav Gupta apologise this time? Governments and their ministers and officials must act according to some basic principles. The safety and security of citizens, their privacy and dignity are some of those basic principles. Governments must not take actions that impinge on these under any circumstances. Yet, during the pandemic, and especially in the past several weeks, ministers and officials have either made decisions on their own whims or acted like headless chicken, not knowing what to do. The basis of all government actions must be a scientific decision-making process, widespread consultations and the consent of the people in whose name they act. Ministers and officials will do well not to think that just because they are in government, they can do as they please with the citizen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/callous-approach-of-bbmp-ministers-993915.html
04-06-2021||South||Delhi HC dismisses plea to de-recognise YSR Congress Party||The Delhi High Court on Friday dismissed a plea to de-recognise the Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy-led YSR Congress Party for "illegal" use of "YSR" abbreviation.  A bench of Justice Prateek Jalan said that the writ petition filed by Anna YSR Congress party plea was without merit. The petitioner led by advocates P B Suresh and Vipin M Nair sought a direction for deregistration of Jagan's YSR Congress Party or YSRCP alleging misappropriation of use of the abbreviation "YSR".  It claimed that the Election Commission had mandated that YSRCP should use the full form "Yuvajana Shramika Raythu Congress Party (YSRCP)" and not use the abbreviated form "YSR" in its name. "Though YSRCP used the full name in all official correspondence, it is illegally using abbreviated YSR Congress in all their informal communication," the counsel contended. They sought a direction for the EC to withdraw the status of Yuvajana Shramika Raythu Congress Party (YSRCP)" as a “recognised party” under Para 6A of the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968 (“Symbols Order”) and to de-register it under its inherent powers. The petitioner said that it has been a registered political party in Andhra Pradesh since September 29, 2015. In the last General Election of 2019, it contested under its name “Anna YSR Congress Party” under the symbol of a plough, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/delhi-hc-dismisses-plea-to-de-recognise-ysr-congress-party-993635.html
04-06-2021||South||Kerala announces second Covid-19 package of Rs 20,000 crore in Budget||Despite facing acute financial crunches due to Covid-19, the first budget of the second Pinarayi Vijayan government in Kerala has announced a revival package worth Rs 20,000 crore. The package includes a direct benefit scheme of Rs 8,900 crore to extend financial assistance directly to people affected by the pandemic. The package focusses on improving healthcare infrastructure, in anticipation of a third wave, free Covid vaccination, and support to those who were hit by the pandemic. No fresh tax proposals are included, and austerity measures are mooted. Finance Minister K N Balagopal presented his maiden Budget, terming it as a continuation of the one presented earlier this year by Thomas Isaac, who was the finance minister in the previous Left Democratic Front government. The Budget has provisions to provide loans of up to Rs 5 lakh at an interest of four per cent to Kudumbashree and self-help groups. Setting up isolation wards at community health centres and taluk hospitals, enhancing oxygen availability by measures like setting up oxygen plant with capacity of 150 metric tonnes medical oxygen, and earmarking Rs 1,000 crore for free vaccines to all are the highlights of the announcements in the health sector. An allocation of Rs 5 crore was made for protecting children orphaned by Covid-19. Considering the massive job loss faced by NRIs, up to Rs 1,000 crore was earmarked for low-interest loan to NRIs. Around 14.3 lakh NRIs from Kerala returned during the pandemic, of whom many were feared to have lost jobs. Considering the crisis faced by the tourism sector, various project in the sector were announced, with Rs 30 crore earmarked for revival of the sector. With the costal area facing several coastal erosion, Rs 11,000 crore was earmarked for the sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-announces-second-covid-19-package-of-rs-20000-crore-in-budget-993638.html
04-06-2021||South||Puducherry village achieves 100% Covid-19 vaccination of those aged 45 and above||Ilaiyankudi, a village in Karaikal district, has achieved 100 per cent vaccination of all those aged 45 and above, according to the District Collector Arjun Sharma. With this, the village in the Tirunallar area of the district has become the first village in the Union Territory of Puducherry to achieve the distinction, he said. Speaking to reporters after visiting the village, the Collector said the small village has a total of 64 people aged 45 and above and all of them have now been fully vaccinated. He said the people of the village cooperated with the officials of various departments to achieve this. Anganwadi workers too played an important role, he said. The Collector added that the district administration was focusing on rural areas to create awareness on the importance of vaccination and was striving to achieve 100 per cent vaccination in all other villages too. In an official release, Puducherry Lieutenant Governor Dr. Tamilisai Soundararajan appreciated the Karaikal Collector for the achievement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-village-achieves-100-covid-19-vaccination-of-those-aged-45-and-above-993698.html
04-06-2021||South||Ex-Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender quits TRS, may join BJP||Sacked Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender has announced his exit from the Telangana Rashtra Samiti, ending his two decade old association with K Chandrasekhar Rao. The ex-minister has also declared his resignation from the Telangana assembly membership. The backward class leader has met with BJP leaders in New Delhi recently and is likely to join the saffron party in the next few days. Eatala was once a trusted lieutenant of KCR, standing firmly beside the TRS supremo throughout the statehood agitation. But the relationship between the two soured over the past few years. Eatala was divested of the health and family welfare portfolio on 1 May and dropped from the cabinet of KCR, as the chief minister is popularly known, on 2 May following charges of land grabbing by the minister and his associates. On Friday, speaking to the media, Eatala launched a sharp political attack on KCR. "I do not need a position lacking responsibility and self-respect,” Eatala said, even accusing the Chief Minister of winning the elections now with money and establishment power. Eatala said that there is no space allowed for protest in the state which was formed because of protracted questioning and agitation. Eatala, a four time MLA representing Huzurabad said that his constituency voters would reject the money and other influences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ex-telangana-health-minister-eatala-rajender-quits-trs-may-join-bjp-993713.html
04-06-2021||South||Lioness dies of suspected Covid-19, eight lions infected in Tamil Nadu zoo||Covid-19 has hit the Arignar Anna Zoological Park in Vandalur on the outskirts of Chennai. A 9-year-old lioness has died of Covid-19, while eight Asiatic lions lodged inside the zoo have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Though the first test conducted on them returned positive for SARS Cov-2, fresh samples have been sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh, and the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad in Telangana, the zoo administration said. The move is to ascertain whether or not the reported findings are “in the nature of false positives” or the animal could have “died of comorbidities”, the zoo administration said in a statement here. However, a statement from the government said the lioness succumbed to the virus. It said 61 per cent of the large cat animal handlers in the zoo were vaccinated by June 3, adding that a nationwide consultation process has begun involving domain experts and scientists. Sources said the condition of three of the eight lions is critical, though they are being treated. It is not known immediately how the animals contracted the virus. The lioness, named Neela which was housed in the safari area of the zoo, died at around 6.15 pm on June 3. “The said lioness had been asymptotic and showed some nasal discharge only the day before (2.6.2021) and had been symptomatically treated immediately,” the zoo said in a statement. Officials said the lions which have tested positive are under close observation and on prescribed treatment regimen by the in-house veterinary team in close coordination with an expert team from Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (TANUVAS). “All animal keepers and helpers for these animal houses are vaccinated against Covid-19. A separate set of animal keepers are engaged for each group of lions. PPE Kits have been made mandatory for the animal keepers, veterinary doctors and field staff visiting the area,” the statement said. Officials said five lions were reported to show anorexia (loss of appetite) and occasional coughing on May 26, and based on medical advice, blood samples were sent to TANUVAS and Nasal swab, Rectal swab and faecal samples of 11 lions were sent to the National Institute of High-Security Diseases (NIHSAD) Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lioness-dies-of-suspected-covid-19-eight-lions-infected-in-tamil-nadu-zoo-993755.html
04-06-2021||South||Kerala HC asks ED to state its stand on its 'inaction' into 'looting' of BJP election funds||The Kerala High Court on Friday directed the Enforcement Directorate to inform it of its stand on a plea, alleging inaction on the agency's part into the alleged looting of funds meant for BJP's election campaign near Kodakara in Thrissur district in April this year. When the matter was taken up, the ED sought more time to file a reply, upon which the court directed it to state its stand within 10 days. Petitioner Saleem Madavur, president of Lok Tantrik Yuva Janata Dal, sought a court monitored probe "into the matter of inaction and lackadaisical attitude of Enforcement Directorate in investigating the economic offence of a grave nature." He alleged that on April 3, a car carrying Rs 3.5 crore illegal funds, meant for spending in the Assembly elections and believed to be sent by a BJP party worker in Karnataka, was looted near Kodakara. Though a case was initially registered on a complaint by the the vehicle owner, that Rs 25 lakh was stolen, "a further investigation, as learned from media and court documents, revealed that the amount was almost Rs 3.5 crore," he said. He alleged that the ED officers concerned even after submitting repeated representations, "are playing blind." The BJP has rejected the allegations, saying it was being unnecessarily targetted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-asks-ed-to-state-its-stand-on-its-inaction-into-looting-of-bjp-election-funds-993767.html
04-06-2021||South||Kerala SRTC to stake claim for domain names, takes help of 'Kannur Deluxe'||Kerala SRTC has decided to stake a claim for the domain names KSRTC.IN, KSRTC.ORG, KSRTC.COM based on the recent order of Registrar of Trade Marks in its favour on the abbreviation 'KSRTC', even as it may not go for a confrontation with its Karnataka counterpart over the use of the abbreviation. Close on the heels of Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi terming the row over 'KSRTC' unnecessary, Kerala SRTC chairman and managing director Biju Prabhakar stated that Kerala SRTC will not engage in any confrontation for the 'KSRTC' abbreviation. But it could not compromise on the domain name as the cash strapped Kerala SRTC was losing many bookings, especially in inter-state services connecting Bengaluru, as Karnataka SRTC was using the domain name for online booking. "Even Minister level or secretary-level talks would be initiated on the issue," he said. Meanwhile, it was learnt that 'Kannur Deluxe', a crime thriller Malayalam movie released in 1969 was among various documents produced by the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation to substantiate its claims for the 'KSRTC' abbreviation and 'Ana Vandi' title. Kerala SRTC sources said that a lot of documents had to be submitted before the Registrar of Trade Marks to establish its claim for 'KSRTC', emblem and the widely used term 'Ana Vandi'. It included many old photos in which KSRTC's emblem and logo were visible, the autobiography of a former Kerala Transport Minister and even the popular Malayalam film 'Kannur Deluxe'. "The film was cited as evidence to show the popularity Kerala SRTC was enjoying during the late 1960s and the logo was also visible," said a Kerala SRTC official. The film starring popular actors of those days, Prem Nazir and Sheela, was mainly shot inside the Kannur Deluxe bus service of KSRTC. KSRTC's emblem could be seen prominently in many parts of the film. "Kerala SRTC former chairman and managing director Antony Chacko, zonal officer Sasidharan, deputy law officer P N Hena, nodal officer C G Pradeepkumar and advocate V C George were among those who had put in a lot of efforts to substantiate Kerala SRTC's claims," said Prabhakar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-srtc-to-stake-claim-for-domain-names-takes-help-of-kannur-deluxe-993773.html
04-06-2021||South||Kerala govt keen on consensus to wriggle out of quota row||With the recent order of the Kerala High Court scrapping an 80:20 reservation norm being following by Kerala for scholarships to Muslim and Christian minority community members putting the Kerala government in a tight spot, the Left front government seems to be opting for a consensus strategy to wriggle out of the row. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan convened an all-party meeting on the matter on Friday and decided to seek legal opinion as well as to constitute an expert committee to look into the matter. According to an official statement, the chief minister said at the meeting that the government would prefer to have a consensus on the matter. Further meetings would be held with all political parties before taking a decision on the matter, he said. The issue has put the government in a tight spot as various Christian forums welcomed the HC order and demanded that it should be implemented, while various Muslim outfits urged the government to file an appeal. Even coalition partners in the Left front like the Kerala Congress (M) and Indian National League that generally represents the Christian and Muslim vote banks respectively were also having different opinions on the matter. Hence the Left front was making a very cautious move on the matter, sources in the government said. The higher reservation to the Muslim community was given considering various studies that pointed out the backwardness of the community in education.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-keen-on-consensus-to-wriggle-out-of-quota-row-993785.html
04-06-2021||South||BJP leader Abdullakutty quizzed by Kerala vigilance||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau in Kerala has recorded the statement of BJP national vice president A P Abdullakutty in connection with an alleged corruption in a light and sound show project at St. Angelo Fort, Kannur. The Rs 3.58 crore project was initiated in 2015 by the then-Congress government in Kerala. Abdullakutty was a Congress legislator at that time. Abdullakutty told reporters that the project was initiated by then Tourism Minister A P Anilkumar and the district tourism promotion council and he had no role in it. He added that if he was also involved in it in anyway, he was ready to face action. Sources said that a Karnataka based firm initiated the project. But it became defunct after the inauguration. Subsequently the vigilance launched a probe into it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-leader-abdullakutty-quizzed-by-kerala-vigilance-993812.html
04-06-2021||State||From the Newsroom: Karnataka cancels II PUC examination; SSLC exams in 3rd week of July||In your evening news brief, Karnataka cancels II PUC examination and SSLC exams to take place in 3rd week of July; RBI keeps repo rate unchanged for 6th time in a row, and Ministry of Defence clears mega naval project to build 6 submarines.  Here is the top news of June 3, 2021:   PTI sources in the government have told the news agency that the Defence Ministry today cleared a mega project to build six conventional submarines for the Indian Navy at a cost of around Rs 43,000 crore, a decision aimed at narrowing the gap with growing naval prowess of China. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. The DAC is the Defence Ministry's highest decision-making body on procurement.   The Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee on Friday kept the key policy interest rates unchanged once again at record low levels, ensuring the bank loans do not get costlier and handed out special cheap loan facility to covid-battered contact-intensive hospitality sector. It also promised to be accommodative to the needs of the economy as the country continues to recover from the second wave of Covid-19. The Repo rate has been maintained at 4 per cent while the reverse repo rate is at 3.35 per cent. It, however, cut the economic growth forecast for the current fiscal 2021-22 to 9.5 per cent from the earlier 10.5 per cent and projected retail inflation to go up to 5.1 per cent in the current year.   Ending widespread speculations over II PUC (Class 12) exams in Karnataka, Primary and Secondary Education minister S Suresh Kumar on Friday announced that there will be no exams for the II PUC students in Karnataka. Addressing the media in Bengaluru, Suresh Kumar said and I quote: The state government has decided not to hold the examination for II PUC. However, we are going ahead with the examination for the SSLC (Class 10) students affiliated to the state board. unquote. He said students registered for the II PUC exams will be promoted using the grading system based on their performance in the previous year i.e I PUC examination. Instead of the usual marks system, students will be promoted with grades. Meanwhile, the state government has decided to hold the examination for the SSLC (Class 10) students possibly in the third week of July after assessing the Covid-19 pandemic situation and in consultation with the experts.   That’s all for today. For more news and updates log on to deccanherald.com. Have a great evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/from-the-newsroom-karnataka-cancels-ii-puc-examination-sslc-exams-in-3rd-week-of-july-993725.html
04-06-2021||State||Three of a family burnt to death as car catches fire||Three members of the family were burnt to death and two sustained serious injuries after their car rolled into a ditch and caught fire, near Halagur, Malavalli taluk, Mandya district, on Friday morning. The deceased are Sheik Faisal (44), his daughter Suhana (12) and his son Sheikh Aihil (6). Faisal's wife Mehak, 33 and another daughter Mahaira, 11, have sustained serious injuries and have been shifted to Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru, for treatment. According to sources, the car hit a roadside stone and rolled into a ditch and caught fire. The victims are the residents of K G Halli, in Bengaluru. They had gone to a friend's farmhouse near Kollegal and were returning when the mishap occurred. Faisal was a civil contractor in Bengaluru and was driving the car when the mishap occurred. It is said that he lost control over the car near the petrol bunk in Halagur town when the vehicle hit a roadside stone and rolled into the ditch. It caught fire instantly and all the three were charred to death. Locals rushed and rescued the other two in the car. Halagur police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/three-of-a-family-burnt-to-death-as-car-catches-fire-993734.html
04-06-2021||State||Free treatment for 'black fungus' in Karnataka: K Sudhakar||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar stated that free treatment would be offered for mucormycosis ('black fungus') cases, at government hospitals and under 'Ayushman Bharat Arogya Karnataka' scheme. He also instructed the authorities of the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) to immediately purchase equipment required to perform surgeries on more mucormycosis patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/free-treatment-for-black-fungus-in-karnataka-k-sudhakar-993873.html
04-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Slight rise in Covid cases among children in Bengaluru||The second wave may have officially plateaued, but paediatricians are reporting a slight increase in the percentage of child Covid-19 cases.  Official data says that roughly 4% of all new Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru since May 15 are pre-teens (aged 0-9). This is up from 2.9% between March 12 and May 14. Over the last seven days, 171 pre-teen Covid cases were reported in Bengaluru every day, amid dwindling Covid-19 case numbers. In other districts, the number of pre-teen cases has been a steady 3%. An increase in the cases of teens aged 11 to 18 is harder to gauge as government data also clumps 19-year-olds into this age bracket. Cases of the 11-19 age group, nevertheless, represent about 8% of daily cases being found statewide. “There are two reasons for these increased numbers,” said Dr Srikanta J T, Consultant - Paediatric Pulmonology, Aster CMI Hospital and member of the high-level committee of expert doctors constituted to deal with the predicted third wave of infections. “One is a large number of referrals to Bengaluru from other districts, especially children from villages. The other reason is an influx of Multi Inflammatory Syndrome in Children (MIS-C) cases. Some MIS-C cases are children who had not previously been diagnosed with Covid, but were identified as having been Covid-positive by antibody tests. This adds them to the Covid tally,” he said. Does the percentage rise in cases constitute the beginning of the third wave? Experts are divided. Dr Basavaraj G V, Medical Superintendent and Professor of Paediatrics at Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health and member of the third wave committee, said that it is difficult to gauge if this rate increase constitutes the early beginnings of the third wave.  “Technically, a new wave should come three to six months from now as waves are catalyzed by viral mutations and the virus requires three to six months to mutate. However, we do not know if there has been mutation of the virus elsewhere, such as Maharashtra, which would prompt the third wave to set in earlier, like in August,” he said. While this differs from the October to December timeline postulated earlier by experts, an August date for the third has also been predicted by a new SIR and Fractal Mathematical model developed by mathematicians in Tamil Nadu and Italy. According to one of the mathematicians, Assistant Professor A Gowrisankar, School of Advanced Sciences, Vellore Institute of Technology, the “third wave will start in the first week of August, will peak in September and end during October.” He said the model, which uses fractal mathematics on “chaotic data,” had accurately predicted in April that the second surge would peak in mid-May. No cause for worry Dr Basavaraj said there is no evidence indicating that most children with Covid-19 infection will have severe disease in the third wave. “Also, presently, we have all the infrastructure to treat paediatric cases. In the future, we do not know,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/slight-rise-in-covid-cases-among-children-in-bengaluru-993549.html
04-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka crosses 3-crore mark in Covid-19 tests||Karnataka continued to witness a slight increase in the daily cases of Covid-19, as on Thursday it reported 18,324 fresh infections, taking the tally to 26.53 lakh. The state had reported 14,304 and 16,387 fresh cases on June 1 and June 2, respectively. The day also saw 24,036 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases. With 514 deaths, the toll in the state went up to 30,531. The state crossed three crore mark in testing, though with 3,01,49,275 samples tested so far, out of which 1,50,168 were tested on Thursday alone. “Karnataka crossed three crore Covid-19 tests today. With 196 ICMR approved labs across the state, more than 82 per cent of the tests conducted in Karnataka are RT-PCR tests,” said Health Minister K Sudhakar. Out of the new cases reported, 3,533 cases and 347 deaths were from Bengaluru Urban. Cumulatively, 26,53,446 cases have been so far reported in the state, which includes 23,36,096 discharges. The total number of active cases in the state stood at 2,86,798.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-crosses-3-crore-mark-in-covid-19-tests-993561.html
04-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||KSRTC trademark shouldn’t be a matter of pride, says minister||Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi said the row over the KSRTC trademark was unnecessary and indicated that the road transport corporations (RTC) of both Karnataka and Kerala can use the same. Following the news over the Kerala RTC “winning” the rights over the trademark, Savadi said the controversy was unfortunate and goes against the principle of federalism. “The RTCs in Karnataka and Kerala are engaged in transport as a service and not a profit-making business. Both states must not make the trademark row an issue of prestige,” he said. He said that he was yet to get the official communication over the ruling in favour of Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ksrtc-trademark-shouldn-t-be-a-matter-of-pride-says-minister-993562.html
04-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka cancels II PUC examination; SSLC exams in 3rd week of July||Ending widespread speculations over II PUC (Class 12) exams in Karnataka, Primary and Secondary Education minister S Suresh Kumar on Friday announced that there will be no exams for the II PUC students in Karnataka. Addressing the media in Bengaluru, Suresh Kumar said, "The state government has decided not to hold the examination for II PUC. However, we are going ahead with the examination for the SSLC (Class 10) students affiliated to the state board." Explaining in detail, the Education minister said, "Students registered for the II PUC exams will be promoted using the grading system based on their performance in the previous year (I PUC) examination. Instead of the usual marks system, students will be promoted with grades."  Meanwhile, the state government has decided to hold the examination for the SSLC (Class 10) students possibly in the third week of July after assessing the Covid-19 pandemic situation and in consultation with the experts. SSLC students will be examined for their performance in a different format. "The examination will be conducted in the form of multiple-choice questions (MCQs) and the duration will also be reduced. There will just be two papers with each having 120 MCQs. While the first question paper will cover all the core subjects--Mathematics, Science, Social Science, the second question paper will cover all the languages," the minister explained. He also clarified that, unlike II PUC, it is difficult to provide SSLC students with a grade. "The SSLC students have not written the 9th standard exams last year due to Covid pandemic and it is difficult to assess their performance in the absence of any examination. Hence it is inevitable to hold exams for the 10th standard students," Suresh Kumar explained. One-Day exam for unhappy students The state government has offered to hold a 'One Day' exam for the II PUC students who are not satisfied with the grading provided to them. The PU Board will hold a separate physical examination for such candidates once the Covid pandemic situation improves across Karnataka, according to the minister. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cancels-ii-puc-examination-sslc-exams-in-3rd-week-of-july-993606.html
04-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to hold SSLC exam in third week of July, announces Suresh Kumar||Karnataka Education Minister Suresh Kumar announced that the state would hold the SSLC exams in the third week of July.  The exams, he said, would be held on a single day comprising three core subjects — science, math, and social science — following an MCQ format. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-hold-sslc-exam-in-third-week-of-july-announces-suresh-kumar-993607.html
04-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Senior Kannada litterateur Vasanth Kustagi dies of heart attack||Renowned litterateur and thinker Vasanth Kustagi died of a heart attack here on Friday. He was 85.  Kustagi was admitted to Gulbarga Heart Foundation a week ago following low blood pressure. He breathed his last after failing to respond to the treatment.  He wrote about 60 books and contributed to Kannada literature as professor, writer, journalist and critic in the Kalyana Karnataka region.  After obtaining his post-graduation degree in Kannada at Osmania University,  Kustagi worked as principal of Nutan Degree College from 1990 to 1994. Before this assignment, he worked as a professor at a degree college run by Hyderabad Karnataka Education Society. He was a recipient of the Karnataka Rathotsav Award and was once president of Kalaburagi district Kannada Sahitya Sammelan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/senior-kannada-litterateur-vasanth-kustagi-dies-of-heart-attack-993633.html
04-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||3 sanitation workers die of asphyxiation in Karnataka||Three sanitation workers died of asphyxiation while cleaning a manhole on Friday in the district headquarters town of Ramanagara, about 50 km from here. "The three sanitation workers from Bengaluru had entered a manhole to clean it and died of asphyxiation. More details are awaited," the Ramanagara superintendent of police S Girish told PTI. According to police, six people were brought from Kamala Nagar in Bengaluru by a contractor to clean the choked sewerage. As one of them entered, he died of asphyxiation. The other too met the same fate in a bid to save their colleague. The police were in search of the contractor who had brought them from Bengaluru. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/3-sanitation-workers-die-of-asphyxiation-in-karnataka-993678.html
04-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Not received Shilpa Nag's resignation letter: Karnataka Chief Secretary Ravi Kumar||Karnataka Chief Secretary Ravi Kumar on Friday said that he has not received IAS officer Shilpa Nag's resignation letter. The officer, who arrived at Administrative Training Institute to chair Covid-19 review meeting told reporters that he has not received the letter from Nag.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/not-received-shilpa-nags-resignation-letter-karnataka-chief-secretary-ravi-kumar-993697.html
04-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kannada ugliest language row: Karnataka to not sue Google||Karnataka on Friday said it will not sue Google after the tech giant tendered an apology on the controversy created over a search result that showed Kannada as India's ugliest language. Speaking to reporters, Kannada & Culture Minister Arvind Limbavali recalled that he had directed officials to initiate legal action against Google. "However, Google has since apologised for the incident. We have decided to end the issue," he said. Following a huge uproar, Google on Thursday apologised for the "misunderstanding" and for "hurting any sentiments" caused by a search result that Kannada was India's ugliest language.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannada-ugliest-language-row-karnataka-to-not-sue-google-993777.html
04-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||KSRTC trademark row set to deepen as Karnataka dismisses Kerala RTC's claim||A dispute over exclusive rights to use the 'KSRTC' trademark is set to continue, with the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation dismissing as false the claims that the registrar of trademark has ruled in favour of Kerala. The row dates back to 2014 when the Karnataka RTC had sent a notice to the Kerala RTC, asking it to stop using the abbreviation. The road transport corporation (RTC) in Karnataka secured the registration of the KSRTC trademark back in 2013, while Kerala received its letter of registration in 2019. Kerala had questioned the notice and appealed at the registrar of the trademarks. On Wednesday, the Kerala RTC issued a statement claiming that it has secured a favourable order, allowing exclusive use of the abbreviation. "The reported claims of Kerala RTC are wrong. No registrar has given an exclusive right over the trademark to anybody. At this juncture, we are not saying that Kerala RTC can't use the abbreviation. Section 12 of the Trade Marks Act allows honest concurrent use of a trademark. There is no order on the dispute over exclusive rights," Karnataka RTC Managing Director Shivayogi C Kalasad told DH on Friday. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi issued a statement that the reports of Kerala RTC claims were "factually incorrect... No final orders have also been passed in the said appeals." Further, Savadi and Kalasad both said the Intellectual Property Appellate Board (IPAB) was abolished by an Ordinance of the Central government dated April 4 and all such pending applications will be transferred to the High Court for adjudication. "So as on date, KSRTC’s registration of the marks continue to be legally in force and the claim of Kerala SRTC in news reports that Karnataka state cannot use the trademarks is factually incorrect and legally untenable. AS SUCH, THERE IS NO LEGAL PROHIBITION AGAINST THE USE OF THE TRADEMARK ‘KSRTC’ by Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation," the two said in their statement.  Kalasad said neither KSRTC nor the Karnataka government had received any notice by the Kerala RTC. "If and when such a notice is issued, a suitable reply would be issued," the statement said. Two days after threatening to issue a notice to Karnataka RTC "asking them not to use KSRTC anymore", Kerala SRTC Managing Director Biju Prabhakar said there were not many issues between the two RTCs over the trademark. He said he had already spoken to Kalasad over the trademark. "Some other issues like domain names would be settled amicably through talks," said Prabhakar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ksrtc-trademark-row-set-to-deepen-as-karnataka-dismisses-kerala-rtcs-claim-993825.html
04-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's Covid positivity rate drops to 10.66%||Karnataka on Friday registered 16,068 new Covid infections and 364 deaths.  The Covid-19 caseload in the state, as on June 4, swelled to 26,69,514 and deaths to 30,895. The positivity rate for the day stands at 10.66%, while the case fatality rate for the day is 2.26%. Bengaluru Urban’s single-day tally has come down to 3,221 new cases. The state capital on Friday reported 206 fatalities. Ballari district reported deaths in single digit at 8. On Friday, the state saw 22,316 discharges, taking the total recoveries to 23,58,412. Mysuru district continued to report new cases in four digits. The district saw 1,265 infections in the last 24 hours, Hassan recorded 974 cases followed by Tumakuru 857 and Dakshina Kannada 806. As many as 1,50,610 samples were tested on Friday alone taking the testing tally to more than 3.02 crore. As many as 1,46,42,946 people have received vaccination so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-covid-positivity-rate-drops-to-1066-993842.html
04-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||New academic year to begin from July 1 in Karnataka||The department of public instruction (DPI) on Friday announced that the 2021-221 academic year will begin from July 1.   In a detailed circular to all the districts, the department said that the new year will begin from July 1 and all the schools have been directed to hold the admission process from June 15 to August 31. All schools in Karnataka have been directed by the DPI to display the details of fee structure, availability of seats and other admission details on the notice board. Besides, schools have been asked to take appropriate measures for starting online classes. The first term of the schooling for the 2021-22 academic year will be from July 1 to October 9. The second term will be held from October 21 to April 30, 2022. A total of 223 academic days have been made available to the schools during this academic year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-academic-year-to-begin-from-july-1-in-karnataka-993857.html
04-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Shila Nag row: CS holds meeting with Mysuru IAS officers over 'dispute'||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has directed Chief Secretary P Ravikumar to initiate necessary action in connection with the dispute between two IAS officers in Mysuru, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said on Friday. Ravi Kumar visited Mysuru a day after Mysuru City Corporation commissioner Shilpa Nag announced her resignation from the IAS, alleging harassment by Mysuru Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri. Speaking to reporters, Ashoka said that the Revenue Department had also asked the Mysuru Regional Commissioner to submit a report on the allegation that the Mysuru DC was constructing a swimming pool and gym at her official residence, which is a heritage structure. Meanwhile, the chief secretary, during a visit to Mysuru, is said to have held a closed-door meeting with Shilpa Nag and Mysuru Regional Commissioner G C Prakash. The chief secretary told reporters that he would apprise the chief minister and arrive at a decision in two days. The Deputy Commissioner also the CS and explained the issue. However, Ravi Kumar said, he has not received the resignation letter of Shilpa Nag. According to officials, the CS expressed displeasure against the Commissioner for going to the media to announce her decision. Protest by corporators Corporators, MCC employees and members of various organisations came in support of the commissioner and staged protests against the DC. They urged the government not to accept the resignation of the Commissioner. Nothing wrong on my part: Shilpa Speaking at a programme organised by Mysuru Nagarikara Vedike at Suttur mutt branch in Mysuru, Shilpa accused the DC of projecting the civic body as inactive in fighting Covid and with slapping notices often on the Corporation.  “Being an MCC commissioner, I shouldered responsibility of CSR fund. Mysuru city has more number of hospitals. But the district administration did not procure medicines for these hospitals. Therefore, CSR funds were used for this purpose. But my decision was projected wrong and I am hurt by such action," she said. Is it wrong to seek details?:  DC  Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, on Friday, defended herself in connection with the allegations levelled by Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Shipa Nag. Speaking to reporters, here, Rohini said, "I asked the commissioner about the CSR funds as the district administration needed it for 'Vaidyara Nade Halliya Kade' programme. The commissioner said that all funds have been utilised on Covid management in the city. Then, I asked her the details on the spending. But, she has not yet given the details”. "In addition, the commissioner did not give exact information on ward-wise Covid cases. A ward reported 400 positive cases. The very next day, the numbers were shown as 40. I had instructed her to give proper details. Everyone is working under pressure. But, proper information should be given,” she said. The DC took exception to the taking of the issue to the media. "There is a forum and hierarchy to air one's grievances. The commissioner should not go beyond the system," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shila-nag-row-cs-holds-meeting-with-mysuru-ias-officers-over-dispute-993866.html
04-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka battles acute shortage of 'black fungus' drug||Karnataka needs 75,063 Liposomal Amphotericin B vials for 1,493 patients suffering from mucormycosis ('black fungus'), while Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers Sadananda Gowda has allocated only 22,460 vials to the state so far, including 9,750 vials on Friday. There is a shortfall of 52,603 vials as of June 4. Notwithstanding this allocation, the actual number of vials received so far by the state is also far less with the last supply of 2,000 vials received on June 1. Additionally, 7,960 vials from Stelis Biopharma (part of Strides Pharma) have reached Bengaluru and are available for distribution in the state. This is not a part of the central allotment of vials. As of June 4, the state’s private hospitals have raised an indent of 38,788 vials for 956 of its patients, and the government hospitals have sought 36,275 vials for 537 of its patients. Senior IAS officer Avinash Menon, who is the nodal officer appointed by the state for distributing the vials to the hospitals, refused to divulge the number of vials received by Karnataka, so far, from the Centre. However, the acute shortage was evident in both government and district hospitals, as endless indenting day after day with the state government is not resulting in the supply of this drug. Dr Susheen Dutt, consultant, ENT, Fortis Hospital, Bannerghatta Road, said, “We indent 90 vials every day and get 30 once in three days. So far, we have operated upon 98 mucormycosis patients. Many of them did not get the medicine so they went back on an oral drug Posaconazole. Yesterday (June 3), for eleven of our patients we badly needed 90 vials and there was no response. Today too, there was no response. So now, we’re giving it to most needy patients only and others are given tablets.” At the state-run Minto Eye Hospital, there are 81 patients under treatment for mucormycosis while 40 patients have already succumbed to the fungal infection. The hospital gets vials every alternate day.  Dr Suhel Hasan, senior consultant, ENT, Narayana Health, said, “We have 15 patients and ideally all of them should be given Liposomal Amphotericin B. But we’re relying on Posaconazole which is not the first choice. It is not a first line drug and only given to discharged patients. Regular Amphotericin is toxic for the kidney so can’t be given in high doses. If we indent 100 vials, we get 20, and we need four vials for one patient every day.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-battles-acute-shortage-of-black-fungus-drug-993874.html
04-06-2021||West||Gas leak at Badlapur chemical unit caused people breathing trouble for a few hours||A gas leak occurred at a chemical factory at Badlapur in Maharashtra's Thane district, due to which a number of people living around the unit faced difficulty in breathing for a few hours, an official said on Friday. The incident took place late Thursday night and the leakage was plugged within an hour, he said. "The gas leak was reported around 10.22 pm at the factory in Shirgaon MIDC of Badlapur (East). A chemical reaction due to the overheating of sulfuric acid and benzyl acid led to the incident," Santosh Kadam, chief of the Regional Disaster Management Cell of Thane Municipal Corporation said. "As a result, residents living in three km area around the factory complained of breathing problem and irritation in eyes for a few hours," he said. On being alerted, two fire engines from Badlapur Municipal Council and one from Shirgaon MIDC rushed to the spot and plugged the leakage, he said. The situation was brought under control around 11.30 pm, Kadam said, adding that the incident did not result in any major injury to anyone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gas-leak-at-badlapur-chemical-unit-caused-people-breathing-trouble-for-a-few-hours-993580.html
04-06-2021||West||Meet the clown who helps Mumbai kids fight Covid-19||Volunteer social worker Ashok Kurmi is helping an army of young fans fight the coronavirus in Mumbai's slums using an unusual accessory: a clown costume. Dressed in a bright red clown suit, complete with face paint and a rainbow-hued wig, the 37-year-old executive spends his days off disinfecting public spaces, distributing face masks and spreading awareness about Covid-19. "The municipal workers wear PPE kits that scare slum dwellers, particularly children," Kurmi told AFP. "With the help of different costumes, I can spread awareness without scaring people. I am able to help them a little." Over the past year he has dressed up as Santa Claus, Mickey Mouse, Doraemon and Marvel superhero Spiderman. But his clown get-up is the most popular by far, he said. On a recent visit to India's largest slum Dharavi, groups of children followed him, chanting "joker, joker" and offering their hands to be sanitised. With the help of visual aids and posters, Kurmi patiently showed them how to wash their hands and wear face masks correctly. "I have worked at a pharmaceutical company for the last 15 years but social work is my passion," he said. He spends around Rs 15,000 — a third of his monthly salary — on buying costumes, make-up supplies and sanitation equipment. As Mumbai prepares for a third coronavirus wave, his efforts have become even more important. The pandemic has devastated India, infecting over 2.8 crore people and killing more than 3,00,000. Despite the risks involved in visiting densely populated areas like Dharavi, Kurmi is undeterred. "Until this pandemic ends, I will continue to go and help people as a clown," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/meet-the-clown-who-helps-mumbai-kids-fight-covid-19-993602.html
04-06-2021||West||Gujarat to allow government, private offices to function at 100% capacity from June 7||The Gujarat government announced that private and government offices can function at full capacity from June 7, news agency ANI reported. Gujarat on Thursday extended its lockdown — which was supposed to end on June 4 — to June 11, while also allowing shops to remain open for longer. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-to-allow-government-private-offices-to-function-at-100-capacity-from-june-7-993628.html
04-06-2021||West||Man gets 18 months jail sentence for hurling sandals at High Court judge in Gujarat||A magisterial court here sentenced a tea vendor from Gujarat's Rajkot district to 18 months in jail for hurling his sandals at a High Court judge in 2012, out of frustration over long pendency of his case. Chief judicial magistrate V A Dhadhal of Mirzapur rural court on Thursday held Bhavanidas Bavaji guilty as charged under IPC section 353 (assault on a government servant to deter him from discharging his duty). In his statement to the police, Bavaji had claimed that he hurled his sandals at the judge out of frustration over the long pendency of his case. While noting that the act of throwing sandals at a judge is "highly condemnable", magistrate Dhadhal refused to grant Bavaji benefits of probation, a provision of releasing convicts for good conduct. The magistrate sentenced Bavaji, a resident of Bhayavadar town of Rajkot, to 18 months of simple imprisonment, and considering his financial condition, did not impose any fine on him. As per the case details, the accused had hurled his sandals at High Court Justice K S Jhaveri on April 11, 2012, during a hearing. Luckily, none of the sandals hit Justice Jhaveri. When the judge had asked the reason for the act, Bavaji had said that he had done it out of frustration, as his case had not come up for hearing since a long time. Bavaji was then handed over to Sola police station, which booked him under section 186 and 353 of the IPC. The police's probe had revealed that Bavaji ran a roadside tea stall in Bhayavadar. When the Bhayavadar municipality asked him to remove the stall, Bavaji managed to secure a stay order against the civic body from the Gondal sessions court, following which the municipality filed an appeal in the High Court. In his statement, Bavaji claimed that on the basis of that appeal, the municipality had removed his tea stall, rendering him jobless. With no source of income, the accused claimed he had lost his mental balance, as he had to borrow or beg for money from others to travel to Ahmedabad to attend the hearings. Bavaji claimed that he had hurled the sandals out of frustration, as his case was not being heard for a long time and he was "tired of coming to the High Court", the order noted. In his order, the magistrate observed that though it is a fact that cases are not getting disposed of in time because of pendency, that cannot be a reason for throwing sandals at a High Court judge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-gets-18-months-jail-sentence-for-hurling-sandals-at-high-court-judge-in-gujarat-993669.html
04-06-2021||West||Goa government aims to inoculate entire population in 18-44 age group against Covid-19 by July 30||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said the state has set a target of vaccinating the entire population in the age group of 18 to 44 years by July 30. Speaking to reporters here, the chief minister urged citizens eligible for vaccination to cooperate and get themselves inoculated. "I want people who are eligible for vaccination to get themselves inoculated. Goa has set a target of July 30 to vaccinate the entire population in the age group of 18 to 44 years," he said. "I want Goa to be the first state in the country to complete 100 per cent vaccination (for the people above 18 years)," Sawant said. The state has prioritised phase-wise vaccination for parents with young children, differently abled, seafarers, operators of motorcycle taxis, taxis and rickshaws, the chief minister said. "We had opened up vaccination for parents of children below two years of age and also for those with comorbid conditions on Thursday. I had taken a review and found that only 1,300 people had gotten themselves vaccinated under this category," he said. Sawant further said the state government has now widened the scope for vaccination under priority groups, covering parents of children till the age of five. When asked about the state-wide curfew, which is scheduled to end on June 7, the chief minister said he will be holding a review meeting on June 6 to decide about the same. "We will take a stock of the situation before deciding on the curfew," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-government-aims-to-inoculate-entire-population-in-18-44-age-group-against-covid-19-by-july-30-993741.html
04-06-2021||West||Maharashtra caps mucormycosis treatment rates at private hospitals||As the post-Covid-19 cases of mucormycosis or Black Fungus crossed the 5,000-mark, the Maharashtra government on Friday capped the price of treatment of the fungal infection. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has approved a proposal by the Health Ministry fixing the charges to be levied by all private hospitals, till 31 July. The moves comes a fortnight after it decided to provide free treatment, including medicines, beds for mucormycosis patients under the Mahatma Jyotiba Jan Arogya Yojana and the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, at 130 pre-determined hospitals besides empanelling another 1,000 hospitals. “We have submitted a proposal to control the rates charged by them for treatment,” said Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope. The new treatment cost limits vary as per separate ward, ICU with or without a ventilator, isolation wards, etc, for the full medical management, surgeries and the long stay in hospitals, making it within the reach of the ordinary patients. The government has also fixed the cost for 28 types of surgical procedures required for mucormycosis treatment which will be up to Rs.100,000, Rs 75,000 and Rs.60,000 in the three categorized cities respectively. No hospitals can charge higher than the prescribed rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-caps-mucormycosis-treatment-rates-at-private-hospitals-993742.html
04-06-2021||West||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: 14-day judicial custody for Siddharth Pithani||A Mumbai court on Friday remanded in 14-day judicial custody Siddharth Pithani, who was a roommate of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau from Hyderabad on May 28 in a drug case linked to the latter's death last year. He was produced before additional chief metropolitan magistrate A H Kashikar, and was remanded in jail custody after the NCB did not ask for further custody, special public prosecutor Advait Sethna said. Rajput was found dead in his home in Bandra on June 14 last year. Following the actor's death, the NCB began a probe into alleged drug links in the film industry based on Whatsapp chats, and several people were arrested under the NDPS Act in this connection, most of who are out on bail currently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-14-day-judicial-custody-for-siddharth-pithani-993754.html
04-06-2021||West||Gujarat govt to implement Bill against forcible religious conversion from June 15||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Friday said that the Freedom of Religious Reform (Amendment) Bill, 2021, described as "anti-love jihad" law, will come into effect from June 15. The announcement comes days after state governor Acharya Devvrat gave his assent to the proposed law, which was passed in March in the state Assembly by majority. The bill that amended the 2003 Act penalises forcible or fraudulent religious conversion by marriage and has punishment of 3-10 years in jail. The state government said that the law is being implemented in the state from June 15 "to ensure that no one is converted under the influence of greed, coercion or any kind of violence in Gujarat." In a release, the state government stated that Chief Minister Vijay Rupani is implementing the act "to stop acts of love jihad and marriages solely for the purpose of conversion." The act has provision of imprisonment from 3 to 5 years in the case of individuals while 4 to 7 years in case of women, minors or people from scheduled caste and scheduled tribe. Organisations involved in religious conversion will also get penalised under this act. The maximum punishment in such cases will be up to 10 years and fine of Rs 5 lakh on each member of the organisations involved. Under this law, the definition of "allurement" has been broadened by adding words such as "better lifestyle, divine blessings or otherwise so that the person who offers any person for a better lifestyle, divine blessings or otherwise may be punished under the provision of the said Act." The Rupani government has also added a section in the act that allows any aggrieved person related by blood to lodge an FIR in such cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-to-implement-bill-against-forcible-religious-conversion-from-june-15-993808.html
04-06-2021||West||Mail motor vehicles converted into ambulances for Maharashtra's postal staff||In its efforts towards the fight against the Pandemic, Maharashtra Postal Circle has introduced four ambulances for the welfare of postal staff. Chief Postmaster General, Maharashtra Circle, HC Agrawal flagged off the ambulances on 1 June from Circle office, Mumbai. These ambulances are equipped with necessary medical aids, including oxygen cylinders and were prepared by Mail Motor Services, Mumbai by converting Mail Motor Vehicles into ambulances. Temporary licence to operate these ambulances has also been obtained. These ambulances are stationed at Kolhapur, Pune, Aurangabad and Nagpur for the benefit of the members of the Postal family. Postmaster General (Mails & BD), Ganesh V Sawaleshwarkar, Senior Manager (JAG)S B John V Luke, and Deputy Manager (MMS) M B Dapse, were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mail-motor-vehicles-converted-into-ambulances-for-maharashtras-postal-staff-993832.html
04-06-2021||West||Nagpur teen holds man's family hostage, nabbed with cash trick||A teen who allegedly held the family of a businessman in Nagpur hostage with a toy gun on Friday was arrested in a dramatic manner as a wad of currency notes totalling Rs 5 lakh were thrown at him from a window of the house to keep him distracted while police moved in to nab him, officials said. Jitendra Tulsiram Bisen had barged into the house of Raju Vaidya, a builder, in the Pipala area here at 2 pm, and held the latter's family hostage at gunpoint, a Hudkeshwar police station official said. "He phoned Vaidya and demanded Rs 50 lakh to free his family. Vaidya called the police control room and a team arrived at his home. Vaidya kept Bisen busy and distracted by giving him Rs 5 lakh in cash through the window. In the meantime, a police team in plainclothes entered the house from the back door," he said. The team nabbed Bisen, who was brandishing a toy gun, and he has told police he attempted this crime as his catering business had closed down due to the coronavirus-induced restrictions, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nagpur-teen-holds-mans-family-hostage-nabbed-with-cash-trick-993869.html
04-06-2021||West||BMC rejects nine vaccine supply bids; in talks with Dr Reddy's for Sputnik V||All nine proposals received for the supply of Covid-19 vaccines for Mumbai have been rejected for lack of necessary documents, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Friday. The civic body is now in talks with Dr Reddy's Laboratories, the distributor of the Russian Sputnik V vaccine, and the firm has agreed to supply some doses on an experimental basis before June-end, it said in a statement. On May 12, the civic body had invited global `Expression of Interest' for supplying one crore vaccine doses. The deadline was extended twice, on May 18 and May 25, before 10 suppliers submitted proposals. But one of them withdrew from the race before the deadline of June 1, 2021. After a scrutiny of documents, the civic body disqualified other nine potential suppliers. "None of the suppliers could qualify due to lack of complete documents," the BMC said. "It is important to examine the business relationship between suppliers who are willing to supply vaccines and companies that actually produce vaccines," it added. The scrutiny focused on four points -- assurance about timely supply, the period needed to deliver doses, the quantity, and terms and conditions about rates and payment. Civic officials held a meeting with Dr Reddy's Laboratories, and the pharma major agreed to supply some doses of Sputnik V on an experimental basis before month-end, it said. "Criteria for cold storage of Sputnik vaccine are different. Therefore, after receiving this stock, its cold storage (needs) will be tested," the statement said. The next round of talks with the company is expected to be held in 8-10 days, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bmc-rejects-nine-vaccine-supply-bids-in-talks-with-dr-reddys-for-sputnik-v-993879.html
