05-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karkala farmers seek some love for local flavours||Amid the pandemic, some 20,000 households in Karkala, a coastal town in Udupi district, are growing ‘bili bende’ (white okra) in a concerted effort to create a marketplace for the vegetable that is known for its unique taste. And it’s not just white okra that is being turned into a brand. Farmers are also looking to popularise the 'Karla kaje' variety of boiled rice, which is grown in Karkala in large quantities. Karla is the Tulu name for Karkala.  Anchoring this campaign to make the Karkala okra and rice popular is BJP legislator V Sunil Kumar.  Growing up to nearly a foot, the white okra grown in and around Karkala is known for its unique taste and size. Similarly, the kaje rice variety is known for its fibre and iron content.  “There are brands such as the Dharwad Pedha and Channapatna toys. We want to create a brand for the 'Karla kaje' variety and 'bili bende' from Karkala,” said Kumar, who is the Karkala MLA and the government’s chief whip. “About 1.5 years ago, a meeting was held with the farmers of our taluk. It was decided to select two products that can be made into Karkala brands. A committee was formed and it chose the 'Karla kaje' and 'bili bende',” Kimar said, adding that this was a ‘vocal for local’ initiative.  In the last harvest season, farmers cultivated 5,500 quintals of kaje rice, which Kumar said was organic and non-polished. “This time, we plan to cultivate at least 10,500 quintals,” he said.  From June 1, Kumar started distributing the white okra seeds to 20,000 homes in his constituency free of cost. “The idea is for people to take up agriculture and develop a feeling that bili bende is their brand. Our own people should grow it first, sell it in the local market and then take it to other markets,” he said. “The bili bende takes 65-70 days to grow. It can be grown on the terrace or the facade. It needs wet waste, spraying of neem oil and minimal water,” Kumar said. The MLA hopes to see Karla kaje and bili bende varieties become “a formidable brand” in the next 2-3 years and eventually acquire the Geographical Indication tag.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karkala-farmers-seek-some-love-for-local-flavours-993926.html
05-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||3 workers die in under-construction manhole in Ramanagara||Three workers died after they entered an under-construction manhole at Malleshwara Layout, Ijur, in Ramanagara on Friday.  The deceased have been identified as Rajesh (40), Manjunath (29) and Manjunath (32), residents of Kamalanagar in Bengaluru. They had entered the manhole to remove the sandbags and bricks at 11 am. While Rajesh hurt his head after losing balance and falling into the manhole, the other two, who went in to rescue him, died due to asphyxiation. Locals tried in vain to save them. Firemen donning oxygen masks later retrieved the bodies, which were handed over to their family members after postmortem. Harish, the contractor, brought workers from Bengaluru. He had neither checked the oxygen level in the manhole nor provided safety gear. He is absconding. SP Girish said the contractor's negligence led to the deaths.  City Municipal Council commissioner Nandakumar said the contractor had not informed them about the work.  Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan has sought a report from the deputy commissioner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/3-workers-die-in-under-construction-manhole-in-ramanagara-993930.html
05-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Online registration for vaccination mandatory, says Mangaluru DC||The district administration has decided to make online registration, via ‘CoWIN App’, mandatory for beneficiaries to avail vaccine at 10 urban public health centres in Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) limits and at urban health centres in Ullal, Bantwal and Puttur. Accordingly, 75 per cent of the vaccines per day will be allotted to those above 45 years, who have registered online and have also received confirmation on vaccination. While 25% will be allotted to those above 70 years and are unable to register online, Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V informed media persons virtually via Google link on Friday. Those above 70 years can reach the nearest urban primary health centres for spot registration and avail vaccines. If there are more number of people in the above-70 years’ category, then the PHCs will maintain a running register to record their names so that they will be given priority while administering vaccines on the following day, the DC added. A decision was taken following complaints that tokens issued for vaccination in urban PHCs were sold in black. Similarly, the PHCs in urban areas had been witnessing huge crowd after people stood in long queues in the wee hours for tokens. The online registration in order to schedule the date for vaccination will be down on CoWIN portal (from 4 pm daily). 13,000 doses of Covaxin Rajendra said that the second dose of Covaxin vaccine will be administered to all eligible beneficiaries in all taluk government hospitals and at District Wenlock Hospital from Monday. As many as 35,000 beneficiaries had received first dose of Covaxin in Dakshina Kannada district. So far, only 20,000 beneficiaries have availed the second dose of Covaxin. The district has received 13,000 doses of Covaxin, he added. Efforts are being made to reach out to those who had availed first dose of Covaxin through a call centre of Mescom. The department also made arrangement for onsite administration of vaccines for frontline workers and those coming under priority groups, in age group of 18 to 44, in their offices. Priority groups should submit Annexure 3 to certify that they come under the groups. Reach out to doorsteps The priority groups from unorganised sector will be administered vaccines at Wenlock Hospital. The DC said that the district administration was planning vaccination at doorsteps of beneficiaries under special category, who are unable to visit vaccination centres. The medical officers of PHC were asked to collect details. “Once we get enough numbers, then vehicles with doctors and nurses will be deployed to vaccinate bed-ridden patients and differently-abled persons at their houses,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/online-registration-for-vaccination-mandatory-says-mangaluru-dc-993937.html
05-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Coast Guard plants 300 saplings to mark World Environment Day||On account of World Environment Day, Coast Guard Karnataka planted 300 saplings in the Coast Guard residential area and headquarters in Mangaluru on Saturday. The theme of this year's World Environment Day is 'Reimagine, Recreate, Restore.' This year also marks the beginning of the United Nations' Decade on Ecosystem Restoration. The Coast Guard Karnataka had conducted various activities to sensitise personnel on environmental issues. A beach clean-up drive was also carried out on the occasion. The officers, men, civilian staff and their families, along with stakeholders such as CSP, CISF and members of Surf Club joined hands in conducting numerous activities to spread awareness on the environment. DCP (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar appreciated all for efforts towards the clean-up drive, planting saplings etc. Speaking on the occasion, he emphasised on the need of protecting our fragile environment by collective efforts and contributions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coast-guard-plants-300-saplings-to-mark-world-environment-day-994037.html
05-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada experiences intermittent rain||Intermittent rain has lashed various parts of Dakshina Kannada since Friday night. Mangalureans woke up to rainfall on Saturday which continued for a few hours till 9 am. According to the IMD, Coastal Karnataka is very likely to experience widespread rainfall till June 6. With heavy rainfall, the IMD has sounded a yellow alert on Saturday. When the city experienced bountiful rain in the morning, roads in low-lying areas of Subhashnagara and Pandeshwara remained inundated, thus inconveniencing the residents. Normalcy prevailed after the rain stopped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-experiences-intermittent-rain-994038.html
05-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Farmers protest new agriculture laws in front of Mysuru MP's office||The farmers under the leadership of Badagalpur Nagendra staged a protest in front of MP Pratap Simha's office in Mysuru, on Saturday. The farmers staged a protest to oppose the new farm laws introduced by the Centre. They raised slogans against the government and BJP leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-protest-new-agriculture-laws-in-front-of-mysuru-mps-office-994040.html
05-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ready to quit if Mysuru will be Covid-free with my resignation: Somashekhar||District in-charge Minister S T Somashekhar on Saturday said that he is ready to tender resignation for his minister post if Mysuru will be Covid-free with his resignation. Replying to Congress party's allegation that Somashekhar failed to manage Covid situation in Mysuru, Somashekhar said he will quit from the minister post if Mysuru will be Covid-free. "Let them give suggestions to contain the spread. It is not possible to control the Covid by a single person and everyone are working towards it," he said. All the 11 MLAs, three MPs and officials are making efforts to control Covid, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ready-to-quit-if-mysuru-will-be-covid-free-with-my-resignation-somashekhar-994042.html
05-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shilpa Nag is an efficient IAS officer: KS Eshwarappa||District in-charge minister KS Eshwarappa stated that Shilpa Nag is an efficient IAS officer and he does not much about Mysuru Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri. Speaking to media persons here on Saturday, Eshwarappa who is also the minister of Rural Development & Panchayat Department said, "Shilpa Nag had worked in Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Department earlier. She had been to Kerala to study the panchayat system. I had seen her work. But I don't know about Rohini. "||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shilpa-nag-is-an-efficient-ias-officer-ks-eshwarappa-994061.html
05-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||IAS officer Shilpa Nag decides to continue with service||IAS Officer and Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Shilpa Nag has decided to withdraw her decision of resigning from civil services. Nag will attend work from Sunday. Nag on Thursday had announced her resignation, citing harassment and humiliation from Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri. Speaking to DH, Nag said, “I will start working from Sunday,” she said. It has to be noted that Nag had taken her resignation papers to Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar during his visit to Mysuru on Friday but, the CS did not accept the paper and suggested her to reconsider the decision. “I have sent resignation papers through register post and also e-mailed it,” Nag said. District in-charge Minster S T Somashekar and others suggested her not to resign, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ias-officer-shilpa-nag-decides-to-continue-with-service-994140.html
05-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||IAS officers’ issue: Mysureans for change in dist in-charge minister||A section of the people of Mysuru feel that the rift between the two women IAS officers of the district--- Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri and Mysuru City Commissioner Shilpa Nag --- is just the tip of the iceberg. It has to be noted that Shilpa Nag offered to resign, citing harassment by Rohini Sindhuri on Thursday. However, on Saturday, Nag announced that she will continue in service. Some citizens opine that if the problem has reached this stage, of public accusations by the officials, the District In-charge Minister, S T Somashekar, is responsible. If something needs to be changed, it is the minister, who has failed to take the officials along to work for the welfare of the people, state concerned citizens. “The system of district in-charge minister was introduced by Ramakrishna Hegde, as chief minister. Like the CM for a state, district ministers are captains of their respective district. On Saturday, Somashekar offered to resign, with a rider, if the district would become Covid-free with his act. As minister, it was his responsibility to make Mysuru Covid-free with the help of the officials concerned. Now, offering to tender resignation serves no purpose,” said V Jaganath, a social activist. It has to be noted that Somashekar offered to resign, following a demand by Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee working president R Dhruvanarayana. Speaking to DH, Dhruvanarayana, also former MP from Chamarajanagar, pointed at Somashekar’s statements, “Sri Chamundeshwari Devi is watching everything from the Chamundi Hill. I have prayed to the Devi, to protect the honest one. I have no role to play in this regard. The matter is beyond my limit. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar will resolve the issue.” Dhruvanarayana said, “If Sri Chamundeshwari is supposed to look into everything. If the issues have gone out of his control, it means, he is inefficient. Nobody said Mysuru would become Covid-free, if he resigns. He should resign, owing to his inefficiency.” V Sathyanarayan, a retired government official said, “Involvement of religious institutions in solving political issues were happening discreetly. Now, the issues of the bureaucrats are reaching religious institutions, openly. IAS officer Shilpa Nag explained her problems, in a religious institution, in front of a pontiff and also the minister. Now, it is learnt that the pontiff convinced her to withdraw her offer, to resign.” “If a religious or a spiritual institution has to intervene, to solve issues of the executive, what does it reflect? A person holding a public office, like a minister, should neither oppose an official, nor support an official. He or she should take all officials into confidence and extract work from them,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ias-officers-issue-mysureans-for-change-in-dist-in-charge-minister-994196.html
05-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rohini Sindhuri misusing system, alleges Manju||Former minister A Manju said, “Nearly, 40 employees of different department work in the residence of Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri. She is misusing the system and her authority.” Speaking to reporters here, Manju, who was Hassan district in-charge minister when Rohini Sindhuri was the DC, said, “She is egoistic. But, this will not work as we have to follow law. No one is above the Constitution.” Taking exception to the construction of a swimming pool at her official residence, Manju said, “Swimming pool is not her necessity, but may be to benefit a contractor. She will be here for a year and move to other place.” “When there is no swimming pool in Mysuru Palace, what is the need for a pool in the DC’s residence?” Manju asked. “Mysuru is an important heritage city, developed by the Wadiyar maharajas. Before taking up any work in a heritage structure, a permission from the Heritage Committee, headed by the DC herself, is a must. Has she taken a permission? Was the matter passed in the meeting? The government delayed a probe in this regard,” Manju said. “The DC is also a human being. One who grazes cattle also passes IAS exam with great efforts. But, how to serve after becoming an IAS officer is important. People observe the conduct of both politicians and officials,” he said. Manju said that she should change her attitude. “I had told her not to sit crossed legs in public functions. I had told her to change herself in many aspects. But, she did not listen. Thus, I had to complain to then chief minister and chief secretary. She would not follow protocols. Due to the lapses, I managed to get her transferred. But, with the support of the Opposition leaders, she returned to Hassan,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rohini-sindhuri-misusing-system-alleges-manju-994197.html
05-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ready to quit if Mysuru will be Covid-free with my resignation: Somashekar||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar, on Saturday offered to tender his resignation if Mysuru will be Covid-free with his act. Speaking to reporters, he said, “If there are any lapses in my administration, I will accept suggestions for Covid-19 management, for the welfare of Mysuru.” The minister said that he is pained with the recent developments between IAS officers Shilpa Nag and Rohini Sindhuri. “I came to Mysuru with an intention to do good work. I have shared my pain with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. The conflict between the officers is not a serial story. Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar, who visited Mysuru on Friday, will submit a report to the CM. The CM will get information about the matter from his own sources. The serial would end soon,” Somashekar said. He said, “No one should be under an illusion that Covid will be controlled by him alone. Covid can be controlled with the support of all 11 MLAs of the district, three MPs, public, and organisations. Particularly, doctors, nurses, Asha workers play a big role.” Somashekar said, “Without taking the officials and people’s representatives into confidence, it is not possible to control Covid. 98% of door-to-door survey is done and ‘Vydyara Nadige Halligala Kadege’ has started.” Somashekar took exception to Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee working president R Dhruvanarayana demanding his resignation. “Let him understand his responsibility, first. In a video conference with the CM, the Congress party MLAs have appreciated the works taken up to control Covid,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ready-to-quit-if-mysuru-will-be-covid-free-with-my-resignation-somashekar-994199.html
05-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru artistes hone skills, help needy during lockdown||True to its epithet, ‘Cultural Capital of Karnataka’, Mysuru is home to numerous cultural ambassadors. The most popular and visible among them are actors. There are many actors in theatre, television and cinema, working in Bengaluru and beyond, who trace their origin to Mysuru. Besides, there are numerous actors who still claim Mysuru as their home, as they have their permanent residence here. Most of such actors have their own fan following and admirers. Such fans and admirers wonder what their favourite actor would be doing during the Covid lockdown. Roshni Prakash, an actor and model, who has worked in Kannada, Telugu and Tamil movies, is confined to her house, since the onset of the Covid pandemic. Over the past one year, she has not travelled much. But, that does not mean that she is idle. Roshni Prakash, a graduate from Sri Jayachamarajendra College of Engineering (SJCE), is an avid reader, with interest in music and dance. She is also trained in Kalaripayatu. A finalist in Femina Miss India South pageant in 2016, she has acted in films like Sapthagiri Express, Ajaraamara, Tiger Galli, Yemaali, Kavaludaari, Jada, and 47 Days. Besides, she is doing web series 11th Hour. She said, “To make good use of the time during lockdown, I am working on a script of an upcoming project. I spend four to five hours on the script, holding meetings and with my team members, planning and improvising it”. Roshni said, “I am doing a diploma course in Bharatanatyam from Tamil Nadu Dr J Jayalalithaa Music and Fine Arts University. I am also helping some needy persons in my locality.” Suhasini of Gattimela, Swathi, is busy coordinating with a few medical professionals, to create awareness among the people on health issues like chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), to check complications due to the Covidpandemic. Swathi, who was crowned Miss Karnataka, with miss beautiful eye and photogenic titles, entered films as a character artist in Madesha of Shivraj Kumar. Then she acted in Vijay Raghavendra’s Naliyona Baara and Vigneshwara, Chinnadatali of Tilak with director Vemgal Jagannath, Dandupalya, and Bidalare Endhu Ninna of Naveen Krishna. She participated in reality show Pyate Hudgeer Halli Lifu 2, hosted 5th Suvarna film awards red carpet and did serial Shubhavivaha, in a negative lead, for Zee Kannada. She did a cameo for serial Ganga as CBI officer. She did branding for Kanva and serial Nagakanikke in the negative lead. Currently, she is in serials Putta Gowri Madhuve, Ranganayaki and Sarvamangala Mangalye in the lead roles and Gattimela in the negative lead. Swathi said that during the lockdown last year, she was in Bengaluru and had adopted a locality in her area Uttarahalli, for Covid relief work. “This year, since the Covid curfew and lockdown, I am involved in cooking and distributing lunch for stranded migrants and destitutes, in association with an organisation. Besides, I read book and do some gardening at my house in Bogadi Second Stage,” she said. Kiran Raj, now doing the role of Harsha in serial Kannadathi, has resumed shooting in Hyderabad since 10 days. An actor, model, entrepreneur and philanthropist, he appears on both Kannada and Hindi television channels. He has acted in Kannada and Telugu movies. He has done movies like Watchman, March 22 and Asathoma Sadhgamaya. His TV shows are Heroes, Love by Chance, Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai, Tu Aashiqui, Crime Patrol, Aashayein, Life Super Guru, Dance Show on Suvarna TV, Devathe, Gundayena Hendthi, Chandramukhi, and Kinnari. His upcoming films are Bahaddur Gandu, Baddis, Chicken Puliyagre, Chatushpatha, Nuvve Na Pranam and Vikram Gowda. He said, “Through my Enlight Foundation, I have been doing some social work since 2016. During the lockdown now, when I was in Mysuru, we distributed grocery kits to needy people, including artistes.” He said, “As there is lockdown in Karnataka, shooting has shifted to Hyderabad. “Scripts have been changed a bit to have fewer characters so that they can travel for shooting.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-artistes-hone-skills-help-needy-during-lockdown-994200.html
05-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bank customers complain of apathy||At a time when the finances of people, firms and other establishments are either positively or negatively affected, depending on their sectors, amidst the Covid-19 crisis, people are complaining about apathy of banks in Mysuru. Since the imposition of complete lockdown from April 29, even essential services like provision stores and banks are open only on Mondays and Thursdays, that too only from 8 am to 12 noon. Despite the reduction in business hours, just eight hours a week, banks have reduced the attendance of their staff by 50%, causing inconvenience, complain customers. A reader said, “After lockdown was announced last week, banks are functioning only for two days a week. Even on these two days, they function from 8 am till 12 noon. There are long queues in front of many banks, across the city. It seems as if the managers are told that only 50% of the staff should work during lockdown. In Saraswathipuram branch of Canara Bank, only three staffers were working on Thursday. The queue was a mile long. Besides, there was no separate queue for senior citizens.” The reader said, “On Thursday morning, even the ATM next to the branch was closed. Since banks function on only two days a week, should not they have full strength of staff and also have two or more additional counters for the benefit of customers?” Mittanthaiah, deputy general manager, regional office, Canara Bank, said, “The bankers are serving with commitment, despite several limitations. Even though we were described as Covid warriors, we will get vaccination only from Monday. There is no such direction to reduce staff on duty. But, there are problems like illness to staffers and their family members.” “Some of the staffers, who are from neighbouring states, have been to their native place, due to the pandemic. So, we have staff shortage. If we depute officers from other branches also, some are either unwilling or unable to go there. We hope to normalise our services after the lockdown,” he said. He appealed to the customers to use other forms of banking, like use of debit cards, phone-banking and net-banking, as far as possible. “Our debit cards are user-friendly, even for senior citizens. We will direct the officials, to ensure sufficient cash in ATMs. We are willing to serve our customers to the best of our capacities,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bank-customers-complain-of-apathy-994201.html
05-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||B S Yediyurappa will continue as the Chief Minister of Karnataka: C T Ravi||B S Yediyurappa will continue as the Chief Minister of Karnataka and there is no question of changing him, BJP National General Secretary C T Ravi said on Saturday. "Some people are spreading rumours for personal gains," Ravi told reporters. He was in Delhi to attend BJP's national-level meeting, chaired by party president J P Nadda. "The party will not allow anybody to weaken the organisation and the government as well. Yediyurappa was unanimously elected as the Legislative Party leader in Karnataka and became the Chief Minister. Nobody can destabilise the state government, " he said. He also said that there is no need to give too much importance to Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar, who has criticised CM Yediyurappa and his family members. Ravi also clarified that the political developments of states were not discussed in the meeting. Instead, only mass Covid-19 vaccination programme was discussed. Karnataka's Mining Minister Murugesh Nirani, who was in Delhi on a private visit, held a meeting with Ravi. Nirani said that he met Ravi as a courtesy. "There was no politics in it," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/b-s-yediyurappa-will-continue-as-the-chief-minister-of-karnataka-c-t-ravi-994202.html
05-06-2021||National||DH Deciphers | What causes the rise and fall of Covid waves?||India’s first Covid-19 wave peaked last September and since then even though vaccines weren’t rolled out and stringent lockdown measures like those in March-May of 2020 weren’t imposed, cases started to drop over time. About six months later, in March this year, cases started to surge in what is now known as the second Covid-19 wave. Now, as the second wave tapers off, here's what we know about the rise and fall of Covid waves and why the second wave may be slowing down:  What could be the reason behind the second wave?  According to a study by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, about 20% of people who were seropositive (those who had Covid antibodies) lost their antibodies in the six months after the first survey. Researchers behind the study say that this could in part explain why India saw the second wave six months after the first. Serological surveys examine the number of people who have antibodies that work against a disease. About 75% of those who were seropositive did not report any symptoms.  Why and how people lose virus-neutralising antibodies is an observed biological phenomenon but remains unexplained.  What causes a dip and rise in Covid-19 waves?  In the study, researchers argue that based on falling test positivity rates, the transmission of Covid-19 decreased in regions that displayed high seropositivity. Emphasis on Covid-appropriate behaviour such as social-distancing and masking, too, spurred a drop in cases along with a high prevalence of antibodies in the population. About 10.14% of people in the study were seropositive, which suggests that there was a large number of those who recovered from Covid-19 by September 2020, especially among those who work in high-contact occupations, leading to a drop in new infections.  Data collected by the council shows that 20% of seropositive individuals lacked meaningful neutralisation activity from the antibodies after five to six months. These 20% of people are fresh candidates for reinfection after this period, while the rest may have antibodies that are stable for longer. This drop in antibody prevalence over time is supported by studies conducted in other parts of the world, bringing about a strong correlation between a drop in Covid cases and antibody prevalence over time.  "The rise or fall of an epidemic is roughly proportional to the prevalence of non-immune population that leads to a rise and a high proportion of immune population that slows down the spread," says Dr T Jacob John, eminent virologist and former head of the ICMR's Centre for Advanced Research in Virology.  So will the next Covid wave start in six months?  It cannot be guaranteed that the next wave will arrive in precisely six months as there are many factors that cause Covid-19 waves. "Once a wave has come down naturally, another wave will require virus variants that are more infectious than those in the second wave. In other words, antibody studies cannot predict waves," says Dr John. He adds that protection from reinfection lasts longer than just six months.  This cements the argument that though antibody-based serological surveys may act as a rough guide to when the next wave might come, they cannot be fully relied upon as virus variants are not accounted for in these studies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-what-causes-the-rise-and-fall-of-covid-waves-993922.html
05-06-2021||National||RBI cuts FY22 growth forecast||The Reserve Bank of India on Friday cut India’s economic growth forecast for the current financial year (2021-22) by a 100 basis points to 9.5% and announced a bigger programme of injecting money into the system to expand economic activities as the second Covid wave threatened to derail the budding economic recovery. The RBI will extend its monetary support through massive Rs 1.2-lakh crore government bond purchases to help keep interest rates low and support the government’s borrowing plans to push the economy. Governor Shaktikanta Das said the impulses of growth were still alive but policy support was needed from all sides to nurture economic recovery. The central bank also left the key lending (repo) rate at a record low of 4%, ensuring bank loans do not get costlier and announced a special window of Rs 15,000 crore cheap loans for the pandemic-battered hospitality sector that will help hotels, restaurants, tourism, rent-a-car services, spa clinics, beauty parlours and the likes.  It also extended special liquidity facility of Rs 16,000 crore to SIDBI for on-lending and refinancing to small businesses. This is on top of the Rs 50,000 crore already announced by the central bank in April to all Indian financial institutions that included SIDBI. Economists and sectoral experts welcomed the RBI’s additional steps to revive growth. "The Covid-19-loan book idea, first announced in the April policy, has now been extended to the contact-intensive sectors. This is a positive move for these sectors that are currently facing the brunt of the second wave," said CARE Ratings Chief Economist Madan Sabnavis  SBI chief economist Soumya Kanti Ghosh however said there were limits to monetary policy intervention and that the fiscal policy must also now aid the economy. "We firmly believe that even as RBI has taken many measures to reinvigorate credit offtake, it continues to be low because corporates have deleveraged by repaying high-cost loans through funds raised through bond issuances. Corporate willingness for new investments remains low among all-pervasive uncertainty. Only fiscal policy can rekindle animal spirits at this juncture – monetary policy has almost nil headroom," Ghosh said. Governor Das said the speed, scale and severity of the second wave of Covid-19 has impacted the economic recovery but added that unlike the first wave of the infections which brought the economy to an abrupt standstill under a nationwide lockdown, the impact of the second wave is expected to be relatively contained.  In addition to cutting growth forecast, the RBI also projected inflation to be at 5.1% in the fiscal, which is at the higher end of its target band.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rbi-cuts-fy22-growth-forecast-993927.html
05-06-2021||National||Media reports on Covid vaccine data of pvt hospitals 'not accurate': Centre||Private hospitals have been able to procure 1.29 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses in May, out of which they have administered 22 lakh doses, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday adding that comparing data from January 16 with a policy initiated on May 1 is "unfair and misleading". The ministry referred to a few media reports that mentioned "25 per cent doses (have been) allocated to private hospitals, but they account for only 7.5 per cent of total jabs". It said the reports are "not accurate and do not match with the available data".  "They deliberately compare two non-comparable data points to suggest a mismatch in allocation and administration of doses in the private sector," the ministry said in a statement. In May 2021, since the liberalised policy was introduced, a total of 7.4 crore doses were available for vaccination. "Out of these, 1.85 crore doses were earmarked for procurement by private hospitals. The private hospitals have been able to procure 1.29 crore doses in the month of May, 2021, out of which they have administered 22 lakh doses. These numbers translate into over 17 per cent," the ministry said.  It said that most of the supplies to private hospitals have materialised in the second half of May. The data shows an increasing trend of vaccines administered by private hospitals as the vaccine supply picked up by mid-May, the statement said. Government of India, in close partnership with all the states and UTs, is running one of the largest Covid-19 vaccination drives in the world since January 16. A 'Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy' was adopted on May 1 which is guiding the ongoing Phase III of the drive. Under the strategy, every month 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer would be procured by Government of India.  It would continue to make these doses available to the states and UTs totally free of cost as was being done earlier. The remaining 50 per cent doses are available for direct procurement by State/UT governments and private hospitals.  This strategy aims at incentivising the vaccine manufacturers to ramp up production and also attract new manufacturers. This will augment production resulting in wider availability of vaccines resulting in flexibility in pricing, procurement and administration of vaccines, ultimately resulting in improved coverage of vaccination. This was also done with a view to improve accessibility of services across the country, the statement said.  The Union Ministry of Health is working closely with all states and UTs to make the Covid-19 vaccination drive a success. In this regard, regular communication is being held all states and UTs to encourage private hospitals by placing orders with manufacturers. This has already been communicated to all states and UTs to leverage their network of private hospitals and trained staff, and contribute to the success of the vaccination drive, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/media-reports-on-covid-vaccine-data-of-pvt-hospitals-not-accurate-centre-993953.html
05-06-2021||National||Monsoons likely to get worse due to global warming, million years of data confirms||Global warming is likely to make India’s monsoon season wetter and more dangerous, new research suggests. Scientists have known for years that climate change is disrupting monsoon season. Past research based on computer models has suggested that the global heating caused by greenhouse gases, and the increased moisture in the warmed atmosphere, will result in rainier summer monsoon seasons and unpredictable, extreme rainfall events. The new paper, published Friday in the journal Science Advances, adds evidence for the theory by looking back over the past million years to give a sense of monsoons to come. The monsoon season, which generally runs from June to September, brings enormous amounts of rain to South Asia that are crucial to the region’s agrarian economy. Those rains directly affect the lives of one-fifth of the world’s population, nourishing or destroying crops, causing devastating flooding, taking lives and spreading pollution. The changes wrought by climate change could reshape the region, and history, the new research suggests, is a guide to those changes. The researchers had no time machine, so they used the next best thing: mud. They drilled core samples in the Bay of Bengal, in the northern Indian Ocean, where the runoff from of monsoon seasons drains away from the subcontinent. The core samples were 200 meters long and provided a rich record of monsoon rainfall. Wetter seasons put more fresh water into the bay, reducing the salinity at the surface. The plankton that live at the surface die and sink to the sediment below, layer after layer. Working through the core samples, the scientists analyzed the fossil shells of the plankton, measuring oxygen isotopes to determine the salinity of the water they lived in. The high-rainfall and low-salinity times came after periods of higher concentrations of atmospheric carbon dioxide, lower levels of global ice volume and subsequent increases in regional moisture-bearing winds. Now that human activity is boosting levels of atmospheric greenhouse gases, the research suggests, we can expect to see the same monsoon patterns emerge. Steven Clemens, a professor of earth, environmental and planetary sciences at Brown University and lead author of the study, said, “We can verify over the past million years increases in carbon dioxide in the atmosphere have been followed by substantial increases in rainfall in the South Asian monsoon system.” The predictions of the climate models are “wonderfully consistent with what we see in the past million years,” he said. Anders Levermann, a professor of climate dynamics at the Potsdam Institute in Germany who was not involved in the new paper but has produced research on climate model monsoon projections, said that he was pleased to see research that supported the findings of forward-looking climate models. “It’s a tremendous body of information,” he said, “and it’s really nice to see in actual data that reflects more than a million years of our planet’s history, to see the physical laws that we experience every day leave their footprints in this extremely rich paleo-record.” Levermann added that the consequences for the people of the Indian subcontinent are dire; the monsoon already drops tremendous amounts of rain and “can always be destructive,” he said, but the risk of “catastrophically strong” seasons is growing, and the increasingly erratic nature of the seasons holds its own risks. “And it is hitting the largest democracy on the planet — in many ways, the most challenged democracy on the planet,” he said. Clemens and other researchers took their samples during a two-month research voyage on a converted oil-drilling ship, the JOIDES Resolution. It carried a crew of 100 and 30 scientists on a trip that began in November 2014. “We were out over Christmas,” he recalled, and while “it’s difficult to be away from family that long,” the payoff has finally arrived. “We’ve been at this years,” he said, “creating these data sets. It’s satisfying to have this finally come out.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoons-likely-to-get-worse-due-to-global-warming-million-years-of-data-confirms-993955.html
05-06-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on June 5||India reported 1,20,529 new coronavirus infections — the lowest in 58 days — taking the country's total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,86,94,879. The recovery rate stood at 93.38 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,44,082 with 3,380 fresh deaths, while the active cases dropped further to 15 lakh, the data updated at 8 am showed.  Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 2,86,94,879 as of June 5, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 3,44,082 as of June 5, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> Total Vaccination: 22,41,09,448 No. of people discharged: 2,65,97,655  Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-june-5-993966.html
05-06-2021||National||There is a cloud looming over rural India and it is the fear of Covid-19 testing, vaccination||When health worker Neelam Kumari knocks on doors in villages the occupants sometimes run out the back, terrified that she wants to vaccinate them against Covid-19. With India's devastating recent virus surge easing in cities, the deadly pandemic is ravaging the vast poverty-stricken rural hinterland. But here, ignorance and fear rule. "A lot of people in my village don't want to take the vaccine. They fear that they will die if they take it," Kumari told AFP in Dhatrath, a collection of two-storey buildings in Haryana state with buffaloes wandering the streets. "One of the villagers was so angry that he beat up a (health) worker who was trying to convince him to take the vaccine." Just 15 per cent of people in rural areas, compared with 30 per cent in towns and cities, have received at least one vaccine dose so far -- even though two-thirds of cases are being reported in the villages, according to an analysis by The Hindu. Rumours are shared online or spread through messaging apps like WhatsApp. Fears that 5G causes Covid-19 led to mobile towers being attacked in Haryana. "People do not even step forward for testing as they think the government will declare them Covid-positive even if they are not," Shoeb Ali, a doctor in Miyaganj village in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, told AFP. This fear pervades despite the sight of bodies dumped in rivers and hundreds of shallow graves suggesting that Covid-19 is raging in rural India where 70 per cent of the population lives. In Nuran Khera village in Haryana, residents are reluctant to get inoculated even though they said many households reported having fever -- and dozens of people dying. "Even after opening up a vaccine centre here, nobody is ready to take it," villager Rajesh Kumar, 45, told AFP. "I won't take the vaccine because it has many side effects. People get sick after getting vaccines." In other states, reports have emerged of people jumping into rivers or fleeing into forests just to escape mobile health teams. Hom Kumari, a health worker at Bhatau Jamalpur village in Uttar Pradesh, said some locals seemed impossible to convince. "What do we tell someone who says, 'If I'm destined to live, I will, even without the vaccine'?," she asked. Health facilities are also few and far between and some people believe that going to a public hospital is more dangerous than staying away. "People who went to hospital never came back," another villager in Nuran Khera, who gave his first name as Kuldip, told AFP. Kumar said that when his wife fell sick, a private clinic wanted Rs 50,000 in advance to treat her. A doctor at a public hospital said to take her home. "My neighbours started saying she has corona. They were frightened," he added. "I took care of her and on the third day she was back on her feet." Coronavirus has also dealt the country's economy a heavy blow, and villagers are often more worried about making ends meet, said community health specialist Rajib Dasgupta. "It's extremely difficult to communicate why vaccination is important until some of those distressed conditions are alleviated," Dasgupta told AFP. Experts say that India needs to apply the lessons learnt in its polio vaccination campaign in the 2000s of children under five. The programme succeeded after trusted community leaders were involved to spread the message to parents that inoculation was safe. Using a similar approach, religious leaders in Uttar Pradesh were recently called in to encourage their followers to get vaccinated for coronavirus. Navneet Singh, who oversees immunisation efforts in Haryana's Jind district, says that face-to-face communication had helped ensure that nearly 70 per cent of over-45s in Kalwa and neighbouring villages have received at least one shot. Kalwa health worker Sheela Devi said her "heart was pounding" when her name was included in the vaccination list, but she was reassured when she saw the local doctor getting the shot. Now she works every day in the village, going door-to-door trying to talk people round, with some success. "Gradually they were convinced that even if they get corona after getting vaccinated, they won't need hospitalisation. They can take medicines and recover at home," the 45-year-old told AFP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/there-is-a-cloud-looming-over-rural-india-and-it-is-the-fear-of-covid-19-testing-vaccination-993985.html
05-06-2021||National||Twitter restores verified badge to VP Venkaiah Naidu's personal handle hours after removing it||Twitter on Saturday briefly removed the verified blue tick on the personal account of Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and some RSS leaders citing inactivity. The verified badge was restored after the Vice President’s office flagged the matter with Twitter. The ‘blue ticks’ on the RSS leaders' Twitter handles, though inactive, were also restored later. Besides Naidu, several top RSS leaders, including RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and Suresh Soni, also found their verified badges missing on Saturday morning. The Twitter accounts of RSS leaders Krishna Gopal, Arun Kumar, Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi also did not carry the verified badges. “Twitter India removed blue ticks of these handles of RSS office bearers. We are to get in touch, but no one responds. Strange. So, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu is not the only one. This digital imperialism cannot be tolerated,” Delhi RSS leader Rajiv Tuli said. According to Twitter, the personal account of Naidu – @MVenkaiahNaidu – had been inactive for nearly one year and the verified badge was removed by an algorithm designed to identify inactive accounts. Bhagwat, Soni and Joshi have not posted a single tweet since the accounts were created in May 2019. While Gopal and Kumar – both joint general secretaries of RSS – have re-tweeted a handful of tweets made from the RSS Twitter handle. Tuli said the verified badges on the Twitter handles were restored after "all the hackling". Officials in Naidu’s office said Twitter had restored the verified badge on the personal account before 10:30 am. The last tweet posted from Naidu’s personal handle was on July 23 last year. The Vice President uses the official Twitter handle @VPSecretariat to send out tweets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-restores-verified-badge-to-vp-venkaiah-naidus-personal-handle-hours-after-removing-it-993989.html
05-06-2021||National||India sees 1,20,529 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in 58 days; 3,380 deaths||India reported 1,20,529 fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest single-day rise in infections in around two months, taking the infection tally to 2,86,94,879, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll from Covid-19 climbed to 3,44,082 with 3,380 new fatalities, while the number of active cases was recorded below 20 lakh for the fifth consecutive day, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily new cases are the lowest in 58 days, the ministry said. A total of 20,84,421 tests were done on Friday, taking the cumulative tests conducted so far for the detection of Covid-19 in the country to 36,11,74,142. The daily positivity rate further dipped to 5.78 per cent, less than 10 per cent for the 12th consecutive day, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 6.89 per cent, it said. The active case count has reduced to 15,55,248, which comprises 5.73 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 93.08 per cent, the data showed.  The number of recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 23 consecutive days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,67,95,549, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.19 per cent, the data stated. The 3,380 new fatalities include 1,377 from Maharashtra, 364 from Karnataka, 463 from Tamil Nadu, 136 from Uttar Pradesh, 135 from Kerala, 113 from West Bengal. A total of 3,44,082 coronavirus-related deaths have been reported so far in the country including 98,771 from Maharashtra, 30,895 from Karnataka, 26,128 from Tamil Nadu, 24,497 from Delhi, 21,031 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,034 from West Bengal, 14,927 from Punjab and 13,162 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore Covid-19 cases on May 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-120529-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-58-days-3380-deaths-993991.html
05-06-2021||National||Government's schizophrenia led to Covid-19 ravage: Amartya Sen||India's "confused" government focused on taking credit for its actions, rather than working to restrict the spread of Covid-19, resulting in schizophrenia that led to massive troubles, Nobel laureate Amartya Sen has said. India was better placed to fight the pandemic because of its pharma manufacturing prowess and also higher immunity levels, the noted economist said while speaking at an event organised by the Rashtra Seva Dal late Friday evening. Sen's remarks came in the backdrop of the second wave of the pandemic seeing the number of officially reported cases topping over 4 lakh a day and over 4,500 deaths daily, and also concerns over under-reporting. Some eminent personalities have said a sense of early "triumphalism" led to the crisis. Sen said India could not play on its strengths because of a poor response to the crisis due to confusion in the government. "The government seemed much keener on ensuring credit for what it was doing rather than ensuring that pandemics do not spread in India. The result was a certain amount of schizophrenia," Sen said. Sen, who is a professor of economics and philosophy at Harvard University, cited writing by Adam Smith in 1769 wherein the father of modern economics argues that if one does good things, he does get credit for it. And the credit could be sometimes an indicator of how well one is doing. "But to seek the credit, and not the good work that generates the credit shows a level of intellectual naivete which has to be avoided. India tried to do that," Sen added. "It (government) was trying to generate the credit boasting across the world that India will save the world perhaps. And at the same time, allowing the problem to develop and have a grip over the lives of Indians across the country," he added. Sen said India was already afflicted with social inequities, slowing growth and unemployment at record highs, which came to haunt it during the pandemic. "A failure of economy and failure of social cohesion was the basis of the failure of the pandemic attack as well," he said, adding that limitations on education led to difficulties in assessing early symptoms and treatment protocols. Sen also argued for a "big constructive change" in healthcare and education above all, but also in economic and social policies in general.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/governments-schizophrenia-led-to-covid-19-ravage-amartya-sen-993997.html
05-06-2021||National||World sees India as a leader of climate justice: PM Modi says in World Environment Day address||Prime Minister Narendra Modi noted that in his World Environment Day address that India had come a long way over the past few years, as the rest of the world, which saw the country as a climate challenge, now sees it as a leader of climate justice. He added that India is a force against climate change. In the address, he spoke to sugarcane farmers who use ethanol as a biofuel and urged them to spread more awareness about the benefits of using it. The Prime Minister said that oil marketing companies (OMCs) had invested Rs 21,000 crore in ethanol and made most of it available to farmers. He also virtually launched an E-100 Pilot Project in Pune to promote the use of biofuels. The theme of his topic, as revealed in a tweet posted last evening was '‘promotion of biofuels for a better environment.’ Modi also hailed advancements in other areas, from wildlife conservation to the use of solar power. He said that the government's plan was to take forward the economy while also making better the country's ecology. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-sees-india-as-a-leader-of-climate-justice-pm-modi-says-in-world-environment-day-address-994021.html
05-06-2021||National||Twitter removes RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat's 'blue tick', later restores||After removing the verified badge from Vice President Naidu earlier in the day and restoring it, Twitter removed the blue tick from RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat's handle.  Bhagwat, who joined Twitter in May 2019, has over 2 lakh followers. However, the blue verification badge was later restored by Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-removes-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwats-blue-tick-later-restores-994024.html
05-06-2021||National||Centre issues final notice to Twitter over IT rules compliance||India on Saturday issued “one last notice” to Twitter to immediately comply with the new rules for digital media companies, failing which it would be liable for the content posted by its users. The notice to Twitter came after the social networking company failed to appoint a compliance officer and a nodal officer as required under the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. “Twitter Inc. is hereby given one last notice to immediately comply with the Rules, failing which the exemption from liability available under section 79 of the IT Act, 2000 shall stand withdrawn and Twitter shall be liable for consequences as per the IT Act and other penal laws of India,” the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology said in the notice. However, the ministry did not set any deadline for Twitter to comply by the rules. He said that the ministry had sent letters to Twitter on May 26 and May 28 regarding compliance to the IT rules and the responses it received neither address the clarifications sought nor indicate full compliance with the rules. “Leave alone proactively creating such a mechanism, Twitter Inc is in the inglorious bracket of refusing to do so even when mandated by law,” the ministry said in its notice to the company. “The refusal to comply demonstrates Twitter’s lack of commitment to efforts towards providing a safe experience for the people of India on its platform,” the ministry said. It pointed out that the Resident Grievance Officer and Nodal Contact Person nominated by the company was not an employee of Twitter as prescribed in the Rules and the office address mentioned was that of a law firm in India.  “Despite being operational in India for more than a decade, it is beyond belief that Twitter Inc has doggedly refused to create mechanism that will enable the people of India to resolve their issues on the platform in a timely and transparent manner and through fair processes, by India based, clearly identified resources,” the ministry said. The ministry said the people of India, who use the Twitter platform, deserve and demand fair mechanisms to address their grievances and resolve their disputes. “Users who are abused on the platform or are harassed or are subject to defamation or sexual abuse or become victims or a whole range of other abusive content must get redressal mechanism that the same people of India have created through the due process of law,” the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-issues-final-notice-to-twitter-over-it-rules-compliance-994028.html
05-06-2021||National||States, UTs have over 1.65 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses: Centre||More than 1.65 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and union territories, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. So far, over 24 crore doses have been provided to the states and UTs, it said in a statement. The total consumption, including wastage, stands at 22,65,08,508 doses, according to data available at 8 am on Saturday, the ministry said. "More than 1.65 crore (1,65,00,572) Covid vaccine doses are still available with the states/UTs to be administered," it said. So far, 24,30,09,080 vaccine doses have been provided free of cost to the states and UTs by the government of India and through the direct state procurement category, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-uts-have-over-165-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-centre-994054.html
05-06-2021||National||Delhi HC bars entities from illegally using brand name 'Khadi' for beauty pageant or business||Private entities involved in organising beauty pageants and other business activities by illegally using the brand name "Khadi" of Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) have been restrained by the Delhi High Court from carrying out any "misleading" activities in the name of Khadi. The Noida-based 'Khadi Design Council of India' (KDCI) and 'Miss India Khadi Foundation' (MIKF) were accused by the KVIC of fraudulently using the brand name and deceiving people. In an ex-parte order, the high court said the names of the two entities were "deceptively similar" to the KVIC's trademark 'Khadi' and hence, amounted to violation of the trademark. The high court also directed the defendants -- 'Khadi Design Council of India', 'Miss India Khadi Foundation' and its self-proclaimed CEO Ankush Anami -- to take down all their social media accounts on Instagram, YouTube and Facebook under the tradename 'Khadi Design Council of India' and 'Miss India Khadi'. The high court accepted the arguments of the KVIC that the defendants' websites and social media pages have been scripted and structured in a manner that gives the impression that they are the same as the KVIC or they are part of a government body providing the same services as the Khadi India. "The same demonstrates the serious bad faith on part of the defendants and their intention to mislead the consumers and ride on the plaintiff's goodwill," the KVIC alleged. The KVIC alleged that the private entities were planning and advertising two events titled 'Miss India Khadi' and 'National Khadi Designers Awards, 2019' in Goa from December 19 to 22, 2020, and thus creating a false impression that the events are organized by the KVIC. Taking note of KVIC's contention, Justice Sanjeev Narula said, "The plaintiff (KVIC) has established a prima facie case in its favour... An irreparable loss would be caused to the plaintiff, i.e. KVIC in case an ex-parte interim injunction is not granted." KVIC Chairman Vinai Kumar Saxena welcomed the court order saying this would deter individuals and firms from illegally using brand name Khadi and luring people on false promises. "The activities of 'Khadi Design Council of India' and 'Miss India Khadi' is a clear case of duping people using the name of 'Khadi'. These entities have no connection or affiliation with Khadi at all. Those who have been duped, must seek a refund and lodge complaint against these fraud entities," Saxena said. It is pertinent to mention that KVIC, in recent times, has won several cases against violation of its trademark 'Khadi'. An arbitration tribunal in Delhi last month had said that 'Khadi' was not a generic name to be used by private individuals or firms while permanently restraining an individual from using the brand name 'Khadi'. In March this year, the Delhi High Court had also restrained a firm from using brand name Khadi and the charkha symbol to sell its products under the name "IWEARKHADI". The KVIC in the last few years has acted tough against such violators. So far, the KVIC has issued legal notices to over 1,000 private firms, including Fabindia, for misusing its brand name and selling products under the name of Khadi. The KVIC has sought damages to the tune of Rs 500 crore from Fabindia which is pending before the Mumbai High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-bars-entities-from-illegally-using-brand-name-khadi-for-beauty-pageant-or-business-994055.html
05-06-2021||National||India committed to countering impact of Covid-19, says Santosh Gangwar||India is committed towards making all possible efforts to counter the impact of the pandemic and emerge stronger, Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar has said. He was addressing the virtual Non-Aligned Movement Labour Ministers Meeting under 109th session of the International Labour Conference last evening. Gangwar noted that the world has witnessed loss of lives and livelihood, slowdown of economies and adverse impact on all sections of the society, especially the weaker ones. He said there is a need to ensure better support to the healthcare systems, social protection and employment generation. "Governments are required to deal with the pandemic and provide an effective response at policy levels, to balance business continuity, income security and above everything, well-being of all," he added. The minister said India has undertaken a massive vaccination drive, and total 22.3 crore vaccines have been administered so far. He said there have been extraordinary changes in the lives and livelihoods and new approach should be developed for style of work. Use of digital platforms has posed challenges but also provided more opportunities. He added that India has made legal framework for social security of Gig and Platform workers. A gig worker is someone who takes on hourly or part-time jobs, while the one working for an organization which provides specific services using online platform directly to individuals or organizations is called a platform worker. Gangwar said employment being an important aspect, India is putting key efforts through various schemes and programmes to provide employment and support on health and financial fronts also. India launched Aatmanirbhar Bharat package worth Rs 27 lakh crore for self-reliance to strengthen the economy, which also includes payment of EPF contributions up to 24 per cent of wages by the government for eligible new employees. Further, collateral free loans worth Rs 9 lakh crore have been disbursed under MUDRA Yojana in the last three years, having around 70 per cent accounts of women. The minister added that increase in daily wages, under Mahatma Gandhi NAREGA scheme for rural India, has resulted in employment generation of 390 crore man days during last financial year alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-committed-to-countering-impact-of-covid-19-says-santosh-gangwar-994065.html
05-06-2021||National||Arrested Mehul Choksi's wife will write to Queen Elizabeth, urge husband's 'safe return' to Antigua||Mehul Choksi’s wife Priti Choksi has said the fugitive businessman’s family and lawyers were drafting a petition to the Queen of England to have her husband returned from Dominica to Antigua, where he is a citizen. Antigua and Barbuda is a constitutional monarchy and part of the British commonwealth, with Queen Elizabeth II officially its reigning monarch and head of state since 1981. Though most of the Queen’s powers in the islands are exercised by the governor-general, the Queen does reserve certain powers only she can wield. The diamantaire is one of the key accused in the Rs 13,500-crore Punjab National Bank scam, along with his nephew Nirav Modi, who is also facing extradition in the United Kingdom. Choksi, on the other hand, had gained citizenship in Antigua and had moved there when the fraud case started gathering pace, taking refuge under its laws against deportation. Choksi is currently fighting a legal battle against his deportation to India in a high court in Dominica, where his legal team and family claim he was taken to against his will and beaten, alleging a conspiracy between Indian and Antiguan authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arrested-mehul-choksis-wife-will-write-to-queen-elizabeth-urge-husbands-safe-return-to-antigua-994069.html
05-06-2021||National||Discovery India partners with UN India and WWF India to launch #StopTheMelt campaign||Marking World Environment Day a campaign titled #StopTheMelt, raising awareness about the need of a greener and healthier Earth, was launched on Saturday by Discovery India in partnership with UN India and WWF India. As part of the campaign, a special film was released to ignite hope for a better tomorrow with the help of simple yet impactful call to action like tree plantation and avoiding plastics usage. Famous personalities such as actor-host Malaika Arora, Dia Mirza, Pratik Gandhi, filmmaker Neeraj Pandey, film producer Shital Bhatia, tennis player Sania Mirza and environmentalist Ivan Carter, Nigel Marven have supported the cause of re-analysing one's habits and save the environment. "We remain steadfast in our commitment to driving awareness about the need for reduction of human impact on the environment. We are proud to extend our partnership with UN India and WWF India, two most powerful and recognized forces working relentlessly towards environment conservation," Megha Tata, Managing Director, South Asia- Discovery Inc said in a statement. The real-life entertainment channel also changed its logo to deepen understanding of the impact of global warming, and to "encourage people to take action today for a better tomorrow." Ravi Singh, secretary general & CEO, WWF, said the only way to deal with the dual threats of climate change and nature loss is to act in unison and the campaign highlights that need. "This year, on World Environment Day, the focus is to invest our efforts to conserve, protect and restore our ecosystems, which is the solution to a sustainable future. WWF India has always taken pride to partner with Discovery India for campaigns driving the message to conserve nature and to secure a better future by putting both the health of people and our planet first," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/discovery-india-partners-with-un-india-and-wwf-india-to-launch-stopthemelt-campaign-994083.html
05-06-2021||National||India advances 20% ethanol-blending in petrol to 2025, says PM Modi||Seeking to reduce reliance on imported crude oil, India has advanced the target date for achieving 20 per cent ethanol-blending in petrol by five years to 2025, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. India imports 85 per cent of its crude oil requirement. “The target for mixing 20 per cent ethanol in petrol has been brought forward from 2030 to 2025,” PM Modi said at the release of ethanol blending road map 2020-25 on the occasion of World Environment Day. Currently, about 8.5 per cent ethanol is mixed with petrol as against 1-1.5 per cent in 2014, he said adding higher blending has led to ethanol procurement jumping from 38 crore litres to 320 crore litres. Ethanol extracted from sugarcane as well as damaged food grains such as wheat and broken rice and agriculture waste is less polluting and its use also provides farmers with an alternate source of income. Earlier this week, the Petroleum Ministry had issued a gazette notification mandating start of up to 20 per cent blending of ethanol in petrol from April 1, 2023. All petrol sold in the country is targeted to have 20 per cent ethanol by 2025.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-advances-20-ethanol-blending-in-petrol-to-2025-says-pm-modi-994090.html
05-06-2021||National||TV actor Pearl Puri arrested for rape of minor||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tv-actor-pearl-puri-arrested-for-rape-of-minor-994093.html
05-06-2021||National||Blue badge taken off if account inactive for 6 months or incomplete: Twitter||Amid outrage over personal accounts of Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat losing verified blue tick marks, Twitter on Saturday said the blue badge and verified status could be automatically removed from an account if it is incomplete or inactive for six months as per its rules. Many other accounts of prominent Sangh names like Suresh Joshi and Arun Kumar also saw similar actions being taken. On Saturday, Twitter said as per its verification policy, the microblogging platform may automatically remove the blue verified badge and verified status if the account becomes inactive or is incomplete. "Inactivity is based on logging in. To keep the account active, the account holder must make sure to log in at least every 6 months,” Twitter said. Accounts holders that sport the blue badge must also ensure that their profiles are complete and include either a verified email address or phone number as well as a profile image and a display name, as per the rules. Twitter, however, did not disclose the number and details of the accounts that had been actioned under these rules. The coveted 'blue badge' helps users distinguish the authenticity of accounts that are of high public interest, and gives Twitter users more context about who they're having conversations with, the micro-blogging platform had earlier stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/blue-badge-taken-off-if-account-inactive-for-6-months-or-incomplete-twitter-994119.html
05-06-2021||National||Centre wants action against your handle: Twitter tells cartoonist Manjul||Don't spare me, Shankar, India's first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru had told the legendary cartoonist in the 1950s. But now, well-known cartoonist Manjul is facing trouble with the Indian authorities approaching Twitter about the content on his handle. Manjul received a communication from Twitter informing him that the Indian authorities have flagged his social media account as posting content that violates laws. He has drawn a series of cartoons, which questioned the Modi government on its handling of Covid-19 pandemic. In an email to Manjul, which he shared on Twitter handle @MANJULtoons with a follower base of 1.73 lakh, the social media giant said the Indian law enforcement has sought action on the matter. The email said Twitter has not taken any action on the reported content at this time as a result of this request. "As Twitter strongly believes in defending and respecting the voice of our users, it is our policy to notify our users if we receive a legal request from an authorised entity (such as law enforcement or a government agency) to remove content from their account. We provide notice whether or not the user lives in the country where the request originated," it said. The email said Twitter understands that receiving this type of notice can be an "unsettling experience" and that it cannot provide legal advice. However, Twitter said it wants Manjul to have an opportunity to evaluate the request and if he wishes take "appropriate action to protect" his interests. It suggested that Manjul could take legal counsel and challenge the request in court, contacting relevant civil society organisations, voluntarily deleting the account (if applicable), or finding some other resolution. Posting the letter, he tweeted, "Jai ho, Modiji ki sarkaar ki (Hail the Modi government)." He also tweeted, "Thankfully, the Modi government has not asked for taking down the handle. This cartoonist is irreligious and atheist. He does not consider Modi his God." "By the way, if the government had told which tweet was the problem, it would have been better. The same thing could be done again. And people would also be benefited," Manjul, who has posted around 50,400 tweets since 2009 when he joined the platform, said. The latest action comes even as Twitter is at loggerheads with the government over the intermediary rules. The government has shot off a letter to Twitter for not complying fully with the new rules. Earlier in February, Twitter had withheld around 250 accounts, including those of Kisan Ekta Morcha, Caravan magazine, journalists and activists,  posting updates on farmers' protest on government request. However, the accounts were restored soon. Last month, around 50 tweets, including those of Congress leader Pawan Khera, questioning the government on its Covid-19 handling were taken down. In the second half of May, Twitter tagged senior BJP leader Sambit Patra's post on a 'toolkit' which he claimed is that of Congress as "manipulated media'' while the government wanted it to remove the classification. Twitter did not accede to the demand even as Delhi Police personnel "visited" its offices for serving notices asking its officials to join the probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-wants-action-against-your-handle-twitter-tells-cartoonist-manjul-994154.html
05-06-2021||National||Delhi government starts free distribution of food grains to non-PDS beneficiaries||The Delhi government has started free distribution of five kg food grains to non-PDS beneficiaries, Food and Civil Supplies Minister Imran Hussain said on Saturday. The five kg food grains include four kg wheat and one kg rice. These are being distributed free of cost to those beneficiaries who do not have ration cards, the minister said in a statement. "The non-PDS ration is being distributed from designated schools from 10 am to 4 pm with weekly-off on Sunday. The fair price shops are open on all seven days to provide free of cost ration to National Food Security (NFS) beneficiaries from 9 am to 1 pm and from 3 pm to 7 pm without any weekly off," Hussain said. The non-PDS beneficiaries include unorganised workers, migrant workers, building and construction workers and domestic help. "This distribution is being carried out from one school in each of 280 wards of Delhi," the minister said. The city government also stated that each school identified for the distribution of non-PDS ration has been provided a login id and password for entering the stock for record-keeping and for the purpose of registration at the site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-government-starts-free-distribution-of-food-grains-to-non-pds-beneficiaries-994159.html
05-06-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Centre issues final notice to Twitter over IT rules compliance||In your evening news brief, G7 nations sign key pact to make tech giants pay fair taxes; Centre issues final notice to Twitter over IT rules compliance and GST revenues up 65% in May at Rs 1.02 lakh crore.  The world's richest countries signed a landmark agreement Saturday committing them to confront corporate tax avoidance and making sure that giant tech companies pay their fair share, Britain's treasury chief said. Rishi Sunak, chancellor of the exchequer, said finance ministers from the Group of Seven leading industrialised nations signed the pact on the second and final day of meetings in London. The G7 ministers agreed in principle to a global minimum tax rate of 15 per cent for multinational companies in each country they operate in. GST revenue mop-up remained above the Rs 1 lakh crore mark for the eighth straight month in May at over Rs 1.02 lakh crore. The May 2021 collection is 65 per cent higher than Rs 62,009 crore the Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue of May 2020. Collections last year were impacted as economic activity took a hit due to the nationwide lockdown imposed to check the spread of Covid-19. However, the revenue for May 2021 is lower than the record over Rs 1.41 lakh crore GST collected in April 2021. India on Saturday issued “one last notice” to Twitter to immediately comply with the new rules for digital media companies, failing which it would be liable for the content posted by its users. The notice to Twitter came after the social networking company failed to appoint a compliance officer and a nodal officer as required under the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-centre-issues-final-notice-to-twitter-over-it-rules-compliance-994161.html
05-06-2021||National||Fact-check: Videos of health workers ‘pretending’ to inject Covid-19 vaccine are not from India||As countries vaccinate their population against the novel coronavirus, several videos showing healthcare workers administrating empty syringes have surfaced on the Indian social media ecosystem. Facebook user Shashi Dhar Mehta wrote, “Be careful during vaccination. Don’t turn your face getting the jab, check if the medicine has been administered or not. The staff only prick the needle and take it out. Be careful during this difficult time.” He shared four videos to support the claim. Be careful during Vaccinationटीका लगाते समय मुँह ना घुमायें,यह देख ले कि दवाई अंदर गयी है या नहीं…स्टाफ केवल सूई चुभा कर निकाल लेते हैइस कठिन समय में सतर्कता बरतें..👆👆  टीका लगाते समय मुँह ना घुमायें,यह देख ले कि दवाई अंदर गयी है या नहीं…नर्सिंग स्टाफ केवल सूई चुभा कर निकाल लेते हैइस कठिन समय में भ्रष्टाचार की हद हो गयी … दोनों वीडियो में देखें Video 1 This video shows an elderly woman wearing a dark blue T-shirt getting a vaccine dose in a vehicle. The video shows the healthcare worker insert the needle in the woman’s arm but not push the syringe to inject the vaccine. A reverse image search of the video’s keyframes on Google revealed that the video is from the Brazilian city of Goiania. Facebook page ‘CBN Goiânia’ had posted the video on February 10. The page wrote that the daughter, 57, of an 88-year-old woman, claimed that her mother was not vaccinated by a nurse. The daughter, Luciana Jordão, had recorded the video. The nurse apologised upon Jordão’s questioning and gave the excuse that she did not realise that the syringe wasn’t pushed. CBN contacted the Municipal Health Department for comment and the outlet was told that the matter is under investigation.   DENÚNCIA | A filha de uma idosa de 88 anos denuncia que a mãe não recebeu a vacina contra a Covid-19 na primeira aplicação, na manhã desta quarta-feira (10), em Goiânia. À TV Anhanguera ela disse que a enfermeira enfiou a agulha no braço da mãe, mas não injetou a dose do imunizante. O momento foi filmado pela aposentada Luciana Jordão, de 57 anos, filha da idosa. Segundo Luciana, a mãe só foi devidamente imunizada após ela perceber que o líquido na seringa não havia sido aplicado e questionar a enfermeira, durante a vacinação no Setor Universitário. Luciana relata que a enfermeira respondeu que havia vacinado, mas, ao ser confrontada sobre o líquido estar na seringa, pediu desculpas e disse que não tinha percebido. A CBn foi atrás de uma resposta da Secretaria Municipal de Saúde e, segundo a SMS o caso já chegou até eles e que o órgão está averiguando caso. #noarnacbn Video 2 This video shows a healthcare worker using an empty syringe on an elderly man. Alt News had debunked this video in April.    A press release issued by the Secretariat of Health of Mexico City informed, “This event was reported by a family member accompanying the elderly adult, who was offered an apology and proceeded to apply the vaccine correctly, without major complications in the presence of his family, who in turn witnessed the procedure and reported on their social networks that the situation was corrected. It is reported that the volunteer vaccinator was removed from the corresponding vaccination cell.” [Translated via Google translate] Video 3  Video 4 Another video of a nurse removing the needle without injecting the vaccine was shared by Ecuador-based Twitter handle @gabriela_ma94 on April 26. Former Minister of Health of Ecuador Dr Camilo Salinas responded to the handle that the nurse and the patient have been identified and an investigation has been launched. The Ministry of Health of Ecuador had tweeted a press release on April 26 itself that said the nurse was identified. The incident took place at a vaccination centre in Mucho Lote in Guayaquil. A set of videos from across the world have been circulating in India with the false claim that healthcare workers are inserting needles and taking them out without administering vaccines on patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-videos-of-health-workers-pretending-to-inject-covid-19-vaccine-are-not-from-india-994163.html
05-06-2021||National||Karnataka mulling considering CET, NEET marks for vocational courses||The Karnataka government would soon take a decision on considering the marks in the Common Entrance Test and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test for vocational courses, instead of the PUC second year marks, Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said on Saturday. In a statement, he said Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar's proposal in this regard will be taken into account. While announcing on Friday that PUC students would be promoted to the next grade due to the disruption caused by Covid-19 this academic year, Kumar had said the marks obtained in the first year pre-university exam would be the basis to allow them in the second year PU exam. "Suresh Kumar has given good advice to do away with the criteria of minimum marks for admission to the engineering and medical courses. Instead, he has suggested that CET Rank be considered. A decision will be taken soon in consultation with relevant authorities and higher education experts," the deputy chief minister said.  Narayan stressed the need to amend the Karnataka Education Act to do away with the provision of minimum marks. The state government had on Friday announced that SSLC or 10th standard examinations will be held in the third week of July while cancelling the second year pre-university exams in view of the disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-mulling-considering-cet-neet-marks-for-vocational-courses-994172.html
05-06-2021||National||Maharashtra man with 'bomb' demands Rs 55 lakh from bank, arrested||A bank branch in Wardha in Maharashtra was the scene of an intense drama after a man walked in masked and handed over a piece of paper to a staffer informing that he intended to set off a bomb he was carrying if payment of Rs 55 lakh was not made in 15 minutes, police said on Saturday. The incident happened in a bank in Sevagram on Friday afternoon, an official said, adding that the letter claimed the "suicide bomber" was suffering from a terminal ailment and needed the money to pay exorbitant medical bills. "He told the bank staffers that he had nothing to lose by setting off the bomb. The bank is situated just opposite our police station and the staffers managed to alert us even as the accused was going about threatening them," he said. The man was nabbed and a fake bomb comprising a digital watch and six pipes filled with plaster of Paris wired together, a knife and an air pistol were recovered, the official said. "He has been identified as Yogesh Kubade, who runs a cyber cafe. He was trying to pull off this stunt to repay loans, and ordered the items to create his fake bomb online," said Sub Inspector Ganesh Saykar. A case was registered a further probe was underway, the Sevagram police station official informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-man-with-bomb-demands-rs-55-lakh-from-bank-arrested-994173.html
05-06-2021||National||Farmers renew demand for repeal of 'killer farm laws'||Agitating farmers on Saturday marked the first anniversary of the “killer farm laws” and renewed the demand for their immediate repeal. Stepping up protests in Haryana and Punjab, farmers’ groups took out “mock funerals” of the three farm laws and staged sit-in demonstrations outside the homes of BJP leaders in the two states. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella group spearheading the farmers’ protests, had given a call to organise mass demonstrations and sit-in protests and are set to hold events across the country on Sunday to remember the six farmers who were killed in police firing at Mandsaur in Madhya Pradesh in 2017. Congress extended support to the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws and urged the Modi government to shun its ego and repeal the “black agrarian laws” forthwith.  “Today, on the anniversary of these black laws, the Modi government should withdraw its decision and abrogate these laws immediately,” AICC General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said. “In these black laws, the BJP government created opportunities for hoarding & black marketing of food grains for its capitalist friends while the farmers had to brave lathi charge, water cannons and tear gas shells,” Surjewala said. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh have been protesting on the borders of the national capital since November 26 demanding repeal of the three farm laws. The Modi government held 11 rounds of talks with the farmers and offered to suspend the three laws for 18 months. However, the farmers stuck to their demand for repeal of the laws and continued their protests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-renew-demand-for-repeal-of-killer-farm-laws-994181.html
05-06-2021||National||After high-level BJP, RSS meets, party workers to hit the ground to counter Opposition narrative||Going in election mode nine months before elections in Uttar Pradesh, the BJP has decided to launch a massive counter-offensive against the Opposition's attack on its handling of Covid-19. The saffron party is set to involve its various cells and departments nationwide to counter the anti-government narrative. The strategy was discussed at a meeting of party general secretaries and office bearers with BJP chief J P Nadda in the national capital, after which Union Minister Hardeep Puri addressed the media rebutting Congress's charges on the vaccination programme and the Central Vista project. After a threadbare discussion with general secretaries, the BJP's top leadership held a meeting with all departments and cells related to farmers, women, OBC and SC/ST. Later, Nadda went to brief Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the meetings. The two-day huddle of BJP's top leaders began on Saturday when similar three-day confabulations of RSS top brass concluded in the national capital amid a buzz of plans for key organisational changes in Yogi Adityanath-ruled Uttar Pradesh, which has 80 Lok Sabha seats including Varanasi from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi is an MP. The BJP has officially ruled out rumours of a change of guard in Uttar Pradesh, which arose amid criticism of the state government's handling of the coronavirus crisis and the talks of elevation of Gujarat cadre IAS officer-turned-UP-MLC Arvind Sharma as Deputy Chief Minister. While Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand along with Manipur and Goa will go to the polls in less than nine months, the home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Amit Shah Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh, the home state BJP chief J P Nadda, will go polls in late next year. The BJP is in power in six of seven states barring Punjab and hence any outcome against the ruling party will be considered a referendum on the party for the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. While the party is worried over the pandemic outcome in all states, the worry is bigger in the Hindi belt, where health infrastructure is in a mess. In Punjab, the BJP has lost its ally Shiromani Akali Dal over farm laws issues, which has led to six-month-long protests by farmer bodies in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. The Congress has been concertedly building up a narrative of "policy paralysis" against the Modi government citing floating bodies of coronavirus victims in river Ganges, Covid-19 deaths in hospital and the lack of oxygen and medicines, an offensive which the BJP tried to counter by augmenting its Seva Hi Sangathan programme with the RSS chipping in with its volunteers to help people.  After the meeting, BJP fielded Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri to counter the Congress campaign on vaccination and Central Vista matter.  "Congress opposed ongoing work on Central Vista Avenue & new Parliament but its govt began work on 160 luxurious houses for Rajasthan MLAs for ₹266 cr. Building bylaws flouted. 28 mtr tall building allowed as a “special case” against a 15 mtr rule.  Special Case of Hypocrisy!," Puri said on Twitter. Congress opposed ongoing work on Central Vista Avenue & new Parliament but its govt begins work on 160 luxurious houses for Rajasthan MLAs for ₹266 cr. Building bylaws flouted.28 mtr tall building allowed as a “special case” against a 15 mtr rule. Special Case of Hypocrisy! The Union minister also raked up vaccine controversy in Congress-ruled Punjab, accusing it of 'profiteering' by selling Covid-19 vaccines to private hospitals and demanding resignations. Alleging that large doses of vaccines were found dumped in Rajasthan, he slammed the top Congress leadership for questioning the Modi government's vaccine policy. On a day farmers protested outside the residences and offices of BJP MP and MLAs, an agitation which got the backing of Opposition parties, Puri slammed the political parties for "spreading misinformation." Highlighting the work done by party workers during the Covid-19 pandemic, the BJP said that it served people in more than 1.53 lakh villages/bastis of 33 states on Seva Divas as part of Seva Hi Sangathan programme and reeled out figures of blood donation, distribution of masks and sanitisers, medicines and ration kits. Sangh has meanwhile also asked its workers to get ready to work on the ground in view of projections about the third wave of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-high-level-bjp-rss-meets-party-workers-to-hit-the-ground-to-counter-opposition-narrative-994183.html
05-06-2021||National||Veteran Odia actor Atal Bihari Panda dies at 92||Veteran Odia actor Atal Bihari Panda, who was also a renowned playwright and lyricist, died due to old age-related ailments at VIMSAR, Burla in Sambalpur district on Saturday, family sources said. He was 92. Panda had lost his wife a few days ago, they said. Born in Binika village in Subarnapur district, Panda started acting in theatre in 1944. He had acted in over 100 dramas and also written 65 stage and radio plays, many of which were in the Sambalpuri language. Panda was considered one of the pioneer playwrights of Sambalpuri theatre. 'Phata Kapal' written by him was the first printed Sambalpuri play. His second drama in the language, 'Bhains Aage Nagdhuni' was also much talked about. After seeing one of his plays, former Odisha chief minister Dr Harekrushna Mahtab had suggested that he writes opera scripts. Panda, who was in government service, went on to write six opera scripts during his posting at Cuttack. 'Baagha Matichi', an opera written by him, had created a high-voltage sensation. 'Mani Sangraha' and 'Klanta Aparanha' are among his popular Odia plays. His Sambalpuri play 'Sadgati' had secured many awards in different competitions. Panda was also a renowned lyricist who penned many famous Sambalpuri songs. Most of the popular songs sung by Late Fakir Patnaik were written by him. He left people stunned by venturing into the world of cinema at the age of 83, debuting as an actor in the 2013 Sambalpuri movie 'Sala Budha'. Panda continued to mesmerise the audience with his two subsequent movies 'Adim Vichar' and 'Sala Budhar Badla' directed by Sabyasachi Mahapatra. Panda has received two back-to-back Odisha State Film Awards for best actor. He has also given D Litt by Sambalpur University on its 30th convocation in 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/veteran-odia-actor-atal-bihari-panda-dies-at-92-994192.html
05-06-2021||National||Gadkari calls for increasing MSMEs share in GDP to 40%||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Saturday stressed on increasing the share of the MSME sector in the country's GDP to 40 per cent from 30 per cent currently. Addressing a virtual event, Gadkari said the world is now favouring India instead of China. "We need to increase our GDP growth and agriculture growth rate. We can make Indian economy as one of the strongest economy of the world," the road transport, highways and MSME minister said. Gadkari also stressed on making the country self-sufficient in edible oil production. Noting that due to Covid-19 pandemic, the whole world is in danger, he said, "We are going to win the war against the Covid-19 pandemic." Gadkari said US-based Triton Electric Vehicle LLC will soon enter the Indian market. "Triton Electric Vehicle LLC will enter into Indian market . And this company's electric truck is better than American electric car Tesla," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gadkari-calls-for-increasing-msmes-share-in-gdp-to-40-994193.html
05-06-2021||National||Two doses of Covid-19 vaccine can help battle breakthrough infections||The two-dose Covid-19 vaccine regimen helps battle “breakthrough infections”, triggered mostly by the highly infectious Delta variant of the SARS-CoV-2. The risk of such infections is higher among healthcare professionals, three separate studies have found. According to an ICMR estimate, the prevalence of breakthrough infections varies between two to four in 10,000 cases among the general population in India but a new research from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, shows 16 in every 1,000 fully vaccinated healthcare workers develop such infections. Breakthrough infections are those cases in which a person gets the Covid-19 infection 14 days after receiving the second dose of the vaccine. “Among the healthcare workers who received both doses and completed at least 14 days of follow-up after the second dose, the incidence of breakthrough infection was 1.6 per cent (48 of 3,000 health care workers),” the PGI researchers said in a brief communication published in the New England Journal of Medicine. This is India's biggest survey of breakthrough infections on healthcare workers, who are exposed to much higher infection risk. The study was conducted on 12,248 healthcare workers, 7,170 of whom had received the first dose of vaccine, and 3,650 got the second dose. They received Covishield. The prevalence reported in the PGI study is three times more than such incidences reported by an US study after healthcare workers were inoculated with Pfizer or Moderna vaccines. In the second study on 63 individuals having breakthrough infections in Delhi, no death was reported although the patients had elevated viral load and high grade of fever lasting for five to seven days. During the subsequent course of illness, neither did the disease worsen (biomarkers were stable) nor mortality was reported, the researchers from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, here and Institute for Genomics and Integrative Biology stated. Twenty four of them are healthcare workers from AIIMS, Delhi. The zero mortality, said a researcher, was evidence of the protection offered by the vaccine. Out of 63 patients, as many as 53 received Covaxin while ten received Covishield. The third study conducted by scientists at IGIB and the National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi has demonstrated that the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 (B1.617.2) is capable of very fast rising outbreaks with vaccination breakthroughs as seen in Delhi. They showed a higher breakthrough risk of Delta compared to Alpha (B1.1.7) that was the second most common variant found in Delhi but it was not associated with breakthrough cases. The Delta variant has now become the dominating strain in most parts of India. Despite such risks, only 68.5 lakh healthcare workers received two doses of the vaccine even after five months, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-can-help-battle-breakthrough-infections-994195.html
05-06-2021||National||Income Tax department to launch new e-filing portal on June 7||The Income Tax Department on Saturday said it will launch on June 7 a new e-filing portal which would be integrated with immediate processing of Income Tax Returns (ITRs) for quick refund issuance. The portal,to be launched on June 7, is aimed at providing taxpayer convenience and seamless experience to taxpayers, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said in a statement. The CBDT said that the new tax payment system will be launched on June 18, 2021, after the advance tax instalment date to avoid any taxpayer inconvenience. The mobile app will also be released subsequent to the initial launch of the portal, to enable taxpayers to get familiar with the various features. Giving key highlights of the portal, the CBDT said all interactions and uploads or pending actions will be displayed on a single dashboard for follow-up action by taxpayer. Free of cost ITR preparation software would be made available with interactive questions to help taxpayers filing returns in ITRs 1, 2 and 4. Facility for preparation of ITRs 3, 5, 6, 7 will be made available shortly. The new taxpayer friendly portal would be integrated with immediate processing of ITRs to issue quick refunds to taxpayers, it added. Also taxpayers will be able to proactively update their profile to provide certain details of income including salary, house property, business/profession which will be used in pre-filling their ITR. Besides, call centre for taxpayer assistance for prompt response to taxpayer queries would be launched and detailed FAQs, user manuals, videos and chatbot/live agent would also be provided. Functionalities for filing Income Tax Forms, add tax professionals, submit responses to notices in Faceless Scrutiny or Appeals would be available. "Familiarisation with the new system may take some time, so, the Department requests the patience of all taxpayers/stakeholders for the initial period after the launch of the new portal and while other functionalities get released since this is a major transition," the statement added. ITR Form 1 (Sahaj) and ITR Form 4 (Sugam) are simpler Forms that cater to a large number of small and medium taxpayers. Sahaj can be filed by an individual having income up to Rs 50 lakh and who receives income from salary, one house property / other sources (interest etc). Similarly, Sugam can be filed by individuals, Hindu Undivided Families (HUFs) and firms (other than Limited Liability Partnerships (LLPs) having total income up to Rs 50 lakh and income from business and profession computed under the presumptive taxation provisions. Individuals and HUFs not having income from business or profession (and not eligible for filing Sahaj) can file ITR-2, while those having income from business or profession can file ITR Form 3. Persons other than individual, HUF and companies i.e. partnership firm, LLP etc can file ITR Form 5. Companies can file ITR Form 6. Trusts, political parties, charitable institutions etc claiming exempt income under the Act can file ITR-7. Beginning 2020-21 fiscal, the government has given taxpayers the option to choose a new tax regime under section 115BAC of the I-T Act. The new I-T slabs would be for individuals not availing or foregoing certain specified deductions or exemptions while computing total income for tax purpose. Under this, annual income up to Rs 2.5 lakh is exempt from tax. Those individuals earning between Rs 2.5 lakh and Rs 5 lakh will taxed at 5 per cent. Income between Rs 5 lakh and Rs 7.5 lakh will be taxed at 10 per cent, while those between Rs 7.5 lakh and Rs 10 lakh at 15 per cent. Those earning between Rs 10-12.5 lakh will pay tax at the rate of 20 per cent, while those between Rs 12.5-15 lakh will pay at the rate of 25 per cent. Income above Rs 15 lakh will be taxed at 30 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/income-tax-department-to-launch-new-e-filing-portal-on-june-7-994203.html
05-06-2021||National||Recast curriculum in all streams of education: AICTE chief Anil D Sahasrabudhe||Chairman of All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) Anil D Sahasrabudhe on Saturday stressed on the need for revision of curriculum in all streams of education to bring changes into the teaching-learning process. "The curriculum is a vibrant thing. We can't sleep on the curriculum for decades. Changes happening around the world have to come into the teaching-learning process," Prof Sahasrabudhe said. The AICTE chairman delivered a lecture on Higher Education in India post-Covid in a virtual conference organised by the SRM University-AP. Stating that all engineering colleges have been mandated to go for curriculum revision, Sahasrabudhe said even arts, science and commerce streams should go for it. "Under the New Education Policy-2020, we have also made internship mandatory for undergraduate students, project-based experiential learning besides training of faculty, which is very important. The AICTE has created an eight-module faculty certification programme that will cover the entire lifecycle of teachers," he added. Noting that there has been a transition from classroom to online education in the Covid-19 era, Sahasrabudhe said somewhere the quality was slightly affected. "We can certainly overcome that. We have to replicate and re-model the classroom-type education," he said. "We have to, however, get out of this (Covid-19 crisis) as soon as possible and get back to the classrooms and campuses. That is the need of the hour," the AICTE chief said. Sahasrabudhe said all things could not be done online. "Human-to-human touch is important. A blended way of education (classroom and online) is essential, making use of the strength of technology," he said. Andhra Pradesh government Special Chief Secretary (Higher Education) Satish Chandra, SRM University-AP Pro-Vice-Chancellor D Narayana Rao, Vice-Chancellor V S Rao and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/recast-curriculum-in-all-streams-of-education-aicte-chief-anil-d-sahasrabudhe-994212.html
05-06-2021||National||NMPS, CSIR-NBRI sign MoU to boost production of medicinal plants, herbs||The National Medicinal Plant Board (NMPS) and the National Botanical Research Institute (CSIR-NBRI) have signed an agreement to boost cultivation and production of medicinal plants and herbs in India. The AYUSH ministry issued a statement on Saturday, saying the MoU will facilitate the development of Quality Planting Material (QPM) of medicinal plants and herbs identified by the NMPB, help in establishment of their nurseries for QPM, development, promotion, conservation and cultivation of the appropriate medicinal plants in different agro-climatic zones, including the threatened medicinal plant species and plants for the high-altitude regions. "Through this collaboration, NMPB will support CSIR-NBRI in carrying out the potential medicinal plant species with high commercial value for the Germplasm collection/conservation and establishment of nursery and seed banks/gene banks," the statement said. The NBRI, while undertaking the survey of medicinal plants, will work in coherence with the NMPB in the desired direction, it said, adding that the outreaches of the NMPB and its implementing agencies like the state medicinal plants boards (SMPBs) and the regional-cum-facilitation centres will work together under the ambit of this MoU. Working under the Ministry of AYUSH, the NMPB is mandated to coordinate all matters relating to medicinal plants, and support policies and programmes for growth of trade, export, conservation and cultivation of medicinal plants, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nmps-csir-nbri-sign-mou-to-boost-production-of-medicinal-plants-herbs-994213.html
05-06-2021||National||Over 31 lakh Covid vaccine doses administered on June 5; total crosses 23 crore||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 23 crore, with 31,20,451 doses being given Saturday, the Union Health Ministry said. Of the total doses administered on Saturday, the ministry said 16,19,504 beneficiaries in the age group 18-44 years received their first dose and 41,058 their second. Cumulatively, 2,76,35,937 persons across 37 States/UTs have received their first dose and a total 1,60,406 have received their second since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive on May 1. Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered more than 10 lakh beneficiaries in the age group 18-44 years for the first dose of Covid vaccine. The total of 23,10,89,241 doses include 99,62,728 Healthcare Workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 68,53,413 HCWs who have taken the second dose. About 1,61,57,437 Frontline Workers (FLWs) received first dose and 86,58,805 FLWs their second. In 18-44 years age group, 2,76,35,937 and 1,60,406 have received first and second dose respectively till now. Besides, 7,06,41,613 and 1,12,93,868 beneficiaries aged over 45 to 60 years old have been administered the first and second dose respectively. s many as 6,05,25,195 and 1,91,99,839 beneficiaries above 60 years have taken the first and second dose. O Day-141 of the vaccination drive (5th June, 2021), a total 31,20,451 vaccine doses were given. As many as 28,70,693 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the 1st dose and 2,49,758 for the 2nd dose of vaccine as per the provisional report till 7 P.M. Final reports would be completed for the day by late tonight, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-31-lakh-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-on-june-5-total-crosses-23-crore-994220.html
05-06-2021||National Politics||Modi govt's vaccination strategy a dangerous cocktail of blunders and bloopers, alleges Congress||Congress leaders across the country submitted memoranda addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday, requesting him to direct the Centre to ensure universal free vaccination, saying it is the only way to defeat the pandemic. Pradesh and District Congress Committees in different states submitted memoranda to the respective governors and district magistrates for the President. "Vaccination is the only protection in the midst of the raging Covid-19 pandemic. Modi Government's vaccination strategy has been a dangerous cocktail of blunders and bloopers," their identical memoranda read. They also emphasised that "the need of the hour is that Union BJP government should procure the vaccine and supply for free to the States and private hospitals for vaccinating the people of India. Anything less is a huge disservice to India and its people”. The country’s entire population of above 18 should be vaccinated on or before December 31, 2021, they demanded. "This is the only way to save our people. For this, the only solution is to vaccinate at least one crore people a day and not the current average of 16 lakh people a day. "We, therefore, urge upon your goodself to direct the Modi government to ensure one crore vaccination per day as also universal free vaccination. This is the only way to fight Covid-19 pandemic and defeat the disease," the party memorandum said. Separately, a party statement also said states are left totally at the mercy of an "unreliable Centre" because foreign suppliers are refusing to engage directly and domestic ones do not have enough production to meet their demands. "They are begging from the Prime Minister to release the GST compensation due to them so that they can buy vaccines for those between 18-44 in order to stop the onset of the third wave," the statement said. Congress president Sonia Gandhi, former prime minister Manmohan Singh, party leader Rahul Gandhi and other opposition leaders in their joint statement on many occasions have tried to draw the attention of the government towards the need for universal free vaccination. The Congress Social Media Department on June 2, 2022, ran a massive online campaign, #SpeakUpForFreeUniversalVaccination, aimed at urging the Central government for universal free vaccination, the party said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-govts-vaccination-strategy-a-dangerous-cocktail-of-blunders-and-bloopers-alleges-congress-993950.html
05-06-2021||National Politics||BJP seeks probe into 'profiteering' through vaccine sale by Punjab govt||The BJP on Saturday sought a probe into alleged profiteering by the Congress government in Punjab by selling Covid-19 vaccines to private hospitals, and said that "heads should roll". The party fielded Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri to target the Amarinder Singh government, with the BJP leader asserting that the state dispensation's decision to withdraw the controversial order shows that there was something "fishy" in the matter. Taking a swipe at Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul Gandhi, Puri said they questioned the Modi government over the vaccine supply when their government in Punjab was indulging in alleged profiteering to the tune of Rs 38 crore by selling jabs to private hospitals. Large doses of vaccines have been found dumped in Rajasthan, another Congress-ruled state, he said.  "Government profiteering should stop. There should be a probe to bring facts in the public domain," Puri said at a virtual press conference, adding "heads should roll". He also sought to know the "nature of the fund" to which the money received by the state government from private hospitals was credited. Citing a Punjab government communication, he said it procured Covishield vaccines for Rs 412 per dose but sold it to private hospitals for Rs 1000 and they, in turn, charged Rs 1,560 from the people. Two private hospitals in Mohali charged people Rs 3,000 and Rs 3,200, he alleged. While the Congress is busy with the "cricket match" between Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu, this is what is going on in the state, he said, referring to the internal bickering in the party. Taking exception to the Punjab government statement that its decision has not been taken in the right spirit, Puri said this points to concealment of corruption and a culture of impunity in the Congress. For the Congress corruption is something to be taken for granted, he alleged. Under flak from the opposition for "diverting" Covid-19 vaccines to private hospitals, the Punjab government had withdrawn its order on Friday. This official reason cited by the Punjab government for withdrawing the order reflects "poverty and incompetence" of the ruling dispensation in the state which draws its inspiration from Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, he alleged. Puri also hit out at the Congress for allegedly fuelling vaccine hesitancy as some of its senior leaders "questioned" the safety and efficacy of Indian-manufactured jabs, and wondered if this was because the party wanted imports of foreign vaccines for getting "commission". Puri also accused the opposition parties of spreading misinformation and lies over the recently enacted farm reform laws, noting that the central government has done record procurement, with Punjab being the major beneficiary. The state contributed over 32 percent of 411.19 lakh tonnes of the wheat procured, with over Rs 26,103.89 crore credited to bank accounts of farmers directly, he said. Opposition leaders had alleged that the new laws will lead to the minimum support price regime and mandis being done away with, he said. At the press conference, he again attacked the critics of the central vista project and asserted that as of now work on raising a new parliament building costing Rs 900 crore and central vista avenue costing Rs 400 crore is on. An MLA hostel being built in Maharashtra is alone costing Rs 900 crore, he said. To a question about AAP MLA and Delhi Waqf Board chairman Amanatullah Khan seeking assurance that no mosque in the area would be affected by the project, Puri, whose ministry is in charge of the exercise, said his doors are open for talks and he will look into the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-seeks-probe-into-profiteering-through-vaccine-sale-by-punjab-govt-994094.html
05-06-2021||National Politics||Desertions, expulsions reduce BSP to non-entity in UP assembly||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), which once had more than 200 members in the Uttar Pradesh assembly, is now reduced to almost a 'non-entity' in the 403-member House. This is due to large-scale desertion and expulsion of leaders by party supremo Mayawati within a span of 10 years. The BSP had won 19 seats in the last assembly polls in UP, but its strength has now reduced to seven. As many as 12 BSP legislators have either deserted the party and joined the rivals or were expelled by Mayawati on various grounds. If sources in the BSP are to be believed, then some more legislators might part ways with the party as the next assembly polls in the state, due in March 2022, inch closer. Barely a few days ago, Mayawati expelled former leader of the party's legislator unit in the assembly, Lalji Verma, and former UP president of the party, Ram Achal Rajbhar, on charges of indiscipline. ''Almost all the old-timers, barring a few, have either left the BSP or were shown the door by Mayawati... Sukhdeo Rajbhar, an MLA, is the only senior leader who is still with her,'' said a former BSP legislator. While the BJP has been the biggest gainer, Mayawati's arch rival Samajwadi Party (SP) has also admitted several senior BSP leaders in its ranks. Thakur Jaiveer Singh, Fagu Chauhan, Dharm Sing Saini, Brijesh Pathak, Swami Narayan Maurya, Vedram Bhati -- all senior BSP leaders, joined the BJP and were 'rewarded' with ministerial berths or gubernatorial posts. As many as seven BSP MLAs joined the SP a few months ago. The desertions rattled Mayawati so much that she even threatened to support the BJP to teach the SP a 'lesson', though she quickly made a 'U-turn' and said her remarks were 'twisted'. Mayawati has made it clear that her party will not forge electoral alliances in the future and will contest the next UP assembly poll on its own. BSP had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in alliance with the SP and had managed to win 10 seats. It was then expected that BSP and SP may fight 2022 assembly polls together.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/desertions-expulsions-reduce-bsp-to-non-entity-in-up-assembly-994121.html
05-06-2021||National Politics||Environment suffered most since BJP came to power in UP: Akhilesh Yadav||The environment has suffered the most since the BJP came to power in Uttar Pradesh, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said on Saturday and accused the government of making tree plantation drive a "joke". On World Environment Day, he alleged that the BJP government has been making false claims about environmental protection and the "trees have been growing only in government flies". It was under the Samajwadi government that concrete steps were taken in this direction. It had set a Guinness Book world record in tree plantation while ponds were dug and green parks developed in the Bundelkhand region, he said. "In Uttar Pradesh, the BJP government runs tree plantation campaigns every year. But to date, it has not been able to give details about where and how many trees have been planted in which year during his reign, and how many saplings planted are left. In fact, the environment has suffered the most ever since BJP came to power," he said. The BJP government has squandered the budget under the cover of tree plantation drive, the Samajwadi Party chief alleged in a statement. "Its latest claim has been planting 30 crore saplings this year. If we go by the claims of the government, there should have been a forest growing in every house. The BJP, which plants the seeds of hatred and lies, are playing with the environment and have made tree plantation a joke," he said.    The forest wealth is facing danger. The imbalance in nature has increased, as a result of which heat is increasing. There is a shortage of different resources and a change is also seen in the season cycle, Yadav said. "Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath can make any claim he likes but the Niti Ayog has exposed the reality of where the state stands." Yadav also extended his wishes to all the countrymen on World Environment Day and stressed that environmental protection is indispensable for the earth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/environment-suffered-most-since-bjp-came-to-power-in-up-akhilesh-yadav-994135.html
05-06-2021||National Politics||Uddhav Thackeray takes veiled dig at BJP, says lust for power amid pandemic will lead to anarchy||In a veiled attack on former ally BJP, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said acting with "lust for power" during the coronavirus pandemic will lead to "anarchy". Saving lives was the most important thing now, he said. Participating in an online interaction organised by Marathi daily Loksatta, Thackeray said people would not forgive him if he did not provide clarity on why he wanted power. "If people who voted for me do not survive the Covid-19 pandemic, what is the use of power," he said. "Acting with lust for power amid Covid-19 will lead to anarchy," he said, without naming the opposition party. Becoming chief minister was never his goal, and his promise to his father, Shiv Sena founder late Bal Thackeray on making a Sena worker chief minister "is yet to be fulfilled", Thackeray said. "I was never politically inclined. I came into politics to help my father. A pandemic after 100 years happens during my tenure as CM. I have never shied away from responsibility. I am doing what I can to the best of my ability," he said. Queried on whether the Sena's alliance with the BJP, which ended on a bitter note post the 2019 Assembly polls, could be revived again, Thackeray said there was a trust deficit in the relations after the demise of BJP leaders Pramod Mahajan and Gopinath Munde. "The BJP is now Delhi-centric. In an alliance, there has to be openness to air differences and resolve them. My new allies (NCP and Congress) treat me with respect. The MVA is an alliance where we had differences, so we are more open now," he said. The alliance with the BJP saw its "golden period" when the two parties were in opposition with the saffron ideology holding them together and there was mutual trust and respect, Thackeray added. To another question, he said Congress chief Sonia Gandhi does call him often.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uddhav-thackeray-takes-veiled-dig-at-bjp-says-lust-for-power-amid-pandemic-will-lead-to-anarchy-994171.html
05-06-2021||National Politics||Government's vaccine distribution policy has inequalities: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday alleged that the government's vaccine distribution has inequalities and is not fair. "I have been saying that the vaccines should be procured by the Centre and distributed by the states. "In the absence of a fair policy for vaccine distribution, the inequality in the Modi government's policy will give such results," he said citing a media report highlighting the inequalities in vaccine distribution. The report claims that nine private hospitals got 50 per cent and six cities 80 per cent of Covishield and Covaxin stocks and alleged disparities in vaccine distribution. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also hit out at the government, alleging a shortage of beds during the second wave of coronavirus and asked why did it not upgrade health facilities and instead is carrying forward the central vista project.  "In January, when the Prime Minister was making false declarations of 'winning the war against corona', the number of oxygen beds in the country was reduced by 36 per cent, the number of ICU beds by 46 per cent and the number of ventilator beds by 28 per cent," she said in a tweet in Hindi. "He ignored the advice to improve health facilities. Who is responsible," she asked. She also asked why did the government ignore the advice of experts and from its own Parliamentary Committee on Health and did nothing to fulfil the promise of upgraded medical facilities in every district. "Why has not even a single new AIIMS become functional since 2014, while the Central Vista project, declared an 'essential service' moved at lightning speed? Is the prime minister's vanity project more important than providing hospital beds to the public," she also asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/governments-vaccine-distribution-policy-has-inequalities-rahul-gandhi-994211.html
05-06-2021||North and Central||UP Police acts tough on its men, over 500 cops transferred after liquor tragedies||In a major shake-up in the district police after the recent hooch tragedies, police have transferred over 500 of their men, an official said Friday as the death toll in the second case rose to nine. Three more people who had consumed spurious liquor found dumped in a canal near Rohera village in Jawan area here have died, officials said. Another man died Friday in the district's Kodiyagunj village and officials are linking it with the same stock of liquor found in the canal near Rohera village on June 2 by some brick kiln workers. These deaths are apart from people killed in the first case, in which 35 people are confirmed to have died of liquor poisoning. The number could be higher as reports of viscera examination on 52 more suspected victims are still awaited. All the victims, including women, in the June 2 hooch tragedy belonged to a group of around 120 migrant workers from Bihar. They were living in temporary shanties at the local brick kiln where they worked. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Kalanidhi Naithani said more than 540 police personnel who were posted at the same police station for over two years have been transferred. He said 148 of them have been shunted out of the district. Five police inspectors, including two station house officers, and a circle officer have been suspended for suspected links with the liquor mafia, the SSP said. Chief Medical Officer, Aligarh, Bhanu Pratap Kalyani confirmed that "nine post-mortems have been conducted since Thursday on victims of the Rohera village hooch tragedy". The victims are being mainly treated at the Jawahar Lal Nehru (JLN) Medical College, besides some at private hospitals, officials said. Police said a labourer working at another brick kiln in Kodiyagunj village under the Akraabaad police station area died after allegedly consuming spurious liquor. They said the liquor consumed by the labourer was floating down in a crate downstream the same canal near Rohera village. Chief Superintendent, JLN Medical College, Harris Manzur told PTI that 32 people have so far been admitted in the hospital from Wednesday night till Thursday evening. "Of these, seven people died (of the total nine deaths) till this morning and 25 are being treated. Some of them are still in serious condition. They had reportedly consumed the liquor discovered on Wednesday evening by one of the labourers who had been fishing in the canal (near Rohera village), he said on Friday. Talking to reporters, Kalyani noted, "Post-mortems of 98 people have been conducted till this morning after the first hooch tragedy broke out on May 28." He said the district authorities are awaiting the viscera reports before confirming the cause of deaths of all these 98 victims. The administration has so far confirmed 35 deaths in the May 28 hooch tragedy. SSP Naithani said police have intensified the manhunt to track down Rishi Sharma, the kingpin of the liquor mafia, who is the only major offender still eluding them in connection with the May 28 incident. The reward for Sharma's arrest has been raised from Rs 50,000 to Rs 75,000, he said. The SSP said five of Sharma's close family members, including his wife and his son, have already been arrested. Thirty-eight people have been arrested in connection with 16 cases in separate police stations of the district so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-police-acts-tough-on-its-men-over-500-cops-transferred-after-liquor-tragedies-993954.html
05-06-2021||North and Central||Allahabad HC questions UP govt on vacancies in boards, commissions||The Allahabad High Court Friday questioned the Uttar Pradesh government on vacancies in the offices of chairpersons of boards, commissions and other bodies in the state. The Lucknow bench of the court also asked from the state government about the steps being taken to fill up these vacancies at the earliest. A division bench of justices Ramesh Sinha and Jaspreet Singh passed the order, hearing a PIL through video conferencing. The petitioner, local lawyer S K Srivastava, has sought direction to the government to fill up the vacancies in boards, commissions and other bodies at the earliest. During the previous hearing on May 19, the court had directed the state counsel to obtain instructions from the government in the matter. When the matter was taken up on Friday again, additional chief standing counsel HP Srivastava informed the bench he did not receive any instruction from the government so far, and requested the bench to grant him more time. Considering the matter, the bench granted a last chance to the state counsel to obtain instructions and file a response by July 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/allahabad-hc-questions-up-govt-on-vacancies-in-boards-commissions-993960.html
05-06-2021||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh BJP MLA Narinder Bragta dies of Covid-19||Chief whip in the Himachal Pradesh Assembly and BJP MLA Narinder Bragta died due to Covid-19 at PGI Chandigarh on Saturday morning, his son Chetan Bragta tweeted. He was 68. Chetan Bragta, in a tweet, said his father succumbed to the virus after a long struggle against it. The three-time MLA was also the Chief Whip of the BJP in the state assembly. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had visited PGI Chandigarh on Friday evening to enquire about his health. Thakur termed his demise an irreparable loss for Himachal Pradesh, especially for Jubbal-Kotkhai. Narinder Bragta was first time elected to the State Legislative Assembly in 1998 from Shimla Constituency. He was re-elected in December 2007 from Jubbal-Kotkhai. He remained Minister of State for Horticulture (Independent Charge) 1998-02 and Horticulture, Technical Education and Health Minister from December 30, 2007 to December 2012. He was re-elected to the 13th Vidhan Sabha from Jubbal-Kotkhai for the third term in December 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-bjp-mla-narinder-bragta-dies-of-covid-19-994002.html
05-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi markets to open on odd-even basis from June 7; metro to run at 50% capacity||Metro services will resume operations with 50 per cent capacity, markets and malls will open between 10 AM and 8 PM on odd-even basis and private offices can operate with 50 per cent attendance from Monday with the Delhi government announcing second phase of unlocking process after a lockdown was imposed in second half of April. The order was issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Saturday after reviewing the situation during which it felt that the number of Covid-19 patients and positivity rate are declining. However, it said, the situation was "still precarious" and decided to extend the lockdown, which began on 10 PM of April 19, but provided further relaxations. The process of unlocking started last Monday when the government allowed construction activities and opening of factories. All malls, markets and market complexes, except weekly markets, are allowed to open between 10 AM and 8 PM on odd-even basis -- shops would open on alternate days depending on their shop number. However, shops selling essential goods, including educational books and stationery shops, fan shops in malls, markets and market complexes, are permitted to open on all days without restriction of timings.Market Trade Associations (MTAs), District Magistrate, District DCP and Deputy Labour Commissioner would be responsible to ensure the compliance of this stipulation. All stand-alone shops and all neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes will also be permitted to open on all days without any distinction ofessential and non-essential services. However, the timings of such shops dealing with non-essential goods and services will be between 10 AM and 8 PM. Transportation by Delhi Metro shall be allowed up to 50 per cent of the seating capacity of metro coach. Delivery of all types of goods through e-commerce shall be allowed on production of valid I card issued by the employer, the order said. All offices of Delhi government, autonomous bodies, PSUs, Corporations, local Bodies shall function with officers of the level of Grade-l and above to the extent of 100% strength. The remaining staff will attend up to 50% while the remaining should work from home. Private offices in the capital will be allowed to function to the extent of 50 per cent strength of their staff between 9 AM and 5 PM on production of valid authority letter and valid ID card issued by their employer. Private offices are also advised to stagger the office timings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-markets-to-open-on-odd-even-basis-from-june-7-metro-to-run-at-50-capacity-994003.html
05-06-2021||North and Central||MP government issues licence for Amphotericin-B production in state||The Madhya Pradesh government has issued a licence to a Jabalpur-based company to manufacture Amphotericin-B, a key anti-fungal drug used in the treatment of 'black fungus' or mucormycosis, an official said. The Food and Drug Controller of Madhya Pradesh issued the licence to Revacure Lifesciences, a private sector company in Umaria-Dungaria industrial area of Jabalpur district, on May 31, which is valid till December 22 this year, a government release said. The manufacturing of Amphotericin-B injection in Jabalpur will benefit Mahakaushal, Vindhya and Bundelkhand regions of the state as this drug will be available easily to the patients suffering from black fungus disease at a relatively low cost, it said. The government said this is the second company in the state to be given the licence for Amphotericin-B production. Earlier, Indore-based Modern Laboratories had received the licence. Meanwhile, state Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday claimed that there is no scarcity of Amphotericin-B injections in the state. A consignment of 12,240 injections arrived at Indore on Friday and around 17,000 more injections will be available after two days, he said. At present, there are 1,005 active cases of 'black fungus' in the state, he said. There are 235 such patients in Bhopal, 428 in Indore, 116 in Jabalpur, 40 in Sagar, 85 in Ujjain, 52 in Gwalior, 31 in Rewa, 15 in Dewas, two in Ratlam and one in Burhanpur, the chief minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-government-issues-licence-for-amphotericin-b-production-in-state-994006.html
05-06-2021||North and Central||Profiteering during emergency indecent: Mayawati on Punjab government's alleged sale of Covid doses||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Saturday hit out at the Congress-led Punjab government for allegedly selling Covid-19 vaccine doses procured under the state quota to private hospitals at a higher rate, saying profiteering during an emergency is indecent and inhuman. Her remarks came a day after the Punjab government asked private hospitals to return all vaccine stock meant for the 18-44 age group and ordered a probe into the allegations. The recalled vaccine doses will be administered free to this age group by the government, state Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said. In a tweet in Hindi, Mayawati said, "The Congress government of Punjab is buying Covid-19 vaccines at Rs 400 (each) from the Centre and selling them to private hospitals at Rs 1,060 instead of passing on the benefits to the people through government hospitals. Profiteering during an emergency is indecent, inhuman, condemnable and extremely saddening." This makes it clear that the Congress' stand and statements on vaccines so far lacked seriousness. The BSP demands that the Centre take cognisance of this, she said. Referring to media reports, Union minister and senior BJP leader Prakash Javadekar had on Friday alleged the Punjab government got over 1.40 lakh doses of Covaxin at Rs 400 each and gave some of them to 20 private hospitals at Rs 1,000 each. This is "dangerous" news, he had said. The Centre has also written to the Punjab government seeking a clarification over reports that it sold Covaxin to private hospitals and earned a profit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/profiteering-during-emergency-indecent-mayawati-on-punjab-governments-alleged-sale-of-covid-doses-994030.html
05-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi Unlock: What's allowed and what's not||With the Covid-19 positivity rate dropping below one per cent in the national capital, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has started unlocking parts of Delhi, which has been under a strict lockdown since April 20.  The Delhi Metro will operate at 50 per cent capacity and markets and malls in the national capital will open on an odd-even basis from June 7, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday as he announced further relaxations in lockdown.  The existing lockdown in Delhi, which was to end at 5 AM on Monday, will be extended further but several relaxations will be allowed, Kejriwal said during an online briefing.  Here are some of the things that will be allowed and some that will be not allowed in the coming days:  > Government and private offices will be allowed to reopen with 50 per cent attendance. Markets and malls will be allowed to open on an odd-even basis from 10 am to 8 pm. > All standalone (single) shops and all neighbourhood (colony) shops and shops in residential complexes will be permitted to open on all days without any distinction of essential and non-essential goods/ services. However, the timings of such shops dealing with non-essential goods/ services will be between 10 am to 8 pm.    > Transportation by Delhi Metro will be allowed with up to 50 per cent of the seating capacity of metro coach. > Delivery of all types of goods through ecommerce will be allowed on production of valid I-card issued by the employer/firm/company.  > Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, like wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing, regular hand washing and use of sanitiser, maintaining health hygiene, no spitting, no consumption of liquor, pan, gutkha, tobacco etc. must be maintained in all government and private offices, malls, markets, market complexes, standalone (single) shops, neighbourhood (colony) shops etc. If the appropriate behaviour is not maintained by any office or shop, then the said institution will be liable to be closed because of public health hazard and the owner of the office or the shopkeeper will also be liable for criminal prosecution under the relevant laws  > Delhi Police will put an adequate number of pickets to prevent unnecessary movement of people on roads during curfew. The police will also ensure that the movement of individuals and vehicles should be allowed strictly as per the guidelines protocols prescribed in the curfew order.  > If anyone violates the Covid-19 guidelines, the person will be proceeded against as per the provisions of section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 188 of IPC and other applicable laws.  > E-pass possessed by a person for movement regarding essential and permitted activities during night/weekend curfew or the aforesaid curfew periods shall remain valid during the curfew period||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-unlock-whats-allowed-and-whats-not-994041.html
05-06-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh residents up in arm against diamond mine project||Billed as the site of Asia’s one of the richest diamond reserves, the Bunder diamond mine project is facing stiff resistance from local residents and nationwide environmental enthusiasts as its execution entails felling over two lakh trees in thick Buxwaha forests in Chhatarpur district of the water-scarce Bundelkhand region of Madhya Pradesh, about 225 kilometres northeast of Bhopal. In 2019, Essel Mining & Industries Limited (EMIL), an Aditya Birla Group Company, won the bid for the project that was tendered by the then Kamal Nath government. The incumbent Shivraj Singh government has retained the project, though it is yet to get environment clearance from the union environment and forest ministry.  Local leaders of Congress and BJP have also joined hands with the protectors. Sunil Agarwal, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Land Management, Forest Department, says that the proposal has been sent to the Centre but is yet to be cleared. The EMIL plans to develop a fully mechanised opencast mine and state of the art processing plant for recovery of diamonds with an investment of about Rs. 2500 crore. The company claims that the project, once operational, has the potential to become one of the largest diamond mines in Asia. It envisages the execution of the mining lease by the end of the financial year 2022. It is estimated that the Bunder diamond block in Chhatarpur district has about 34 million carats of rough diamonds, 15 times more .than the world-famous diamond mines in the neighbouring Panna district, which are estimated to have 22 lakh carrots of the precious ore. The National Mineral Development Corporation’s (NMDC) existing diamond mine is about 175 kilometres from Bunder. While the state government has identified 62.64 hectare land for mining for 50 years,  the company is demanding 383 hectare to dump the debris from mining in the identified land. The proposed project will be spread across an area of 364 hectares in the Buxwaha forests which is a part of the roughly 3,000 hectare Buxwaha protected forests. Before the EMIL began initial prospecting, local residents have mounted massive resistance. Besides, over 1.25 lakh people from across the country have come forward to save 2.15 trees to be cut for the Buxwah diamond project. However, in view of Covid-19,  the protest campaign is largely confined to social media for now. “As soon as the corona infection is controlled, the volunteers of the 'Save Buxwaha' campaign will reach the project site and, if necessary, they will stick to the trees," said. Dr. Dharmendra Kumar, a leading activist in the campaign. On May 9, over 50 institutions across the country got together through a webinar and chalked out a strategy against cutting the trees under the project. A Delhi –based social worker Neha Singh filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in the Supreme court on April 9, seeking stay on the project on the grounds that it will cause incalculable damage to the Bundelkhand’s rich biodiversity apart from snatching livelihood of thousands of poor tribals who subsist on the minor forest produce.  The PIL pointed out that the project site is already a water-stressed region.    According to the pre-feasibility report of the project, the water requirement of the project is estimated at about 5.9 million cubic meters per day. “To meet this requirement a seasonal nallah will be diverted by constructing a dam. The water storage in the reservoir is estimated at around 17 MCM (million cubic metre),” the report said. Admitting the petition on June 2, the Apex court fixed July 1 as the next hearing date for the matter. Neha Singh had also reached Bhopal to file a petition in the national green tribunal (NGT) but, due to the lockdown, could not do so. Karuna Raghuvanshi of Bhopal, who is associated with the Rashtriya Jungle Bachao Abhiyan, said that people from many states will intensify the save Buxwaha campaign as soon as the Covid-19 is over. “The Forest clearance report shows that the project would cost over 200,000 trees and also use a lot of water. We are against the environmental destruction in our area, which is already a water distress area,” says Sankalp Jain, a local youth. Before the Birla group’s company was handed over the project,  the Madhya Pradesh government had granted a prospecting licence to Rio Tinto Exploration India Private Limited (RTEIPL), an Australian mining giant, to explore diamond mining in the Buxwaha region in 2006. But the project faced strong opposition over ecological concerns.  Later, the RTEIPL exited the project after submitting a prospecting report to the Madhya Pradesh government in 2017. Although Rio Tinto did not specify a clear reason for the exit,  a team of researchers analysed the reasons in a study which was published in May 2021. “Rio might have left because the diamond business was falling around the world and are predicted to fall further as more diamonds are mined in African countries and Russia. To them, the money invested so far is simply not worth the trouble bad press would bring,” said Kuntala Lahiri Dutt, one of the authors of the study and Professor in the Resource, Environment and Development (RE&D) programme in the Crawford School of Public Policy in Canberra-based Australian National University. In India, Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh are the three states that produce diamonds. Among them, Madhya Pradesh accounts for about 90 per cent of the total diamond resource of the country. Production of diamond (in India) was at 38,437 carats in 2018-19 as against 39,699 carats in the previous year in India. The total world production of diamond was 149.8 million carats in 2018,” said a report by the Indian Bureau of Mines. The state-run NMDC has been trying to expand its operations to increase production. Aniket Dikhit, a resident of the Kasera village, which is one of the closest villages to the mining site, said: “Our villagers are dependent on minor forest produce and water for farming. The project involves the diversion of a nullah which is a lifeline for the area.” The tree species found in the area are khair (Acacia Catechu), bel (Aegle Marmelos), dhava (Anogeissus latifolia), seja (Lagerstroemia Parviflora), ghoat (Randia dumetorum), renjha (Acacia leucophloea), Amltas (Cassia Fistula) and saugon (Tectona Grandis). The area also has a fairly good variety of fauna, including seven species listed in Schedule I of Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972. These are Indian Gazelle, Chowsingha, Sloth Bear, Leopard, Monitor Lizard, Indian Rumped Vulture and Peacock. The Ken-Betwa River Interlinking project in the Bundelkhand region has threatened  23 lakh (2.3 million) trees and 1.9 lakh (190,000) trees have already been cut down for the Bundelkhand Expressway Highway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-residents-up-in-arm-against-diamond-mine-project-994048.html
05-06-2021||North and Central||Bareilly, Bulandshahr get 'corona curfew' relaxations from June 7||The Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday extended the relaxations in the coronavirus curfew to Bareilly and Bulandshahr districts from Monday, allowing shops and markets outside the containment zones to open for five days a week. The decision was taken after the twin districts recorded a fall in the number of active Covid-19 cases, settling below the 600-mark. In a statement issued here on Saturday, the UP government said the relaxations will come into effect from June 7, and will remain in force for five days (Monday to Friday) from 7 am to 7 pm. However, the night curfew and weekend curfew will continue. With this, the number of districts, where the count of active cases have fallen below the 600-mark has reached 67, the statement said. Seeing the recovery of Covid-19 cases in the state, four-five districts in the state are likely to witness a fall in active cases below the 600-mark by Monday. On May 30, the UP government had relaxed the Covid-19 lockdown in 55 of total 75 districts in the state. The recovery rate of the state stands at 97.6 per cent, while the positivity rate is 0.4 per cent. In the past 24 hours, 1,092 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported, while 4,346 patients were discharged after recovering from the disease. Till now, 16,56,763 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the disease and have been discharged. The count of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 19,438. Prior to Bareilly and Bulandshahr, relaxations in the coronavirus curfew were extended to Jhansi (on June 3). On June 1, the curfew relaxations were extended to Lakhimpur Khiri, Ghazipur and Jaunpur. On May 31, the relaxations were extended to Sonbhadra, Deoria, Baghpat, Prayagraj, Bijnor and Moradabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bareilly-bulandshahr-get-corona-curfew-relaxations-from-june-7-994053.html
05-06-2021||North and Central||World Environment Day: Tree ambulance in Jaipur working relentlessly for past 7 years to save sick plants, trees||Unnoticed by the public, a tree ambulance in Jaipur has been working relentlessly for the last seven years to serve the needs of plants and trees. As the world celebrates Environment Day on Saturday, the efforts taken by two people years ago are an inspiration for many and prove once again that even small steps count to bring a change in the climate. Now, a group of over 100 volunteers, known as "Team 10" in Vidhyadhar Nagar area here, has planted about one lakh saplings and is taking care of about three lakh trees, without any financial assistance from the government. "Though we are a registered society, we have not taken any funding from the government for the cause. My friend Gopal Verma and I started the initiative seven years ago, which has grown into a network of people ready to work to save the environment," Sushil Agarwal, a timber-merchant, told PTI.  "As more volunteers joined the group, I used my car as a tree ambulance to carry spades, a water tank, termite killer, manure, etc," he said. Agarwal, 53, said he is working on his dream to make Vidhyadhar Nagar as one of the greenest and cleanest areas of the country. "I have travelled to 34 countries and have noticed that India is far ahead of other countries, but people here lack civic sense. It is we who have to decide what we want to give to our future generations -- a lot of money or a healthy environment to live in," he said. The group registered as Arpan Lok Vikas Samiti bears about Rs 2 lakh monthly expense for taking care of trees spread in 10-11 square km area with the help of donors. Agarwal said the team gathers at 5.45 am everyday at a selected location to carry out its activities for two to three hours without fail. He said activities are now not confined to planting and saving trees but cleanliness drive, wall beautification work are also carried out by them. The team has put 500 cemented dustbins in the area and guarded trees to make their locality stand apart. "It's not that we want to limit ourselves to a particular area. We are ready to help but we need active people ready to work consistently," Agarwal said. The team uses a clay pot irrigation system to save water as well as maintain moisture in trees. "We use 16 to 17 water tankers everyday to water trees. The clay pot technique helps in maintaining a seven-day supply to a tree after which we fill it again. We use a drip irrigation system where we have a water connection facility," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/world-environment-day-tree-ambulance-in-jaipur-working-relentlessly-for-past-7-years-to-save-sick-plants-trees-994056.html
05-06-2021||North and Central||Man saved by Delhi police after Facebook alerts on self-harm video||A 39-year-old man who shared a live video of harming himself on Facebook was saved by the swift intervention of Delhi Police after it was alerted by a call from an office of the social media giant thousands of kilometers away in the US, officials said on Saturday. On Thursday night, one Shohan Lal (name changed), a resident of Dwarka in West Delhi, inflicted multiple deep cuts on his hand following an altercation with neighbours. Lal works in a sweet shop and has two young children. He has been emotionally vulnerable since the death of his wife in 2016, they said. The altercation with neighbours triggered him to take the extreme step. While doing so, he live-streamed it on Facebook, a senior police officer said. While all this was happening, at around 12.50 AM, DCP CyPAD Anyesh Roy received a call alert from Facebook’s US office about a suspicious self-harm live video being posted by a male Facebook user located in Delhi. The alert was generated as part of the coordination framework established between Cyber Prevention Awareness and Detection (CyPAD), the Nodal Cyber Unit of Delhi Police and international social media platforms, the police said. Police checked and analysed the account details shared by Facebook. The mobile phone number linked to the account was found to be switched off. Later, police obtained the address linked to the mobile number and it belonged to Dwarka, the officer said. A nearby emergency response vehicle (ERV) and its in-charge probationer sub-inspector Amit Kumar rushed to the given address to trace the man who was on the verge of killing himself, police said. When Kumar reached the location, he found the man on the stairs in a very bad condition as he had suffered heavy blood loss. The man was rushed to a nearby hospital and later shifted to AIIMS Trauma Centre, the officer said, adding that his condition was stated to be stable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-saved-by-delhi-police-after-facebook-alerts-on-self-harm-video-994058.html
05-06-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 crisis: Get vaccinated, officials urge Amarnath Yatra service providers||Even as online registration for the upcoming Amarnath yatra continues to remain suspended due to the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, authorities in Kashmir have asked pilgrimage service providers to get vaccinated at the earliest. Officials said district administration Ganderbal has asked health officials to ensure that all service providers, including tent-owners, shopkeepers, pony operators, labourers and drivers are vaccinated immediately. Besides Anantnag district, Ganderbal district is one of the two routes for the annual pilgrimage to the 3,888-metre-high Amarnathji cave shrine in south Kashmir Himalayas. Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Kangan, Hakim Tanveer Ahmed, said although there is no official announcement about its commencement so far, vaccination is a preparatory exercise for the annual yatra. The decision regarding the conduct of the pilgrimage is to be taken by the Shri Amarnath Shrine Board. "But, vaccination of the service providers, whether associated with travel trade or pilgrimage tourism, is a routine exercise,”  he added. Due to a huge surge in Covid-19 cases and deaths across the country, including Jammu and Kashmir, the SASB, which manages the affairs of the pilgrimage, suspended the registration of pilgrims on April 22, which had started on April 1. The 56-day-long annual pilgrimage, which was cancelled last year due to the pandemic, is scheduled from June 28 to August 22. This year, the SASB was expecting six lakh yatris to pay obeisance at the holy cave shrine, which would have been the largest number since the governing body took over affairs of the pilgrimage in 2000. However, sources said, keeping in view the prevailing Covid crisis, it is unlikely that such a huge number of pilgrims would be allowed to participate in the yatra this year.  “If Covid situation improves, a limited number of pilgrims will be allowed mid-July onwards,” they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-crisis-get-vaccinated-officials-urge-amarnath-yatra-service-providers-994062.html
05-06-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Man dies in blast of power bank-like device||A 28-year-old man died in the Umaria district of Madhya Pradesh after a power bank-like device he found on a road exploded when he connected his mobile phone to it for charging, police said on Saturday. The incident occurred at Chaprod village on Friday, police said, adding that whether it was a power bank or any other electronic device is being confirmed. "The deceased, Ram Sahil Pal, found the device lying on a road while he was going to his farm located under Manpur police station area on Friday," Sub Divisional Officer of Police (SDOP) Bharti Jat said. After returning home later, Pal plugged his mobile into the device at his neighbour's place. However, it exploded and he died on the spot, according to the statements of the local residents, she added. "We have sent the device to a forensic science laboratory to confirm whether it was a power bank or any other electronic device," she said. An investigation conducted so far has revealed that it was not an explosive, Jat said. A case has been registered in this connection, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-man-dies-in-blast-of-power-bank-like-device-994066.html
05-06-2021||North and Central||Traders must be vaccinated against Covid-19 to open shops in UP's Bulandshahr||A team of police personnel here has announced that traders above 45 years of age will not be allowed to open their shops if they have not been vaccinated against coronavirus. SHO Dixit Kumar Tyagi and Circle Officer Suresh Kumar were part of the police team that made the announcement in Khurja city on Friday night. The police team appealed to the people to get vaccinated and strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. It said everyone must continue to follow Covid-19 norms when the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the virus is lifted. In a video recorded by locals, the police personnel can be seen saying traders and shopkeepers above 45 years of age will not be allowed to open their establishments if they have not been vaccinated. Restrictions are imposed in the district due to the Covid-19 pandemic in which only people engaged in essential work are allowed outdoor movement and only essential services are allowed to open, like pharmacies, hospitals, milk and grocery outlets, etc. The Uttar Pradesh government had last week ordered that restrictions would be lifted in districts having less than 600 active cases of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/traders-must-be-vaccinated-against-covid-19-to-open-shops-in-ups-bulandshahr-994073.html
05-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi government announces slew of measures to prepare for third Covid-19 wave||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced the setting up of a paediatric task force and two genome sequencing labs as well as a plan to ramp up oxygen capacity to prepare for a possible third Covid wave that could peak at 37,000 cases a day. The government will also create a buffer stock of important medicines, Kejriwal said at an online briefing. The two genome sequencing labs to identify variants of the virus attacking the city will come up at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital and the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS), the chief minister said. He said he held a six-hour meeting with officials and experts on Friday to prepare a comprehensive plan for a third wave of the coronavirus. In case the number of daily infections hits 37,000 during the third wave, the government will.be prepared. "At the peak of the second wave, 28,000 cases were reported on one day. On the basis of our consultation with experts, we are assuming that during the peak of the third wave, there might be 37,000 cases. Keeping this number in mind, we will ramp up our beds, oxygen capacity and medicines," he said. The government is buying 25 oxygen tankers and putting up 64 oxygen plants in the next few weeks to ensure Delhi doesn’t face another oxygen crisis as it did during the second wave, he said. “Delhi is not an industrial state and doesn't have its own tankers but we are buying 25 tankers in order to prepare for the third wave.” "We are creating an oxygen storage capacity of 420 tonnes to tackle the possibility of another oxygen crisis. We have spoken to Indraprastha Gas Limited and asked them to create a 150-tonne oxygen production plant," the chief minister added. The government will also be setting up a separate paediatric task force to give recommendations on protecting children during the third wave. Based on their advice, the government will set up ICU and oxygen beds, and procure specific equipment for children, he said. Besides, the government will also create a buffer stock of important medicines and private hospitals will also be given instructions to do so, he said. "We will create a team of doctors and experts to assess which medicines are required for coronavirus. If they inform us about a particular medicine being effective in the treatment of the virus, we will try and procure it. In case they say a medicine does not help in the treatment, we will make people aware about it," he added. On May 27, the Delhi government set up a 13-member committee to prepare an action plan for a possible third wave after assessing the current status and projected requirement of health infrastructure such as hospitals, oxygen plants and drug supplies. Another eight-member expert committee was set up to devise a strategy for mitigation and management of the third wave. Delhi has been reeling under a brutal second wave of the pandemic that has swept the country and claimed a massive number of lives. The acute shortage of oxygen at various hospitals added to the crisis. From April 19, both daily cases and the single-day death count rose sharply with over 28,000 cases and 277 deaths recorded on April 20. This went up to 306 fatalities on April 22. On May 3, the city registered a record 448 deaths, according to official data. The number of cases has shown a downward trend and the positivity rate too has been shrinking in the last several days. The number of deaths per day, has also been showing a decline in the last couple of days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-announces-slew-of-measures-to-prepare-for-third-covid-19-wave-994092.html
05-06-2021||North and Central||Jio, BBNL boost connectivity in Uttarakhand's Himalayan border villages||Jio mobile towers have come up in several border villages of Dharchula sub-division here improving mobile connectivity and reducing the dependence of locals on mobile networks of Nepal, officials said on Saturday. Dharchula SDM A K Shukla said the Bharat Broadband Network Ltd is providing VSAT communication network to provide internet facility to the residents of Himalayan villages located at above 8,000 feet where the Jio towers are not working. He said the mobile towers of Jio company are functioning at several places in Dharchula sub-division, reducing their dependence on Nepali networks. According to the SDM, all 35 villages, from where locals migrate during the summer, can benefit from improved mobile and Internet connectivity in the area.  The villagers also complained of weak and fragmented signals at times. "Villagers in the remotest Namik village have to gather at a hilltop to talk to their friends and family as the newly installed Jio tower has no signal in their village, " said Puran Pandey, a resident of Johar valley. Improved mobile and internet connectivity in border areas is important as it can help repopulate the depleting border villages. With better communication facilities, residents of abandoned villages near the Indo-China border may return home and stay there throughout the year, said Shalu Datal, a local.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jio-bbnl-boost-connectivity-in-uttarakhands-himalayan-border-villages-994097.html
05-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi government to celebrate 'Van Mahotsav' from June 26-July 11: Environment minister Gopal Rai||The Delhi government will celebrate 'Van Mahotsav' from June 26 to July 11 as part of a mega drive under which 33 lakh saplings will be planted across the city this year, Environment Minister Gopal Rai said on Saturday. On World Environment Day, the minister said saplings of various medicinal plants will be available to 14 government-run nurseries free of cost from June 7. Delhi's environment department also released a booklet containing description of all the plants available in the nurseries, including Amrud, Tulsi, Amla, and Giloy. Urging Delhiites to join the drive, the minister said, "The government under the leadership of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has run several campaigns to reduce air pollution in the city and the efforts have helped us to bring down air pollution in Delhi by 25 per cent. "This plantation drive take things one step forward in improving the environment for good." "I appeal to the citizens of Delhi to come forward and join the movement and plant at least one sapling in their parks, terrace or verandah during happy occasions of their lives like birthdays and marriage anniversaries," he added.  All the cabinet ministers of Delhi, Speaker of the Delhi Legislative Assembly, MLAs, NGOs and RWA's will be taking part in the ambitious drive, he said.   The plan for the mega plantation drive, to be handled by several different Delhi government departments and agencies including the environment department, DDA, MCD, PWD, and BSES, will be finalised during a virtual meeting on June 9, he said. "While the plantation drive will continue for the entire year, the 'Van Mahotsav' will be a 15-day affair where all government agencies would get together and participate in the 'Variksharopan' programme. "The preparation for this would be done during a meeting on June 9 and details on how the number of saplings to be planted by different agencies will be given," he explained. Various government agencies planted 32 lakh saplings in the financial year 2020-21. Of this, the forest department planted around 5.5 lakh saplings, officials said. The government expects to increase the city's green cover to about 350 sq km this year from 325 sq km in 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-to-celebrate-van-mahotsav-from-june-26-july-11-environment-minister-gopal-rai-994101.html
05-06-2021||North and Central||DUSU urges colleges to clear pending results, give extra chances to submit assignments||The Delhi University Students Union on Saturday requested the principals and teachers of 70 DU colleges to clear pending results and give multiple chances to students to submit assignments for ABE exams. The Delhi University Students' Union (DUSU), in a statement, said it presented its demands to the Delhi University Principals’ Association (DUPA) as well as the Delhi University Teachers' Association (DUTA). The students union also urged that attendance should not be added in the marking of Assessment Based Evaluation (EVA) by colleges, among other demands. "The results of many subjects of pending semesters are yet to be declared. We request you to kindly direct teachers to clear the pending papers as soon as possible," it said in the statement. It added that students of intermediary years giving their assignment-based exams (ABE) should be given another chance to submit their assignments. It also requested the colleges to reconduct practicals "without evaluation". "It has been seen that the learning process has been affected in the online mode, especially in practical subjects. So we suggest that the practicals be conducted again without evaluation, just for learning for those who wish to opt for it," the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dusu-urges-colleges-to-clear-pending-results-give-extra-chances-to-submit-assignments-994120.html
05-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi government claims Centre 'stalled' its doorstep delivery of ration scheme||The Delhi government on Saturday claimed the Centre has "stalled" its ambitious doorstep delivery of ration scheme that would have benefitted 72 lakh ration card holders in the national capital and termed the move "politically motivated." Sources privy to the development, however, claimed the lieutenant governor has not rejected the proposal as was being "portrayed" by the Delhi government. "The file related to the notification of the scheme, proposed to be implemented through private vendors, has been returned for reconsideration to the chief minister by the LG," they said. While asserting that it was prepared to launch the scheme in the next few days, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO), in a statement, claimed the lieutenant governor returned the file on June 2 stating the scheme cannot be implemented.  It said, "The LG has rejected the file for implementation of doorstep delivery of ration citing two reasons -- the Centre is yet to approve the scheme and an ongoing court case." Delhi Food Minister Imran Hussain, however, claimed that according to law, no approval is required for launching such a scheme. "More than six letters were sent to the Centre by the Delhi government since 2018 informing them of the scheme. Citing of an ongoing court case, wherein no stay has been ordered, to stop the rollout of such a revolutionary scheme makes it clear that this decision is politically motivated," Hussain charged. The Delhi government was all set to launch the doorstep delivery of ration scheme within one to two days, benefiting 72 lakh poor beneficiaries, said the CMO statement. It claimed that after accepting all suggestions of the Centre, the Delhi government had sent the file for final approval and immediate rollout of the scheme to the LG on May 24 which was returned by him "rejecting" the scheme. Earlier, the name of the scheme -- 'Mukhyamantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana' -- was dropped by the Delhi government on the objection raised by the Centre. However, a source, while claiming that the LG has not rejected the proposal, said, "It has been advised again, like earlier on March 20, 2018, that since the proposal seeks to change the method of distribution, it would mandatorily require prior approval of Centre as per Section 12 (2) (h) of the National Food Security Act 2013." Also, a petition has been filed by the Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers Sangh in the High Court challenging the proposed arrangement of doorstep delivery of ration by the Delhi government. The Centre is a party to the petition scheduled to be heard on August 20, the source said. Under the scheme, every beneficiary was entitled to receive 4 kg of flour and one kg of rice cleaned and packed at their doorstep. The Delhi government had completed the preparatory work for the implementation of the scheme. Tenders had been awarded, a letter of intent had been released, and vendors had been appointed for doorstep delivery, according to the CMO statement. "The Centre's obstruction also severely compromises Delhi's fight against a possible third wave of coronavirus. People forced to stand in long queues outside ration shops may contract the infection and could pass it on to their children. Keeping this in mind, the Delhi government had fast-tracked implementation of this scheme," it said. The CMO claimed that similar models of the last-mile delivery system have been started in Andhra Pradesh and Haryana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-claims-centre-stalled-its-doorstep-delivery-of-ration-scheme-994131.html
05-06-2021||North and Central||HP govt cancels class 12 board exams, extends 'Corona curfew' till June 14||The Himachal Pradesh government Saturday cancelled the class 12 board examinations for the year 2020-21 and also extended the ongoing 'Corona curfew' till June 14, Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur said. He said the decisions were taken at a cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here. He said the ongoing 'Corona curfew', which was to end on June 7, has now been extended till 6 am on June 14. On cancelling the 10+2 board exams, he said the HP Board of School Education would devise a formula for calculating the awards for students keeping in view the formula being devised by the CBSE. Also in case some students are not satisfied with the results arrived at this way, they would be allowed to appear in a special examination to be conducted once the situation is conducive for conducting the examination, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hp-govt-cancels-class-12-board-exams-extends-corona-curfew-till-june-14-994156.html
05-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt ready to make advance payment for Covid-19 vaccines: AAP leader Atishi to Centre||The Delhi government is ready to make "advance payment" for Covid-19 vaccines, AAP leader and MLA Atishi said on Saturday as she once again urged the Centre to provide doses for the 18-44 age group. It has been almost two weeks since the AAP government in Delhi stopped administering Covid-19 vaccines to the 18-44 age group people due to the unavailability of doses. The Centre has said it will provide a fresh supply of vaccines for the said age group on June 10. "Today, both Covishield and Covaxin are available in private hospitals (for age group 18-44) but not in government-run hospitals and centres. The vaccine companies tell us that it is the Central government which decides who gets how many vaccines and when," said Atishi during the vaccine bulletin. "So, we request the central government to provide us with vaccines for the 18 plus (group) like they have been providing for the 45 plus. Delhi is even ready to make advance payment for the vaccines," she added. According to official data released by the Delhi government, the national capital administered 40,605 vaccine doses on Friday, out of which the first and second doses were given to 35,547 and 5,058 people, respectively. The present stock of Covid vaccines in Delhi for the 45 plus category is over 6 lakh. This is after the state government received 25,000 Covaxin doses on Friday evening, she said. "Covaxin was not available in any of the government vaccination centres today. The fresh doses will be distributed to the centres today and will be available for people above 45 years from tomorrow onwards. We are administering Covaxin to only those who are due for the second dose," said Atishi. While the stock of Covishield (5,76,000 doses) is good enough to last for 28 days, the stock of Covaxin (approximately 32,000 doses) would last for two days only, she noted. So far, 55,92,936 people, including 12 lakh who have received both the doses, have been vaccinated in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-ready-to-make-advance-payment-for-covid-19-vaccines-aap-leader-atishi-to-centre-994180.html
05-06-2021||Opinion||Coercive federalism at play in Bengal||It is a month since the electoral results in West Bengal were announced after an excessively acerbic campaign. The polls ended in a thumping victory for the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress, which won almost 73 per cent of the 292 assembly seats on offer, with a popular vote share of 48 per cent. In contrast, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which deputed the entire might of the party and government in the electoral campaign, won a mere 23 per cent of the seats in the Assembly. Although the BJP secured a vote share of 38 per cent, in the first-past-the-post system this crushing blow is as humbling as it can get. However, the multi-pronged response of the central government, its nominee in the state, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, and the party leadership demonstrates that the present regime is yet to come to terms with the verdict. This response, led deplorably by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, goes against democratic, as well as federal principles. It reveals that despite its lip-service to democratic elections, the ruling party at the Centre is unwilling to accept defeat.  Events unfolding at a staggering pace over the past month, demonstrate that the BJP and Centre are intent on using unconstitutional processes and violating official regulations with the ultimate aim of destabilising, and at a later point, consider dismissing the elected state government. Although recent headlines were dominated by the events centering around the now-retired chief secretary of West Bengal, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, the pettiness displayed by the ruling regime is symptomatic of a much larger malaise. This is not the first time that Modi has violated the principle of federalism. Take, for example, the Pragati meetings (Pro-Active Governance and Timely Implementation). It is relevant to recall that this three-tiered administrative monitoring platform, involving the Prime Minister’s Office, Union government secretaries, and chief secretaries of the states, bypassed elected representatives. Almost every non-BJP chief minister has complained how the Centre has bypassed state governments, with the change of law clipping wings of the elected government in Delhi taking the cake. The Pragati initiative was among the first structured violations of the federal guidelines drawn by the much-vaunted Sarkaria Commission report in the 1980s. Paradoxically, as the Gujarat chief minister, Modi had advocated that the states be given greater autonomy and used to be routinely critical of the UPA government for the so-called intrusions into the domains of the states. That BJP leaders were poor losers was evident even before Banerjee took the oath of office for the third time. Sadly, Bengal has a tradition of post-verdict violent targeting of losers by those who emerge victors. Even the overall loser lets out a swipe or two in constituencies where they are dominant. The threat of “I will thrash you after the polls” is often used by goons of the parties during the campaign. Despite being aware of this unfortunate practice, the Election Commission, in charge of supervising the state’s law and order situation before the chief minister was sworn in again, let its guard down. Although technically Banerjee had no responsibility to manage the situation, a social-media-driven campaign led by BJP leaders accused her of triggering violent incidents. If this was not sufficient, the conduct of Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar was unbecoming. He rushed to discussing the post-poll violence with Modi while not having a word with the chief minister-designate. Furthermore, immediately after administering the oath of office to Banerjee, Dhankhar sent her a public message over live television: “Our first priority is to bring an end to the senseless, horrendous post-poll violence...You have to rise above partisan interests.....” He had little business to cast aspersions on a leader elected with a landslide in less than a week of the verdict. As an agent of the Centre, Dhankhar too was indulging in politics from public platforms. The governor indiscriminately used “discretion”, choosing to fan passions by visiting sites of post-poll violence in Cooch Behar despite the disapproval of the chief minister. He further lowered the dignity of the constitutional post by behaving like a battle-scarred politician, screaming at people when greeted with black flags. He needlessly berated a police officer despite not sticking to the agreed route. Once again, Dhankhar criticised Banerjee in public, by addressing a press conference and on Twitter. If these were not sufficient violations of the federal spirit, the Centre dispatched several teams to West Bengal to survey the situation and criticise the state government. These separate teams consisted of union government officials, nominees of the National Human Rights Commission and the National Commission for Women. The intention of these visits was to prevent Banerjee from settling down in her renewed job and provide time to the government to probe the incidents. Significantly, post-poll violence began declining within a day or two of Banerjee taking the oath, indicating that the state government was no longer in a state of paralysis when the reins were technically in the control of the ECI. The former cabinet secretary to the Union government, KM Chandrasekhar, in an article on la affaire Alapan Bandyopadhyay, pointed out that the “appointment and deputation of IAS officers require agreement between the central government and the state government”, besides the “willingness of the officer”, before being moved out from the state to the Centre. Citing the relevant item of the IAS (Cadre) Rules, 1954, the former bureaucrat pointed out that an officer is “deputed” from the state to the Centre and not the other way around, and this process “always involved a decision of both the central and state governments.” Although Banerjee is neither a great democrat nor a team person, in this instance she cannot be faulted. The Centre not only did not consult her government, but it also provided no evidence why after routinely extending Bandyopadhyay’s service days earlier, a sudden need to post him in Delhi arose. Significantly, the position was not disclosed making it evident that the decision was a form of ‘punishment’. Certainly, this demonstrated that Modi was being vindictive and wished to penalise Bandyopadhyay. His crime? Diligently following the order of his boss. Expecting Bandyopadhyay to act on his own is encouraging insubordination. Banerjee’s assertion that the targeting of the officer was indicative of Modi consistently discriminating against people of Bengal has immense political potential and can lead to a rise in sub-national angst against the Centre. This will not only be politically damaging for Modi but has grave implications for the country. The decision to convert the meeting between the prime minister with the chief minister into one attended by a large group, including Suvendu Adhikari, was certainly taken with the intention of riling Banerjee. She rightly questioned this move because there is no precedent of the leader of opposition attending a meeting where the purpose is administrative stock-taking after a natural disaster. This decision highlights the only political move that the BJP has taken after being humbled in the polls. The appointment of Adhikari sent a clear message that he is the BJP’s future chief ministerial face. This is aimed at retaining leaders who crossed over from the Trinamool Congress before the polls by signalling that they have a future. But the move has the potential to cause unease among old-timers in the party, especially the ideologically committed. Continued efforts to destabilise Banerjee’s government and sharper polarisation however provides solace to them. They also have even fewer political options than the newcomers. But setting the party’s house in the state in order after the inability to repeat the performance of 2019 (when the BJP established leads in 121 assembly segments) is hardly on Modi’s priorities currently. In the process of appeasing his vanity, Modi has shown that his promise of governing India by bolstering cooperative federalism was also another jumla, mere glib talk. The model that has been unveiled in recent days is coercive federalism. (The writer is an NCR-based author and journalist. His books include The RSS: Icons of the Indian Right and Narendra Modi: The Man, The Times. He tweets at @NilanjanUdwin) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coercive-federalism-at-play-in-bengal-994031.html
05-06-2021||South||Covid-19 lockdown extended till June 14 in Tamil Nadu; some relaxations announced||Announcing relaxations such as allowing shops selling essential commodities to reopen and government offices to resume work, Chief Minister M K Stalin on Saturday announced extension of lockdown by one more week till June 14 to combat Covid-19. Overall, though the spread of coronavirus has come under control in Tamil Nadu, it continued to be on the rise in 11 districts including Coimbatore and the Nilgiris, he said. Hence, such regions would have lesser relaxations and the rest of the state, relatively more, according to an official release. Across the state, standalone provision stores, vegetable shops, meat and fish stalls, pavement hawkers selling flowers besides other things would be allowed to function from 6 am to to 5 pm and fish markets and slaughter houses shall be open only for wholesale trade. Government offices shall resume work with 30 per cent employees and Sub Registrar's office shall limit registration work by issuing 'tokens' only upto 50 per cent and matchwork industries could operate with 50 per cent workers. Except few essential departments including medical, other government offices were closed from last month. Barring the 11 districts, in other regions, routine housekeeping and maintenance work in offices and residences would be allowed and workers including electricians and plumbers shall be permitted to work between 6 AM and 5 PM albeit after getting e-pass following registration. Shops selling hardware items, electrical goods, vehicle spares, books and stationery and vehicle service stations could function from 6 am to 5 pm. In taxis and autorickshaws, three and two passengers respectively would be permitted and they could travel with 'e-pass.' Export units in cities such as Coimbatore, Tirupur, Salem, Karur and Erode and raw material manufacturing firms could work with 10 per cent of workers. Tirupur, Erode, Salem, Karur, Namakkal, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Ngapattinam, and Mayiladuthurai are the nine other districts that have been witnessing comparatively more cases. Following discussions with top officials at the Secretariat over extending curbs on Friday, Stalin said e- pass from district administration is necessary to travel (for emergency purposes) to hillstations of Nilgiris, Kodaikanal, Yercaud and the tourist destination of Courtallam. The sale of fruits and vegetables through vehicles would continue, he said and requested the people to cooperate with the government and follow Covid-19 related guidelines. All the fresh relaxations would come into effect on June 7 and permitted activities should be done by following Covid-19 protocol. The intense lockdown without relaxations across the state was previously extended upto June 7. A two-week lockdown was clamped on May 10 in Tamil Nadu with some relaxations and subsequently, it was extended by one more week, till May 31 and relaxations were withdrawn. The additional restrictions from May 24 include closure of vegetable shops and provision stores, which were earlier allowed to work between 6 AM and 10 AM. To help ensure supply of vegetables and fruits, the government implemented sale through vehicles. From April, following a steep rise in virus cases, restrictions were imposed one after the other which includes closure of places of worship. After logging over 36,000 cases last month, the fresh infections subsequently began to witness a decline in the state. On June 4, the recoveries (33,646) eclipsed the fresh cases (22,651).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-lockdown-extended-till-june-14-in-tamil-nadu-some-relaxations-announced-994012.html
05-06-2021||South||Covid-19: Kerala sets July 15 target to provide first dose of vaccine to all aged above 40 years||The Kerala government has decided to provide at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine to all aged above 40 years by July 15. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan gave the direction at a review meeting in the wake of chances of a third wave of the pandemic. Mentally-ill patients would be given priority in vaccination. About one crore persons above the age of 45 years in Kerala have already got their first dose of vaccine in the state; over 20 lakh have got their second doses too. Nearly 22 percent of the state's population has been vaccinated. The state government has  already announced that all persons in the state would be provided vaccine free of cost and has placed an order for one crore doses. The state is expecting to receive 38 lakh doses of vaccine this month. The state government also decided to conduct a genetic grading of breakthrough infections among children as part of the preparedness against the third wave. The state would also continue its efforts to identify mutated variants of virus in the state. Many relaxations given in lockdown norms in the state were withdrawn from Saturday as the test positivity rate remained around 15 per cent after relaxations were given. Only shops selling essential commodities and construction materials would be allowed to function.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-kerala-sets-july-15-target-to-provide-first-dose-of-vaccine-to-all-aged-above-40-years-994128.html
05-06-2021||South||BJP offered Rs 15 lakh to withdraw nomination, claims K Surendran's namesake; party junks charge||The BJP's Kerala unit, under attack over allegations of using large amounts of black money in the April 6 assembly polls, found itself in a fresh row on Saturday, with a candidate claiming he was offered Rs 15 lakh for withdrawing his nomination against BJP state chief K Surendran. The BJP dismissed the allegations as baseless and said it was a conspiracy against the party. K Sundara, a BSP candidate of Manjeswaram constituency in Kasaragod district and a namesake of Surendran, had on March 22 withdrawn his nomination papers. Surendran however lost the election. The similarity between the duo's names is said to have helped Sundara garner 467 votes in the constituency as an independent during the 2016 Assembly polls in which Surendran had lost to IUML nominee P B Abdul Razzaq by 89 votes. "The BJP leaders asked me to withdraw my candidature. I had asked for Rs 15 lakh but they gave me Rs 2.5 lakh only and a mobile phone worth Rs 15,000. I had also asked for a wine shop in Karnataka if they were able to win the seat. But once the election was over no one bothered to call me," Sundara told the media. Besides withdrawing the candidature, Sundara had also joined the BJP. Manjeswaram was one among the constituencies for BJP in Kerala where the party pinned hopes on winning. The BJP, however, dismissed the allegations. "We did not offer him anything to withdraw his nomination. He had publicly explained why he withdrew his candidature. Now he has changed his stance. It seems like someone is coercing him. We doubt that he is raising such allegations due to the pressure from CPI(M) and the IUML," BJP district president K Sreekanth said. Meanwhile, CPI(M) candidate V V Rameshan, who came third in the 2021 election, today approached the Kasaragod district police chief seeking registration of a case into the matter following the development. The CPI(M) has accused the BJP of using large amounts of black money in the assembly polls. IUML's A K M Ashraf had won the seat with 65,758 votes, while Surendran managed to bag 65,013 votes. Rameshan got 40,639 votes. Earlier, a Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party (JRP) leader had alleged that the BJP had offered Rs ten lakh bribe to the chairperson of JRP, C K Janu, to contest as NDA candidate from Sulthan Bathery. The BJP had dismissed this allegation too. Meanwhile, in the 'Kodakarahavala heist case', the special investigation team on Saturday questioned the driver and personal aide of the BJP state chief. The investigation team, probing the highway robbery of hawala money at Kodakara on April 3, three days ahead of the state Assembly polls, had questioned RSS leader and BJP state organisation secretary M Ganeshan and party office secretary Gireesh. Congress demanded a judicial probe into the allegations against the BJP leadership. Senior Congress leader K Muraleedharan asked the state government to probe the allegations against the BJP state chief and the saffron party. "Has the BJP chief included the rent of the helicopter in his election expenditure. Also, it was the BJP central leadership that gave the money to the BJP candidates. Where did it all come from? All the black money allegations are being raised by the BJP candidates only," Muraleedharan claimed. The investigators had also questioned BJP Thrissur district general secretary K R Hari and Ayyanthole Area secretary G Kashinadhan in connection with the highway robbery. According to a complaint filed by Shamjeer Samsudheen on April 7, a gang had stopped his car on the Kodakara flyover here and robbed Rs 25 lakh kept in the vehicle when he was on his way to Kochi from Kozhikode. Though the complaint had said that only Rs 25 lakh was stolen, the investigators later found that the actual amount could be about Rs 3.5 crore and it was a hawala transaction, police sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-offered-rs-15-lakh-to-withdraw-nomination-claims-k-surendrans-namesake-party-junks-charge-994185.html
05-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu government cancels class 12 board exams||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced cancellation of class 12 state board examinations and said a committee would be set up to decide on awarding marks to students. The decision was in view of the high prevalence of the second wave of Covid-19 in several parts of Tamil Nadu and also considering the chances of a third wave, the government said. Following three days of consultations with stakeholders including teachers, educationists and experts, Chief Minister M K Stalin said "the class 12 board examination for this year is cancelled." A committee, headed by School Education Department Principal Secretary, would be set up to decide on giving marks to students and based on its recommendation, marks would be awarded, an official release said, adding such marks alone shall be the basis for admission to college courses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-government-cancels-class-12-board-exams-994187.html
05-06-2021||State||KSRTC vs KSRTC: All you need to know about the Karnataka-Kerala trademark row||Here’s all you need to know about the Karnataka-Kerala trademark row: > The legal battle between Karnataka and Kerala over intellectual property rights was going on for seven years to claim the KSRTC trademark. > The battle began in 2014 when Karnataka road transport corporation (RTC) took the first step for trademark registration and asked Kerala to not use the acronym further. > The Karnataka RTC secured the registration of the KSRTC trademark back in 2013, while later in 2019 Kerala received its letter of registration. > Both the states were using the ‘KSRTC’ acronym on all the buses and websites of their respective RTCs, until now. > After the Controller General of Patents Design and Trade Marks under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry approved Kerala’s claim on Wednesday, now the Kerala RTC will display KSRTC with the registration ‘®’ wherever the state uses it. > Not just the acronym ‘KSRTC’, but the logo of two elephants and the term ‘Ana Vandi’ will also be used by Kerala only.  > Kerala RTC’s CMD has told that they will be sending legal notices to people who are using the acronym and can claim money from people using it. > The Kerala RTC started using the acronym ‘KSRTC’ when they first commenced the services in 1965 whereas Karnataka RTC commenced services only by 1974 and started using the acronym since then. According to sources, this was the major contention of Kerala.  The KSRTC trademark row is set to deepen as the Karnataka government has dismissed Kerala’s claims saying that “the reported claims of Kerala RTC are wrong.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ksrtc-vs-ksrtc-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-karnataka-kerala-trademark-row-994063.html
05-06-2021||State||Tigress gives birth to 3 cubs at Pilikula||Tiger population at the Pilikula Biological Park rose to 13 with tigress Rani giving birth to three cubs. The cubs are healthy and will open their eyes in 16 days, said Park Director H Jayaprakash Bhandary. The 10-year-old Rani had given birth to five cubs—Reva, Sudha, Jayarama, Sanjaya and Vijaya in 2019. All the cubs have grown up now. Rani had been brought from Bannerghatta Biological Park in exchange for a male tiger named Vinay from Pilikula few years ago,   A separate enclosure for five cubs in the park were constructed by Ramdas Kamath couple from Abu Dhabi by donating a sum of Rs 15 lakh. A Dhole which is rare and endangered gave births to seven pups recently. The Dholes were brought from Vishakhpattanam zoo. Now, the number of dholes has increased to 33 at Pilikula, said the Director. Meanwhile, the egg of Rhea bird was artificially incubated and a white colour chick was hatched recently. The reticulated python is also hatching 20 eggs at Biological Park. Last year, the reticulated python had given birth to 17 hatchlings. On the other hand, ‘Nagamani’ King Cobra had laid six eggs and the eggs are being hatched. There are 19 king cobras in Pilikula Biological Park, said the Director. He said that after the lockdown is lifted, a white tiger will be brought to Pilikula park from Vanadlur Zoo. Talks are on to exchange birds and animals from Nandankanan Zoological Park, zoo in Surath and Hyderabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tigress-gives-birth-to-3-cubs-at-pilikula-994170.html
05-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Unlock to start in Karnataka districts with low Covid-19 positivity rate: CM B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka will start its ‘unlock’ process by lifting restrictions only in those districts where the Covid-19 positivity rate drops below 5 per cent, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Saturday.  He was responding to a question on whether Karnataka will follow the footsteps of its neighbour Maharashtra that has announced a five-step unlock process.  “In districts where the positivity rate drops below 5 per cent, I will discuss with officials and Cabinet colleagues on how we can provide concessions. We will decide this in 4-5 days closer to the end of the lockdown,” Yediyurappa told reporters.  Karnataka’s positivity rate currently stands at 10.66 per cent, and this is gradually dropping. But according to the latest data from the State Covid-19 War Room, the positivity rate is above 10 per cent in 23 districts with Mysuru clocking the highest at 30.23 per cent, followed by Chikmagalur (24.20 per cent), Chitradurga (19.71 per cent) and Uttara Kannada (19.16 per cent). In Bengaluru Urban, it is 6.23 per cent. The rate remains below 5 per cent in two districts - Kalaburagi and Bidar.  On conducting the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) Class 10 exams, Yediyurappa said it would depend on the Covid-19 situation. “The plan is to hold the (SSLC) exams in July. Let’s see what the Covid-19 situation will be like then. Everything depends on that,” he said. Acknowledging the criticism on the decision to scrap the Class 12 (PUC) exam and conducting the SSLC exam, Yediyurappa said the government would make sure no one is inconvenienced.   Yediyurappa was speaking after symbolically launching the direct benefit transfer (DBT) of the Covid-19 relief payment of Rs 10 crore to four lakh construction workers. “In all, 25 lakh workers registered with the Karnataka Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board will receive Rs 749.55 crore at Rs 3,000 per head,” he said.  He also launched the Seva Sindhu online facility for barbers, tailors, mechanics, rag pickers, potters, and others from the unorganised sector to apply for Rs 2,000 assistance under the government’s Covid-19 relief package.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/unlock-to-start-in-karnataka-districts-with-low-covid-19-positivity-rate-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-994149.html
05-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Disbursement of Covid-19 relief package under way, says Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday said the disbursement of cash assistance under the Covid-19 relief package has begun and a portal launched to register the beneficiaries. Yediyurappa was referring to the Rs 1,750 crore relief package announced in two installments to benefit various sections of the society to overcome the financial hardship during the restrictions to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, which is in effect since April 27 and is likely to end on June 14. "Today we transferred Rs 749.55 crore to the Karnataka Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. This will benefit 25 lakh registered workers who will get Rs 3,000," the chief minister told reporters here.  According to Yediyurappa, Rs 110 crore has been transferred to the account of 10 lakh people from 11 different sectors such as unorganised workers, barbers, washermen, tailors, construction labourers, ragpickers, knick-knack sellers and potters. An online portal has been launched for the swift registration of beneficiaries. Replying to a query, the CM said wherever Covid-19 cases drop below five per cent, we will consider giving concessions after discussing with the officials by the end of the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/disbursement-of-covid-19-relief-package-under-way-says-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-994100.html
05-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reported 1,784 'black fungus' cases: K Sudhakar||Karnataka has reported 1,784 cases of mucormycosis or black fungus while 62 have recovered and 111 have died, said State Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Saturday. The state government is mulling including black fungus treatment under Ayushman Bharat Arogya Karnataka scheme for the people falling under the low income and lower middle-class group, he said. Black fungus broke out in the state as a post-Covid complication during the second wave. "A total of 1,784 cases of black fungus have been reported in the state and 62 have recovered. Sufficient medicine has been allocated to the state," Sudhakar said in a statement. According to him, 1,564 people in the state are being treated for black fungus. "While 62 people have recovered, unfortunately 111 people have lost their lives to the black fungus," the Minister said. He said 9,750 vials of Amphotericin-B drug used for treatment of black fungus has been allocated by the Centre, of which 8,860 vials were received on Friday. "So far, we have received 18,650 vials. 8,860 vials have been used by government hospitals and 9,740 vials provided to private hospitals," the Minister said. Speaking about the vaccination drive, he said about 70-75 lakh people would be provided vaccines in June. "About 1.5 crore doses have been administered in the state so far. By the end of June, about 2.25 crore people will receive at least one dose of vaccine in our state. Everyone will be vaccinated soon," Sudhakar said. According to him, the second wave may subside in the state by June-end but insisted upon the people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reported-1784-black-fungus-cases-k-sudhakar-994136.html
05-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka logs 13,800 infections, 365 deaths||Karnataka has reported 13,800 fresh Covid-19 casesand 365 deaths, taking the total infected and fatalities so far to 26,83,314 and 31,260 respectively, the Health Department said on Saturday. The state has 2,68,275 active cases, whereas the total number of people discharged stood at 23,83,758 with the recovery of 25,346 people. The tally of infections in Bengaluru Urban district remained the highest in the state with 2,686 infections and 206 fatalities. The city has so far reported 11,80,182 infections and 14,688 deaths. There were 1,24,807 active cases. Mysuru district remained as the second major Covid hot spot with 1,155 infections and 22 fatalities. According to the health bulletin, there were 847 cases in Belagavi, 714 in Dakshina Kannada, 710 in Shivamogga, 695 in Tumakuru, 568 in Hassan, 562 in Mandya, 552 in Udupi and 529 in Davangere. Infections were reported in other districts as well and they include Dharwad, Ballari, Bagalkote, Bengaluru Rural, Chitradurga, Chikkaballapura, Kodagu, Kolar, Koppal, Uttara Kannada and Vijayapura. The department said there were 18 deaths in Belagavi, 10 in Kolar, nine in Ballari and Shivamogga, eight each in Bengaluru Rural, Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad and Hassan. Deaths were reported in 17 other districts. There were zero fatalities in Bagalkote, Yadgir and Chikkamagaluru. As many as 1,42,291 tests were done today and they included 1,00,254 using RT-PCR and other methods. So far, 3.04 crore tests have been done cumulatively, the department said. As on Saturday, 1.50 crore people were inoculated in the State, comprising first and second dose of vaccine. The positivity rate for the day was 9.69 per cent and the case fatality rate 2.64 per cent, the department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-logs-13800-infections-365-deaths-994189.html
05-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Southwest monsoon advances to more parts of Karnataka||The southwest monsoon, which set in over Karnataka on June 4, advanced on Saturday to north interior parts of the state, bringing in copious rains, officials said. "There was a heavy downpour in many parts of Karnataka, including interior areas in the north. We have sounded an alert in certain areas, including coastal Karnataka," an official handling disaster management told PTI. He said the next 48 hours would bring in heavy rains in many parts of the state. Many parts in Bengaluru were inundated due to the torrential rain on Friday. In Kalaburagi, the Roudravati river was in spate due to heavy downpour. Another disaster management official said that in view of the arrival of the monsoon, a flood action plan would be released on Monday, which has identified vulnerable villages. "Along with it, a flood matrix has also been done," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/southwest-monsoon-advances-to-more-parts-of-karnataka-994194.html
05-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Monsoon covers Karnataka; Orange alert in coast||With southwest monsoon advancing over coast and north and south interior Karnataka, most of the districts are likely to receive moderate to heavy rain on Sunday. "Southwest monsoon had entered the coast and south interior districts on Friday. The monsoon has advanced further and covered the entire state. Several districts will experience heavy showers on Sunday," a senior India Meteorological Department (IMD) official told DH. The IMD has sounded an orange alert in coastal districts for Sunday. Yellow alert has been declared for several districts in north and south interior Karnataka. Heavy rain lashed most places in the coastal region and parts of north and south Karnataka. Kalagi and surrounding areas in Kalaburagi have been receiving incessant rain for the past four days. Torrential showers have left Roudravati river and many streams in spate. The floodwater of the river has gushed into Neelakanth Kaleeshwara temple. Rain, accompanied by thunder and lightning, lashed Vijayapura city and parts of the district on Saturday evening. Parts of Belagavi, Dharwad, Uttara Kannada and Vijayanagar districts also witnessed light to moderate showers in the day. Sharp showers threw life out of gear in Chamarajanagar district. Sustained rain has given farmers the boost to take up agricultural activities in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/monsoon-covers-karnataka-orange-alert-in-coast-994205.html
05-06-2021||West||Satellite study identifies critical impacts of coastal inundation in Mumbai||While there are several projections of sea-level rise along the Mumbai and Maharashtra coast leading up to 2030, the latest study assessing satellite data over 30 years (1990 and 2019) has already begun identifying critical impacts of coastal inundation along the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and coastal Konkan region. As per a study undertaken by Srushti Conservation Foundation (SCF) — a Pune based non-profit organisation — siltation at the mouth is causing shrinking width of creeks and waterways along the MMR, including Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Uran among others. Further, the volume of water in the estuary between high tide and low tide (tidal prism) during non-monsoon months is altered due to land-use changes and is putting many coastal townships in the MMR at risk of increased inundation, especially during monsoon months. Preliminary findings of this study indicate that a total area of 107.6 square kilometres (a little over the size of the Sanjay Gandhi National Park - 103 square kilometres) of waterways and agricultural land has been lost and naturally converted into mudflats or mangrove areas in MMR due to rapid changes in the coastal ecosystem over the past 30 years. Dr Deepak Apte, Executive Director of Srushti Conservation Foundation (SCF) stated that without policy and on-site interventions, such creek areas will overtime be converted into mangrove forests, extremely shallow swamps or even drylands in many parts, which will become unfit for navigation, reduce stormwater drainage capacity, and will render the habitats unsuitable. It will especially affect the flamingo habitat in areas like Thane Creek, he said. The report predicts the possibility of excessive flooding in MMR if corrective measures are not taken. “The shrinking creek is not good for a city because the drainage capacity during monsoon will reduce significantly leading to excessive flooding for this region. Once it becomes shallow the water carrying capacity of the creek will be reduced. As a result, during heavy rains and high tide water will enter the city spaces even with a subtle increase in sea level rise scenario,” said Apte. Apte informs that sea-level rise leading to coastal inundation is a reality, which will affect millions of coastal populations causing loss of livelihood, land degradation etc. He recommends building the resilience of coastal communities, promoting nature-based solutions, and preparing them for mitigating climate-related risks to be of paramount importance for the resilience of the city. The National Centre for Coastal Research (NCCR) under the Ministry of Earth Sciences along with the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai last year developed an Integrated Flood warning system called i-flows for Mumbai for flood mitigation during monsoons and extreme events. “The expertise of NCCR could be utilised for drawing a comprehensive plan for conservation /restoration ecosystem using scientific study and also to prevent the impact of sea-level rise, which is of serious concern for the island city of Mumbai and adjoining areas,” said Apte.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/satellite-study-identifies-critical-impacts-of-coastal-inundation-in-mumbai-993921.html
05-06-2021||West||Maharashtra Unlock 2.0 from Monday: All you need to know||After over two months of strict lockdown-like restrictions in wake of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Unlock 2.0 will commence in Maharashtra from Monday. After detailed deliberations for over a week, the Disaster Management Unit has divided the state into five Levels – 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 - depending on the positivity rate and occupancy of oxygenated beds. In Mumbai, the government has decided to continue with the restriction of not allowing the general public to travel in the suburban trains in the Mumbai metropolitan region. The new guidelines were announced in the wee hours of Saturday by the office of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. The state has been divided into 48 units which include the districts and big municipal corporations.  All districts/units where the positivity rate is 5 per cent or lesser and the occupancy of hospital beds is lower than 25 per cent fall under Level-1. These districts will be allowed to completely unlock and all activities will continue normally. All sectors including public transport, cultural events, shops, restaurants, sports, theatres, malls, industries, private and government offices will be allowed to open. Nearly 50 per cent of the state falls under Level-1. All shops will be allowed to stay open during regular hours. Weddings, funerals, industry, and construction activities can resume without restrictions. Cities and districts where the positivity rate is 5 per cent positivity rate or lesser and occupancy of hospital beds is between 25-40 per cent will be included in Level-2, and section 144 CrPC will continue to be in force. All districts/cities where the positivity rate is 5-10 per cent and the occupancy of hospital beds is lower than 40-60 per cent fall under Level-3. The areas having a positivity rate of 10-20 per cent and 60-75 per cent occupancy rate will come under Level-4. The cities and districts that have a positivity rate of 20 per cent and above and occupancy rate above 75 per cent will fall under Level-5. For Mumbai, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and other Municipal Commissioners and District Collectors will issue notices separately on Saturday and Sunday on which areas fall in which categories. Mumbai is expected to be in Level-2 or Level-3 and the financial capital would not open up fully. Aurangabad, Bhandara, Buldhana, Chandrapur, Dhule, Gadchiroli, Gondia, Jalgaon, Jalna, Latur, Nagpur, Nanded, Nashik, Parbhani, Thane, Washim, Wardha and Yavatmal districts, all fall under level 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-unlock-20-from-monday-all-you-need-to-know-993999.html
05-06-2021||West||1,179 villages in Maharashtra's Nanded district Covid-free||Out of the total 1,604 villages in Nanded district of Maharashtra, as many as 1,179 have become coronavirus-free, while 271 others have not reported even a single infection case during the second wave of the pandemic, an official said. Nanded district has so far recorded over 90,000 coronavirus positive cases and more than 1,800 people have died due to the viral infection till now. The district has 1,604 villages across 16 tehsils. Of these, 1,179 villages have become Covid-19-free and as on June 4 there is not a single positive case there, the district official said. Apart from them, 271 villages remained untouched by the pandemic during its second wave, the official added. Nanded Zilla Parishad's CEO Varsha Thakur attributed this encouraging scenario to teamwork. "The village gram panchayats, panchayat samitis, members of the ZP, anganwadi workers, health department staff of the district administration and ZP worked together to break the chain of the virus. The villagers contributed by following the protocols," she said. "However, the pandemic is not over yet and the villagers should be more alert," she added. Seventy-seven of the 271 villages in the district that did not report even a single case are from the tribal-dominated Kinwat tehsil. "This tesil is surrounded by Yavatmal district in Maharashtra and Adilabad district in neighbouring Telangana state, which witnessed a spike in cases during the second wave," another official told PTI. Apart from Kinwat, 42 villages from Hadgaon, 39 from Kandhar, 22 from Loha, 16 from Bhokar, 17 from Mahur, 15 from Mudkhed, 12 from Nanded, nine from Himayatnagar, seven from Degloor, four each from Ardhapur, Dharmabad, Umri, two from Mukhed and one from Biloli are away from the infection, the official said. Then there are villages that have set examples in terms of vaccination and treating the patients at the local level. Shelgaon village in Naygaon tehsil has achieved the target of 100 per cent vaccination, while Bhosi village in Bhokar taluka treated patients in the village itself, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/1179-villages-in-maharashtras-nanded-district-covid-free-994017.html
05-06-2021||West||Activists protest against plan to cut 4,930 trees in Nagpur||Some environment activists and citizens in Nagpur held a silent protest in the city on Saturday against the plan to cut down 4,930 trees in Ajni area for a project. The protest coincided with the World Environment Day. These trees are proposed to be axed for the Inter Modal Station (IMS), ajoint venture between Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). On May 29, the garden department of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had issued in newspaper notice about the proposed felling of 4,930 trees to carry out the project, and invited suggestions and objections. A PIL was filed by Swacch Association in the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on June 1 against the proposed felling of trees. The petitioner has prayed the courtto direct the NHAIto obtain prior environment clearance for the project. Talking to PTI, environment activist Kunal Maurya, who is part of the 'Save Ajni Vann' campaign said that from December last year, silent protests, 'chipko' movement and signature drive, were being carried out against the move. "After the NMC's notification this week, we launched an online petition against the felling of trees wherein 10000 people have signed the online petition. Similarly, NMC has so far received more than 200 objection letters," he said. Activist Jaydeep Das said, "It is a black Environment Day for Nagpur today, because we are losing trees. The IMS project needs to be shifted." A silent protest was observed at Sanvidhan square against the proposed felling of trees, he said, adding that Covid-19 protocols were observed during it. The NHAI is investing Rs 1,200 crore into the first phase and railways is also providing its land for the project. The project is spread over 44 acres and will have seven platforms, three subways, three air concourse, escalators, 163 bays, waiting areas, restaurants, VIP lounges, among other things, officials said. In January this year, Union minister Nitin Gadkari had said in a press conference that the IMS would cater to over three lakh passengers per day with easy accessibility from the city via roads, metro, intra city buses, as well as forms of non-motorised transport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/activists-protest-against-plan-to-cut-4930-trees-in-nagpur-994043.html
05-06-2021||West||Goa govt seeks data on students orphaned due to Covid-19||The Goa education department on Saturday directed its affiliated academic institutes in the state to provide information about the students, who have lost either one or both their parents due to Covid-19. Director of education, D R Bhagat, issued a circular to this effect, asking the institutes to compile a data of such students and submit it to the department by Monday. "Due to the sudden rise in Covid-19 cases recently, many children have been orphaned or have lost either of their parents due to the pandemic," the circular said. "The service providers might find it challenging to support children in institutions with psychosocial and mental health care needs. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights in New Delhi has asked the department to submit the information to be uploaded on the 'Baal Swaraj Portal'," it added. The coronavirus case count in Goa till Friday evening was 1,58,423, while the death toll was 2,727.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-govt-seeks-data-on-students-orphaned-due-to-covid-19-994050.html
05-06-2021||West||Southwest Monsoon arrives in Maharashtra; conditions favourable for advancement||The southwest monsoon arrived in Maharashtra on Saturday, bringing showers in some coastal parts of the state, an India Meteorological Department (IMD) official said. The progress of the monsoon is as per our expectations, said Shubhangi Bhute, Director of the IMD's regional centre. "The southwest monsoon has arrived in Maharashtra. It has officially reached up to Harnai port in coastal Ratnagiri district and its actual line is spread till Solapur and some parts of Marathwada, followed by some parts of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh," she said. It is expected to bring showers to these regions, she added.  "Conditions are favourable for further advancement of the monsoon," she said. A few days back, the IMD had predicted that monsoon is likely to be normal in the north and south India, above-normal in central India and below-normal in east and northeast India. Quantitatively, the monsoon seasonal (June to September) rainfall over the country as a whole is likely to be 101 per cent of the Long Period Average (LPA) with a model error of plus or minus four per cent, it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/southwest-monsoon-arrives-in-maharashtra-conditions-favourable-for-advancement-994096.html
05-06-2021||West||67-year-old Covid warrior dies, associate says govt was no help||A 67-year-old retired government employee who helped cremate more than 1,300 Covid-19 victims himself succumbed to the viral infection here, with his associate claiming that he did not receive timely help. Chandan Nimje, a retired Central government employee, died on May 26. Nimje, alongwith other members of King Cobra Organisation Youth Force, a social service group, had cremated more than 1,300 Covid-19 deceased since the pandemic began. He was also felicitated as `corona warrior' by the Nagpur Mayor recently. Arvind Ratudi, founder of the group, told PTI on Saturday that Nimje, his wife, sister and two sons tested positive on May 2. Nimje was shifted to a private hospital which demanded a deposit of Rs one lakh in cash and refused to accept card payment, he said. He was then taken back home and admitted to another hospital on May 5, Ratudi said, alleging that calls to Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials went unanswered. On May 6, other members of the family too were admitted in another private hospital, he said. As Nimje's condition deteriorated, the hospital asked them to arrange Tocilizumab. A person from Delhi who knew about the organisation and its work sent them four vials of the medicine without taking any money, Ratudi said. On May 26, they arranged a bed for Nimje at the Government Medical College Hospital but he died before he could be shifted there, Ratudi said. Had Nimje received timely and proper treatment, he could have been saved, but besides sealing the house the civic officials offered no help to the family, his associate claimed. "I am going to file a petition before the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court about the apathy of the state government, NMC and district administration leading to his death," Ratudi said. "We, with our network of so many activists, could not get timely help, so imagine the plight of common people," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/67-year-old-covid-warrior-dies-associate-says-govt-was-no-help-994110.html
05-06-2021||West||Acute water shortage in 67 villages, 193 wadis in Raigad||The administration in Raigad in Maharashtra on Saturday said 67 villages and 193 'wadis' (smaller areas) in the district were facing acute water shortage, with 31 tankers being deployed to provide relief to some 46,000 people. An official said Alibag, Murud, Roha, Mangaon and Mhasala talukas were not facing water scarcity, while the situation in Mahad was such that eight tankers are in use every day, the highest for any region in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/acute-water-shortage-in-67-villages-193-wadis-in-raigad-994114.html
05-06-2021||West||Maharashtra's new unlock guidelines will end in fiasco, says BJP||BJP leader Pravin Darekar on Saturday said the new set of `unlock' guidelines issued by the Maharashtra government would lead to a fiasco. The government on late Friday night announced a five- level plan to relax coronavirus-induced restrictions. "The notification issued at midnight is full of discrepancies," said Darekar, Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council. Its scheme of five categories or levels is complicated and has created confusion among people, the BJP leader said. "It is a roughly prepared notification, issued with no proper planning. The positivity rate and occupied oxygen beds do not match. There are discrepancies in the rules for Mumbai. It would be a fiasco during implementation," Darekar claimed. As per the notification, areas with infection positivity rate of five per cent or less and oxygen bed occupancy of less than 25 per cent will be in the first category, and can open up completely. Whereas in the fifth category areas, with positivity rate of more than 20 per cent, only essential shops will remain open and office attendance will be capped at 15 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-new-unlock-guidelines-will-end-in-fiasco-says-bjp-994123.html
05-06-2021||West||Shiv Sena ready to contest Pune civic polls in alliance or singly: Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Saturday said the party was ready to fight the next year's civic elections in Pune on its own or as part of MVA alliance. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's popularity will help the party in the polls, he told reporters here. The Shiv Sena was exploring both the options -- fighting the civic polls on its own or as part of MVA alliance which also includes NCP and Congress, he said. "We are considering both the possibilities....The party is fully prepared for both options," said Raut. Even if it enters into alliance, the Sena will contest at least 80 (out of 162) seats in the city, he said. Asked about Mumbai civic polls, Raut only said the Sena expects continuance of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance in all local elections in Maharashtra. On Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole's statement that his party was ready to contest all seats alone in Mumbai polls, Raut said he wished him good luck. "They (Congress) did that in West Bengal. If the Congress comes to power in the Centre on its own, there would be nothing more historic," the Sena leader said. If the Congress musters the capacity to defeat prime minister Narendra Modi and his party on its own, the Shiv Sena would stand by it, he added. On the Sena's lacklustre performance in Pune civic polls in the past, Raut said the party was working hard to strengthen the base and reach out to people. "The way chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is working, his image is rising among the masses day by day and the party will benefit from it," Raut added. On the feud with the NCP over the election of chairman of Panchayat Samiti in Khed, Raut said `poaching' of Shiv Sena's members and bringing a low confidence motion against Sena chairman Bhagwan Pokharkar was "injustice" to the party. When the three parties are working together at the state level, such incidents cause bitterness, he said. Raut alleged that Khed NCP MLA Dilip Mohite Patil was behind the development. "However...as a senior leader from the district, Ajit Pawar should look into this issue," he said. The Sena had also requested state NCP chief Jayant Patil to look into the matter, he said. The Sena will never betray its alliance partners in this way, he added. He visited Khed on the instructions of Uddhav Thackeray, Raut said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-ready-to-contest-pune-civic-polls-in-alliance-or-singly-raut-994150.html
05-06-2021||West||Goa shuts down its beaches ahead of monsoon||Amid the ongoing curfew, which had led to severe restriction of public movement, Goa's beaches from Saturday have been formally closed for the public in wake of the impending monsoon. According to the Indian Meteorological Department, the south west monsoon is likely to hit the coast of Goa within the next 24-48 hours. "With moderate to heavy rains expected to lash various parts of Goa over the next few days, people are instructed not to venture into the sea during the monsoon months extending from June till the end of September," according to an advisory issued by Drishti Marine, a government appointed private lifeguard agency. “Pre-monsoon showers have already hit Goa. Over the past few days light showers were witnessed along the coastal stretch. We have put up red flags at all the beaches which means that the area is not meant for swimming. Curfew is currently still on in Goa, so we advise visitors not to venture onto the beach. Even wading into the waters is not advisable. Our team of lifesavers present along the coast are monitoring the weather conditions. The team is trained to carry out rescues even in rough weather," Navin Awasthi, Operations Head of Drishti Marine said. Every year, with the advent of the monsoon, the state government, through the life guard agency orders the closure of beaches and all water sports activity till the departure of the monsoon, which renders the sea water choppy and therefore unsafe for swimming. Pre-monsoon showers have already commenced in the state earlier this week with light showers witnessed across Goa on Saturday. "After the recent Cyclone Tauktae the sea profile near the beaches has changed resulting in more areas where rip currents are observed. These rip currents can pull a person inside the sea making it difficult to swim," Drishti Marine also said in its advisory. Drishti Marine has also advised visitors to avoid rocky areas, cliffs and hills on the shoreline. "These are very slippery during monsoon season and also wave height, intensity and frequencies are very high and one can easily get washed out. All rocky areas around the fort areas in Anjuna, Vagator and Tiracol are out of bounds during monsoon," the advisory said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-shuts-down-its-beaches-ahead-of-monsoon-994164.html
05-06-2021||West||Maharashtra reports 13,659 Covid-19 cases, lowest since March 10||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 13,659 new Covid-19 cases, lowest since March 10, and 300 deaths. The caseload in the state increased to 58,19,224 and death toll to 99,512, the health department said. The state reported less than 20,000 cases on the consecutive sixth day on Saturday. On March 10, the state had reported exactly the same number of daily cases -- 13,659 -- which began increasing afterwards. The cumulative death figure has been increasing by over 700 on daily basis for more than a fortnight with past fatalities, not recorded earlier, being added. As many as 21,776 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, pushing the number of recovered cases to 55,28,834. There are 1,88,027 active Covid-19 cases now. The Covid-19 recovery rate improved to 95.01 per cent from 94.86 per cent a day ago, while the fatality rate was 1.71 per cent. As many as 2,40,088 people were tested for coronavirus in Maharashtra on Saturday, taking the number of samples examined so far to 3,62,71,483. There are 14,00,052 people in home quarantine while 7,093 are in institutional quarantine.  Out of 300 deaths reported on Saturday, 211 occurred in the last 48 hours and 89 in the last week. Also, 1,088 deaths that had taken place before the last week were directly included in the cumulative figures. Mumbai reported 863 new cases and 29 deaths, taking its case tally to 7,09,857 and the toll to 14,951. The wider Mumbai division, including satellite towns, reported 2,792 infections and 38 deaths, pushing the caseload to 15,46,074 and the toll to 28,228. The Nashik division reported 1,379 cases, and 38 deaths of which 14 deaths took place in Ahmednagar district followed by 12 in Nashik city and 10 in rural parts of Nashik. The Pune division registered 3,442 cases, 1,348 of them in Satara district. The division also reported 54 deaths, of which 18 were in rural parts of Pune and 10 in Pune city. Another 17 deaths were reported in Satara district. The Kolhapur division reported 3,586 cases, including 1,095 in Kolhapur district. The division also reported 104 deaths, of which 45 were reported from rural parts of Kolhapur, 17 from Sangli, 15 from Ratnagiri and 13 each from Kolhapur city and Sindhudurg. The Aurangabad division recorded 371 infections while the Latur division added 843 cases. The Akola division's caseload went up by 773, while 473 cases were reported in Nagpur division. Maharashtra's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 58,19,224; new cases 13,659, death toll 99,512; recoveries 55,28,834; active cases 1,88,027; tests 3,62,71,483.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-13659-covid-19-cases-lowest-since-march-10-994176.html
05-06-2021||West||Goa extends Covid-19 curfew till June 14 with relaxations||The state government has extended the state-level curfew imposed in Goa to June 14, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Saturday, while also relaxing some of the norms, including extending the operational timings of essential stores. "Our government has decided to extend the state level curfew till 7 am, 14 June 2021. Timings for essential shops as defined will be increased to 7 pm to 3 pm," the Chief Minister tweeted late on Saturday. "In addition, shops/stores related to house/building repairs, monsoon preparedness, or rain protection & stationary items will be allowed to open," he also said. The state-level curfew had been imposed on May 9, in wake of a surge of Covid-19 infections and deaths in the state. The curfew was later extended periodically on three occasions, since its imposition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-extends-covid-19-curfew-till-june-14-with-relaxations-994186.html
05-06-2021||West||Maharashtra government has casual approach to Maratha, OBC quotas: BJP||Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Saturday accused the state government of having a "casual approach" towards reservations for Marathas in education and jobs, and for OBCs in local bodies. In both cases, the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government failed to present its case well before the Supreme Court which struck these quotas down, he told reporters here. "The state government has a casual approach towards the quota for Marathas in education and jobs and the political reservations (in local body polls) for OBCs," Patil said. "Does anyone know the social implications of not offering political reservations for OBCs in local governing bodies? It would be a huge injustice to them," he said. Patil came down heavily on the way the government handled the Maratha reservation case in the apex court. "The state government wasted the time of the Supreme Court during the hearing by stretching it to more than a year. The Supreme Court frequently said that hearings of an Act passed in both houses of state legislature should take place continuously. The state government annoyed the court so much that it stayed the Act. "It is not a general practice but this government left the court with no option," Patil said. He also blamed the state government for not filing a review petition immediately and instead setting up a committee headed by a retired judge. "The committee has now submitted its report but made no new recommendations," Patil said. On the OBC reservation, Patil alleged that the government showed similar lethargy. "How much time it would need to find out the exact population of OBCs in a district or city (information sought by the Supreme Court). But it continued its lethargic approach," the BJP leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-has-casual-approach-to-maratha-obc-quotas-bjp-994218.html
