06-06-2021||Comment||Covid-19, BJP's Bengal failure renew Opposition's hopes||When Narendra Modi became the prime minister in 2014, international news magazine ‘Time’ had done a cover story titled ‘Modi means business’. Now, seven years later, the foreign media is virtually saying in one voice that Modi means mess, unadulterated mess. The havoc caused by the pandemic has made all the difference coupled with the defeat of the BJP in Bengal despite a high-pitched poll campaign in which the party spent all its might. The do or die battle against Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee has badly boomeranged as also the Modi dispensation’s failure to first identify and then stem the second wave of Covid pandemic. And the mess has become a chink in the PM’s armour as it has provided the much-needed opening for his opponents, badly battered since May 2014, amid the war cry of an ‘opposition mukt bharat’. Though Modi and his Man Friday, Home Minister Amit Shah, often spoke of “Congress mukt Bharat”, what they intended and what was perceived in the political class was virtually a one-party rule with others playing a second fiddle or worse. Modi’s handling of the deadly second wave of the pandemic coupled with the disastrous Bengal campaign has set off a gradual political realignment much to his shock and surprise. The questions being raised first by Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren and now by triumphant Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on the way the PM deals with the CMs is bound to unnerve the ruling party at the Centre.  How would realignment take shape? Who would lead the charge against Modi? These are pertinent questions. But now only one thing is clear. These are early days but are pregnant with meaning. The more the Sambit Patras and the Amit Malviyas of BJP speak, the more perceived is nervousness in Modi-Shah. Opposition leaders like Sonia Gandhi, Mamata Banerjee, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Vadra, Akhilesh Yadav, Tejaswi Yadav, Pinarayi Vijayan, M K Stalin, Sitaram Yechury etc are confident that the sun has started setting on the Modi empire. They know that patience is another name of politics and nothing should be done in a hurry. Interestingly,  the Bengal campaign has skyrocketed the BJP’s stock from just three seats to 77 in a House of 294. But it has come at a tremendous cost to the BJP. It has exposed the intentions of Modi-Shah. Now all regional parties feel that the duo is a threat to them. In May 2004, the most threatened was Congress as it was in political wilderness at the Centre for eight years. This led to the emergence of the UPA. In May 2021, everyone who is non-BJP is threatened one way or another.  The likes of Naveen Patnaik (Odisha chief minister) might have earlier evolved the policy of equidistance from the BJP and the Congress to suit them in their fiefdoms. Patnaik, K Chandrasekhar Rao (Telangana) or YS Jaganmohan Reddy (Andhra Pradesh) know in the heart of their hearts that the BJP under Modi-Shah can no longer be trusted. Mamata has become their undeclared leader. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has always seen Mamata in awe. NCP chief Sharad Pawar was once her leader. Along with Mamata, the leader to be watched is Sonia Gandhi who knows her limitations and she had made them her strength way back in 2003-04.  United action It is still too early to say as to how and when the non-BJP parties would spring into a united action that would decide the future battles of the ballot including the one in Uttar Pradesh scheduled in nine months from now. The response to the second wave by the ruling dispensation could by no stretch of imagination be seen as from one having a “56-inch-chest”. So the political fallout is bound to be unpalatable. UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, dubbed as the most `damdaar’ (strong) among the BJP’s Chief Ministerial lot, is a beleaguered man unable to understand, like Modi-Shah, how to douse the pandemic blaze. There is deadwood in the non-BJP space too. Mayawati, who once boasted of being a bigger leader than Sonia, has virtually become a spent force by her own actions and words. That the BJP is bankrupt of ideas is clear from the way the government is pursuing the controversial Central Vista project on a war footing despite strong opposition to it. Besides, actions of the ruling dispensation at the Centre and the BJP in Bengal despite Mamata giving them more than a bloody nose is another point. The controversial Governor there has proved time and again that he is just acting like an agent of the Centre. This is not to condone the acts of political violence in the wake of the Trinamool win. It would not be a surprise that after Bengal, the Centre and the BJP would train their guns on Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi chief minister. What is being forgotten by the BJP, which used to proclaim from the housetops that it is the largest political organisation in the world, is that it has suddenly become isolated in the country’s polity. A suggestion from a party leader to turn the BJP’s posh national headquarters into a Covid hospital to provide succour to thousands of affected in the national capital unwittingly provides a glimpse in the party’s sombre mood. There is much disquiet in the ruling party but also a latent realisation that Modi-Shah are like the jailer in ‘Sholey’ whose motto was “Hum nahi sudhrenge’. (The writers are senior journalists based in New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/covid-19-bjps-bengal-failure-renew-oppositions-hopes-994521.html
06-06-2021||First Edit||Stimulus steps may revive growth||The decision of the Monetary Policy Committee of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to keep the interest rates unchanged was expected. At its June meeting, held last week, the committee decided to continue with the benchmark policy repo rate and to maintain the accommodative stance on credit. It rightly felt that reviving economic growth should continue to get priority now. That was why it announced more measures intended to ensure that there is enough liquidity in the economy and to ease some existing financing constraints. The RBI will provide support to the government’s borrowing plans through its market purchase operations. State borrowings will also be covered by this programme. Assistance to the MSME sector, which has been hit hard by the pandemic, will be increased. The low-interest rates will continue, the loan limits will be enhanced and a special liquidity facility will be created. A separate credit window has been created for "contact sensitive’’ sectors like hospitality, and travel and tourism. All these are welcome measures. But businesses may not go in for credit just because it is available. There are also conditions that continue to constrain both lending and borrowing.  The RBI has also lowered its real GDP growth projection for 2021-22 to 9.5 per cent from the previous estimate of 10.5 per cent, in view of the second wave of the pandemic disrupting economic activity again across the country. Estimates for the first half have been scaled down, while they have been raised for the second half, perhaps because vaccinations might make some impact by then and the economy may start recovering. But there are doubts whether the optimism will hold, because the predictions are not based on adequate data, which may not be available. There are also uncertainties about the future course of the pandemic and its possible effects. The RBI thinks there may be a slight uptick in prices but it hopes that the increase will be within its inflation-targeting framework and will not cross the upper limit. There are uncertainties in that respect also. Fuel prices have been raised continuously for weeks and they may be raised further. This will have an impact on the prices of all goods. Commodity prices are increasing globally and they will push the prices up within the country too. The RBI will have to remain vigilant about the price situation. It should also be noted that monetary policy can go only to an extent in addressing the present situation. It is for the government to come up with stimulus measures to revive growth, prevent job losses, create new jobs and extend support to support the poor in both urban and rural areas whose livelihood and incomes have been affected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/stimulus-steps-may-revive-growth-994513.html
06-06-2021||In Perspective||Managing Covid-19 crisis in rural areas||We are saw the second wave of the Covid crisis ravaging the nation and fortunately, it is now on the wane. Whether it is individuals, institutions or entire states - the problem has affected everyone. This wave has not only exposed the unpreparedness of the system and the state, but has also shown the poor understanding of both public health management and the inappropriateness of several of the knee-jerk solutions being attempted. The actions of the government with specific reference to the vacillating decisions related to managing the pandemic in rural Karnataka shows that decision-making is being done by people with an inadequate understanding of not only public health but also the prevailing realities of rural areas.  Covid cannot be seen as a mere illness and the responses cannot be limited to managing it as one.  The crisis is a development challenge and solutions should not only be driven by science and evidence but also be compassionate in its approach, comprehensive in its vision, be culturally appropriate and driven by the contextual realities of rural areas. Apart from focusing on medical solutions, one needs to begin with operating with the resources that one already has in place.  Managing Covid begins at the individual and family levels and one needs to see the ‘family’ as the fourth tier of healthcare provision.  This pre-primary level of care is critical in managing epidemics and enlisting citizen participation.  Using the dependable three sisters (Anganawadi workers, ANM and ASHA workers) for creating awareness – on understanding the disease and its management, vaccination and covid appropriate behaviours will go a long way in alleviating fear and reducing panic.  These field workers can also be trained to ensure that they double up as counsellors (social, emotional and grief) and be the referral point in case people need to go to the Covid care centres (CCCs) that are being set up.  The healthcare system should not only trust them but also empower them with the ability to refer and transport patients who need care beyond the home setting.  Equipping them with the proper PPE, pulse oximeters and some basic drugs will ensure that their confidence and esteem levels will go up and the community seek them out as the point of first contact. The context and culture of villages are distinctly different from those of cities.  Rural communities are more close-knit and tend to come to each other’s aid during times of crisis – whether it is illness or death.  One needs to keep this in mind and put in place a system of monitored home isolation care as the first step in Covid management.  This should complement a sub-taluk level CCC that can function as the second level of care.  Strengthening the taluk hospitals with both oxygenation and ICU facilities can act as the third level of referral. Working together Existing hospitals – whether in the private, NGO or public sector - should work together synergistically and partner with communities in providing the much needed medical care.  Only when collaborations are encouraged, can one hope to ensure that no one is left behind. This is especially critical in remote, resource limited and geographically challenged settings.  These facilities should also ensure that care continues to be provided to non-covid illnesses too. Beyond healthcare, one needs to create support mechanisms to ensure that the poor and marginalised continue to have access to food, basic level of income, and other social entitlements including burial and cremation services, if required.  Convergence of all government departments under a unified block level leadership with special powers for the administrators can ensure timely and responsive action whenever required. One also needs to keep in mind the realities of the digital divide. Systemic changes including expanding the CoWin app to regional languages and permitting the field workers to enlist and register larger numbers of people (beyond the currently permissible four) will reduce this divide to some extent.  One needs to keep in mind the wealth of experience embedded in our public health system in the domain of immunisation. Using these established systems to promote awareness, enlist the population and ensure vaccination will expand the much-needed coverage in rural areas. All this is not rocket science and does not require expert committees or task forces to advise the government. One cannot ignore the fact that confused decisions is a clear reflection of the poor levels of governance capability and that issues of corruption cannot be ignored or wished away. All it needs is the political and bureaucratic leadership to operate with determined optimism and in an ethical and transparent manner.  One needs to demonstrate both conviction and clarity in taking full responsibility for restoring the trust of the citizens in the system and the government on a war footing.  This will be critical in ensuring that the third wave is either completely prevented or managed effectively with minimal casualties, if it does arise. (The writer is Founder, Swami Vivekananda Youth Movement and Visiting Professor, Cornell University, USA)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/managing-covid-19-crisis-in-rural-areas-994511.html
06-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four-year-old girl in Davangere attacked by stray dogs, sustains multiple injuries||A four-year-old girl was attacked by a pack of stray dogs in Azad Nagar in the city on Sunday.  Kanish Fatima, daughter of Talam Sheikh and Tabusam Banu sustained multiple injuries on her head, arm and leg. The pack of stray dogs pounced on her while she was playing in the veranda and took her out of the house. While her family members rescued her, she, however, could not escape from multiple injuries. Her parents were offering prayer when the incident took place. She is undergoing treatment in Bapuji hospital in the city. Reacting to the incident, locals staged a flash protest and demanded the city corporation officials to capture stray dogs and shift them to non-residential areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-year-old-girl-in-davangere-attacked-by-stray-dogs-sustains-multiple-injuries-994411.html
06-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Petrol prices hit Rs 100-mark in Sirsi, Ballari||Petrol prices hit the dreaded three-figure mark in several parts of the state on Sunday. A litre of petrol cost Rs 100.28 at Sirsi, while it was Rs 100.08 in Ballari. Chikkamagaluru and Vijayanagara districts were also hovering near the Rs 100-mark, as a litre cost Rs 99.55 and Rs 99.45 respectively. Last week, petrol cost an average of Rs 98.33 in Ballari and Vijayanagara districts. In Bengaluru, petrol prices stood at Rs 97.92 per litre. On June 6, 2020, petrol cost Rs 73.55 per litre in the state capital. Commenting on the rapid surge in fuel prices, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy said that increasing prices at a time when people were battered by the pandemic was wrong. “The governments are of the notion that people will accept anything,” he said, accusing it of piling burden on the common man on one hand and announcing packages on the other.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/petrol-prices-hit-rs-100-mark-in-sirsi-ballari-994522.html
06-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Will remain Chief Minister as long as BJP high command has confidence in me, says CM Yediyurappa||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said that he would continue to head the state government as long as the party high command had trust in him. He was responding to media queries on repeated complaints by ministers and MLAs against the CM. "I will not react to such activities. As long as the high command has trust in me, I will continue as CM. The day they ask me to step down, I will resign and work day and night for the development of the state," he said. The CM said that he was not in any dilemma over the developments in the party and the government. "They (party leadership) have provided me an opportunity, which I am making good use of. Rest is left to the high command," Yediyurappa said. His statements came amidst reports of sustained efforts to unseat the CM by a section of disgruntled legislators. Few leaders had also visited Delhi recently with complaints against the state government leadership. Yediyurappa also dismissed talks of 'lack of alternate leadership' in the state. "I don't agree to claims that there are no alternate leaders," he said, responding to a question. "In the state and at the national level alternate leaders are always present," he said. On the visit by IAS officer Rohini Sindhuri - who was transferred from Mysuru after her spat with another IAS officer Shilpa Nag - Yediyurapa said that "there was no question of re-transfer. I have asked her to report her to her new post," he said. Sindhuri was transferred as Commissioner of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department from her previous posting as Deputy Commissioner, Mysuru on Saturday evening. Shilpa was also transferred from Mysuru where she served as Mysuru City Corporation to Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department as Director (e-Governance). Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-remain-chief-minister-as-long-as-bjp-high-command-has-confidence-in-me-says-cm-yediyurappa-994354.html
06-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||No proposal for BSY's resignation: Prahlad Joshi||Amid rumours of a coup within the BJP to unseat Yediyurappa, Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi clarified that there was no proposal in front of party high command to seek resignation from the Chief Minister. Addressing the media in Hubballi on Sunday, he said Yediyurappa had been doing a good job in controlling the Covid situation in Karnataka. Reacting to the statement of Chief minister that he would continue in the post as long as the high command has faith, Joshi quelled all rumours and said that Yediyurappa made that statement after regular media speculations on the issue of leadership change in State. "Yediyurappa never said that he would resign and go home," Joshi said adding that the chief minister only meant that he would abide by the high command's decision.The key issue for the party right now is how to handle the Covid-19 situation in the state and not leadership change, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-proposal-for-bsys-resignation-prahlad-joshi-994422.html
06-06-2021||Mysuru||Karnataka govt transfers Rohini Sindhuri, Shilpa Nag to end rift||The Karnataka government put an end to the rift between IAS officers Rohini Sindhuri and Shilpa Nag by transferring them. Bagadi Gautham replaced Sindhuri as the Mysuru deputy commissioner and Lakshmikanth Reddy G is the new Commissioner for Mysuru City Corporation commissioner in the place of Nag. Nag had accused Sindhuri of harassing and humiliating her and had announced her resignation from the IAS. However, Sindhuri had denied it. Sindhuri has been appointed as Commissioner for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments, in which she had served earlier. Even, Nag has been posted as Director (e-Governance) at the RDPR department. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/karnataka-govt-transfers-rohini-sindhuri-shilpa-nag-to-end-rift-994325.html
06-06-2021||National||Fugitive economic offenders exploit gaps, weaknesses in international cooperation: Jitendra Singh||Asserting that the world is presently combating the serious emerging challenges of fugitive economic offenders, Union Minister Jitendra Singh has called for a strong and aligned international cooperation on deportation of such persons. Addressing the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) special session on Friday night, he said, as the accused take shelter in foreign countries and conceal the proceeds of crime in complex legal structures over different countries and jurisdictions, the gaps and weaknesses of international cooperation in this area are fully exploited by them to their advantage. His assertion assumes significance as India is making continuous efforts to bring back fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi to face law in the country. Both had fled India in January 2018, weeks before the Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam involving Rs 13,500 crore rocked the Indian banking industry. India is making efforts to deport Choksi from Antigua and extradite Nirav Modi from London. The Indian government is also trying to bring back another fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya from London. Mallya is accused in bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines. Addressing the session on ‘challenges and measures to fight corruption', Singh said India has made it clear that the world is presently combatting another serious emerging challenge of fugitive economic offenders. "India’s Fugitive Economic Offenders Act 2018 law empowers authorities for non-conviction-based attachment and confiscation of proceeds of crime and properties and assets of a ‘fugitive economic offender’ – against whom a warrant for arrest in relation to a scheduled offence has been issued by any court in India and who has left the country to avoid criminal prosecution or judicial processes,” he said Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel, called for a strong and aligned international cooperation on the return of persons and assets sought for such offences, consistent with international obligations and domestic legal systems, an official statement issued on Saturday said. The minister conveyed India's appreciation to all the countries who are taking the fight ahead in the right direction by intensifying efforts, sustaining political commitment and decisive action, at all levels, against preventing and combating corruption by way of endorsing the United Nations political declaration. He said India provides mutual legal assistance to widest possible extent and it has strengthened its domestic law and widened the scope for international co-operation with contracting states and international organisations, said the statement issued by the Personnel Ministry. Singh said the in addition to the suffering the pandemic has created unprecedented short-term and long-term challenges in fighting corruption at all levels. "It is significantly undermining the distribution of resources, jeopardising our rebuilding processes, extending economic pressure and delaying the return to growth," he said. The minister added that this is indeed the most appropriate time to come together and strengthen international cooperation to prevent and combat corruption. Singh said that the UNGA session is happening at a time when coronavirus is testing "our patience and testing the limits of all of us at enduring misery". He said that in the days gone by, to tide over this crisis, India has coordinated with experts from myriad sectors and according priority to expert and scientific advice for sustainable Covid-19 management. The country is also implementing the five-fold strategy of testing, tracing, treatment, Covid-appropriate behaviour, and vaccination which can help in curbing the spread of the pandemic, Singh said. The minister also said that India is already on a digital-first trajectory with one of the highest volumes of digital transactions in the world. The programmatic use of technology has helped in increasing the speed and the plugging of leakages in delivering benefits to the citizens of India, he said. With the linking of biometric ID cards with bank accounts and mobile phones, the system has provided a safety net to millions of citizens in need of immediate monetary aid through ubiquitous direct transfer of benefits, Singh said. The minister said that from filling healthcare needs in remote areas to building data-driven public policy on health, the use of technology fulfils many roles and most importantly in some of the most remote areas of the country. While concluding his address, Singh wished for a steadfast and strong commitment to combating the menace of corruption especially in these times of crisis and reiterated that India is ready to work with other countries, civil society and international organisations to accelerate the implementation of anti-corruption principles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fugitive-economic-offenders-exploit-gaps-weaknesses-in-international-cooperation-jitendra-singh-994259.html
06-06-2021||National||Climate change to make Indian monsoons more erratic, study shows||In 2014, a group of 30 scientists from across the world began extracting core samples from the Indian ocean in the hope of finding the response of the Indian monsoon to climate change. Seven years later, they have evidence that India’s monsoon may get more erratic. Scientists across the world already know that climate change is affecting the Indian subcontinent’s annual monsoon cycle. However, there is a shortage of historical data to confirm that human activities are likely to impact the changes. The new study, which was published on Friday in the journal Science Advances, is not only on course to completing six million years of climate data but has confirmed that in the past million years the rise in carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has been followed by substantial increases in rainfall in the monsoon. Dr Pallavi Anand, an author of the study and an associate professor at the School of Environment at The Open University (UK) said the findings support existing climate change models and show that fluctuations in atmospheric carbon dioxide, global ice volume and moisture import from the southern hemisphere Indian Ocean are linked to changes in monsoon intensity. “We compared the monsoon rainfall pattern between two warm periods (thousands of years ago) and we found that there could be a potential shift in the loci of monsoon rainfall away from the continental landmass which would result in a drier monsoon in the Indian subcontinent,” she said. A drier monsoon could devastate local communities the country is dependent on the monsoon to recharge the groundwater table. With no way to travel millions of years into the past, 30 researchers from India, US, Europe, Australia and Japan travelled to the Bay of Bengal in the research vessel, Joides Resolution, in 2014. At Mahanadi River Basin, they began to extract 600 to 700-metre-long core samples comprising sediment runoff from monsoons into the ocean. The sediments provide a record of monsoons. Wetter monsoons discharge more freshwater into the bay and these are recorded in the plankton that make their shells capturing these changes. These become buried in layers which were investigated. “These layers give us a record of how wet or dry monsoons over the years were,” Dr Anand said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/climate-change-to-make-indian-monsoons-more-erratic-study-shows-994281.html
06-06-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on June 6||India reported 1.14 lakh cases of coronavirus on Sunday, continuing its steady decline as the country recovers from the second wave of Covid-19. The recovery rate stood at 93.67 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,46,759 with 2,667 fresh deaths, while the active cases dropped below 15 lakh, the data updated at 8 am showed.  Coronavirus in India Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  2,88,09,339 as of June 6, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 3,46,759 as of June 6, 2021 No. of people discharged: 2,69,84,781 Total Vaccination: 23,13,22,417 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-june-6-994298.html
06-06-2021||National||Tikait, Yogendra Yadav, Chaduni lead sit-in at Haryana police station for release of farmers||Scores of farmers led by Rakesh Tikait, Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Samukta Kisan Morcha leader Yogendra Yadav on Saturday night staged a sit-in at Sadar police station in Fatehabad demanding the release of fellow farmers They had also sought the registration of a case against local JJP MLA Devender Babli for allegedly hurling abuses at them. Babli later expressed regret for uttering "inappropriate" words against farmers. In a short video clip released on social media, Babli said he forgives those people for whatever they had done with him on June 1. “I uttered some words which were not appropriate. As I am a public representative, I take back all those words and express regret (over it),” said Babli. Earlier, Tikait, Chaduni along with protesters gathered at the police station in Fatehabad, demanding the release of two farmers who were arrested over the gherao of Babli's residence. They also sought the registration of a case against Babli for allegedly hurling abuses at them. Tikait, Chaduni and their fellow protesters first assembled at the grain market here and then marched towards the police station to court arrest. A heavy police force was deployed at the police station. Talking to the media at the Sadar police station premises, Yadav said the issue of release of two farmers has not been resolved yet. "There is a deadlock in talks between us and the police administration," said Yadav. "We raised two issues and the first one was that we wanted those who have been arrested should be released and if they cannot release them then we should be put behind bars," said Yadav, adding that farmers were there to court arrest. The other matter related to alleged misbehaviour of Babli stands resolved as the legislator has tendered an “apology” to farmers, said Yadav. Yadav said Babli had not lodged any complaint against two farmers --Vikas and Ravi Azad -- who had been arrested by the police.   But the government was not ready to withdraw the case against them, said Yadav. "When we asked the police administration about the status of these two farmers," Yadav said, they were told farmers can come after two days for holding talks on this issue. "We have come here not to listen and we came here for resolution of the issue," said Yadav. With the Haryana police remaining “adamant” on its stand, Yadav said farmers have decided to stage a 'dharna' here till their issue is resolved. "We will continue to sit in a peaceful and democratic manner," asserted Yadav. Women along with the farmers were also staging a sit-in at the police station. Farmers said they would mobilise more people at the police station and would also make arrangements for food and water for protesters. Farmer leader Chaduni earlier had said "false" cases registered against farmers should also be withdrawn and a case should be lodged against Babli for "hurling abuses and misbehaving with them". On June 1, the Jannayak Janta Party legislator had faced a protest by a group of farmers who showed black flags to him and raised slogans. Babli had alleged that some of the protesters resorted to unruly behaviour and smashed the windscreen of his SUV. Farmers, however, accused Babli of publicly using abusive and threatening language. Protesting farmers had on Wednesday said they would gherao all police stations across the state on June 7 if MLA Babli did not tender an apology by June 6.  Several farmer groups in the state have been opposing the public functions of the BJP-JJP leaders. Earlier addressing the gathering at the grain market, farmer leader Tikait said their agitation against the farm laws would continue till the government repeal these laws and enact a law on MSP. He asserted that the government would have to withdraw the three farm laws. “The government of India will have to withdraw these black laws. Be it in 2022 or 2023. The laws will be withdrawn in 2024. It is a guarantee,” he said, asserting that the agitation would continue till 2024. Talking about the alleged “adverse” impact on the implementation of these laws, he said one day the grains would be “locked” in the godowns of big people and traders. SKM leader Yogendra Yadav also slammed the central government. “In this one year, farmers have made them realise that they understand everything and they (Centre) cannot befool farmers. The government may take as much time as it can but these laws will be scrapped,” said Yadav.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tikait-yogendra-yadav-chaduni-lead-sit-in-at-haryana-police-station-for-release-of-farmers-994299.html
06-06-2021||National||Petrol crosses Rs 101-mark in Mumbai as prices hiked for third time in June||After a one-day pause, fuel prices were hiked for a third time in the first week into June on Sunday. Petrol was hiked by 27 paise, while the price of diesel was up by 31 paise in Mumbai. Fuel prices soared to record highs as petrol in Mumbai crossed Rs 101 a litre. Diesel now costs Rs 93.30 in the financial capital. In the national capital, Delhi, a litre of petrol now costs Rs 95.03 a litre, while the price of diesel has been hiked by 29 paise to Rs 85.95. Petrol price in Bengaluru crossed the Rs 98-mark and is at Rs 98.20 per litre while a litre of diesel is now priced at Rs 91.12. A litre of petrol in Chennai costs Rs 96.47, while diesel, now costs Rs 90.66. Elsewhere, in Kolkata petrol now costs Rs 95.02 and diesel Rs 88.80 a litre each. Oil companies revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on the average price of benchmark fuel in the international market in the preceding 15-days, and foreign exchange rates. Members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and their allies, a group known as OPEC+, earlier this week agreed to continue relaxing curbs on oil production, signalling their confidence in improving oil demand and a drop in the global supply glut. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-crosses-rs-101-mark-in-mumbai-as-prices-hiked-for-third-time-in-june-994310.html
06-06-2021||National||DH Toon | Centre aims to vaccinate all by 2021-end||The Centre aims to inoculate its entire adult population by the end of 2021, something which has been refuted by many. To meet this ambitious target, India will need to speed up its Covid-19 vaccination drive manifold. With the current adult population standing at roughly 94 crore, India will need to produce 188 crore doses overall to reach its target, with only 21.5 crore doses having been administered so far. Passing the buck, the Union Health Ministry on Wednesday blamed the states for poor Covid-19 vaccination in May, pointing out that a total of 1.62 crore doses of the vaccines were left unused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-centre-aims-to-vaccinate-all-by-2021-end-994311.html
06-06-2021||National||DH Toon | Govt, social media companies battle over new IT rules||New rules require large social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to appoint a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer, monitoring of objectionable content, preparing monthly compliance reports and removal of objectionable content. It also wants social media firms to adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification, which they claim violates users' privacy. Non-compliance with the rules would result in these platforms losing the intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-govt-social-media-companies-battle-over-new-it-rules-994312.html
06-06-2021||National||India reports 1,14,460 Covid-19 cases, lowest in 2 months; 2,677 deaths in 24 hours||With the fresh cases, the total tally of coronavirus cases in the country climbed to 2,88,09,339.  The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,46,759 with 2,677 daily deaths, the lowest in 42 days, while the active cases dropped below 15 lakh, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 96,982 new cases were recorded in a span of 24 hours on April 6.  Also, 20,36,311 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 36,47,46,522. The daily positivity has further declined to 5.62 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for 13 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 6.54 per cent.   The active cases have reduced to 14,77,799 comprising 5.13 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 93.67 per cent. A net decline of  77,449 cases has been recorded in the Covid-19 caseload in a span of  24 hours.    Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 24th consecutive day.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,69,84,781, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.20 per cent, the data stated. A total of 23,13,22,417 vaccine doses have been administered so far. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on  November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 2,677 new fatalities include 741 from Maharashtra,   443 from Tamil Nadu, 365 from Karnataka, 209  from Kerala,    120 from Uttar Pradesh and 118 from West Bengal A total of 3,46,759 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 99,512 from Maharashtra, 31,260 from Karnataka, 26,571 from Tamil Nadu, 24,557 from Delhi, 21,151 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,152 from West Bengal, 15,009 from Punjab and 13,192 from Chhattisgarh. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-114460-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-2-months-2677-deaths-in-24-hours-994322.html
06-06-2021||National||Veteran actor Dilip Kumar hospitalised in Mumbai||Thespian Dilip Kumar has been hospitalized at the PD Hinduja Hospital at Khar after he complained of breathlessness on Sunday. The 98-year-old actor is being monitored by a team headed by pulmonologist Dr Jalil Parker and cardiologist Dr Nitin Gokhale. His wife Saira Banu, took the Twitter handle to post an update on the health status of the legendary nonagenarian actor. “Dilip sahab has been admitted to non-Covid PD Hinduja Hospital Khar for routine tests and investigations. He’s had episodes of breathlessness. A team of healthcare workers led by Dr. Nitin Gokhale is attending to him. Please keep Sahab in your prayers and please stay safe,” she said. Last year, Dilip Kumar had lost two brothers because of Covid-19 – Ehsan Khan (90) on 3 September and Aslam Khan (88) on 21 August. Dilip Sahab has been admitted to non-Covid PD Hinduja Hospital Khar for routine tests and investigations. He’s had episodes of breathlessness. A team of healthcare workers led by Dr. Nitin Gokhale is attending to him. Please keep Sahab in your prayers and please stay safe. Meanwhile, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar visited the Hinduja Hospital and inquired about the health of the actor. “Visited legendary actor Dilip Kumar ji at Hinduja Hospital today to check on his health and treatment, with the veteren actress Saira Banu. I wish Dilip Kumarji a speedy recovery and good health!,” Pawar tweeted. Wishing speedy recovery, Minister of State in PMO Dr Jitendra Singh said: “Wishing the living legend, the ultimate thespian, clearly the last word in the school of acting and our all-time favourite ....a speedy recovery.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/veteran-actor-dilip-kumar-hospitalised-in-mumbai-994329.html
06-06-2021||National||Over 1.63 crore Covid-19 doses available with states: Centre||More than 1.63 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. The Centre has so far provided, both through the free of cost and through direct state procurement categories, more than 24 crore vaccine doses (24,60,80,900) to states and UTs. Of this, the total consumption, including wastages is 22,96,95,199 doses, the ministry said. "A total of 1,63,85,701 Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered," it said. A total of 23,13,22,417 vaccine doses have been administered through 32,42,503 sessions across the country, as per the provisional report till 7 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-163-crore-covid-19-doses-available-with-states-centre-994368.html
06-06-2021||National||9.27 lakh severely acute malnourished children identified till November last year: RTI||More than 9.2 lakh children in India are ‘severely acute malnourished’, with the most in Uttar Pradesh followed by Bihar, according to government data, underscoring concerns that the Covid pandemic could exacerbate the health and nutrition crisis among the poorest of the poor. An estimated 9,27,606 ‘severely acute malnourished’ children from six months to six years were identified across the country till November last year, the Women and Child Development Ministry said in response to an RTI query from PTI. Of these, Uttar Pradesh counted for 3,98,359 and Bihar 2,79,427, according to the figures shared by the ministry. Ladakh, Lakshadweep, Nagaland, Manipur and Madhya Pradesh reported no severely malnourished children. Except for Ladakh, none of the anganwadi centres in the other four, including Madhya Pradesh, one of India's largest states, reported any data on the matter, according to the RTI reply. The World Health Organisation (WHO) defines ‘severe acute malnutrition’ (SAM) by very low weight-for-height or a mid-upper arm circumference less than 115 mm, or by the presence of nutritional oedema. Children suffering from SAM have very low weight for their height, and are nine times more likely to die in case of diseases due to their weakened immune system. The Women and Child Development Ministry had last year asked all states and union territories to identify SAM children for their early referral to hospitals. The figure of 9,27,606 came following that exercise. The worry is that the numbers could not just be an underestimation but also rise in view of the ongoing pandemic with fears that the third wave could impact children more than others. "There is rise in unemployment, there is rise in an economic crisis which is bound to have repercussions on hunger and when there is hunger there will be malnutrition. The government has a clear cut protocol and they need to ramp that up," Enakshi Ganguly, co-founder of the HAQ Center for Child Rights, told PTI. While Uttar Pradesh and Bihar top the list for SAM children, they are also home to the highest number of children in the country. According to 2011 census data, Uttar Pradesh has 2,97,28,235 (2.97 crore/29.72 million) children aged 0-6 years while Bihar has 1,85,82,229 (1.85 crore/18.5 million). According to the RTI response, Maharashtra reported 70,665 SAM children followed by Gujarat at 45,749, Chhattisgarh at 37,249, Odisha at 15,595, Tamil Nadu at 12,489, Jharkhand at 12,059, Andhra Pradesh at 11,201, Telangana at 9,045, Assam at 7,218, Karnataka at 6,899, Kerala at 6,188 and Rajasthan at 5,732. The identification of SAM children was done by over 10 lakh Anganwadi centres from across the country. Ganguly stressed on the role of anganwadi centres in helping improve the nutrition status of the children. "The anganwadis have to become much more functional and if the possibility of children reaching anganwadis is going to become hard because of lockdowns, then the anganwadis need to reach the children. So what are the plans for that?” she asked. “Malnutrition will be a huge comorbidity… if what they are saying that children will be affected more in the next wave holds true, then malnutrition will be a huge comorbidity and how are they going to address that?" Dola Mohapatra, executive director, Rise Against Hunger India, agreed that Covid-19 could further exacerbate the situation with shrinking food diversity and low intake combined with episodes of missing food at times. He said solutions have to be both home-based care and facility-based care. "Since SAM has direct connection with food availability, utilisation and awareness – the immediate task is to appropriately build linkages with the government systems to ensure families receive not just ration/food, but required education and support," he said. “Covid-19 has been a big impediment in organising community-based interventions, so new ways/methods to disseminate info to the mothers and caregivers have to be found out," he said. Mohapatra also stressed on the need to strengthen Nutrition Rehabilitation Centres (NRCs) which are meant to treat SAM cases "There are studies that suggest that NRCs have not been very effective. In many cases, we have seen that SAM cases have been discharged early because either the centre could not continue to keep the same case for a continued period, or the caregivers could not stay for a longer duration at the facility, or there was simply not enough supervision by the higher-ups." He also stressed on the need for designing customised menus in consultation with experts for SAM cases and formulating guidelines. “For administrative and operational convenience, as well as for better accountability, SAM cases could be segregated into smaller units and responsibility to manage/coordinate and monitor smaller units could be handed over to independent entities such as medical colleges, local NGOs, women’s collectives – under the overall guidance of the District/Block health staff," Mohapatra said. While data is not updated year on year, the last available figure of SAM children is from NFHS-4 (National Family Health Survey) in 2015-16 according to which prevalence of severe acute malnutrition among children was reported at 7.4 per cent. NFHS-4 gathered information from 601,509 households, 699,686 women, and 112,122 men. Information on 265,653 children below age 5 has been collected in the survey NFHS-5, released in December last year, which gave figures for 22 states and UTs also presented a grim scenario. It said malnutrition increased among children in 2019-20 from 2015-16 in 22 states and UTs. Around 13 states and UTs out of the 22 surveyed recorded a rise in the percentage of children under five years who are stunted in comparison to 2015-16; 12 states and UTs recorded a rise in the percentage of children under five years who are wasted; 16 states and UTs recorded a rise in the percentage of children under five years who are severely wasted and underweight in 2019-20. The NFHS-5 was conducted on 6.1 lakh sample households. Wasting is low weight for their height among children, reflecting acute undernutrition. Wasting is a strong predictor of mortality among children under five years of age. To tackle high persistence of malnutrition in the country, the Centre launched the Poshan Abhiyan programme in 2018 to reduce low birth weight, stunting and undernutrition and anaemia among children, adolescent girls and women||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/927-lakh-severely-acute-malnourished-children-identified-till-november-last-year-rti-994379.html
06-06-2021||National||Second Covid-19 wave not to impact India's agriculture sector in any way: Niti Aayog||Niti Aayog Member (Agriculture) Ramesh Chand on Sunday said the second Covid-19 wave will not impact the Indian agriculture sector in anyway as rural areas saw spread of infections in May when agriculture activities remained at bare minimum. In an interview with PTI, Chand said that India's policies on subsidy, price and technology have remained too much in favour of rice, wheat and sugarcane, and there is need to make the procurement and minimum support price policy favourable to pulses. "Covid-19 cases started spreading in the rural areas in the month of May, with the beginning of the month of May, and agriculture activity in the month of May is bare minimal, particularly land-based activities," he added. "...it (May) is a peak summer month and no crop is sown, no crop is harvested except little bit vegetables and some off-season crops," Chand further explained. Agriculture activity, Chand said, peaks in the month of March or till middle of April, after that it comes down significantly and again peaks with the arrival of monsoon. "So even if less availability of labour is there in the month of May till mid-June, I don't think that will impact agriculture in anyway," Chand said. On being asked why India is not self-sufficient in pulses production, he said there is need to increase pulses area under irrigation and that will make a lot of difference in production and stability in prices. He added that "in India, our subsidy policy, our price policy, technology policy, have remained too much in favour of rice and wheat and sugarcane. So I strongly believe that along with the technological breakthrough, we need to make our procurement, our MSP favourable for pulses". To a question on farm sector growth, Chand said the agriculture sector will grow more than 3 per cent in 2021-22. The farm sector grew at 3.6 per cent in the last fiscal. India's economy contracted by less-than-expected 7.3 per cent in the fiscal year ended March 2021 after growth rate picked up in the fourth quarter, just before the world's worst outbreak of coronavirus infections hit the country. India is currently at the centre of global Covid-19 pandemic and from a daily case count of over 4 lakh, the number of new Covid-19 cases are rapidly dropping. India reported 1,14,460 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 60 days, while the daily positivity rate further dropped to 5.62 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/second-covid-19-wave-not-to-impact-indias-agriculture-sector-in-any-way-niti-aayog-994389.html
06-06-2021||National||In three years, Kashmir witnesses 1500% increase in drug abuse||Thousands of people, mostly youth, from Kashmir are slipping into the dark alleys of drug addiction as the Valley has been flooded with huge quantities of heroin coming via Line of Control (LoC) from Pakistan in recent years. Doctors at drug de-addiction centre of Institute of Mental health & Neurosciences (IMHANS) in Srinagar said that the facility has been flooded with patients taking deadly drugs like heroin in the recent years. The data revealed that there has been more than 1,500 per cent increase in patients approaching the hospital seeking treatment for substance abuse in three years. While 489 drug abusers had reported at the IMHANS in 2016, the number grew to 7,420 in 2019. In 2020, the number dropped to 3,536 apparently due to Covid-19 lockdown. Similarly, the Opioid Substitution Therapy (OST) registrations have also seen a steep rise at the IMHANS. From 139 patients seeking treatment between 2012-2015, the number grew to 309 in 2016-2019. But there has been a huge jump as 495 patients reported at the IMHANS de-addiction centre in 2020, while the number has already crossed 500 in just the first five months of this year. Of the 309 patients who reported from 2016-2019, over 47 per cent were from urban areas, while over 52 per cent were from rural areas. 73.8 per cent among them were unmarried, while 35 per cent were up to the age of 25 years and over 53 per cent were in the age group of 26-35 years. Dr Yasir Rather, in-charge of the de-addiction center of IMHANS, said that the pattern of drug abuse in Kashmir has changed over the years. “Most of the patients we have been receiving since 2018 are heroin addicts and there is a drastic increase in their numbers now,” he told DH. Dr Rather, a consulting psychiatrist at Government Medical College (GMC) Srinagar, and his team carried out a pilot study in 2020 to find the contours of substance abuse in Srinagar and Anantnag districts of the Valley. The study titled "Pattern and prevalence of substance use and dependence in Kashmir: Special focus on Opioids" reveals that heroin is the most widely used opioid in the two districts. As opioids are one of the costliest drugs and pose a serious threat of fuelling a criminal crisis, the study has estimated the economic burden of heroin abuse in the two districts based on prevalence and extrapolating findings. “The expenditure on consumption of opioids in two districts of Srinagar and Anantnag is Rs 3,74,90,329," notes the study, the first to deduct the costs of abuse in Kashmir's two districts. Law enforcing agencies blame Pakistan for pumping huge quantities of narcotics into Kashmir. “Lot of drugs and narcotics are being pumped into the Valley from across the border. It is quite clear who is pumping drugs and narcotics here,” Inspector General of police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said. As per the J&K police data, in 2020, 36.08 kilograms of pure heroin and 49.7 kilograms of brown sugar were recovered from different parts of the Valley. North Kashmir districts of Kupwara and Baramulla, which share a border with Pakistan, accounted for 21.15 kgs and 7.60 kgs of heroin respectively recovered in 2020. Similarly, in the first five months of this year, over 25 kgs of heroin have been recovered by the police and security forces, mostly along the LoC. Sources said a portion of the drugs coming from Pakistan via LoC are being sold in Kashmir, while a major portion is being transported into other states of India. “Trucks from Kashmir going towards Punjab are being used to transport the drugs coming from Pakistan,” they revealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-three-years-kashmir-witnesses-1500-increase-in-drug-abuse-994394.html
06-06-2021||National||India slips two spots to rank 117 on 17 Sustainable Development Goals adopted as 2030 agenda: Report||India's rank has slipped by two places from last year to 117 on the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted as a part of the 2030 agenda by 193 United Nations member states in 2015, a new report has said. The State of India's Environment Report 2021 revealed that India's rank was 115 last year and dropped by two places primarily because major challenges like ending hunger and achieving food security (SDG 2), achieving gender equality (SDG 5) and building resilient infrastructure, promoting inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and fostering innovation (SDG 9) remain in the country. India ranks below four South Asian countries -- Bhutan, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh, it said. The overall SDG score of India is 61.9 out of 100. Elaborating state-wise preparedness, the report said Jharkhand and Bihar are the least prepared to meet the SDGs by 2030, which is the target year. While Jharkhand lags in five of the SDGs, Bihar lags in seven. It said the states/UTs with the best overall score which are on the path to achieving the SDGs are Kerala, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, was adopted by all United Nations Member States in 2015, which provides a shared blueprint for peace and prosperity for people and the planet, now and into the future. There are 17 SDGs which are an urgent call for action by all countries - developed and developing - in a global partnership. The 17 SDGs adopted by UN member states are SDG1- no poverty, SDG 2-zero hunger, SDG3-good health and well-being, SDG4- quality education, SDG 5- gender equality, SDG 6- clean water and sanitation, SDG 7- affordable and clean energy, SDG 8 – decent work and economic growth, SDG 9- industry, innovation and infrastructure. SDG 10 – reduced inequalities, SDG 11- sustainable cities and communities, SDG 12- responsible consumption and production, SDG 13- climate action, SDG 14- life below water, SDG 15- life on land, SDG 16- peace, justice and strong institutions and lastly SDG 17- strengthening global partnerships for the goals. The report also said that India ranked 168 out of 180 countries in terms of Environmental Performance Index (EPI) which is calculated on various indicators, including environmental health, climate, air pollution, sanitation and drinking water, ecosystem services, biodiversity, etc. India's rank was 172 in the environmental health category, which is an indicator of how well countries are protecting their populations from environmental health risks. According to the EPI 2020 report by Yale University, India ranked 148, 21 positions behind Pakistan which was at 127th position in the category of biodiversity and habitat which assesses countries' actions toward retaining natural ecosystems and protecting the full range of biodiversity within their borders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-slips-two-spots-to-rank-117-on-17-sustainable-development-goals-adopted-as-2030-agenda-report-994399.html
06-06-2021||National||Centre fighting for blue tick, be self reliant if you want Covid-19 vaccine: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday took a swipe at the Centre, saying the Modi government is fighting for a blue tick and people need to become self-reliant for getting Covid vaccines. His remarks came a day after outrage over the removal of 'blue tick' badge from the personal accounts of Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and RSS top functionaries including Mohan Bhagwat, by Twitter, only to restore it later. Twitter said as per rules, the blue badge and verified status could be automatically removed from an account if it is incomplete or inactive for six months. "The Modi government is fighting for the blue tick. If you want a Covid vaccine, then be self-reliant," he said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag "#Priorities". In another tweet, he talked about stopping language discrimination after a Delhi government hospital asked nurses not to converse in Malayalam. The hospital order has been revoked. "Malayalam is as Indian as any other Indian language. Stop language discrimination," he said. Malayalam is as Indian as any other Indian language. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also shared the concern and posted the order of the Govind Ballabh Pant Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research warning the nursing personnel to use only Hindi and English for communication, else serious action will be taken. "This order is a violation of the basic values of our country. It is racist, discriminatory and utterly wrong," she said in a tweet in Malayali, saying Malayali nurses are risking their lives in Covid times to save people. "This order is also an insult. We owe them a debt of gratitude and respect. It should be withdrawn as soon as possible and an apology should be published," she demanded. In another tweet, Vadra alleged that the Modi government reduced oxygen beds by 36 percent, ICU beds by 46 percent, ventilator beds by 28 percent between September 2020 and January 2021. "Is the health of Indian citizens less important than the Central Vista project," she asked, alleging that the government has declared the project as an essential service with people working day and night to complete it by 2023. "When every expert in the country, the Parliamentary Committee on Health and their own Sero-surveys warned them that additional beds would be needed for an inevitable second wave," she said as part of her "ZimmedarKaun" (Who is responsible) campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-fighting-for-blue-tick-be-self-reliant-if-you-want-covid-19-vaccine-rahul-gandhi-994400.html
06-06-2021||National||Karnataka Assembly sat for highest number of days in 2020; Kerala tops ordinance list||Karnataka Assembly sat for the highest number of days and passed the highest number of laws in the country in 2020, a year that was marked by Covid-19 lockdown, while Kerala topped the list of state governments that issued the highest number of ordinances. The 'Annual Review of State Laws for 2020' report by the PRS Legislative Research based on 19 states showed that Assemblies met for an average of 18 days, down from the average of 29 sittings a year between 2016-19. Karnataka topped the list with 31 sittings last year followed by Rajasthan (29), Himachal Pradesh (25), Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat (23 each). Kerala Assembly sat for 20 days. If one takes the average for 2016-19, Kerala is far ahead of other states with sitting 53 days a year, followed by Maharashtra at 41. Karnataka, in this case, scored 32 days. The year 2020 saw Assemblies not able to convene meetings due to the Covid-19 situation and subsequent lockdown. When it comes to passing bills, the report said states passed an average of 22 Bills, excluding Appropriation Bills). Karnataka once again topped the list passing 61 Bills, while the lowest was Delhi, which passed one Bill, followed by West Bengal and Kerala, which passed two and three Bills, respectively. On an average, the report said, the states issued 14 ordinances over the last year. This number was skewed by Kerala which promulgated 81 ordinances. Half of these 81 ordinances were ones that were re-promulgated, the report said. Kerala was followed by Karnataka (24), Uttar Pradesh (23) and Maharashtra (21) in issuing ordinances. Analysing the time taken for passing Bills, 59% of the legislations were passed on the same day that they were introduced while 14% were passed within a day of being introduced. Only 9% of the Bills were passed more than five days after introduction. States that have passed most Bills on the same day as their introduction include Punjab (26 out of 26 Bills), Haryana (34 out of 35 Bills), and Uttar Pradesh (32 out of 37 Bills). Karnataka and Rajasthan passed a majority of their Bills two or more days after their introduction in the legislature. In both states, 37% of Bills had a gap of at least five days between their introduction and passing. The report said most states do not have committees to examine bills like the Parliamentary Standing Committees and in the absence of a robust committee system and fewer working days, state legislatures barely spend any time scrutinising legislative proposals brought before them. It said that Kerala has constituted 14 subject committees for examining Bills. In 2020, in some states like Goa, Karnataka, and Maharashtra, select committees (ad-hoc committees) were constituted for scrutinising important Bills. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Bill, 2020 was introduced in the Karnataka Assembly in March 2020 and immediately referred to a Joint Select Committee (of both Houses) for further examination, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-assembly-sat-for-highest-number-of-days-in-2020-kerala-tops-ordinance-list-994415.html
06-06-2021||National||13 convicts languishing in Agra jail despite declared as juvenile||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court to highlight "unfortunate" and "sorry state of affairs" as 13 convicts have been languishing in Agra's jail despite having been declared juvenile at the time of offence. The plea asked the top court to direct their immediate release as they had suffered incarceration ranging from 14 to 22 years. Despite clear and unchallenged rulings from the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) that they were all below the age limit of 18 years, yet no steps have been taken to release them forthwith, a petition filed by advocate Rishi Malhotra on behalf of the convicts. According to the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) (Amendment) Act, 2006, the plea of juvenility can be raised at any stage and even after final disposal of the case. In their case, the JJB, through its orders between February 2017 to March 2021, categorically held that all these petitioners were below 18 years of age on the date of the alleged incident and were thus, declared juvenile, the petition claimed. However, in the instant case, the petitioners languished in jails amongst hardcore criminals thereby completely negating the purpose and objects of JJ Act, the petition contended. They asked the court to pass necessary orders for releasing them forthwith within the spirit of Article 21 (right to life and liberty) of the Constitution. Though in majority of the cases their statutory criminal appeal are pending before the High Court against their conviction under various IPC offences, but "the necessity and the need of hour is to immediate direct release of these petitioners in view of the fact that not only they are declared juvenile but they have already undergone a maximum period of detention provided under the JJ Act, 2000, i e, three years," their plea stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/13-convicts-languishing-in-agra-jail-despite-declared-as-juvenile-994416.html
06-06-2021||National||Police chargesheet calls senior PDP leader Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra 'asset of Pakistan-based terror groups'||Senior PDP leader Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra, a close aide of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, was an asset for Pakistan-based terror groups and his 13 years' journey from 2007 as a journalist and politician was a "saga of subterfuge, deceit and double dealing", alleges a police chargesheet against him. Parra is alleged to have established a nexus with terrorists for seeking support from them for political gains and reciprocated it by providing a range of help and support which led to terror strikes. With the help of five protected witnesses and technical intelligence, the Criminal Investigation Kashmir (CIK), a wing of the CID Department, submitted a chargesheet before an NIA Court recently alleging that Parra was hand-in-glove with terrorists to further the agenda of Pakistan-based terror groups and also to ensure that his political adversaries are neutralised. The 19-page chargesheet, with hundreds of pages of annexures, has given instances of his targeted attempts to eliminate political opponents and to help his party leaders by paying terror groups to swing the electoral battle in his party's favour. His lawyer has denied all these charges during various court proceedings related to his bail and custodial pleas, and claimed that his client, who won the District Development Council elections last year, was being made a political scapegoat. The chargesheet highlighted his links to Pakistan-trained Abu Dujana and Abu Qassim, who were killed in separate encounters with security forces, and went on to allege that he used to meet them personally as well as through Over Ground Workers (OGWs). The chargesheet alleged that a forced marriage between a girl and dreaded Pakistani terrorist Abu Dujana had his "blessings", the chargesheet claimed. The police have tracked his journey from 2007 when he went to Pakistan and interviewed banned Hizbul Mujahideen's chief Syed Salahuddin and broadcast it on his local media channel which was being operated from Pulwama, his home district, in South Kashmir. Parra joined the PDP in 2013 and "once ensconced in the safety of a recognised political party..., the accused systematically went about strengthening himself by craftily deepening his roots on two sides of the divide -- India and Pakistan". "...Parra had the permission of the Pakistani establishment to keep throwing crumbs at India, allowing them petty tactical gains and systematically pushing the overall situation, slowly but surely, in favour of Pakistan in a strategic sense. What played out over 13 years (2007-2020) was a saga of subterfuges, deceit and double meaning," the chargesheet alleged. The CIK, which is mandated to probe cases under the UAPA and the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), took sanction for Parra's prosecution from the Jammu and Kashmir Home Department under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The CIK had filed a case last year against unknown politicians and others based on "reliable and confidential sources" who said some political functionaries were misusing their power and helping militants. In March this year, Parra was chargesheeted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and it was alleged that the PDP youth leader had paid Rs 5 crore to the son-in-law of hardline Hurriyat Conference leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani for keeping Kashmir in turmoil after the death of Burhan Wani, the poster boy of Hizbul Mujahideen, in 2016. The NIA accused Parra, who was arrested last November, of being involved with banned terrorist groups like Hizbul Mujahideen and Lashkar-e-Taiba. The NIA alleged that after the death of Wani, who was killed in an encounter with the Army in July 2016, Parra got in touch with Altaf Ahmad Shah, alias Altaf Fantoosh, and asked him to ensure that the valley was kept on the boil with widespread unrest and stone-pelting. In January this year Parra was granted bail by the NIA court, which said there was no reference to him in the original as well as the supplementary chargesheets presented in July and October last year respectively. However, he was arrested by the CIK Wing in the case related to nexus between mainstream politicians and secessionists, and he continues to be in jail since then. His bail was rejected by the NIA Court in Srinagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-chargesheet-calls-senior-pdp-leader-waheed-ur-rehman-parra-asset-of-pakistan-based-terror-groups-994423.html
06-06-2021||National||Six years on, no clue about 17 'mentally unsound' Indians languishing in Pakistan jails||Six years after Pakistan conveyed to India about 17 “mentally unsound” Indians languishing in jails in that country, efforts to confirm their identity have not yielded any result despite the Ministry of Home Affairs putting up their photos on its official website and seeking assistance from the general public as well as states and UTs. They have completed their sentences but due to non-confirmation of their nationality they could not be repatriated to India, an official said. Among the 17 prisoners in Pakistan who are believed to be Indians, four are women and were named Gullu Jan, Ajmeera, Naqaya and Hasina by Pakistani authorities. The others are Sonu Singh, Surinder Mahto, Prahalad Singh, Silrof Salim, Birju, Raju, Bipla, Rupi Pal, Panwasi Lal, Raju Mahouli, Shyam Sunder, Ramesh and Raju Rai. The MHA has said anyone who can identify these 17 persons should give information to the Under Secretary (Foreigners) in the Ministry of Home Affairs, the home department of state governments or union territory (UT) administration concerned or respective Director General of Police or Inspector General of Police or Commissioner of Police. "Photographs of 17 mentally unsound persons, believed to be Indian nationals, who are lodged in jails in Pakistan, are attached. These persons have not been able to disclose any other particulars about them including the names of their parents or relatives, address in India, etc. due to their mentally unsound condition," the MHA notification said. In 2015, Pakistan had conveyed to India about these 17 Indians lodged in their jails and said they have completed their jail terms in that country but they cannot be sent back home as they are unable to recall their whereabouts since they are “mentally unsound”. As Pakistan failed to get details of their background, the Indian High Commission in Islamabad was then given special consular access to these prisoners hoping to make breakthroughs. The Indian High Commission in Islamabad had sent the pictures of all these 17 prisoners to the Ministry of External Affairs to trace their family members. The MEA subsequently forwarded the pictures to the MHA to help identify their families and homes in India. “Since then we have put their photos on the MHA website but so far no clue has been received from anyone. We have shared their photos with the states and UTs but no information has been received from them,” a home ministry official said. Many of them seem to be old in the pictures provided by Pakistan. The prisoners could not disclose any other particulars during the consular access in 2015. There are Indian and Pakistani prisoners in each other's jails and the two countries share the list of their inmates twice every year. Despite tensions in bilateral relations, the two countries have been exchanging the lists of prisoners without any break over the years. India-Pakistan relations deteriorated after Pakistan-based terror group Jaish-e-Mohammad targeted a CRPF bus on February 14, 2019 at Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir killing 40 jawans. Days later, Indian Air Force fighter jets bombed a terrorist train camp deep inside Pakistan. Relations further nose-dived after Pakistan objected to India abrogating Article 370, which gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir, and bifurcating the state into two Union Territories on August 5, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-years-on-no-clue-about-17-mentally-unsound-indians-languishing-in-pakistan-jails-994434.html
06-06-2021||National||From the Newsroom: BS Yediyurappa says he would continue to be CM as long as the party High Command has trust in him||In your evening news brief, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa says he would continue to head the state government as long as the party High Command had trust in him; petrol in Mumbai crossed Rs 101 a litre mark and India sees continuing decline in Covid-19 cases.  Here is the top news of June 6, 2021: Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said that he would continue to head the state government as long as the party High Command had trust in him. He was responding to media queries on repeated complaints by ministers and MLAs against the CM. The CM said that he was not in any dilemma over the developments in the party and the government. After a one-day pause, fuel prices were hiked for a third time in the first week into June on Sunday. Fuel prices soared to record highs as petrol in Mumbai crossed Rs 101 a litre. Diesel now costs Rs 93.30 in the financial capital. Petrol was hiked by 27 paise, while the price of diesel was up by 31 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In the national capital, Delhi, the price of petrol is now Rs 95.03 a litre, while diesel now costs Rs 85.95 per litre. India reported 1.14 lakh cases of coronavirus on Sunday, continuing its steady decline as the country recovers from the second wave of Covid-19. The recovery rate stood at 93.67 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,46,759 with 2,667 fresh deaths, while the active cases dropped below 15 lakh, the data updated at 8 am showed. Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-bs-yediyurappa-says-he-would-continue-to-be-cm-as-long-as-the-party-high-command-has-trust-in-him-994436.html
06-06-2021||National||Need to prioritise pregnant women for Covid-19 vaccination: Report||Amid rising deaths of pregnant women due to Covid-19, a report has made a strong case for their vaccination on a priority basis. For Covid not to further aggravate the already heavy burden of maternal and under five mortality, there is a strong case for inclusion of pregnant women as a high priority group for vaccination, a report prepared by a group of doctors led by Yamini Sarwal of Delhi-based Vardhman Mahavir Medical College and Safdarjung Hospital said.  "We recommend including Covid-19 vaccination in the routine protocol for antenatal care in all countries, particularly India and Indonesia, in view of their high dual burden," it said. Currently, either pregnant women are not included for vaccination, or the policies are ambiguous with the decision being often left to the woman, the report said. Evidence is emerging of the safety and efficacy of Covid vaccination, which along with benefits of passing on the protection to the newborn, call for including pregnant women in the high priority group for vaccination, it said. Observing that pregnant women are known to be at significantly higher risk for severe coronavirus-related complications compared with non-pregnant women, it said, the issue of protecting such women is critical.  Vaccination has emerged as a reliable protective measure against severe Covid-19 infection, the report noted. Of the top 20 Covid affected countries, nine allow vaccination of pregnant women, of which two preferentially vaccinate them. In contrast, four of the 20 high under-five mortality countries allow vaccination of pregnant women, while none include them in the preferential group. India and Indonesia, with one fifth of world's population, fall in both the groups but do not include pregnant women for vaccination. Many organisations have represented the government for inclusion of pregnant women for inoculation. Last month, the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) has moved the Supreme Court against the January 14 advisory of the Union government excluding pregnant and lactating women from vaccination. Arguing for prioritisation, the report said pregnant women experience more severe Covid-19 disease than non-pregnant women.  They are more likely to require hospitalization, admission to ICU, receive invasive ventilation and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation when compared with non-pregnant women, it said, adding, there is a 70 per cent  increased risk of death among symptomatic pregnant women as compared to non-pregnant ones.   Women who get coronavirus infection while pregnant, experience a higher maternal and neonatal morbidity and mortality, it added.  Observing that Covid vaccination in pregnancy has dual benefit, it said, both the mother and newborn get antibodies which have been demonstrated in cord blood and breast milk||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-prioritise-pregnant-women-for-covid-19-vaccination-report-994450.html
06-06-2021||National||Phase II clinical trial of Niclosamide drug for treatment of Covid-19 patients begins||The CSIR and Laxai Life Sciences Private Limited have initiated phase II clinical trials of anti-helminitic drug ‘Niclosamide’ for the treatment of COVID-19 patients, a statement said on Sunday. The trial is a multi-centric, randomised, open label clinical study to evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of Niclosamide for treating hospitalised COVID-19 patients. Niclosamide has been extensively used in the past for treating tapeworm infection in adults as well as children. The safety profile of this drug has been tested over time and has been found safe for human consumption at different dose levels, the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) said. Ram Vishwakarma, advisor to Director General CSIR, pointed out that in a screen to identify drugs that can inhibit syncytia formation, Niclosamide was identified as a promising repurposed drug by a research group from King's College London, which collaborated in this project. The syncytia or fused cells observed in the lungs of patients with novel coronavirus infection probably result from the fusogenic activity of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein and Niclosamide can inhibit this syncytia formation. Independently, a collaborative research between CSIR-Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine (IIIM), Jammu and the National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bengaluru had recently demonstrated that Niclosamide was also a potential SARS-CoV2 entry inhibitor, blocking the viral entry through pH dependent endocytic pathway.. Given these two independent experimental studies, Niclosamide has now emerged as a promising drug candidate for clinical trial in COVID-19 patients. Srivari Chandrashekhar, director, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) Hyderabad highlighted that the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API) is being made by Laxai Life Sciences based on improved technology developed at IICT and the lab is a partner in this important clinical trial which could provide cost effective therapeutic options for patients if the ongoing trial is successful. Ram Upadhayaya, CEO, Laxai Life Sciences noted that realising the potential of Niclosamide, efforts were initiated last year itself to undertake the clinical trials. Having received approval from drug regulators, the clinical trial has been initiated this week at different sites and is expected to be completed within 8-12 weeks, the CSIR said. Based on successful clinical evidence generated during the clinical trials in Indian studies, emergency use authorisation may be sought so that more treatment options are available to COVID-19 patients, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/phase-ii-clinical-trial-of-niclosamide-drug-for-treatment-of-covid-19-patients-begins-994462.html
06-06-2021||National||Four states, one UT get highest grade in Education Ministry’s Performance Grading Index 2019-20||Punjab, Kerala and Tamil Nadu have crossed the 90% threshold on the performance grading index for 2019-20 devised to track changes in school education across the country. Karnataka has moved up from Level 5 to Level 4 in the performance grading index (PGI) for 2019-20, which was released on Sunday, with improvement in the governance processes domain that deals with structural reforms in areas ranging from monitoring the attendance of teachers to ensuring transparent recruitment of teachers and principals. The PGI was introduced by the Education Ministry in 2019 with 2017-18 as the reference year to track changes in the quality of education imparted across schools in the country. “Punjab, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu, Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Kerala occupy the highest grade (Grade A++) for 2019-20,” the PGI report said, adding that for the first time the states and UTs have surpassed the 90% threshold in PGI scores. The PGI assesses states/UTs across five domains – learning outcomes and quality, access, infrastructure & facilities, equity, and governance – with a total weightage of 1000. A perusal of the reports of 2019-20 and 2018-19 shows most of the states and UTs have improved their grade in PGI 2019-20. In the PGI 2018-19, Chandigarh, Gujarat and Kerala had topped the index by achieving more than 85% scores on a scale of 1,000. The report identifies governance processes and infrastructure as the weak links of the education system. Two states – Bihar and Meghalaya have scored the lowest scores in this domain. “This is a cause for concern as a proper school building with adequate facilities is a must to improve the overall quality of school education,” the report said. On the brighter side, Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Odisha have shown marked improvements in the infrastructure domain between 2019-20 and 2018-19, indicating that the states and UTs have started to take action for improving their infrastructure and facilities. “Happy to share that Punjab has been ranked as the top performer among all States & UTs in School Education in the Performance Grading Index 2019-20 released by the Union Education Ministry. This is the result of focus, hard work & commitment of all our teachers & administrators,” Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-states-one-ut-get-highest-grade-in-education-ministry-s-performance-grading-index-2019-20-994468.html
06-06-2021||National||Central Vista area to get 1,753 new trees as transplant, revamp to raise green cover||Allaying concerns from environment activists over the possible loss of green cover due to the redevelopment of Central Vista, the government has said the overall green cover will be more than the existing greenery in the area. Over 2000 tree saplings will be planted and as many as 1,753 new trees will be transplanted. Additionally, the existing 3,230 trees will be moved out of the Central Vista area in Delhi and transplanted to the NTPC Eco Park in Badarpur after obtaining the necessary clearance from the Ministry of Environment & Forest. After all the transplantation and plantation, the Central Vista area will have a net gain of 563 trees, said the official from the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs.  "The government will also plant 36,083 trees (saplings) in the city and overall green cover will increase substantially, including 32,330 trees to be planted in the NTPC Eco Park in Badarpur as compensatory plantation," said the official. The Central Vista redevelopment project involved building a new Parliament building, offices to Members of Parliament, re-modeling of Central Vista Avenue (Rajpath), constructing new residences for the vice president and the prime minister, inter-connected common secretariat comprising 10 new buildings and demolishing some buildings on either side of the Rajpath. At present only two projects new Parliament building and Central Vista Avenue is being built. The Centre had planned to complete the entire Central Vista project, entailing an expenditure of Rs 23,000 crore, by 2024, but the deadline had already been extended to 2026. The government has been facing criticism from the opposition for executing the Central Vista Redevelopment Project amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Even environmentalists expressed concered over loss of green cover due to project.  Under the redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue which comprises Rajpath, 48 trees are proposed to be transplanted and of them, permission has been granted for 25, including 22 Jamun trees, till date, sources said. However, the official clarified that no plan to transplanting tress including Jamun that were planted as per Lutyen''s original plan. "The cost for the PM''s residential complex has been mischievously exaggerated in media. It is part of many projects, as mentioned earlier, whose neither the design has been approved nor the cost estimate or tendered cost has been firmed up," official said. The government also said entire project secured all procedures and secured required permission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-vista-area-to-get-1753-new-trees-as-transplant-revamp-to-raise-green-cover-994475.html
06-06-2021||National||Lakshadweep locals to go on hunger strike on June 7; workers from other parts fear job loss||Lakshadweep will witness a 12-hour hunger strike by local people on Monday against various decisions of Praful Khoda Patel-led administration Save Lakshadweep, a forum of all political parties of the island, had called for the demonstration on Monday. People will stage fasting at their houses by holding placards. Members of the local panchayats will stage demonstration at the panchayat offices. BJP local leaders are also likely to participate. Meanwhile, many workers from Kerala in the islands are fearing job loss owing to the restrictions imposed by the administration on people from other parts on the island citing Covid surge. The island administration recently decided to issue restrictions in entry permits citing the Covid surge. Even MPs were denied entry citing the norms. Those already in the islands were given an extension of one week. All fresh permits issued only by additional district magistrate in the collectorate at Kavaratti. Assistant secretary of the local cooperative society at Kavaratti, Cheriya Koya, said that workers from Kerala were mainly involved in the construction activities in the islands. The islands lacked skilled labourers and hence the constructions activities would suffer once the workers from outside were forced to return. He also said that though the Centre assured a delegation that concerns of the people would be addressed, the administration was still going ahead with measures that caused resentment among people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lakshadweep-locals-to-go-on-hunger-strike-on-june-7-workers-from-other-parts-fear-job-loss-994477.html
06-06-2021||National||NGT forms panel to study the sustainability of inland aquaculture||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has formed a committee to study the sustainability of inland aquaculture practices in the country and sought a report in three months. The Principal Bench of the NGT headed by its chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel passed the order after hearing a petition about harmful impact due to usage of poultry farms waste in aquaculture. The committee will comprise members of the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), Union Ministry of Fisheries, state fisheries department and a member from Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute. Though the petition related to freshwater aquaculture being carried out in Vadivale Lake in Maval taluka of Pune district, the panel is likely to make a recommendation related to the pros and cons of aquaculture after studying the existing system under Water and Air Act. The petitioner, Vanashakti, an environment group had filed the petition against freshwater aquaculture in Vadivale Lake in Maval taluka of Pune district. The petitioner alleged that this practise is against the principles of precautionary and sustainable development.  The petitioner alleged that the government policies which allow for aquaculture, do not consider the harmful impact of usage of poultry farms waste including chicken guts, chemical fertilisers, antibiotics, chemical manures and other waste products in aquaculture. The petitioner said that the Coastal Aquaculture Authority Act (2005), which regulates aquaculture in coastal areas, lays down environmental safeguards for permitting such aquaculture. However, there were no safeguards laid down for such activities in inland water, the petitioner said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-forms-panel-to-study-the-sustainability-of-inland-aquaculture-994483.html
06-06-2021||National||'They are not gangsters': Court rejects plea to produce Umar Khalid, Khalid Saifi in handcuffs||A court here turned down a plea of Delhi Police to produce former JNU student Umar Khalid and activist Khalid Saifi in handcuffs before trial courts, noting that “they are not gangsters”. The plea application which came up for hearing before Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav sought to produce the 2020 Delhi riots accused in “handcuffs in both hands from back side”, contending that they are “high-risk prisoners”. The judge dismissed the plea observing that it is devoid of merits and filed in a mechanical manner and without application of mind by the high echelons of the Delhi Police and prison authority. “The accused persons, who are sought to be produced in fetters and handcuffs, are admittedly not previous convicts. They are not even gangsters,” the Additional Sessions Judge stated in an order dated June 5. He further said that the plea is not required at this stage as the accused are not being produced in the court physically due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The judge also noted the replies submitted by the Superintendent of Mandoli and Tihar jail, Additional DCP (Special Cell) and DCP of third battalion of Delhi Police, on the plea. The DCP told the court that in the aftermath of an attempt made by armed assailants to free an undertrial prisoner at GTB Hospital, the police had decided to request the court for permission to handcuff high-risk prisoners who are prone to escape. “As part of the exercise, the current application for handcuffing UTPs Umar Khalid and Khalid Saifi was moved for the consideration of Hon'ble Court,” the senior police officer stated in a reply submitted to the court on April 26. However, in the reply given by the Additional DCP of Special Cell, it was stated that no such application seeking to produce both the accused in handcuffs, was filed before any court or other authority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/they-are-not-gangsters-court-rejects-plea-to-produce-umar-khalid-khalid-saifi-in-handcuffs-994489.html
06-06-2021||National||Centre to prioritise Covid-19 vaccination for seafarers||Centre on Sunday said it will prioritise Covid-19 vaccination for seafarers. Union Shipping Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, in a statement, said the seafaring industry should not get hampered due to non-vaccination and emphasised that all efforts should be made to get seafarers vaccinated before joining their scheduled duties on board Due to the recent intervention by the ministry, major ports have started vaccination centres, the statement said. The Ministry has been making efforts to take state governments on board for including seafarers in their state ''priority'' list, and Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Goa have already provided such status. The government will leave no stone unturned to facilitate seafarers for vaccination, the statement added. Six major ports which include Mumbai Port Trust, Cochin Port Trust, Chennai Port Trust, Visakhapatnam Port Trust, Kolkata Port Trust and Tuticorin Port Trust have started vaccinating seafarers at their port hospital, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-prioritise-covid-19-vaccination-for-seafarers-994496.html
06-06-2021||National||During Covid-19 third wave, parents may be allowed into wards to look after kids||In the predicted third wave, along with doctors and other medical staff, even parents of infected children may be in the frontline as the government discusses allowing them into Covid-19 wards. This follows reports that children below the age of 18 years may be more vulnerable to Covid during the third wave. The health and family welfare department is considering allowing parents into the paediatric Covid-19 wards. Explaining this to DH, sources in the department of health and family welfare and department of medical education said this had been discussed in the recent meeting of the Technical Advisory Committee for Covid and the task force constituted to study the expected third wave.  “It is under discussion to allow parents of children below teenage to the Covid-19 wards if the cases are mild and moderate,” the sources said. This is mainly because it would be difficult for the medical staff at the hospitals to handle children below the age of nine years as they are dependent on their parents. “We have to allow at least one of the parents into the ward to manage/handle kids,” they said. The Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) is planning to train parents and nursing staff to handle children in Covid wards. Speaking to DH, Dr Sacchidanand, vice-chancellor of RGUHS, said, “We are planning for a virtual training programme for parents and nursing staff as they may need to deal with kids, which is not an easy task.” “Nursing staff cannot handle the kids by themselves. Parents need to be allowed. The parents should be trained to wear PPE kits, monitor oxygen levels and other basic things. We are planning for a virtual training for this. We will also connect them to counsellors and psychiatrists to keep themselves mentally strong to handle the situation,” Sacchidanand said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/during-covid-19-third-wave-parents-may-be-allowed-into-wards-to-look-after-kids-994532.html
06-06-2021||National||RSS affiliate SJM backs substantial increase in fund allocation of UPA scheme MGNREGA||In order to address livelihood distress in rural areas in Covid-19 times,  RSS affiliate Swadeshi Jagaran Manch on Sunday pitched strongly for "substantial increase" in the fund allocation for MGNREGA, a flagship rural job scheme launched by the UPA government. The SJM felt it would "support rural employment".  "The pandemic has removed the illusion that urbanisation is a measure of development. it has been conclusively proved that with the aid technology, substantial economic activity can be carried from remote or rural areas also thereby providing opportunity for a more dispersed and decentralised growth model with substantial employment contribution," said Ashwani Mahajan, co convenor of Swadeshi Jagaran Manch after a two-day national council meeting of the Manch. MGNREGA, launched in 2006 by the UPA I government led by then Manmohan Singh has been continued even under Narendra Modi dispensation despite occasional criticism. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in 2015 called the scheme a "living monument of UPA's failures", which he said his government will continue. The Modi government has, however,  continued making bigger allocations for the scheme and the BJP has been claiming that it has modified the scheme into a better and more viable one.  In February this year, Rahul Gandhi, addressing a meeting in Kerala recalled how Modi "ridiculed" the scheme as he recounted how the scheme worked as a saviour during Covid. In 2020, he had mocked Modi over increased allocation to the scheme under the hashtag – “ModiUturnOnMNREGA".  “It is a foregone conclusion that increasing health expenses and reduced employment opportunities have further worsened the economic situation of poorer households, increased poverty level and contributed to wealth disparities,” the SJM further said even as it lauded the government relief measures like free rations, cash transfers, PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi payments PMGKY and Atma Nirbhar packages to tide over the crisis. The resolution passed by the Manch post the meeting also demanded fiscal support to the vulnerable sections of the society in addition to free food grains, extension of the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme for a few more months and its scope can be further expanded to other pandemic hit sectors. The SJM has also demanded specific stimulus to sectors most affected by coronavirus-induced lockdowns like construction, fishing, horticulture in terms of soft loans and to announce a package for employment linked incentives to strengthen the MSME sector. Besides, it asked RBI to clearly announce "need based moratoriums" to suit every sector of the economy and direct the banks for liberal monetary support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-affiliate-sjm-backs-substantial-increase-in-fund-allocation-of-upa-scheme-mgnrega-994544.html
06-06-2021||National Politics||Amartya Sen's comment on Modi govt purely political: Bengal BJP||The BJP's West Bengal unit on Saturday hit out at Nobel laureate Amartya Sen for his remarks that the Narendra Modi government's schizophrenia led to the Covid-19 ravage, claiming that the economist's attack was purely political. State BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya also said that he cannot keep on criticising the government in front of the entire world. At a programme in Mumbai on late Friday evening, Sen had said that India's "confused" government focused on taking credit for its actions, rather than working to restrict the spread of Covid-19, resulting in schizophrenia that led to massive troubles. "I'm not that arrogant to state that Sen has grown old and requires counselling. But we must not forget his comments before Modi became the PM. Whatever he has spoken against the PM and the central government are purely political," Bhattacharya told reporters. He can give suggestions, as well as say things as everyone has that right in a democratic country, the state BJP spokesperson said. India was better placed to fight the pandemic because of its pharma manufacturing prowess and also higher immunity levels, the noted economist had said while speaking at an event organised by the Rashtra Seva Dal. Sen's remarks came in the backdrop of the second wave of the pandemic seeing the number of officially reported cases topping over 4 lakh a day and over 4,500 deaths daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amartya-sens-comment-on-modi-govt-purely-political-bengal-bjp-994244.html
06-06-2021||National Politics||'Hypocrisy': Puri slams Cong for its criticism of Centra Vista project||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday hit out at the Congress for opposing the Centra Vista Avenue redevelopment and new Parliament building projects, and accused its government in Rajasthan of constructing 160 "luxurious houses" for MLAs at a cost of Rs 266 crore. The Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister alleged that building bylaws have been flouted by the Rajasthan government for constructing the "luxurious houses" for the legislators. Last month, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had attacked the Union government over the central vista redevelopment project, terming it a "criminal wastage" and asked the dispensation to focus on people's lives amid the raging coronavirus pandemic. "Congress opposed ongoing work on Central Vista Avenue & new Parliament but its govt begins work on 160 luxurious houses for Rajasthan MLAs for ₹266 cr. Building bylaws flouted. 28 mtr tall building allowed as a “special case” against a 15 mtr rule. Special Case of Hypocrisy!," Puri tweeted Saturday. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the power corridor of the country -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common Central Secretariat and the revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president. The Congress has been asking the BJP-led Union government to shelve its plans on the central vista redevelopment project and give priority to improving medical infrastructure during the Covid-19 pandemic to save people''s lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hypocrisy-puri-slams-cong-for-its-criticism-of-centra-vista-project-994292.html
06-06-2021||National Politics||Praful Patel: Administrator stokes fury of islanders||Idyllic and pristine, Union Territory of Lakshadweep—an archipelago of 36 islands in the Indian Ocean—has seen its share of storms, but not like the one currently whipped up by its administrator, Praful Khodabhai Patel. The UT is suddenly hitting the headlines due to a series of controversial changes brought in by Patel, which ignited a firestorm of protests from Kerala to Delhi. The fact that Patel has managed to rouse the fury of locals and expose the island to the messy socio-political convulsions that haunt Indian cities doesn’t surprise those who have followed his career. Controversy and trouble seem to shadow the “low profile” and “strict” Patel, who almost three months ago was booked for allegedly abetting the suicide of Mohan Delkar, a seven-time MP and popular tribal leader of Dadra and Nagar Haveli. Hailing from Himatnagar in Sabarkantha district in north Gujarat, 64-year-old Patel started his career as an additional assistant engineer in the Gujarat government. He took voluntary retirement and served as personal secretary to minister, Dilip Patel, from 1995 to 2000 in the first BJP government in the state. His father Khodabhai Patel was an active RSS member and was closely associated with Narendra Modi. Patel is said to have come in contact with Modi back in the mid-1990s as a party worker. Since then their bond only grew stronger. In 2007, Patel was asked to contest the Assembly election from Himatnagar, where he was running a construction firm, Sabar Construction. The 2007 Assembly election was crucial for the then chief minister Narendra Modi as it was the first election after the 2002 riots. Patel won the polls, and so did the BJP under Modi’s leadership. In 2010, the CBI arrested Amit Shah, a day after he tendered his resignation as a minister of state for home and surrendered to the agency in the Sohrabuddin Sheikh encounter case. BJP leaders were surprised to see Modi handpicking Patel, a novice, to replace Shah. In September 2013, Patel hit the headlines again as the CBI grilled him in the Ishrat Jahan case after he was found to be part of a meeting held with police officers, legal heads, bureaucrats, and politicians to discuss how to derail the probe. During his two-year tenure, Patel kept a low profile. He lost the 2012 Assembly poll. That didn’t hurt Patel much as in 2016 the Modi government appointed Patel as the administrator of Union Territory Daman and Diu and later Dadra and Nagar Haveli, a post usually occupied by IAS officers. Both the UTs, bordering Gujarat, were merged in 2020. People across the UTs describe him as a person with “authoritative” traits, who has made governance so “centralised” that even a gram panchayat can’t act on its own. His supporters say after taking over, Patel brought “law and order, curbed large scale liquor smuggling into Gujarat by distilleries” as well as “extortion rackets” which allegedly used to target industrialists. Umesh Patel, a local leader in Daman, admits that Patel “brought many changes, but they are limited to urban centres”. “The rural area is still under neglect,” he says. “Earlier, anyone could participate in tendering and other business opportunities, but now only a few big names are getting all the benefits. He removed hundreds of families of fishermen living (reportedly illegally) on seasides for generations and turned it into tourist attractions.” In 2020, Patel got control of Lakshadweep. Soon, trouble erupted on the island. The controversy revolves around the draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation 2021 (LDAR). Some of the controversial provisions in the proposed draft relate to powers for the removal or relocation of islanders from their property for developmental activity, opening of liquor shops on the islands dominated by Muslims, panchayat regulation that bars people with more than two kids from contesting polls, possible ban on of beef and scrapping of non-vegetarian meals from the mid-day meals. A BJP leader in Diu, who visited the island recently, told DH, “I don’t think locals will protest against much of the proposed laws except against beef, as it is their staple food.” But Patel’s track record hardly inspires confidence, if one goes by his detractors’ claims. “There is no doubt that he is a very strict administrator, but you will have to give him credit for the fact that he is developing the UTs like never before, and he will do so in Lakshadweep as well. No one can bring development without being strict,” said a BJP leader in Ahmedabad, preferring anonymity. Patel “enjoys power” due to his proximity to Modi, say people who know him. It seems, no amount of public pressure can force Patel to backtrack except Modi himself. That means the forecast for Lakshadweep and beyond will remain: stormy days ahead. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/praful-patel-administrator-stokes-fury-of-islanders-994385.html
06-06-2021||National Politics||Centre prevented 'big scam' of AAP govt: BJP on Delhi's doorstep ration delivery scheme||The BJP on Sunday claimed that the Centre has forestalled a "big scam" that the Delhi’s AAP government might have committed by "diverting" subsidised food grains, as it hit back at Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for targeting the central dispensation for stopping his scheme of doorstep delivery of ration. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said the Delhi government is free to run such a scheme by purchasing grains at a notified rate, but it has no right to tweak or stop a national programme of subsidised ration distribution under the Food Security Act to launch its own plan. Speaking at a virtual press conference, Patra also claimed that there is zero Aadhaar card authentication in Delhi against the national average of 80 per cent and that the Kejriwal government had also earlier stopped the operation of POS machines, which allow biometric verification. It means there is no way one can find out if the food grains are being delivered to the needy or diverted, he alleged.  "We will never know to whom Arvind Kejriwal is giving ration to. He wanted to launch a ration diverting system. He wanted to start a big scam as the ration would not reach the right person and nobody knows where it might have gone... The Centre has prevented a big scam from taking place," the BJP spokesperson alleged. The same grains might have been sold at a highly inflated price, he said. The Delhi government had on Saturday alleged that the doorstep delivery of ration scheme was rejected by the Lt Governor, saying the Centre's approval was not sought and that a litigation was pending in the high court regarding it.  In an online briefing, Kejriwal on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi why the scheme was stalled by the Centre and appealed to him to allow its implementation in the national interest. Targeting the AAP dispensation, Patra said, “The A, B, C, D, E, F of Kejriwal's functioning is 'advertisement, blame (Modi), (take) credit, drama, excuses and (consequent) failure'.” Now Kejriwal claims that his government is preparing for the third wave of Covid-19, but if he had prepared for the second wave, the many deaths could have been prevented, the BJP leader said. While the Delhi CM has blamed the Modi government for stopping the doorstep delivery scheme, the truth is that over 72.78 lakh people are benefitting from the Food Security Act, Patra said. Under PM Garib Kalyan Yojna, which provides for free ration to the poor in May and June, the Delhi government has so far lifted 53,045 MT of grains out of 72,782 MT sent by the Centre and has distributed only 68 per cent of what it has lifted, he said. "If Arvind Kejriwal wants to distribute ration outside these programmes, he can purchase grains at notified rates and do it... But no state has the right to tweak a central scheme being implemented uniformly across the country," he said. On Kejriwal's statement that ration shops can act as "super-spreader" for the novel coronavirus infection, Patra wondered if farmer protests continuing at Delhi border points do not do so and accused the AAP leader of defaming these shopkeepers. By not joining the one nation one ration card programme, the Delhi government has denied poor labourers and migrants of their rightful quota of ration, he further alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-prevented-big-scam-of-aap-govt-bjp-on-delhis-doorstep-ration-delivery-scheme-994417.html
06-06-2021||National Politics||Like Bengal, BJP will be defeated in UP too, says Haryana BKU chief||Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni on Sunday said like West Bengal, the "anti-farmer BJP" will be defeated in Uttar Pradesh too, where assembly polls are due next year. Chadauni claimed "hatred" towards the BJP has grown among people over the past six months as farmers' concerns about the three farm laws have not been addressed by the party's government at the Centre. The BKU leader, who led a farmers' march from Ambala to Delhi's Singhu border, was speaking to reporters. A large number of farmers in cars, vans and some on two-wheelers gathered at the Shambhu border near Ambala city before leaving for Delhi. "Like they (BJP) were stopped from coming to power in West Bengal, it is now going to be 'Mission UP' and the BJP's defeat will be ensured," he said. Last month, the Trinamool Congress romped home in West Bengal, pocketing 213 of the 292 assembly seats that went to polls. Though the BJP failed to dislodge West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee from power, it improved its tally to 77 seats from a measly three in the 2016 state assembly polls. During the past six months, Chaduni claimed, "the hatred towards the BJP has further grown among the masses". With the farmers' demand for the repeal of the farm laws not being addressed, the party's "insensitive face has come to the fore". He said farmers had held 'mahapanchayats' in West Bengal and other states that went to polls earlier this year. Now it is going to be "Mission UP". Chaduni claimed 2,500 to 3,000 vehicles from Ambala took part in Sunday's march. In the coming days, more farmers from other parts of Haryana will head to Delhi borders, where peasants have been camping since November last year to demand the repeal of the contentious agricultural laws. "This movement is going strong. The government is mistaken if it thinks that the agitation has weakened," he said. BKU's Ambala district unit president Malkit Singh said there is widespread resentment among farmers against the Centre over its refusal to withdraw the farm laws. The agitating farmers have been demanding that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for their crops. The government has maintained the laws are pro-farmer and will usher in new technology in farming. Several rounds of talks between the farmers and the government have failed to break the deadlock over these contentious laws. The government last held talks with farmer leaders on January 22. The talks between the two sides came to a halt after a January 26 tractor parade by farmers in Delhi turned violent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/like-bengal-bjp-will-be-defeated-in-up-too-says-haryana-bku-chief-994490.html
06-06-2021||National Politics||BJP's two-day meet focuses on Covid-19, farmers' issues||Conscious of Covid-19 effect on a string of state Assembly polls next year and concerned over the third wave of pandemic likely to hit India at the end of this year, BJP on Sunday decided to hit the ground running with one lakh trained health volunteers across the country, who know how to operate medical devices and carry out other essential medical chores. The party has also decided to tell people how 11 lakh BJP workers are engaged in spreading awareness on the Covid-19 vaccination drive and that the saffron party set up more than  4,000 Covid-19 care helplines. A day after farmers' bodies protesting against three contentious farm laws for the last six months sought to corner the government on its farm promises including doubling farmers income, BJP on Sunday asserted, "Modi government is committed to double the income of farmers by 2022. Rs 76000 were directly transferred into the accounts of farmers for wheat purchased from them at Minimum Support Price. Out of this Rs 26000 crores were transferred into accounts of farmers from Punjab and Rs 16,700 crores into the accounts of farmers from Haryana."   Both Punjab and Haryana are epicentres of farmers' agitation. The training of farmers at the Farmers Producers Organisations (FPOs) across the country is a key component of the future course of action plan finalised by the BJP on Sunday. The party has also decided to take some of the target-oriented schemes of the Central government in a big way to stakeholders.   The decisions were laid out at a two-day meeting chaired by BJP chief J P Nadda with party general secretaries and the various morchas like OBC, SC/ST, farmers at a time when Opposition parties have mounted a joint offensive against the Central government on its handling of Covid-19, repeatedly attacking the BJP-ruled states like Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, which were earlier touted by the party as ideal models. With images of bodies floating in the Ganges and piles of bodies buried on the river banks in UP, which goes to polls nine months away, the realisation has been dawning on the BJP that mere countering Opposition attack won't suffice and in the recent month, the BJP has focused on its 'Seva Hi Sangathan" programme days after many from the within the party raised questions on the visibility of the government and the party on the ground, when people were battling the pandemic. The meeting also had a threadbare discussion on the political violence that kicked up in the states soon after the polls were over and arson and violence continued for days. The meeting attended BJP general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh, all eight general secretaries and morcha presidents, concluded on Sunday a day after a three-day meeting of RSS top brass in Delhi carried out deep deliberations on evolving socio-political scenario and reviewed the work done by RSS volunteers for Covid-19 relief. The ruling party has chosen to counter the political criticism around the pandemic's handling by pointing out loopholes in the functioning of the Opposition-ruled states, an indication of which was available when Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri trained guns on Congress-ruled Punjab and Rajasthan over vaccine and Central Vista issue. On Sunday BJP took to social media with caricatures attacking Arvind Kejriwal over what it called "Kejriwal's model of mismanagement'. It also came out what it called ABCD of Kejriwal government.  "A-Advertisement,  B-Blame, C-Credit, D-Drama, E-Excuse F-Failure," is the ABCD of Kejriwal's functioning," said BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra. BJP general secretary Bhupendra Yadav spoke at length on the relief work carried out by the party. BJP Twitter handle tweeted, "BJP is committed to serving people amid Covid-19 pandemic. Service work was carried out in more than 1.53 lakh villages and slums under the 'Seva Hi Sangathan' programme."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-two-day-meet-focuses-on-covid-19-farmers-issues-994507.html
06-06-2021||National Politics||BJP attacks Kejriwal, says he should implement Centre's one nation one ration card scheme||The Delhi BJP Sunday demanded the Arvind Kejriwal government implement the Centre's 'one nation one ration card' scheme after the AAP leader alleged the Centre stalled his government's doorstep ration delivery scheme. The Delhi government had Saturday claimed its scheme for doorstep delivery of ration was rejected by the Lt governor, saying the Centre's approval was not sought and that a litigation was pending in the high court regarding it. The Centre has rejected the Delhi government's claim as "baseless". Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta alleged in a statement that "thousands of workers have not got ration as Kejriwal had done nothing on Centre's 'one nation one ration card' scheme". "If he really wants to do something for the poor, he should implement this one nation one ration card yojna. Ration for poor is rotting in government schools but his government has failed to distribute it," Gupta said. He further added that under the National Food Security Act and the Prime Minister Gareeb Kalyan Yojna, the Centre was already giving "free ration to 80 crore people for May and June in addition to 72 lakh card holders". "If Kejriwal wants to distribute ration in addition to this, he can buy it on the notified rate and neither the Centre nor anyone else would object to that. But to describe Centre policies as his own is low-level politics," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-attacks-kejriwal-says-he-should-implement-centres-one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme-994517.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||Ganga Canal closed for cleaning after large scale dumping of hooch in it||The Aligarh district authorities on Saturday ordered the complete closure of the Upper Ganga Canal for its “complete combing and cleaning”, suspecting largescale dumping of illicit liquor in it. The Upper Ganga Canal flows midway through the district from west to east. The district magistrate said a team of officials, including those of the Irrigation Department will oversee the cleaning operation. The clean-up drive has been undertaken following the recovery of large caches of spurious liquor in crates and pouches in the canal, leading to two more liquor deaths in the district due to some unsuspecting labourers, almost all of them migrants from Bihar, had chanced upon such stock and consumed it. The floating liquor stock has led to the deaths of at least ten labourers and has left more than three dozen seriously ill. At Least 36 such patients are under treatment at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital at AMU. All-out efforts are on to trace the people belonging to the liquor mafia who are behind this dumping operation, police sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ganga-canal-closed-for-cleaning-after-large-scale-dumping-of-hooch-in-it-994241.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||MP BJP leader holds birthday party in Indore vaccine centre||The video of a BJP leader celebrating her birthday by cutting a cake in a vaccination centre in Indore in Madhya Pradesh along with her supporters on Saturday went viral on social media, following which authorities promised action. Madhuri Jaiswal, BJP president of Indore's Ward number 58, however, claimed she had only gone to review the centre's working, but could not refuse when one of her supporters brought a cake to celebrate her birthday. "Some young worker came forward with a cake saying my supporters wanted to celebrate my birthday. How could I refuse them? Though I did not want to celebrate as one of my family members was cremated today, I had to do it for the sake of supporters," Jaiswal claimed. "I apologise if I have done anything wrong," the BJP leader further said. Meanwhile, District Immunisation Officer Praveen Jadia said the video showed those involved in the birthday celebrations did not maintain social distancing and some were not wearing masks either. "I have informed the authorities for action against the violators," Jadia said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-bjp-leader-holds-birthday-party-in-indore-vaccine-centre-994265.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt hospital bars nurses from talking in Malayalam at work, union fumes||A Delhi government hospital Saturday issued a circular asking its nursing staff not to use Malayalam at work as "maximum patients and colleagues do not know this language" which it said causes a lot of inconvenience. The circular issued by the Govind Ballabh Pant Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (GIPMER), one of the leading facilities, has asked its nurses to use only Hindi and English for communication or face "strict action". G B Pant nurses’ association president Liladhar Ramchandani claimed it was issued in pursuance of a complaint sent by a patient to a senior officer in the health department, regarding use of Malayalam language at the hospital while adding that "the union disagrees with the wordings used in the circular".  The circular says, "A complaint has been received regarding Malayalam language being used for communication in working places in GIPMER. Whereas maximum patient and colleagues do not know this language and feel helpless causing a lot of inconvenience". "So, it is directed to all nursing personnel to use only Hindi and English for communication. Otherwise, serious action will be taken,” it reads. Ramchandani, also the secretary general of Delhi Nurses Federation said, "As a language's name, Malayalam, has been inserted in the circular, many will take offence". He also claimed that this circular was "consequent of the complaint filed by the patient" and "internally, there is no issue among the nurses and the administration". Many nurses at various hospitals across India, hail from Kerala, with Malayalam being their native language. The circular has drawn sharp criticism from other nursing unions too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-hospital-bars-nurses-from-talking-in-malayalam-at-work-union-fumes-994295.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||After row over 'No Malayalam', Delhi hospital withdraws circular||A Delhi government-run hospital on Sunday withdrew an order asking its nurses not to speak in Malayalam at work within 24 hours, as a controversy erupted over the direction that attracted criticism from across the political spectrum. On Saturday, the Nursing Superintendent issued an order saying a complaint has been received regarding the use of Malayalam for communication at the hospital where "maximum patients and colleagues do not know this language and feel helpless causing a lot of inconvenience". "So it is directed to all nursing personnel to use only Hindi and English for communication otherwise serious action will be taken," the order said. However as the hospital faced flak, the Medical Superintendent of the hospital issued another order, which said the direction was issued by the Nursing Superintendent "without any instructions or knowledge" of the hospital administration and Delhi government. The order "stands withdrawn, with immediate effect", it added. The G B Pant Nurses' Association said there are around 850 nurses out of which around 400 belong to Kerala. Last year, the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences had also issued an order advising staff that regional languages should not be spoken in its premises. The Saturday's order attracted huge criticism with leading politicians like Rahul Gandhi, Sitaram Yechury, Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor coming out against the order. BJP's Tom Vadakkan also found fault with the order. "Malayalam is as Indian as any other Indian language. Stop language discrimination!" former Congress president Rahul tweeted.  CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury said, "What a joke! Unacceptable. No language can be banned from usage anywhere in India as long as the people conversing understand it. This must be reversed immediately."  Soon after the order was withdrawn, Tharoor tweeted, "A small victory for decency and common sense over parochialism and bigotry!!"  Earlier he had said, "it boggles the mind that in democratic India a government institution can tell its nurses not to speak in their mother tongue to others who understand them. This is unacceptable, crude, offensive and a violation of the basic human rights of Indian citizens. A reprimand is overdue!" Congress' Rajya Sabha Chief Whip Ramesh, who was one of the first to react on the issue on Saturday, tweeted, "Absolutely, totally bizarre! This is unconstitutional, really..." In a statement, Vadakkan targeted the Arvind Kejriwal government and said the "withdrawal in a haste clearly indicates we have an anarchist state government for whom the constitution of India and its recognized language do not matter". "It is an irony that when this government was in need of oxygen the request was directed to Kerala and now their attempt to snatch the right to speak in Malayalam amongst each other. Globally the largest number of nurses come from Kerala, they have served our country as frontline workers along with doctors and other paramedics. They suffered casualties along with doctors and paramedics too. I am also surprised at the deafening silence so far from the Kerala government," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-row-over-no-malayalam-delhi-hospital-withdraws-circular-994335.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||Pizza, smartphones can be delivered, why not ration? Kejriwal asks Modi to allow doorstep ration scheme||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal took to a briefing to directly call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Centre stalling his administration's door-to-door ration scheme. "The poor of this country have been targeted by the ration mafia for years, this scheme would have efficiently cut down on this, however two days before its implementation they got the government to scrap its implementation," Kejriwal said. "For the first time in 75 years a government dared to take on this ration mafia, but are unable to proceed" he added. "The Central government claims we didn't take approval. We took approval not just once, but five times. Legally, we don't need Centre's approval but we did so out of courtesy," the Delhi Chief Minister said. At a time like this, why are you fighting with us? Kejriwal said, addressing PM Modi. Adding that the crowds at ration shops can be super spreaders, he urged the Modi government to immediately allow this scheme. "If pizzas, burgers, clothes, smartphones can be home-delivered, why not ration? The nation wants to know," the chief minister demanded. "We changed the policy to incorporate all changes asked by the government but it was still not allowed. I request you with folded hands on behalf of Delhi's 70 lakh poor people, please don't stop this scheme. It is in the interest of the nation. There should be no politics over matters meant for the country's benefit." The Delhi government on Saturday had claimed the doorstep delivery of ration scheme was rejected by the Lt governor saying the Centre's approval was not sought and that a litigation was pending in the high court regarding it. "If you stand with the ration mafia, who will stand with the poor people" the chief minister said, adding that the scheme was intended to benefit 72 lakh people in the national capital. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pizza-smartphones-can-be-delivered-why-not-ration-kejriwal-asks-modi-to-allow-doorstep-ration-scheme-994343.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||Gradual unlock in Leh to start from June 7 as cases Covid-19 dip||Ladakh recorded 71 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 19,147, while another death pushed the toll to 195, officials said on Sunday, as the Union Territory announced a gradual unlocking here after a month-long 'corona curfew'. The new fatality was reported from Leh on Saturday. The district has so far recorded 141 coronavirus-related deaths, while the pandemic toll stands at 54 in Kargil district, the officials said. Fifty-eight of the new cases were registered in Leh and the remaining 13 in Kargil, they said. The number of active cases in the UT dropped to 1,170 – 986 in Leh and 184 in Kargil – as 254 Covid patients were discharged during the past 24 hours, the officials said. The Covid-19 recovery count stands at 17,782 in Ladakh, they added. Meanwhile, Leh District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) Chairman Shrikant Suse issued new guidelines with certain relaxations to start gradual unlocking from June 7 till June 14. The decision was taken after extensive deliberation and a detailed assessment of the Covid situation in the district, an official spokesman said. Sharing the roster to allow commercial activities covering almost all segments at the end of 'corona curfew', Suse however said the public transport, private offices, salons, barber shops, beauty parlours, spas and gyms would continue to remain closed till further orders, while the relaxations would not be extended nor applicable in areas notified as containment zones.  He said the weekend curfew and night curfew would remain in force in the district as earlier. The district administration would allow development activities and construction work where labourers reside on the work site while following Covid SOPs, the officer said. He said only home delivery service would be allowed for restaurants on weekdays, while the hotels would be allowed to operate dine-in services with a 30 per cent seating capacity for in-house guests. Speaking on non-essential vehicular movement, Suse said the district administration would begin an odd/even system with 50 per cent seating capacity. Kargil DDMA chairman Santosh Sukhadeve also issued an order extending the 'corona curfew' in the district till 7 am on June 14. However, he said there would be no restrictions on the already allowed activities including developmental and construction works along with mining activities. The order said agricultural activities including establishments dealing with agricultural inputs, implements and tools would be allowed with strict adherence of Covid-19 SOPs, while e-commerce and home delivery of essential goods and services, including food, would be allowed unhindered. It said all social, religious, political, cultural and sports gatherings would remain prohibited till further orders. Sukhadeve also issued a roster for different types of shops to facilitate availability of various items to the people and detailed guidelines for the shopkeepers and load carriers carrying essential items.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gradual-unlock-in-leh-to-start-from-june-7-as-covid-19-cases-dip-994352.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||Covid lockdowns force Agra's railway coolies to look for other jobs||Lockdowns due to the coronavirus pandemic have hit coolies at Agra’s railways stations hard, forcing many of them out of work. Some of them now pull rickshaws, others work as labourers. Sharing his ordeal, Munna Khan (50), a coolie at Agra Cantt railway station, told PTI, "There are 102 coolies at the station who are divided into two shifts. In one shift about 52 coolies are allowed to work, but these days only 10-25 coolies are coming due to less number of passengers." "Moreover, the passengers avoid taking our service due to fear of Covid-19. This adverse situation is forcing us to do other work to run the house," he added. There are about 240 coolies working at four major railway stations in Agra - Agra Cantt, Agra Fort, Raja Ki Mandi and Idgah. Another coolie at the Agra Cantt station, 40-year-old Fakira shared that he now also pulls a rickshaw as there is no work at the railway station since the outbreak of the second wave of Covid. "I come to the station in the hope of getting work but spend the entire day sleeping. At night I pull a rickshaw to fulfil the needs of my family," he said. Talking about the difficulties, Rajveer said he spends Rs 150 on travelling to the Agra Cantt station from his home, which is about 15 kms away, in the hope to earn some money. "At the station, I spend my entire day sleeping or waiting for passengers. Most of the day, I don't get any money," he said. Rajveer further said, "When I don't get work at the station, I work as a labourer in the city or near my village as I have two daughters and wife at home. My daughters are studying in Class 6 and 7 in a government school." Another coolie, Yasin, who used to earn Rs 500-800 daily before the pandemic said it has now become difficult to even earn Rs 200 in a day. "I have borrowed money from my relatives to bring ration and other household essentials for my family," he said. "We are hoping for revival of the good days and hope that soon footfall of the passengers will increase so that we get work," Yasin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-lockdowns-force-agras-railway-coolies-to-look-for-other-jobs-994357.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||UP Police nab key accused in Aligarh hooch tragedy||The key accused in the last month's Aligarh hooch incident, which has claimed at least 35 lives so far, was nabbed in the early hours of Sunday, police said. Accused Rishi Sharma, who carried a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his arrest, was held near Bulandshahr border in western Uttar Pradesh, Aligarh Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Kalanidhi Naithani said. Nearly 50 people have died in Aligarh since consuming spurious liquor on two different occasions recently, according to police, while officials estimated that the death toll could go up to 100 as autopsy reports of another 50 hooch consumers were awaited. "In a major breakthrough in the hooch incident, key accused and Rs 1 lakh rewardee Rishi Sharma has been arrested from near Bulandshahr border," Naithani said. "Earlier, the police had arrested accused Vipin Yadav, with Rs 50,000 reward on his arrest, and Rishi Sharma's brother Munish Sharma carrying a bounty of Rs 25,000 in this case," the SSP said. The district police chief said so far 17 FIRs have been lodged and 61 accused arrested in Aligarh over the deaths of people after consuming spurious liquor. Multiple police teams, he said, have carried out investigation and searches in six states since the case came to light while a crackdown on the liquor mafia also started in Aligarh, Naithani added. Nine people died after consuming spurious liquor found dumped in a canal near Rohera village in Jawan area, officials said on Friday. Another man died on Friday in Aligarh's Kodiyagunj village and officials link it with the same stock of liquor found in the canal near Rohera village on June 2 by some brick kiln workers. The 10 deaths are apart from people killed in the first tragedy which broke out on May 28, in which 35 people are confirmed to have died of liquor poisoning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-police-nab-key-accused-in-aligarh-hooch-tragedy-994361.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||BJP's Uttar Pradesh in-charge meets state Governor, says no plans for cabinet rejig||Amid speculations of rift between the national leadership and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath over the latter's ''style of functioning'', the BJP on Sunday virtually ruled out a change of guard in the state. UP BJP in-charge Radha Mohan Singh, who met the state governor Anandiben Patel at Rajbhavan here, heaped praise on Adityanath over the way he tackled the Covid 19 situation in the state. ''The CM is working very hard....his is the most popular government in the country...he has tackled the pandemic effectively...rule of law prevails in the state,'' Singh told reporters. He termed the reports about rift between the state government and the national BJP leadership as a ''figment of imagination'' of some people.  On being asked about speculations on the cabinet reshuffle, Singh, who reportedly handed over a sealed envelope to the governor, said that it was the prerogative of the chief minister.   Although Singh termed his meeting with the governor a ''courtesy call'', there were speculations that there could be a cabinet reshuffle in the state in the next few days keeping in view the next assembly elections in the state due in March 2022. The speculations stemmed from Singh's late night meeting with the UP BJP president Swatantra Deo Singh and party general secretary Sunil Bansal at the party office here on Saturday. Earlier the saffron party national general secretary (organisation) B.L.Santhosh had also indicated to the senior state party leaders and ministers that there would be no change of guard in the state.  According to the sources some ministers and senior party leaders had conveyed to Santhosh that there could be a negative fallout of the Covid 'mismanagement' for the party in the next year's assembly polls and had also expressed resentment over his (Adityanath) style of functioning but were told that there was not much time left for the polls and that a change at this juncture could send a wrong message to the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjps-uttar-pradesh-in-charge-meets-state-governor-says-no-plans-for-cabinet-rejig-994388.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||Minor blast outside sarpanch's house in J&K's Rajouri||A minor explosion took place outside the house of a sarpanch in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, triggering panic among the local residents, officials said. The blast took place outside the house of Sarpanch Sushma Kumari at Androla village in Chakli area of Chingus along the Jammu-Poonch highway around 1 am, causing damage to two parked motorycles, the officials said. "It was a minor intensity blast and we are investigating the matter," a police official said. The local residents said they were woken up by the sound of the explosion and demanded arrest of the culprits behind the incident. "We are investigating all angles," the police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-blast-outside-sarpanchs-house-in-jks-rajouri-994398.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||BJP interested in abusing Arvind Kejriwal instead of preventing ration theft, says Manish Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday said the BJP is interested in "abusing" Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, instead of preventing theft of ration in the country. He also alleged that the saffron party was behind the theft of ration of 80 crore people across the country. "I watched BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra's press conference. He did not mention the ration theft in the country and instead, indulged in a tirade and an abusive attack on Arvind Kejriwal," the senior AAP leader told reporters. Earlier in the day, Kejriwal claimed that the doorstep delivery of ration scheme was stalled by the Centre and appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow it for the benefit of 70 lakh people in Delhi. The BJP wants the ration theft to continue in the country and its leaders will "abuse" anyone who questions it like Patra did about Kejriwal, Sisodia said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-interested-in-abusing-arvind-kejriwal-instead-of-preventing-ration-theft-says-manish-sisodia-994403.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||Pro-Khalistan slogans raised at Golden Temple on 37th anniversary of Operation Bluestar||Supporters of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Mann) raised pro-Khalistan slogans at the Golden Temple and a large number of young people carried banners and placards saying "Khalistan Zindabad" on the 37th anniversary of Operation Bluestar on Sunday. Describing the event as the "ghallughara (holocaust)" of 1984, Jathedar Akal Takht Gyani Harpreet Singh stressed on maintaining unity among the Sikh community. Actor-activist Deep Sidhu, who was arrested by the Delhi Police in connection with the violence during the farmers' tractor march on January 26 and later released on bail, was also seen at the Golden Temple along with former MP Simranjit Singh Mann. Operation Bluestar was an Army operation that was carried out in 1984 to flush out the militants from the Golden Temple. Pro-Khalistan slogans were raised by supporters of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Mann) outfit led by Mann at the Akal Takht, which is the supreme temporal seat of the Sikhs. Elaborate security arrangements were put in place in Amritsar to ensure that the event passed off smoothly. Delivering his customary message from the podium of Akal Takht, Jatehdar said the Sikh community will always remember the unhealed wounds of Operation Bluestar. "The Army action was comparable to a war between two nations. It was like a country attacking another nation,” Jatehdar added. The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), the apex religious body of the Sikhs, displayed the bullet-ridden holy saroop of the Guru Granth Sahib.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pro-khalistan-slogans-raised-at-golden-temple-on-37th-anniversary-of-operation-bluestar-994406.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim taken to private hospital in Gurgaon for tests||Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, who is lodged in Sunaria jail in Haryana's Rohtak district, was on Sunday taken to a private hospital in Gurgaon for some tests, a senior prison official said. Earlier on Thursday, Singh had undergone some tests at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak after he complained of abdominal pain. The 53-year-old sect head of the Sirsa-headquartered Dera was taken to Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon for further tests on Sunday. Sunaria Jail Superintendent Sunil Sangwan told PTI over the phone that all tests related to Singh's condition could not be completed at PGIMS, Rohtak. When another top government hospital was approached in this regard, they said the tests were currently not being done due to the Covid-19 situation. Later, it was suggested to the prison authorities that these tests could be done at Medanta Hospital. The permission for the same was granted, he said. Singh was taken to the hospital under heavy police escort. Among other tests, Singh had undergone an abdominal CT scan at PGIMS, Rohtak on Thursday, officials had said. In May, he was admitted to the government hospital after he complained of dizziness and blood pressure fluctuation. He was discharged after an overnight stay at the hospital. Singh is serving a 20-year jail term for raping two of his women disciples. He was convicted in August 2017 by a special CBI court in Panchkula. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-taken-to-private-hospital-in-gurgaon-for-tests-994407.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||Nearly 8,000 bunkers completed for border residents across Jammu zone||About 8,000 underground bunkers have been completed for the safety of the people living along the Line of Control (LoC) and International Border (IB) in Jammu province, officials said on Sunday. The Centre has sanctioned the construction of 14,460 individual and community bunkers for the border residents in the five districts of Jammu, Kathua and Samba covering the villages located along the IB and Poonch and Rajouri villages on the LoC. Later, the government sanctioned over 4,000 additional bunkers to cover a more vulnerable population. "A total of 7,923 bunkers, including 6,964 individual and 959 community bunkers, have been completed so far in (Jammu) division," an official spokesman said, as Divisional Commissioner Jammu Raghav Langer reviewed the progress on the construction of the safety structures at a meeting here. There has been no major ceasefire violation over the past three months in Jammu and Kashmir after India and Pakistan signed a fresh agreement to maintain calm along the borders on February 25 this year. The spokesman said the work is also in progress on 9,905 bunkers which are under different stages of construction. The deputy commissioners informed that 1,592 bunkers have been completed in Samba, 1,228 in Jammu, 1,521 in Kathua, 2,656 in Rajouri and 926 in Poonch. Langer took strong note of delay in tendering of pending bunkers and directed the executive engineers concerned to float the tenders afresh for the construction of the bunkers which have not been taken up as yet for their early completion, the spokesman said. The divisional commissioner also directed the deputy commissioners to personally monitor already executed work, while the executing agencies were asked to expedite the pace of work and adhere to the set timelines for completion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nearly-8000-bunkers-completed-for-border-residents-across-jammu-zone-994409.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||Leopard attack cuts short 5-year-old's life in Srinagar, mars brother's birthday party||Five-year-old Mir Adda chose a 'Barbie dress', wore a crown and was excitedly calling for family to cut her brother's birthday cake, minutes before a leopard took her away from the lawn of her house in the city's outskirts, in a tragic case underlying human-animal conflict because of rapid forest destruction. The Mir house at Om Pura, a locality just outside the city limits in the central district of Budgam, became the centre of attention as mourners' swarmed the residence to express their condolences to the family of Adda, who loved to call herself "Adda Rani". "Adda had returned from her maternal family home as it was her brother Ali's seventh birthday. She went upstairs and took out her favourite 'Barbie dress' for the occasion and wore a princess crown before stepping into the garden to ask her grandfather to finish his tea as they had to cut the cake," said her maternal uncle, Aijaj Ahmed. A few minutes later, Adda's heart-wrenching shrieks pierced the silent evening of June 3. What followed was an exercise in futility as her family members, joined by neighbours and forest officials, could only find some blood stains and a doll that she was carrying with her. The next day Adda's body parts were recovered from an adjacent nursery-turned-forest, leaving a grieving family behind. They bid a tearful adieu to her as she was laid to rest on Saturday and people reminisced about her smile and banter. Her relatives, who could not visit due to Covid-19 restrictions, took to Twitter to mourn her death. "Adda rani, she would call herself. Can't forget the sound of her laughter and her running around. What a tragedy!" tweeted Sana Fazili, who stayed in the same locality. She also posted a video, where Adda was copying a viral trend of social media. "Yeh mein hoon....yeh meri party ho rahi hai (This is me...and I am having a party). Twitter and other social media platforms were full of users sympathising with Adda and someone posted, "heaven must be a beautiful place now as it has you Adda..." Parents of the little girl are still in shock. This is the second tragedy in their family as Adda's grandmother had passed away earlier this year. The death of Adda, who was a student of DPS School, Srinagar, led to some suspensions in the Forest Department and pushed the Jammu and Kashmir administration to address the concerns of Ompura locality about wild animals. "She was an extraordinary girl, always bubbling with a smile. But what happened to her should not happen to anyone," an inconsolable Ahmed said. Her father, Muddasir had returned from Thailand last year following the outbreak of Covid. Her school also expressed condolences and circulated a message saying, "We are heartbroken by the suffering and loss of the little one and we stand with the family in grief and solidarity. We pray for the eternal peace of the departed soul and healing for those who she left behind shattered and inconsolable." The sighting of wild animals was caught on camera but nobody had done anything, said Ahmed and other neighbours held the Forest Department responsible for the tragedy. The Ompura area has a 20-acre nursery adjacent to it which is maintained by the Social Forestry Department. "The purpose of the nursery was to grow saplings which could be later planted in the forest area. But they have not maintained the nursery and it has virtually turned into a forest. "After her death, they started pruning trees and clearing the bushes which they should have done over the years. We feel the death of the child is the outcome of the Forest Department's actions. This nursery is surrounded by human habitation and there are wild animals roaming freely in the nursery," Ahmed said. Regional Wildlife Warden, Kashmir, Rashid Naqash, expressed shock over the tragedy but said his department could not be blamed for it. "We have repeatedly raised the issue of the nursery and the presence of wild animals with the Forest Department over the last four years after the first sighting of a leopard there," Naqash told PTI. He said the department did its duty with professionalism after it came to know about the leopard sighting. "We launched a vigorous house-to-house campaign to educate people about the threat and preventive measures needed to be taken for their safety. We asked them not to allow children outside their homes, especially at dawn and after dusk," the official said. He said they also pasted do's and don'ts at vantage points and used mosques to reach out the residents, besides making efforts to catch leopards. "We succeeded in capturing a leopard in the vicinity over two weeks ago." Asserting that the department has been making all-out efforts to ensure that there is no man-animal conflict, he said, "Our efforts can be gauged by the fact that the trend (man-animal conflict) is on steady decline over the past several years despite facing shortage of manpower." Urging the people to follow the guidelines religiously, he said the victim's house is located near the nursery and there is no proper fencing separating the two. "The household has rabbits and poultry and the girl was attacked when she was moving alone at dusk," he said. "I cannot bear the burden of being dubbed the girl's murderer...", an emotional Naqash said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/leopard-attack-cuts-short-5-year-olds-life-in-srinagar-mars-brothers-birthday-party-994412.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||Philbit tiger reserve plans 'rewilding' centre to deal with man-eaters||A "rewilding" centre will come up in the next few months at the Pilibhit Tiger Reserve in Uttar Pradesh to stop leopards and tigers from turning man-eaters, officials said on Sunday. "Wild animals normally maintain critical distance with humans and their habitation. Because of the landscape of the Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR), they are losing this critical distance with repeated chance encounters. So, we are trying to get these animals to maintain that distance," PTR Deputy Director Naveen Khandelwal told PTI. Rewilding is a concept to reverse the behaviour of the tigers which normally reside in the close vicinity of human habitation, he elaborated. The aim is to reaccustom them with the wild habitat, Khandelwal said. He said a rewilding centre exists in Kanha National Park in Madhya Pradesh. Asked when the rewilding centre at the tiger reserve in Uttar Pradesh's Pilibhit district would see the light of the day, Khandelwal said, "We are planning to complete this in this financial year only." Elaborating more on this, Lalit Verma, Chief Conservator of Forests, Bareilly told PTI, "Till now, the usual practice has been that tigers and leopards caught in the populated areas were sent to zoological gardens. But, these animals would be sent to rewilding centres." "A proposal in this regard has been sent to the state government for its approval and all the formalities have been completed. The land for the rewilding centre has also been finalised," Verma said. He said tigers and leopards, which move towards populated areas, will be tranquillised and brought to the rewilding centre and released there. At the rewilding centre, the tiger will be able to hunt cheetal, neelgai and wild boars, and "subsequently forget the taste of human blood", and stop venturing into human settlements, Verma said. The behaviour and style of working of these predators will be studied at the rewilding centre, and treatment will also be given to the injured or those who have fallen ill, the forest official said. Verma said 31 people died in man-animal conflicts from 2014 to 2020 (June 10), while five tigers and three tigresses were caught in the period from 2014 to 2020. Eighteen tigers were killed in such conflicts from 2012 to 2020, he said, adding the count includes two cubs who were killed in 2017. Pilibhit Tiger Reserve authorities say it is home to 127 animals and 326 bird species. It is a mosaic of high sal forests, plantation and grasslands with several water bodies. Khandelwal also informed that the PTR got the prestigious Tx2 international conservation award for doubling the tiger number in a short period of four years. In 2014, there were 25 tigers in PTR, which rose to 65 in 2018. The area was declared a tiger reserve on June 14, 2014.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/philbit-tiger-reserve-plans-rewilding-centre-to-deal-with-man-eaters-994431.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: 'Noorjahan' mangoes fetching rate up to Rs 1,000 apiece||The 'Noorjahan' mango, cultivated in Madhya Pradesh's Alirajpur district, is fetching a higher price this year thanks to the good yield and sheer size of the fruit compared with the last year. The 'Noorjahan' mango is priced at Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 apiece this season, a farmer said on Sunday, adding unlike the last year, the yield of this variety of mangoes has been good this time due to favourable weather conditions. Locals claim 'Noorjahan' mangoes are of Afghan origin and cultivated only in the Katthiwada region of Alirajpur district adjacent to the Gujarat border, approximately 250 km from Indore. "The three Noojahan mango trees in my orchard have produced 250 mangoes. The fruit has been priced between Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 per piece. Bookings have already been done for these mangoes," Shivraj Singh Jadhav, a mango cultivator from Katthiwada, told PTI. He said people who have booked 'Noorjahan' mangoes in advance include fruit lovers from Madhya Pradesh as well as neighbouring Gujarat. "This time the weight of a Noorjahan mango is going to be between 2 kg to 3.5 kg," Jadhav added. Ishaq Mansoori, an expert in cultivating 'Noorjahan' mangoes in Katthiwada, said, "This time the crop of this variety has been good but the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted the business".  He said 'Noorjahan' trees could not flower properly due to unfavourable climatic conditions in 2020. "In 2019, one mango of this variety weighed around 2.75 kg at an average and buyers paid as high as Rs 1,200 apiece for it," he added. The 'Noorjahan' variety produces fruits towards the beginning of June. These trees start flowering in January- February. A 'Noorjahan' mango can grow up to a foot long and its kernels weigh between 150 to 200 grams, local cultivators claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-noorjahan-mangoes-fetching-rate-up-to-rs-1000-apiece-994433.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||BJP leader, key accused in hooch tragedy that killed over 100 people, nabbed||BJP leader Rishi Sharma, who was the prime accused in the hooch tragedy in Uttar Pradesh's Aligarh district in which more than 100 people were killed, was nabbed from the Bulandshahar district on Sunday morning. Sharma, who carried a reward of Rs. one lakh on his head and had been absconding since the tragedy ten days back, was nabbed while he was trying to cross into Haryana, according to the police sources. Earlier three persons, including the relative of a Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leader, were arrested in this connection. In all 40 people have so far been arrested in this regard. Sources said that hundreds of empty pouches of country-made liquor were seized from the vehicle in which Sharma was travelling. As many as 107 people had lost their lives after consuming spurious liquor in the district. Scores of those who survived, have lost their vision. Meanwhile, the authorities have closed the upper Ganga canal in Aligarh, Hathras, Mathura and Etah districts after a large number of pouches and crates of country-made liquor were recovered from it.  At least five persons, all labourers, lost their lives after they consumed the pouches they found scattered on the bank of the canal in Aligarh two days back. It was suspected that a large quantity of spurious liquor might have been dumped in the canal by the liquor traders to avoid police action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-leader-key-accused-in-hooch-tragedy-that-killed-over-100-people-nabbed-994435.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||Woman SC village 'pradhan' forced to sit on ground during meeting in Uttar Pradesh||In an incident reflective of prevalence of discrimination on the basis of caste, a woman village 'pradhan' (panchayat chief), who hailed from  scheduled caste (SC) was allegedly 'forced' to sit on the ground in Uttar Pradesh's Mahoba district, about 250 kilometres from here, during an official meeting. According to the reports, some members of the upper caste 'physically forced' the newly elected 'pradhan', who was sitting on a chair, when the meeting began, to sit on the ground. The incident happened at Nathupura village in the district a few days back. It came to light on Saturday after a complaint was lodged with the police in this regard. One person has been arrested in this connection, reports said. Efforts were on to nab the others. ''They (upper caste people) misbehaved with me....one of them caught hold of my arm and forced me out of the chair...they abused me also when I protested,'' the pradhan said. Police said that a case was registered against ten people under relevant sections of the IPC and SC/ST Act. ''We will take stern action against the guilty,'' said a senior police official in the district. Incidentally, the district had witnessed a more or less similar incident last month, when the upper caste members allegedly objected to an SC groom riding a horse. The incident had happened at Mahobkanth village. The police had then also registered a case against some people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-sc-village-pradhan-forced-to-sit-on-ground-during-meeting-in-uttar-pradesh-994448.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||Haryana extends lockdown till June 14, but eases several restrictions||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the lockdown clamped in the state to curb the spread of the coronavirus by another week till June 14, while easing several restrictions that were in place earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-extends-lockdown-till-june-14-but-eases-several-restrictions-994474.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt asks private centres to keep Covaxin stock only for second jab for 18-44 age group||The Delhi government on Sunday directed private hospitals and nursing homes to administer Covaxin only to those eligible for the second dose in respect of the 18-44 age group in the month of June or until further orders. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority has asked senior officials of health and revenue departments and district magistrates to ensure compliance to the order "in letter and spirit". "DDMA hereby directs that all private hospitals and nursing homes functioning as Covid Vaccination Centres for Covaxin shall ensure that Covaxin shall be used for vaccination to only those people (of age group 18-44 years) who are eligible for receiving second dose of vaccination during the month of June, 2021 or till further orders," the order reads. In case anyone is found violating the directions, the person will be proceeded against as per the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, the Indian Penal Code and the Epidemic Act and other applicable laws, according to the order. The Delhi Health Department had issued an order on Thursday directing all government Covid vaccination centres to administer Covaxin "only to those eligible for receiving the second dose in respect of the age group of 18-44 years during the month of June or till further orders". The city government has temporarily shut inoculation centres for the 18-44 age group due to non-availability of vaccine. However, some private hospitals have been providing jabs to this category||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-asks-private-centres-to-keep-covaxin-stock-only-for-second-jab-for-18-44-age-group-994528.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||16 states use RAT to conduct more than 50% of their Covid-19 tests; Telangana tops with 82%||As many as 16 states tested more than 50% of their suspected Covid-19 patients using the less sensitive rapid antigen test with Telangana topping the list by carrying out 82% of its Covid-19 examination with the antigen tests. Telangana is followed by Odisha (77.3%), Bihar (75.62%) and Assam (73%), according to a set of official data that DH obtained using the RTI. Other big states with high RAT use are Gujarat (67%), Chhattisgarh (63%), Kerala (57%) and Uttar Pradesh (53.59%). Till a fortnight ago, the Centre’s advice to the states on testing strategy was to ensure that at least 70% of total tests are conducted using the gold-standard RTPCR method. The strategy was modified to increase RAT used in villages to improve surveillance. Another area that saw significant use of RAT is the northeast where Assam tops the chart followed by Arunachal Pradesh (72.36%), Meghalaya (66.35%), Tripura (59%), Mizoram (58%) and Manipur (54%).  The data is part of an official presentation made by the National Centre for Disease Control before a Group of Ministers on May 24. Among other things, it shows how the states ignored the Centre’s advice and relied heavily on the RAT as a result of which the ground reality may be missing from the official statistics. For weeks several experts have raised doubts on the quality of Covid-19 data that comes from states like Bihar, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh. “States that did more RAT have also done more tests per testing lab, more or less. However, the number of tests Bihar did per lab is mind-blowing! Bihar did 1,000 plus daily tests in each of its labs on an average every day from March 2020 while the Indian average was 304 tests,” tweeted health economist Rijo John, a visiting faculty at IIM, Kozhikode.  Telangana figures pose another big mystery. According to the positivity figures released daily by the Union Health Ministry, the state has no districts with more than 10% positivity between May 4-10. The trend continued in the subsequent weeks like May 9-15; May 14-20 and May 19-25. But between May 30-June 5, Khammam recorded 16.48% positivity, which is 37 times more than the positivity of 0.44% recorded in the same district between May-19-25. In the same week, 28 districts recorded a positivity between 0-1% and seven of them registered zero positivity. Bihar and Uttar Pradesh had 30 and 37 districts respectively reporting 10% or more test positivity between May 4-10. The number dropped to 16 and 14 districts respectively in the next few days but since May 19, two of India’s most populous states with poor health infrastructure have no districts in that category. Now they don't even have any district reporting a positivity of 5-10%. “We may be missing cases where the health systems are less able to support needs, or where people are less likely to seek or have access to health facilities, like in rural regions,” noted Krishna Udaykumar, professor of global health medicine at Duke University, USA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/16-states-use-rat-to-conduct-more-than-50-of-their-covid-19-tests-telangana-tops-with-82-994533.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||Police, administration deploy teams to enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour as markets set to reopen in Delhi||Markets, malls and offices in the national capital are all set to reopen on Monday after being shut for one-and-half-months, with the police and district administration deploying teams across the city to enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour. The Metro train services that were stopped on May 10 will also resume from Monday morning with 50 per cent seating capacity only. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Saturday announced further relaxations in the lockdown, and said Delhi Metro will operate at 50 per cent capacity and markets and malls in the national capital will open on an odd-even basis from June 7. District administration and police officers said super spreader areas like prominent markets, malls and liquor stores that attract large crowds have been earmarked and special deployment will be ensured there for strict compliance of precautions like use of face masks and social distancing. "50 teams have been formed for enforcement purposes. At major places where crowding is expected like Lajpat Nagar market, 10 or more teams will be deployed," said southeast Delhi district magistrate Vishwendra. He said both static and mobile teams will be deployed with focus on super spreader areas that have been already mapped for ensuring effective enforcement. According to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, the ongoing lockdown, which had been imposed on April 19, has been extended by one more week (up to June 14). Malls, markets and market complexes (except weekly markets) will open between 10 am to 8 pm on odd-even basis in accordance with their shop numbers, from Monday morning. The Delhi Metro is set to resume services from Monday. However, only half of the available trains will be inducted into service with a frequency ranging from nearly five to 15 minutes on different lines, officials said. The DDMA in its order on Saturday allowed various relaxations, including opening of markets, malls, Metro train services, and opening of government and private offices with 50 per cent staff. All standalone and neighbourhood shops in residential complexes will be permitted to open on all days without any distinction of essential and non-essential goods or services, the order said. The liquor vends that were closed, after the lockdown was announced on April 19, will also open from Monday on odd-even basis. A senior police officer said "extra pickets are being deployed and patrolling will be intensified as the unlocking begins from Monday.  In case the liquor shops witness heavy crowds, extra teams of police personnel will be deployed to ensure compliance of the DDMA order, he said. Officials said the key element of enforcement will be issuing challans to violators of Covid-appropriate behaviour.  "Usually 300-500 challans have been issued in the past few days during the lockdown that would be doubled as a deterrent during the unlock period," said a senior district official. In north Delhi district, 34 teams drawn from various departments including civil defence volunteers have been formed for enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour, said a senior officer. The sub-divisional magistrates will coordinate with the teams to ensure no instances of overcrowding or violations of Covid safety norms are reported, the officer said. Police officers said representatives of market associations have been briefed across all the 15 police districts for compliance of government orders and maintaining Covid-appropriate behaviour. Brijesh Goyal, chairman of Chamber of Trade and Industry (CIT) said all the shop owners including in markets, market complexes, malls as well standalone and neighbourhood ones, have been urged to ensure strict implementation of Covid-appropriate behaviour. "We have divided the city in five zones and formed teams of traders to assist police and district officials as well as monitor compliance of Covic-19- appropriate behaviour. We have asked shopkeepers not to entertain customers not wearing masks," Goyal said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) Parvinder Singh said, "We have briefed market associations about using staggered timings for staff and opening shops on odd-even basis to ensure sufficient distancing among shoppers. We have also encouraged them to put markings for social distancing."  On Saturday, police personnel deployed at outer district also distributed free masks, while violators were greeted with flowers as a token to remind them to follow guidelines regarding Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, he said. Regular announcements will be made by the police as well as the market associations, and pamphlets will also be distributed to visitors urging them to follow the guidelines for everyone's safety, another police officer said. The movement of shopkeepers and their employees at malls, market complexes, standalone and neighbourhood (colony) shops will be allowed on production of valid identity card issued by the employer, firm or valid e-pass issued by district magistrates. The DDMA order stipulated implementation of Covid-appropriate behaviour at all government and private offices, malls, markets, market complexes, standalone (single) and neighbourhood shops. The offices and shops will be liable to be closed if Covid norms are not maintained there, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-administration-deploy-teams-to-enforce-covid-appropriate-behaviour-as-markets-set-to-reopen-in-delhi-994542.html
06-06-2021||North and Central||Nearly 2 lakh DU students to appear in online exams from Monday||Nearly two lakh final semester undergraduate and postgraduate students are expected to take the online open book exams in Delhi University that will commence from Monday. The examination branch officials held a meeting on Sunday with college principals and nodal officers to discuss the modalities of evaluation and results, DS Rawat, Dean(Examinations) said. "The meeting was held to discuss how to tackle the issues that arise. We want to start the evaluation process on Tuesday. Earlier, the process would start late. The papers will be held in two shifts -- 9 AM to 12 noon and 2 PM to 5 PM," he said. The next day, officials will allot the examination sheets to teachers with a deadline to finish evaluating them. The principals will also be given a list of the teachers evaluating the sheets so that they can track the progress, he said. "The results usually take three months. For courses that have less number of students, the results can be finalised early," he said. Rawat said that he also told the principals that they can give ''confidential results" to students in case they have to submit them to foreign universities for admission. "Usually, the last date for submission of results in universities is July 31 so in case some student needs the result, they can give us documentary evidence and write to us and we will give them the result," he said. The official said that last time, there was a university that was not accepting the confidential result of a student. "The student informed us and I wrote a personal email with my credentials and the varsity subsequently accepted it," he added. On Sunday night, students taking the exams will receive an email from Rawat with the guidelines of exams. Last year, during the first phase of the online open-book exams, students had complained about technical glitches in the submission of answer sheets. However, Rawat said that during the exams held in March this year, there were very few students who encountered technical glitches. In case of low internet connectivity or any unforeseen technical glitches etc., the student can submit their script beyond the specified time period with documentary evidence, he said. According to the official notification, the maximum time limit for the delayed submission is 60 minutes. "However, all such cases will be examined by the Review Committee and these answer sheets shall be evaluated based on the decision of the Review Committee. "The time of submission of answer sheets shall be recorded by the system. The delayed submissions of an answer sheet with the exact time of submission shall be sent to Review Committee," according to DU''s rules. A section of students has been demanding the postponement of exams citing that some students are grappling with coronavirus infection in their families. However, Rawat said that they had not received any such representation till Sunday. Rawat said he had a word with principals of 28 colleges and they had said that a majority of the students were present during the practicals held last month.  "Only two-three students were absent in each college," he said. The exams were earlier postponed twice. They were scheduled to start from May 15 but were deferred to June 1 owing to the spike in coronavirus cases across the country. Later, the varsity had released a new notification saying final semester/ annual exams will commence from June 7, instead of June 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nearly-2-lakh-du-students-to-appear-in-online-exams-from-monday-994567.html
06-06-2021||Oasis||Religion: Staying relevant||It was Good Friday. A long wail pierced the stillness of the lazy morning on the off-day. The granny residing in the dwelling below had passed away, I soon found out. Her daughter, a first-generation Tamizh Christian, desired her mortal remains to be airlifted to Chennai for cremation. An all-women household, one of her first phone calls, I presume, was to the church she attended. Soon, two to three young men descended on the scene and took care of the logistics involved: Taking the body to the hospital for autopsy, embalming, air cargo booking, air tickets and mandatory covid clearances. By evening, the young woman, along with her two young daughters had flown out of Delhi.  Now, that’s exactly what I expect any social institution, religious or otherwise, to do; be there with me in times of distress. A non-conformist, I don’t seek any god to be my saviour. When faced with crises, I would use my faculties to handle them. For me, these places of worship should have practical connotations. Be the support system that stands by me in good times and bad, one that holds my hand when my steps falter and an SOS helpline when my mind is boggled. My friend’s husband is a priest at the Mar Thoma church in Kerala. She often talks about their deep involvement with the community. On the church’s payroll, their corporeal needs are taken care of. Pursuing his doctorate in Theology, he is better equipped to counsel the followers who seek his advice. These are the perks of organised religion. Their sense of community is commendable. In contrast, Hindu temples are largely dependent on their patron’s generosity for funds. Temples have become islands of dogma and rituals with no social connect leading to shrinking patronage and vice versa. Hinduism celebrates 16 'sanskars' commemorating various stages in one’s life, from being womb-borne to birth to vidya 'aarambham' to marriage and others in between and finally, death. The priest performs the ritual and records it, much like the census guy, noting down the new additions and deletions in the family. The practice became redundant when the Britishers implemented their census model. Such practices could, possibly, be one way forward with greater participation of the temple in the lives of its patrons and vice versa. The results could be symbiotic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/religion-staying-relevant-994508.html
06-06-2021||Opinion||Economic impact of Covid-19 second wave is worse than what government wants you to believe||The central government thinks that the negative economic impact of the second wave of the covid pandemic is likely to be limited. As KV Subramanian, the Chief Economic Adviser to the Ministry of Finance, recently said: “We do think that the overall economic impact of the second wave is not likely to be very large.” In the same breath, he added: “Given the uncertainty about the pandemic, it will be very hard to give you actual numbers.” In a way, the two statements contradict each other. If Subramanian can’t come up with numbers and there’s uncertainty about the pandemic, how does he know that the economic impact of the second wave is “not likely be very large.” Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in a statement in late April had tried to assure the country: “2020 was about Covid, but 2021 shall not be about Covid, in spite of the second wave.” Where does this confidence come from? A major part of it comes from the fact that the period between April and September 2020 was so bad that it will make the numbers of this year look good. Take the case of GDP for the periods April to June 2020 and July to September 2020. The GDP contracted by 24.4% and 7.4% respectively in those two quarters. So, comparisons for the first two quarters of this financial year will be with a vastly contracted base from last year. Given also that there isn’t a total lockdown of the kind there was last year, the economy, on the whole, is a lot more open, and hence, the volume of economic activity is going to be better than last year. This allows the government to project confidence about the state of the economy. Nevertheless, what the government doesn’t seem to be taking into account is the fact that the second wave of the covid pandemic, which is much bigger than the first one, seems to have impacted millions of households negatively on the financial front. It has left many of them in debt. Even households that haven’t themselves been badly impacted have seen others around them get impacted mentally, physically and financially. Further, during the first wave, rural India had remained largely unscathed. The same is not true this time around. On top of this, there is the fear of a third wave, in a scenario where only 4.43 crore individuals, or less than 5% of the country’s adult population, have been fully vaccinated so far. Achieving herd immunity by vaccinating enough people – estimated to be about 70% of the population -- is the fastest way to get economic activity going again. But that’s going to take time, given that the central government was busy fighting state assembly elections and it forgot to order and stock vaccines. And given that vaccines for a country as large as India cannot be just ordered today and picked up tomorrow, there is an ongoing supply problem. This is reflected in the fact that the total number of vaccine doses given peaked in the week from April 3 to April 9, at 2.47 crore. In the week from May 22 to May 28, the latest data available, 1.47 crore vaccine doses were given. This is around 41% lower. In this scenario, expecting people to come out and spend money as they had after the first wave and that pent-up demand would push the economy up is a farfetched idea. Assuming that enough vaccines become available during the course of the year, the issue of vaccine hesitancy in rural and small-town India still remains. The fact that businessman Ram Kishan Yadav, better known as Baba Ramdev, who has a huge following among people, has raised questions about the efficacy of the vaccine, isn’t really helping. Other than ensuring that enough vaccines are available in the weeks and months to come, the government also needs to tackle vaccine hesitancy on a war footing, which it doesn’t seem to be doing currently. In the past, whenever the economy slowed down or contracted, as it did last year, the way out suggested by economists was a massive increase in government spending. Last year, an increased allocation to the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) helped create paid work in the rural areas. Suggestions that allocation to MGNREGS be increased have been made this time around as well, including by yours truly in this newspaper. The trouble is that when a bulk of the population is unvaccinated, any worksite where more than a few people need to work together can lead to the spread of the Covid virus all over again. The same stands true for the government spending more money on building public infrastructure and pump-priming the economy. The idea of the government spending its way out of trouble, by getting the Reserve Bank of India to print more money, or by more borrowing, has its limitations this time around. Given this, the economic recovery this year will be very slow, and one really doesn’t know what will happen if the third wave of Covid does strike. India’s GDP fell to Rs 135.1 lakh crore in 2020-21. It was at Rs 145.7 lakh crore in 2019-20. It was widely hoped that the GDP in 2021-22 will be at least back to where it was in 2019-20. But from the looks of it, that is unlikely to happen now. All because the government was asleep and forgot to order enough vaccines. Of course, Nirmala Sitharaman, K V Subramanian and Co., will not tell you that. (Vivek Kaul lives to read crime fiction, and unlike his honest ancestors, makes a living writing on economics.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/economic-impact-of-covid-19-second-wave-is-worse-than-what-government-wants-you-to-believe-994247.html
06-06-2021||Opinion||You say you want a revolution?||Revolution 1 from the Beatles’ White album was written by John Lennon in Rishikesh in 1968. This distorted, ‘hard rock’ song was inspired partly by the student uprisings in Paris: “You say you want a revolution/Well, you know/ We all want to change the world.” The lyric is straightforward, but ambiguities abound: Is this just a pop song inaugurating commodification of dissent? Is Lennon in favour of violent means or opposed? He sings: “But when you talk about destruction/Don’t you know that you can count me out (in).” Is Lennon pro or contra revolution? He repeats nine times throughout the song: “Don’t you know it’s gonna be/All right?” These ambiguities sparked debate amongst student activists, new-left revolutionaries, and music critics at the time — and historians today. In some respects, there is a similar long-standing debate amongst academics and social activists regarding the degree of radicality of another legendary icon — not a pop star, but a towering social activist, political leader, and chief architect of the Indian Constitution, B R Ambedkar. Would Ambedkar condone the activist protests — student and otherwise — marking the last few years? Was the revolutionary nature of his thought subsumed within the ideal of constitutional democracy, or did he regard it legitimate to reach out beyond when ends demanded such means? On one side of this debate are those who would present Ambedkar as more statist. This Ambedkar demands commitment to constitutional methods, moving courts, filing RTIs (or FIRs if required), participating in electoral mobilisation, and in sum using all and only the political and juridical means appropriate to a democratic republic with free and fair elections and participatory governance. The evidence that this side appeals to is Ambedkar’s November 25, 1949, speech in the Constituent Assembly. Here he implored everyone to disavow the “grammar of anarchy”; to abandon the bloody methods of revolution, civil disobedience, non-cooperation and satyagraha. The other side is inspired by the radical Ambedkar of the 1920s and 1930s, with his Mahad revolt, temple-entry movements, and other civil rights campaigns. They favour marches, street protests, dharnas and other direct action. Moderates opt to take to these measures only after exhausting constitutional remedies; radicals bypass them, since common experience establishes well-enough the futility of investing hope in the State, given the systemic representational defects of the electoral process, elite or vested capture of every relevant institution, and caste-class-gender-community biases throughout all its organs. This camp could actually appeal to the very same speech in support of its radical position. For, only moments prior to his “grammar of anarchy” comments, Ambedkar made strong remarks about Thomas Jefferson’s views on the limitations of a previous generation binding a succeeding one (“the Earth belongs to the living”). Jefferson’s view is encapsulated in this famous remark: “What country can preserve its liberties if their rulers are not warned from time to time that their people preserve the spirit of resistance? ...The tree of liberty must be refreshed from time to time with the blood of patriots and tyrants.” Ambedkar commented: “I admit that what Jefferson has said is not merely true, but is absolutely true.” Jefferson held that a Constitution was only fundamental law insofar as it reflected natural rights, the rest of it being positive law akin to legislation. This is a very radical, non-statist viewpoint that led people to quote him as suggesting that every generation needs its own revolution. We obviously cannot attribute such a radical position to Ambedkar. However, it is significant that Ambedkar was so emphatic: “What Jefferson has said is not merely true, but is absolutely true.” That’s a great deal of emphasis on a revolutionary viewpoint. The topic of revolution is beset with ambiguities. In the Ambedkar debate, both camps make valid points. But if the side championing a statist Ambedkar is also championing a regressive State, be sceptical of their good faith. Even Lennon was unambiguous about this: “You say you’ll change the constitution/Well, you know/ We’d all love to change your head.” (Aakash Singh Rathore as Dr Jekyll is a Professor of Philosophy, Politics and Law, author and editor of over 20 books and counting, and as Mr Hyde, one of India’s top-ranking Ironman triathletes)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/you-say-you-want-a-revolution-994249.html
06-06-2021||Opinion||Time to reset our moral compass||Great powers are often built on the ruins of a catastrophe. Japan and Germany went into World War II as self-destructive and bloodthirsty imperialists. They emerged from it as peace-loving pacifists, championing human rights worldwide. America hurtled into its Civil War with bonded millions. It came out of it with slavery abolished. In the 1600s, Britain was besieged by a series of despotic and fanatical kings. It threw all of them out through a ‘Glorious Revolution’ and became a rights-based parliamentary democracy. In each of these moments, heavy loss of life forced entire nations to reset their moral compass. The question is, with hundreds of thousands (and possibly even millions) now dead, will India’s Covid-19 apocalypse also result in a Great Power? Mark my words: This is not a mere public health crisis. In recent weeks, news reports have shown that India’s problem goes far deeper than a mere shortage of health infrastructure. Serious questions have been raised over whether we value human life enough. On the banks of the holy Ganga, bodies were found unceremoniously strewn about, with no identification and no proper farewell. These weren’t simply corpses. They were once part of loving families – folks who had sat around a dinner table with their spouses, children or grandchildren. Only a society that has dehumanised them entirely can be comfortable with their dead bodies thrown about like street trash (and to make things more vile, even the shrouds that had covered them were sneakily removed, apparently to make them invisible to aerial cameras). Elsewhere, greedy elements have profiteered off people’s misery – hoarding life-saving medicines, creating a black market, and charging helpless families a fortune to save their loved ones. Volunteers in Covid-19 war rooms have been scarred permanently after being hounded by very powerful people, for nothing more than their religion. On the internet, young interns have been posting angry and desperate messages, after their employers fired them for not turning up for work, despite their being ill. In some universities, self-absorbed and unsympathetic deans have been bullying their students to finish their projects on time, despite the fact that some of them are bedridden with the virus. Sure, for each of these stories, there are also a few heart-warming ones. There are those who have gone out of their way to cook meals for their sick neighbours; rickshaw drivers who have shuttled dying patients across the city for free; folks who have broken through barriers of religious identity to conduct each other’s funerals. Many would ask me to “be positive.” But a nation is only as great as its most destructive impulses. How long do we want to neglect and ignore the grossly despicable events that surround us? As children, many of us Indians are taught to compete in a cutthroat fashion against ‘Sharma-ji ka beta’ – to score better grades, secure higher salaries and build bigger houses than one’s peers. That beggar-thy-neighbour attitude is everywhere in our public life: a temple in place of a mosque; a bigger reservation quota for jobs and parliament seats; a larger piece of the budget for one’s own industry, community and neighbourhood. Yet, if there is one thing that the virus has shown, it is this: In surviving at the cost of each other, none of us is going to prosper or live too long. It’s time for us to unlearn what we were taught while growing up and reset our moral compass. Indians need cooperation, not competition, and empathy, not envy. Can we possibly rise as a great power from out of these ashes? (Mohamed  Zeeshan is a student of all things global and, self-confessedly, master of none, notwithstanding his Columbia Master’s, a stint with the UN and with monarchs in the Middle East)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/time-to-reset-our-moral-compass-994251.html
06-06-2021||Opinion||HS Doreswamy: An artisan of Democracy||The passing away of HS Doreswamy, beloved freedom fighter and tireless activist for public causes, recently was a reminder of a style of social commitment. Selfless, ceaseless, incorruptible, his activist life had given itself over fully to working with those engaged with democratic causes. His involvement, even when small in scope, had the grandness of nation-building behind it. My first encounter with Doreswamy was through his impassioned short book, Horatada Ditta Hejjegalu, during the course of my doctoral research on modern Mysore two decades ago. Appearing in 1972 to mark the twenty-fifth anniversary of India’s independence and published later in English as From Princely Autocracy to People’s Government (Translator: R Ramakrishnan) by his own publishing house, Sahitya Mandira, this book sketches the rise of the nationalist movement in Mysore, where the state unit of the Indian National Congress played an increasing role beginning in the late 1920s. Its charged historical narration, where his own contribution to this episode, as a mediator between labour union leaders in Bangalore during the Quit India protests and as editor of Pourawani, the 4-page daily newspaper that was critical of the Mysore government’s wavering attitude towards joining the Indian Union, only find a flickering mention, offers a sense for the moral fire found in him till the end. Written seven years ago, Doreswamy’s essay, Deshada Indina Stiti (“The state of the country today”) clarifies that a great regard for the sacrifices of the freedom fighters was behind his love of freedom and his sincere belief that India’s independence would make a difference to the worse off in the country. Amnesiac towards the legacy of hard effort and struggle, he rues, the political class was squandering away freedom while the youth mistook freedom as something that lets them do whatever they pleased. If Indians didn’t feel for the wellbeing of “the last man” and fight for it, the future of the country was imperilled. Doreswamy’s participation in the freedom movement however sat lightly in the speeches and interviews that he gave over the last fifteen years, a period that saw him rise to public prominence in Karnataka. On these occasions, he rarely spoke as an individual with the special authority of past heroic experience. He spoke instead as an ordinary Indian with full rights to offer political criticism. Determination, conviction, moral clarity, good cheer, an absence of anxiety and cynicism, a hope that dissent could yet steer things back to the right path, these stood out in the ethical persona of the tall and lanky figure whose hunch did little to diminish his stateliness. When a TV reporter asked why he was present at a meeting to protest the Citizenship Amendment Act last year, Doreswamy simply said, “Because I’m concerned for my country, because I’m concerned for my people.” His appeals to fellow Indians often took the form of reminding them of their rights: “If your representative is not doing his work properly, ask him to quit. Tell him that you want someone better suited for it.” His faith in democratic processes was firmly in place as was his insistence that elected politicians stay accountable. Doreswamy let his membership in the polity matter all the time. The last couple of columns that appeared in the Kannada weekly Nyaya Patha before his hospitalisation for Covid treatment in April well illustrate the point. In what proved to be his final column, he dwelt on the results of the recent state elections in West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu before asserting that finding solutions to the problems of the day mattered more than winning elections and claiming that, by this token, the Modi government had to take the blame for not addressing the pandemic crisis responsibly. Two weeks earlier, he had urged the Karnataka government to identify the small farmers with genuine rights of access to government-owned land and offer them title deeds without delay: the bureaucratic formalities, he argued, were proving unbearable for the farmers. Offering custodianship to Doreswamy’s legacy is by no means an easy obligation to fulfill. Resisting the encroachment of political, economic and civic freedoms and helping advance social justice in our own ways in our spheres of activity is to offer to work towards it. (Chandan Gowda is the ISEC Professor, who looks for new ways of looking)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/hs-doreswamy-an-artisan-of-democracy-994253.html
06-06-2021||Opinion||Coming soon: Cyber-biowarfare, or should it be Bio-cyberwarfare||If you are a true believer in all things digital, chances are that you have been affected by a digital disease of one form or another. Some of these diseases are benign, others not so. Some can prove lethal to your digital system and your physical wellbeing. Things get even more interesting if you supplement the digital diseases with diseases that are biological in nature, such as Covid-19. The technology is there, if you are willing to experiment. Human beings are a curious bunch, don’t you think? The newest disease in the IT marketplace can strike users and non-users alike, and it is a pandemic on the horizon. Just like fake news in real-time. More on this later in the article. The origins of most digital diseases can be attributed to malware, an umbrella term loosely applied to a collection of programmes variously described as worms, viruses, adware, spyware and ransomware. Computer worms are benign, independently operating computer programmes that can replicate themselves. They are not destructive, but their metastasizing cancerous nature does slow down the computer. There is no known cure for computer worms other than shutting down the network and starting over. Viruses, on the other hand, can replicate themselves and damage files on the computer they attack. However, they do require a host programme for their survival and are easily spread by attachments in e-mail messages. Spywares are standalone programmes that come attached with freeware such as browsers. They track users’ browsing habits and steal personal details such as passwords and credit card data for transmittal to a remote user. Adware is benign in that it is more of a nuisance, since no harm is done to either the computer or the software. The goal of these programmes is nothing more than aggressive product promotion through the display of advertisements on computer screens. As for inoculations against these diseases, using the most current anti-virus software from reputable sources does the trick. The newer diseases have to do with ransomware, real-time fake news, and micro drones. Ransomware is used to encrypt user files and prevent the user from using their computer until a ransom is paid to decrypt the files. There is no cure other than to pay the ransom, as some municipalities and hospitals have done when their systems were infected. A woman in Germany died when doctors were unable to access her ransomware-encrypted medical records. With the easy availability of free software to manipulate audio, video and text files, digital media as sources of information have been severely compromised. The adages ‘Seeing is believing’ and ‘I heard it from the horse’s mouth’ no longer apply. Other than staying off the web, especially Facebook and WhatsApp, there is no cure for succumbing to fake news. Before discussing micro drones, two episodes from the latter half of the 20th century are worth recounting. An umbrella is supposed to protect you from the rain and the sun. A Bulgarian Umbrella, on the other hand, is a weapon since the umbrella tip is designed to inject a small poisonous pellet containing ricin. Such an umbrella was used to assassinate Bulgarian dissident writer Georgi Markov in London in 1978. Willy Burgdorfer, the discoverer of the Lyme disease pathogen and a biological weapons researcher for the US military was given the task of breeding ticks (which cause Lyme disease), mosquitoes and other insects, and infecting them with disease-causing pathogens. In her recent book, Bitten: The Secret History of Lyme Disease and Biological Weapons, Kris Newby states that the US experimented with infecting ticks and other insects with pathogens for possible use as a biological weapon during the 1950-1975 time period and that the Lyme epidemic of the 1960s was a military experiment gone wrong. According to Newby, there were programmes to drop “weaponised” ticks and other bugs from the air, and that uninfected bugs were released in residential areas in the US to trace how they spread. Soon, the newest digital diseases on the planet could be transmitted by tiny drones resembling one of any number of insects -- bees, mosquitoes, fleas, ticks, cockroaches, even fruit flies. These remotely controlled robotic insects come equipped with recording devices (camera, microphone) and stingers. These stingers are designed to inject toxins, implant radio frequency identification devices or extract blood for biometric identification purposes. Perhaps even inject viruses. The newest avatar of cyberwarfare. I assume you are currently at home under lockdown, streaming endless movies to pass the time. May I suggest you watch “Hated in the nation”, one of the episodes in season three of Black Mirror on Netflix. Entertaining? Yes. Educational and scary? You decide. The proverbial fly on the wall may not be a fly after all; it could very well be a ‘micro aerial vehicle’, a cute phrase for a possibly deadly carrier of digital diseases. And biological ones. Is there a cure? I doubt it. (Roger Marshall is a computer scientist, a newly minted Luddite and a cynic)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coming-soon-cyber-biowarfare-or-should-it-be-bio-cyberwarfare-994255.html
06-06-2021||Opinion||Alapan-Centre row reminder that the civil servant is the boss||The fracas over Alapan Bandyopadhyay was highly avoidable. Beyond this, however, is the big question: Who orchestrated the attack? It was a bunch of civil servants who read the rules to the political executive at the Centre. To say this is an alarming tendency within the civil services in India is an understatement. For decades, the civil service in India has ceased to be an apolitical institution and it shall be useful if policies are now made acknowledging this position. Almost the first order issued by the Narendra Modi administration when it came to power was an ordinance. Nripendra Misra was appointed the principal secretary to the prime minister. But his previous appointment, as the chairman of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India, had barred him from holding any subsequent position under the Government of India. The ordinance amended the rules to drop the restriction and was issued late in the evening. It was quite possible for the BJP think tank to have not noticed this restriction before they appointed him. The officers could not have been unaware, and it was they who decided how to erase the rules and set a bad precedent. It is not just the IAS. There is another unsavoury example, again from the Centre. The Income Tax Department has in the last few years combined the role of Member (investigation) with the post of chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes. There has been no official order for this, yet the past three incumbents, including the incumbent chief election commissioner, Sushil Chandra, have continued with it. There was a reason why the two posts were separate earlier. If a member had been, say hasty, the chairman had time to undo the damage. Once the posts were combined, as former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa discovered when his family received an income tax search operation, there was no chance to rectify the damage. To my knowledge, this was done by civil servants, without prodding from the political executive, just as the details of how to rescue Mishra’s appointment were devised by them. Politicians in power do far less but invite stronger opprobrium. Let us go down to Telangana. Since the formation of the state in 2014, virtually no senior civil servant has retired. As a result, there is a principal secretary to the chief minister, there is also a chief advisor to the chief minister who was the first chief secretary of the state, and then there are seven advisors to different ministers of the state government, all retired IAS and IPS officers. This is besides the retinue of officers. When the current chief secretary was appointed, jumping over several seniors, Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao met each of them to assuage their feelings. When was the last time a chief minister of any state met miffed MLAs to tell them why they did not get a ministership! Instead, in Punjab, ministers “boycotted” a cabinet meeting to protest comments made against them by a former chief secretary. Who wields the power baton? If you still imagine these are one-off phenomena, look at another statistic. Chief secretaries and DGPs are the two senior-most administrative positions in any state government. But in each of the 28 states, thanks to rapid and time-bound promotions, there are at least a dozen or more of them sitting in the state secretariats. In Uttar Pradesh, there are now 30 such officers, Karnataka and West Bengal have 20 each. Even smaller states like Punjab have nine each. It means all the key departments of these state governments are headed by officers with the same seniority. This means the additional chief secretaries have no particular reason to obey the orders of anyone who is just notionally deemed superior. This means officers can only aspire to the key posts if they are close to the current political administration. Else as it routinely happens, officers in states like Tamil Nadu operate by turns the key departments depending on who is in power.  We have heard a lot about the 360-degree evaluation of senior officers at the Centre. States do the same, except they offer no names for it. This makes it essential to consider that a certain percentage of civil servants should come and leave with the political party in power. It shall help prevent obfuscation. Returning to the incident of the West Bengal chief secretary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was obviously directing his ire at the Chief Minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee. As the elected leader of the people, there was little he could do to diminish her position. Instead, Bandyopadhyay has become a new power centre and re-established the pre-eminent role of civil servants that was on the wane in West Bengal. Don’t be surprised if, like Punjab, miffed ministers of the state complain soon. An enhancement of the role of civil services was anyway bound to happen, as the issues of statecraft become more complicated. Just survey the themes being examined even in the current Covid pandemic. For instance, who really decides agendas at the GST Council meetings? Yet while we know the political stance of a party, we do not know that of a civil servant, and that is the bigger risk. Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/alapan-centre-row-reminder-that-the-civil-servant-is-the-boss-994383.html
06-06-2021||Opinion||Am I unmothered? My story of grief||“I am going to have this surgery only for you. Your siblings have their own families but you are all alone. I know you need me to live,” said my teary-eyed mother earlier this year. As the tears rolled onto her cheeks, my act of being strong was breaking away. I changed the subject to the bouquet of lilies beside her which a friend had sent to cheer us up. I didn’t want my mother to see her bravest child falling apart. Just a few weeks earlier, my 70-year-old mother was diagnosed with a heart ailment. The doctors in Imphal where she lived suggested open-heart surgery as soon as possible. They said, her aortic valve was becoming narrower with each passing day and we could lose her to a heart attack any minute. Despite the risk of Covid-19, I flew her down to Delhi to seek a second opinion. All cardiologists we saw had the same diagnosis. But my stubborn-hearted mother didn’t want the surgery. She wanted to live out the limited number of days she had, tending the vegetables in her garden, in our village by the hills in Manipur. After days of cajoling, she finally said the above words to me. I was happy and scared at the same time. Given her age and history of diseases, the open-heart surgery was not risk-free. The next few weeks were a blur. Masked doctors informed us the surgery went off well. We were relieved, unaware of destiny’s plans. She was on ventilator support, as the doctors treated her infected lungs. All Covid-19 test results came negative. My siblings and I, masked and covered in hospital gowns, took turns every morning and evening to see her in the ICU. Due to the intubation, she couldn’t speak but she won’t let go of our hands when the visiting hour got over. Then her organs started failing one after the other. She passed away in the third week of the tug of war with life and death. It’s been 100 days since I last saw her on the ICU bed, covered with a white sheet, with machines all around her. Lifeless. My spirited mother. I kissed her cheek and whispered, “Farewell, ima”. There were so many things I could have told her but those were the only words I could think of in that moment. The next few days were followed with paperwork and rituals. Covid-19 protocols had to be adhered to. Friends and family could only check in over the phone. It took me some time to process that my mother was no more – that I would never get to hear her call out my name again. I didn’t know how to describe myself now – Am I unmothered? My mother was far from perfect but she was undoubtedly resilient. She broke so many social conventions during her time. She was forced to drop out of school in the second grade but strongly believed that every woman should have the financial independence to live freely so she became a weaver. She got married to my father at 30, which was considered late in the 80s. It was quite scandalous when people learned that she was older than my father by a few months, and to top it, she married into a Brahmin family. She was never treated like a full human being, was mostly fed leftovers, and wasn’t allowed to enter the kitchen until my brother was born. She didn’t know the word but she was a feminist who taught me from a young age that marriage disproportionately burdened women and I should focus on my education to never be dependent on any man. During the first wave of lockdown, not a day went by when she didn’t video-call me. It was like we were making up for lost time – my high school days in Delhi when I could afford to make STD calls only once or twice a month. With age on my side now, I saw that my mother was the centre of my universe. Although she didn’t understand a word, she would watch every event I spoke at. She would make my father translate all the articles and interviews that featured me. She was my biggest cheerleader. When it finally hit me that she is no more, I came undone. It was the most intense pain that I’ve ever felt, like I am drowning and burning at the same time. Every morning, I would ask myself whether it was all a dream. The following words by Meghan O’Rourke, which I had read years ago, haunted me, “Am I really she who has woken up again without a mother? Yes, I am.” Every night as I struggled to fall asleep, I went back to that day when she agreed to the surgery. I was unmothered because of it. The regret gnawed at me. The condolences poured in and reading them was an emotionally draining exercise. People, with their kind intentions, said so many things to ease my pain. I know they meant well but most of the words made me recoil. I realized how limited our understanding of the right words to condole is. Every time someone said, “She’s at a better place,” I wanted to ask, “What better place is this without her family?” When people wrote to me to stay strong, it felt condescending. I wanted to tell them they had no idea about my strength and let me just grieve the way I want. “She was 70” really made me angry. I wanted to shout back, “So?” She was my mother. And I loved her deeply. How does age even come in the picture? Then there were those who were offended that I didn’t reply to their messages or take their calls, without thinking that a grieving person could need space or time away from everyone. It took me an earth-shattering experience to really understand the intensity of grief. In retrospect, I realized how hollow my condolences must have sounded in the past. In all the well-intentioned messages, I resonated most with the simple “I am sorry.” It sounded earnest and unforced. The thoughtful messages came from people who have experienced grief. One of them wrote, “Moms go but never leave.” “She is a part of you and will always be,” read another. I clutched onto them and re-read them over and over again. In the last three months, I’ve learned that grief is not linear. There are still days when I am unable to get out of bed or function. The tears come streaming down when I cook vegetables from her garden or see her clothes in my closet, sometimes without any reason. The searing pain in my heart has become a part of my being now. I have understood this is the new normal for me. But I have also learned that my mother continues to live in me and I will always be her daughter. And I’ll never be unmothered. (The author is the founder of Femme First Foundation.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/am-i-unmothered-my-story-of-grief-994420.html
06-06-2021||Panorama||Recycling, composting key to municipal waste management||Solid waste management (SWM) is a serious problem in India resulting from rapid urbanisation, population explosion, changing lifestyle and modernisation. This has resulted in generation of large quantity of municipal solid waste (MSW) from urban local bodies (ULBs). About 72 million tonnes (MT) of solid waste (SW) is generated in the country, of which 43 MT are collected and only 12 MT of waste is treated. About 31 MT of SW is dumped in the landfill without any treatment every day. SW generation is projected to reach 165 MT per day (MTPD) by 2030 and 436 MTPD by 2050. If cities continue to dump the waste at present rate without treatment, it requires about 1,240 hectare of land per year to dump the waste generated in the whole country. Since the land resource in the urban areas is finite and precious, it is necessary to evolve an action plan to minimise the landfill requirements. Landfilling of MSW generates huge quantity of leachate which can potentially contaminate ground water and surface water causing irreparable damage to precious water resource. Most of the ULBs adopt landfilling as the option for disposal of solid waste. Unscientific landfilling causes groundwater contamination, generates greenhouse gases like methane and hydrogen sulphide and leads to nuisance of foul odour in the area as far as 2-3 km. This not only overburdens scarce land resource in towns and cities but also exacerbates adverse health impacts on human beings. Widespread agitation by masses against landfill in their neighbourhood is a well-known fact. On the contrary, if MSW is managed properly, it can be valuable manure and a renewable source of energy like biogas. The Karnataka State Pollution Control (KSPCB), a regulatory authority for waste management, is ensuing substantial advancement in scientific MSW management by enforcing the SWM Rules, 2016. About 13,200 TPD of municipal SW is generated in the state of which 50-55% is wet/organic waste, 30-35% is dry waste and 10-20% is construction and demolition and inert wastes. By 2031, the municipal SW generation in Bengaluru alone will cross 13,000 TPD. The KSPCB mandates door-to-door collection, proper segregation, transportation and disposal of SW in all the ULBs. Districts like Udupi and Mysuru have successfully achieved a high percentage of door-to-door collection whereas districts such as Kalaburagi, Kolar, Davanagere and Bengaluru have scope for improvement. Some local bodies like Shivamogga and Kundapura have adopted strategies such as pipe composting, community composting etc for efficient management of segregated wet waste. Wet waste can be best managed by aerobic composting, vermicomposting and anaerobic digestion or bio-methanation. Dry waste is best managed by manufacturing Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF), palletisation, incineration and thermal pyrolysis and the final option for waste disposal must be sanitary landfilling. Composting is the scientific method of producing manure through decomposition of organic waste. Manure contains essential plant nutrients and micronutrients, which can be utilised as fertilizers. If 2,780 TPD of organic waste is composted, it can produce 556 TPD of compost, corresponding to revenue of about Rs 27.8 lakh per day. ULBs should seriously consider the economic viability of waste management and achieve higher rates of converting the organic wastes to compost and implement advanced composting methods such as vermi-composting, co-composting, inoculum-based composting etc. Organic waste At present, out of the 6,145 TPD of wet waste generated in Karnataka, only about 3,366 TPD is converted into 672 TPD of compost, which is sold to farmers at a nominal price of Rs 5 per kg, in coordination with the Department of Agriculture. Districts like Dakshina Kannada, Shivamogga, Mysuru, Belagavi and Dharwad are generating more than 20 TPD of compost from organic waste. The compost generated in Ballari, Raichur, Yadgir, Gadag, Kodagu, Chamarajanagara, Mandya, and Chitradurga is only 5 TPD. Only 55% of wet waste is converted into compost in the state and there is lot of scope to improve. Karnataka generates about 3,476 TPD of dry waste. Out of this, 515 TPD is recycled and 215 tonnes is converted into RDF and 117.88 TPD is sent to cement kilns for co-processing in cement industries as a source of energy. However, the balance quantity of 2,628.12 is being dumped into land fill without converting it into useful energy resource. RDF is produced from the dry waste generated from domestic and commercial activities that include bio-degradable and non-biodegradable combustible materials. RDF with a calorific value higher than 2,000 Kcal/kg would form a good alternative source of energy in cement industries or incinerate in waste-to-energy plants. Furthermore, in the ‘Guidelines on Usage of RDF in Various Industries’ by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, RDF has been valued at a suggestive price of Rs 600 to Rs 2,400 per tonne, which can be  continuous revenue source for the ULBs. Major districts such as Mysuru, Shivamogga, Dakshina Kannada, Belagavi, Bagalkote, Vijayapura, Uttara Kannada and Kalaburagi ULBs recycle more than 20 TPD of dry waste. Bengaluru rural, Davanagere, Chikkaballapura, Mandya, Chamarajanagar, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Udupi, Yadgir, Raichur and Koppal local bodies recycle less than 5 TPD of dry waste. Kolar, Bengaluru Urban, Tumakuru, Uttara Kannada, Bidar, Belagavi and Kalaburagi have taken some steps for converting the dry waste into RDF. BBMP has proposed four major projects in the name of ‘Waste-to-Energy’ initiative, which are still in the early stages. Poor waste management has led to the creation of nearly 215 landfills across the state. Apart from 10 landfill sites in Bengaluru, many illegal dumpsites are created in and around the city. Considering the fact that the resources for waste management and disposal methods are scarce, strategy for efficient scientific management of MSW must necessarily pivot towards resource recovery thereby making waste a valuable component. The hierarchy of waste management could be optimised by adding the “recovery” option - reduce, reuse, and recycle and recovery. The economic earnings from segregation of waste and converting it into useable materials are expected to boost the incomes of urban local bodies as well. It is high time we put collective efforts for implementation of waste recycling and composting activities to attain sustainability in economic and eco-friendly waste management. (The writer is Member-Secretary, KSPCB)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/recycling-composting-key-to-municipal-waste-management-994510.html
06-06-2021||Panorama||As vaccines turn pandemic’s tide, US and Europe diverge on path forward||Over Memorial Day weekend, 1,35,000 people jammed the oval at the Indianapolis 500. Restaurants across the United States were thronged with customers as mask mandates were being discarded. The formula, which gained the Biden administration’s blessing, was succinct: In essence, if you are fully vaccinated, you can do as you please. But while the United States appears to be trying to close the curtain on the pandemic, across the ocean, in Britain and the European Union, it is quite a different story. Despite plunging infection levels and a surging vaccine program, parts of Europe are maintaining limits on gatherings, reimposing curbs on travel and weighing local lockdowns. In Britain, the spread of a new highly contagious variant first detected in India has scrambled calculations just as the country planned to return to something more like pre-pandemic life June 21. Parts of Britain have decided to extend lockdown restrictions. This past week, the government tightened its travel rules, including for the fully vaccinated, by removing Portugal — the most popular remaining European tourist destination — from the list of places where Britons could fly without stringent quarantines. And scientists are heatedly debating whether to go ahead with a June 21 reopening, with some saying that the costs of delaying it by a few weeks would pale in comparison to the damage that could be wrought by giving the variant first detected in India, known as delta, extra opportunities to spread while people are still acquiring immunity. Although vaccinations got off to a slow start in much of Europe, they have since helped drive down cases, as in the United States. Nevertheless, on the fundamental question of how to approach an end to coronavirus restrictions, America and Europe have diverged. “We’re now looking at a variant where we have less knowledge about its properties,” Theo Sanderson, a researcher at the Wellcome Sanger Institute, said of delta. “It just means we have less certainty about what things will look like going forward.” Britain has become the world’s most sophisticated laboratory for the virus’ evolution, with 60 per cent of England’s coronavirus cases being analyzed through genomic sequencing. That has allowed the country to pick up on the earliest signs of dangerous variants and made Britain a harbinger of the challenges facing even heavily vaccinated nations as newer versions of the virus reach the unvaccinated. While scientists are at odds over exactly how serious a threat the delta variant poses to Britain, fears over its potential to undo some of the country’s hard-won progress toward reopening have crescendoed. “The British are worrying more than any other country,” said Tim Spector, a professor of genetic public health research at King’s College London. “We seem to be much more receptive to the doomsday scenarios than they are in the US” Since the delta variant arrived in Britain in March, it has rapidly outspread other versions of the virus, including the very contagious variant first identified in Britain that contributed to deadly waves around the world this winter. That, in turn, has created localised outbreaks that have nudged Covid cases up. A top scientific adviser to the British government estimated Friday that the delta variant was roughly 60 per cent more contagious than the earlier one from Britain. Health officials also warned that cases caused by the delta variant might lead to a higher risk of hospitalisation, although it was too early to say for certain. The divergent strategies of European nations and the United States also reflect broader differences in how Western governments are thinking about their responsibility to unvaccinated people, scientists said. Many US states began dramatically scaling back restrictions not long after they made all adults eligible for vaccines — whether or not levels of uptake were as high as desired. The economy has reopened, and with fully vaccinated people more protected against the delta variant, the United States seems to be in a strong position to limit its spread. Scientists, though, worry that the variant could soon gain ground in unvaccinated pockets of the United States, where the virus continues to sicken and kill people at elevated rates. The Biden administration is still searching for ways to overcome that vaccine hesitancy. In Britain, even with more than 90 per cent of people older than 65 having been fully vaccinated, health officials have resisted as speedy a reopening as they seek to expand inoculation rates in lower-income and nonwhite areas. “We know the virus predominantly hits poorer communities and people of colour hardest,” said James Naismith, a structural biologist and the director of Britain’s Rosalind Franklin Institute, a medical research centre. “The US strategy perhaps reflects a more deep-rooted commitment to individualism. The U.K.’s vaccination campaign is highly managed and mirrors more a sense of being our brother’s keeper.” Britain decided last year to delay second vaccine doses to give more people partial protection of a single dose. That helped it weather the wintertime surge but also left it potentially exposed to the delta variant. Health officials said this past week that there was strong evidence of “a reduction in vaccine effectiveness” for the new variant that was most pronounced after a single dose. Health officials have since changed the guidance to speed up second doses, but many scientists are urging the government not to commit to reopening until the impact of the variant becomes clearer. While indoor dining has resumed, most groups larger than six are prohibited, and nightclubs, music venues and large events remain shuttered, leaving many hospitality businesses still reeling. The British government has long targeted June 21 — “freedom day,” in the parlance of the tabloids — as the date when it hoped “to remove all legal limits on social contact.” The critical issue is whether a recent rise in Covid cases will accelerate and translate into a surge of severe illness, something that depends in part on how quickly people are given their second doses. Scientists reported this past week that Pfizer’s vaccine elicited a weaker antibody response to the delta variant than the original virus, especially among older people, raising the prospect of a booster shot being needed. “There are reasons to be hopeful — we’re not seeing a big trend in hospital admissions — but it’s early days,” Naismith said. “If we don’t see anything by June 14, we can exhale. We don’t need to hold our breath.” Other scientists argue that widespread vaccinations have changed the reopening calculus. While only half of British adults are fully vaccinated, that includes nearly all of the most vulnerable. And 76 per cent overall have gotten one shot. As a result, some scientists say, upticks in new infections are tolerable so long as the vast majority do not lead to serious illness or death. “This variant is going to find it hard to spread, because it’s limited to younger people and limited to certain parts of the country,” Spector said. In the EU, where vaccination levels still lag behind those in America and Britain, officials are also being cautious. Germany, France and Austria all moved quickly to bar most visitors from Britain. Like Britain, the bloc was chastened by a surge of the variant from Britain this winter that contributed to one of the world’s highest death tolls. Governments were hammered for failing to cement the gains of last summer, when lockdowns were lifted across most of Europe. In the bloc, 47 per cent of the adult population has received a first dose, according to the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control, but only 23 per cent have full protection. For those reasons, European leaders have said that vigilance is needed, even though infections have fallen about 80 per cent since mid-April. “This progress is fragile,” Hans Kluge, the World Health Organization’s director in Europe, warned last month. “We have been here before. Let us not make the same mistakes that were made this time last year.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/as-vaccines-turn-pandemic-s-tide-us-and-europe-diverge-on-path-forward-994518.html
06-06-2021||Right in the Middle||A Shakespearean solution||The most famous lines in English literature come to mind oftener these days of pandemic uncertainty, forced isolation and lack of anything better to do. Looming before us are four letters of utmost importance today. B-B-M-P, that magical acronym that conjures visions of curfew at nights and men in uniforms raiding houses to check temperatures, take throat swabs and mark a corona warning sign on doors. Reminds us of the Great Plague of London in the 16th century. But, this is 21st century India, where politicians display their prowess in massive roadshows; where unmasked chief ministers tell others to wear masks; where the rich still celebrate gala weddings... Only you and I wear masks, stay indoors, don’t socialise and get vaccinated. We don’t appear on TV taking a jab; we don’t question what vaccine they give us; we queue obediently and follow the rules. If the virus gets us, we will quarantine ourselves, or go to the nearest hospital and die without a murmur if there is no oxygen. So, here comes Shakespeare to our aid. “To jab, or not to jab,” that is the question: Whether ‘tis wiser in the mind to suffer The pain and gasps of Covid-19, Or, to take arms against this sea of viruses And by jabbing, kill them. To mask— to jab, no more; And by a jab to say we end this plague With the thousand other ailments that flesh is heir to: ‘Tis a consummation devoutly to be wish’d. To jab, to jab again— perchance to get clots! Ay, there’s the rub: For in that clotted brain what ills may come When we have shuffled off this mortal coil, must give us pause. There’s the respect that makes corona a better choice; For who would bear the tittle-tattleof neighbours, The politician’s chicanery, the rich man’s insolence, The pangs of separated families, the postal delays, The corruption of office, andthe spurns that patient merit of the citizen takes, When he himself might hisquietus make with a mere vaccine? Who would fardels bear, to grunt and sweat in a pot-holed life, But that the dread of somethingafter elections, The undiscover’d government, in whose clutches no citizen survives, puzzles the will And makes us rather bear thosewoes we have Than fly to others that we knownot of? Thus, corona doth make cowards of us all, And thus, the native hue of resolution Is sicklied o’er with the BBMP’s shot, And activities of great import With this regard, their direction turn awry And lose the name of action. With apologies to the Bard of Avon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-shakespearean-solution-994509.html
06-06-2021||Second Edit||Needed: Relief package to teachers||Karnataka Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar’s request to government school teachers to forgo five days of salary and donate it to their counterparts in private schools who are in distress is illogical, impractical and devoid of any merit. Besides, this amounts to a total abdication of its responsibility by the government which should have on its own evolved a long-term package to enable teachers tide over the crisis. Why should the government teachers, or for that matter any other government employee, pay for others, even if it is one day’s pay? The private school teachers, while rejecting this move, have said they are disappointed with the way the government is treating them. The one-time dole of Rs 5,000 per head recently announced by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will serve little or no purpose as teachers in unaided institutions have been struggling for about a year now to make both ends meet with salary cuts or no payments at all. While some high-end private schools are flush with funds, a majority of private institutions which receive no aid from the government are struggling for survival with no resources to pay their teachers or even utility bills. Referred to as budget schools, their imminent closure in the failure of any proactive measures by the government, will spell doom for lakhs of students from the lower strata of society who depend on them for their education. While it is common for employees to donate one day’s salary during any national calamity, government teachers do not earn such a huge package. The government which was liberal in splurging funds on caste-based boards and corporations should find its own means to provide for the livelihood of the pillars of our education system who mould our children for the future. Funds under various schemes like free bicycle, uniforms and shoes besides the Teachers Benefit Fund which are lying unutilised, should be used for the welfare of teachers. However, a long-term solution would be for the government to strengthen the public education system by providing access to free and world-class learning to the poorest of the poor, so that the dependence on private schools is reduced. For that, the state should first increase its spend on education from the current 11 per cent of the budget to at least 25 per cent on the lines of Delhi. In the interim, the government should announce a relief package to enable teachers to sustain at least till schools reopen and pull all stops to ensure that they live a life of dignity, not that of pecuniary and squalor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/needed-relief-package-to-teachers-994514.html
06-06-2021||South||DMK govt will work to make Tamil, other Eighth Schedule languages as official Union Govt ones, says CM Stalin||The DMK government would work towards getting all the languages including Tamil, listed in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution, the status of the official language of the union government, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin said here on Sunday. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Sunday said the government led by him will take steps to get languages like Tamil listed in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution the status of the official language of the Union Government. DMK’s stated position is that all languages listed in the Eighth Schedule including Tamil should be accorded the official language status. The party has included the demand in the manifesto released for April 6 assembly elections. In a statement issued on Sunday coinciding with the day the then UPA Government in 2004 announced that Tamil will be accorded the Classical Language status, Stalin said his government will continue to work for the development of the Tamil language. "The DMK government will work resolutely to make all the languages including Tamil listed in the Eighth Schedule to the Constitution, the official language of the union government,” Stalin said. DMK, which is opposed to “Hindi imposition” in Tamil Nadu, has been voicing its support for according official language status to all 22 languages in the Eighth Schedule including Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-govt-will-work-to-make-tamil-other-eighth-schedule-languages-as-official-union-govt-ones-says-cm-stalin-994413.html
06-06-2021||South||Probe on into BJP allegedly bribing BSP's Manjeshwar candidate Sundara to withdraw nomination||BJP in Kerala is already caught up in election fund rows and now has fresh trouble to deal with. BSP candidate in the Kerala Assembly polls at Manjeshwar, Sundara, who withdrew his nomination at the last minute, has alleged that BJP gave him Rs 2 lakh and offered a wine shop licence to do so. The Badiadka police in Kasaragod has launched a probe into the allegation. Police will also give him protection as he has complained of threats from BJP leaders. Sundara's nomination withdrawal was much highlighted by BJP during the election campaign as he had secured around 465 votes in the 2016 assembly elections and defeated BJP leader K Surendran by just 89 votes. Sundara was considered a namesake candidate by the BJP. The saffron party made an all-out effort at Manjeswar this time to boost Surendran's chances of winning. However, a strong consolidation of minority communities is considered to have led to Surendran's defeat once again. Indian Union Muslim League's A K M Ashraf won by a margin of 745 votes. While BJP leaders in Kasaragod denied the allegation of bribing Sundara, the latter reportedly told the police that a picture posted by some BJP leaders with him was taken after bribing him. The police initiated the probe based on a couple of petitions. Meanwhile, BJP leaders have backed Surendran who is also facing allegations related to the suspected Rs. 3.5 crore hawala money transaction as well as giving Rs. 5 lakh to tribal leader C K Janu for contesting the elections under the NDA banner. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan and BJP former state president Kummanam Rajasekharan said that the ongoing police probe into the suspected hawala money transfer is politically motivated. "The CPM and the Congress are trying to defame the party's state president," he alleged. Though a meeting of BJP's core committee was scheduled to be held at a hotel in Kochi on Sunday, the police denied permission to it citing Covid-19 protocol. The BJP leaders alleged that it was also a politically motivated action. The leaders later met at the party district office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/probe-on-into-bjp-allegedly-bribing-bsps-manjeshwar-candidate-sundara-to-withdraw-nomination-994444.html
06-06-2021||South||Is it the Union or the Central Govt? DMK ignites the debate in Tamil Nadu||Ondriyam (Union) is the new buzzword in Tamil Nadu politics. Ever since the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)-led dispensation assumed charge on May 7, official statements refer to the Union Government as Ondriya Arasu instead of the usual Madhiya Arasu meaning Central Government. The sudden change in nomenclature – it was Chief Minister M K Stalin who used the term first after the DMK won an emphatic victory in the assembly elections on May 2 – has been fodder for many political parties in the state which witnessed a regime change after a decade. Right from the Chief Minister to his cabinet colleagues to press statements to some newspapers – the word Ondriya Arasu is being normalised in the state, much to the discomfiture of the BJP, which suspects an “ulterior motive” behind the move. DMK quotes the Constitution to say India is a Union of States and says it is the Union Government and not the Central Government. Hence, the Tamil translation is Ondriya Arasu, the party argues.   BJP attributes ‘ulterior motive’ State BJP leaders have scoffed at the usage of the word Ondriyam and view it as the beginning of DMK’s confrontationist approach towards the Centre. AIADMK, which ruled the state for a decade from 2011, maintained friendly ties with the BJP since it assumed power at the Centre in 2014. As an opposition party, DMK had made several sharp attacks against the BJP, which is ruling at the Centre, alleging that the saffron party was “infringing” on the state’s right. The 2021 elections were billed by the DMK as one between Tamil Nadu and Delhi (read Centre). This is not the first time that the DMK has used the word – party founder C N Annadurai, and M Karunanidhi were the first to address the Union Government as Ondriya Arasu, but over the years, it became Madhiya Arasu. Timing of re-introducing the term that has long been forgotten is not lost on anyone as it comes at a time many states begin to harp on Federalism and the DMK including State Autonomy in its election manifesto. ‘Union Government or Ondriya Arasu is the right term’ “Why should the word Union cause any confrontation. I am using the word because it finds mention in the Constitution, and judgements of the Hon’ble Supreme Court. How can I insult somebody by using a phrase used in the Constitution? The Government of India itself uses the term Union in all its documents. How can somebody be upset by a word they use?” Finance Minister P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan told DH. Tamil Nadu BJP General Secretary K T Raghavan wanted to know why the DMK did not use the term before May 2. “We feel the term is being used deliberately. Let me ask DMK and its alliance partners why they did not call the Union Government Ondriya Arasu before May 2, 2021. All the while you said Centre, and now change the track post-elections. There seems to be a malafide intention behind the whole thing,” Raghavan told DH. AIADMK supports BJP Not just the BJP, its ally and the principal opposition party, AIADMK, has also taken objection to the term with former CM Edappadi K Palaniswami insisting that Madhiya Arasu was the right term. Thiagarajan, responding to EPS’ statement, said he does not understand what the former chief minister meant when he said Madhiya Arasu was the right term. “Is he saying that the Constitution is inappropriate or is he saying the Supreme Court has been hearing cases for the past 70 years without the right counterparty? Court documents refer to the government Union of India and not the Central Government of India,” Thiagarajan told DH. However, Raghavan questions the timing of “re-introducing” the term and asked Stalin to revert to the old practice of Centre or Central Government. “Union is Ondriyam in Tamil, and there is no second opinion. But what is the need to popularise the term now? It does not behove a democratically-elected government to replace terms that are popular with the people. And I would like to know why the DMK re-discovered its love for Tamil only after election results,” he asked. Raghavan also said everyone should remember that the country was one entity and states were formed only for administrative purposes. ‘We do not want a confrontationist approach’ The Finance Minister, who devoted a major portion of his speech in the 42nd GST Council meeting on May 28 to explain the importance of federal structure, also dismissed suggestions that the DMK government was getting ready for a confrontation with the Union government. “Excluding the event of something that infringes on our right or principles, it is our earnest desire to work as closely, and as harmoniously as possible with the Union Government and it is our job. The Constitution requires us to do so,” Thiagarajan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/is-it-the-union-or-the-central-govt-dmk-ignites-the-debate-in-tamil-nadu-994453.html
06-06-2021||South||Economists, doctors, and transgender artist part of Tamil Nadu’s policy body||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Sunday reconstituted the State Development Policy Council (SDPC) by naming noted economist Prof. J Jayaranjan as its Vice-President and appointing nine members, including Transgender Bharatnatyam artiste Dr Narthaki Nataraj. Representatives from various sections of the society, including doctors, and the business community, have been included in the SDPC, formerly known as State Planning Commission. The Council will have a permanent member and eight part-time members besides the Vice-President and Stalin, who is the President in his capacity as Chief Minister. DMK government’s decision to include Dr Narthaki Natraj, the first person from the Transgender community to be bestowed with the Padma Shri award, into the SDPC has won laurels with many taking to social media to applaud the move. This is probably the first time that the community is being represented in a top government decision-making body in the country. Prof R Sreenivasan of the University of Madras will be a permanent member of the Council, while Dr J Amalorpavanathan, the man behind Tamil Nadu’s robust organ donation system, and renowned Siddha specialist Dr K Sivaraman are among the part-time members. Mallika Srinivasan, Chairman and Managing Director of Tractors and Farm Equipment Limited, Prof. M Vijayabhaskar of the Madras Institute of Development Studies (MIDS), Prof Sultan Ahmed Ismail, and retired bureaucrat M Deenabandu are the other part-time members. Three-time DMK MLA T R B Raaja is also part of the Council that will draft government policies on various issues. Prof Jayaranjan is a vocal critic of the economic policies of the Narendra Modi Government and a proponent of the Dravidian model. A popular face on Tamil news television channels, Jeyaranjan is outspoken and had campaigned for the DMK in the April 6 assembly elections. Dr Narthaki, a famous Bharatnatyam dancer, is a disciple of Tanjore K P Kittappa Pillai, who was a direct descendant of the Tanjore Quartet brothers (considered the fathers of Bharatanatyam). She learnt and practised under him in Gurukul (Full time residential) for 14 years and specialized in the Tanjore style Nayaki Bhava tradition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/economists-doctors-and-transgender-artist-part-of-tamil-nadu-s-policy-body-994458.html
06-06-2021||South||Stalin visits Vandalur Zoo after Asiatic lions test positive for Covid-19||Three days after a lioness died of Covid-19 and eight lions tested positive for the novel coronavirus, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Sunday visited the Arignar Anna Zoological Park here to take stock of the situation. The zoo located in Vandalur on the outskirts of the city is one of the oldest in the country. Stalin reviewed the situation in the zoo and asked senior officials of the Department of Environment and Forest to take all measures to provide the best treatment to infected lions as per protocols. During the review meeting, Stalin also asked authorities to ensure that proper vaccination is administered to all animal handlers and zoo officials. “The chief minister was taken around the enclosures through the eco-friendly battery-operated vehicle, where the first instance of Covid-19 was found in lions. ..., the officials explained about the measures taken to identify the causes of such infections,” a statement from the government said. The samples of all lions, which tested positive, are being analysed through genetic sequencing at the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology in Hyderabad, an approved animal SARS-CoV-2 virus sequencing centre by the Central Zoo Authority (CZA). “This analysis is expected to throw better insights into the reasons and possibilities of Covid-19 contraction by animals,” the statement added. While a nine-year-old lioness died of Covid-19 on June 4, eight Asiatic lions tested positive on the same day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-visits-vandalur-zoo-after-asiatic-lions-test-positive-for-covid-19-994465.html
06-06-2021||South||Kerala highway heist: BJP accuses LDF govt of playing 'politics of revenge'||The BJP in Kerala, facing charges of using hawala money for April 6 Assembly polls, on Sunday accused the CPI(M)-led LDF government of playing 'politics of revenge' against it in connection with a highway heist that took place in Thrissur district. In a press conference held ahead of the state BJP's core committee meeting here, senior party leaders alleged that the accused in the Kodakara robbery case were associated with the Left parties and the police was conducting "a proper political operation" at the behest of the CPI(M). Strongly backing its state president K Surendran, the party also said he was being personally targeted by the LDF government over the issue by unleashing propaganda against him and his family members. The BJP leaders also condemned the Kochi city police action forcing the party to shift the venue of the core committee meeting from a hotel here to its district committee office. Prior to the meeting, the police had served a notice to the hotel management urging it not to allow the meeting to be organised without adhering to Covid-19 protocol. Besides Surendran, Union Minister V Muraleedharan, former state presidents of the party, Kummanam Rajendran and P K Krishnadas and other senior leaders addressed the press meet. "The CPI(M)-led government is making a conscious attempt to humiliate the BJP and its leaders in public in connection with the heist that took place in Kodakara. The CPI(M) is using the state police for political revenge", Rajendran alleged. The saffron party alleged that instead of checking the call list of the accused in the heist case, the police was checking the call list of businessman Dharmarajan, who is the complainant in the case. Instead of nabbing the robbers and recovering the money, the police are researching how the case can be linked to the BJP, as the person who lost the money helped the BJP in election campaign. "The Kerala police is conducting a proper political operation in the Kodakara case. Checking the call list of the accused in a case is common, but taking the call list of the complainant is a strange method of investigation", the BJP said. The party alleged that except for one person, all others arrested in the case were associated with the CPI(M) and the CPI. It further alleged that one of the accused in the case was a worker of a youth wing of a communist party and he had close links with a Left MLA from Thrissur district. After the robbery, the accused had sought help from a CPI(M) activist from SN Puram, the BJP alleged. Amid reports that Surendran's son may be summoned for questioning by the police probing the heist case, the BJP claimed that this was being done to seek revenge for the arrest of CPI(M) leader Kodiyeri Balakrishan's son in connection with a drug trafficking case in Bengaluru. "The party will unite against any attempt to unleash false propaganda and attack the BJP state president after alienating him", the BJP said. The CPI(M) and Congress have accused the BJP of using large amounts of black money in the assembly polls. In the "Kodakara havala heist case", the special investigation team on Saturday had questioned the driver and personal aide of the BJP state chief. Congress has demanded a judicial probe into the allegations against the BJP leadership. According to a complaint filed by Shamjeer Samsudheen on April 7, a gang had stopped his car on the Kodakara flyover here and robbed Rs 25 lakh kept in the vehicle when he was on his way to Kochi from Kozhikode. Though the complaint had said that only Rs 25 lakh was stolen, the investigators later found that the actual amount could be about Rs 3.5 crore and it was a hawala transaction, police sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-highway-heist-bjp-accuses-ldf-govt-of-playing-politics-of-revenge-994486.html
06-06-2021||South||Jagan government to aid Rs 1.5 crore treatment cost of Covid-19 warrior||The Jaganmohan Reddy government has come to the aid of a Covid-19 frontline warrior, offering to foot the Rs 1.5 crore medical treatment cost. Dr Bhaskar Rao, 38, a medical officer in Karamchedu Primary Health Centre in Prakasam district had tested positive for Covid-19 in April, along with his wife Dr Bhagya Lakshmi, 38, an assistant professor in Radio-diagnosis at the Guntur Medical College. The couple was initially admitted to the Government General Hospital, Guntur on April 30 and were also given Remdesivir. As Rao's condition worsened, on 3 May he was shifted to Ayush hospital in Vijayawada and on 9 May to a private hospital in Hyderabad. Put on a ventilator, he was later shifted to another corporate hospital in the city. “There Rao was advised to be put on ECMO (Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation) and the family was told that a transplantation of lungs, that were badly damaged, is needed. But the cost involved is Rs 1.5 crore, a sum they could not afford,” officials said. After hearing about the physician's situation from state minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, who represents Prakasam district, Chief Minister Reddy responded immediately and directed the concerned officials to ensure that the doctor gets good treatment. The CM stated that the AP government will bear the transplantation and treatment cost, from the Chief Minister's Relief Fund. “The Chief Minister's kind gesture in support of the government doctor renews our commitment in fighting the pandemic,” said Dr Pidakala Syamsundar, General Secretary, Andhra Pradesh Doctors Association. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 second wave appears to be on a declining trend in Andhra Pradesh, with the daily new positive cases falling below the nine thousand mark on Sunday. Out of the 83,690 samples tested between Saturday and Sunday morning, 8976 have tested positive. The active cases, at present, in the state are 1.23 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jagan-government-to-aid-rs-15-crore-treatment-cost-of-covid-19-warrior-994523.html
06-06-2021||South||About 40K people jabbed in a mega Covid vaccine drive in Hyderabad IT hub||About 40,000 people were vaccinated for Covid-19 at a mega convention centre in Hyderabad's IT hub on Sunday. The joint initiative of the Cyberabad police, The Society for Cyberabad Security Council and Medicover hospitals is claimed to be “the biggest vaccination drive organized on a single day in the country,” till date. “We had 38 thousand prior online registrations and adding the walk-ins, the total number of people vaccinated today would be about 40,000,” Dr Anil Krishna, MD, Medicover Hospitals told DH. The vaccine administered was Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, with a single dose costing Rs 1400 including the Rs 140 inoculation charges. Dr Srinivasa Rao, Director of Public Health and Family Welfare, Telangana, who was the chief guest at the “Mega Vaccination Drive” presented it as “the biggest vaccine drive ever organized on a single day anywhere in the world.” The drive was paperless, touchless, cashless and contactless. However, it has caused massive traffic jams in the Hi-tech city area. “The drive was to begin at 8 am, but people started coming in from 6 am and much before their time slots, under the wrong impression that the vaccine stocks might get over. This has created a traffic jam for some time but we could bring the situation under control soon,” said Cyberabad commissioner VC Sajjanar. Organizers said they followed all the Covid-19 protocols strictly to ensure the event does not become an infection spreader. “People could get jabbed in just 5 to 10 minutes, without having to wait in long queues. It was possible because of pre-registration, pre-online payment. All they had to do was to scan the QR code at the entry point and proceed to the vaccine counters,” said Krishna Yedula, Secretary-General, SCSC. The Sunday drive was held in three mega halls at the Hitex convention grounds in the city's IT hub, with one hall reserved for senior citizens. 300 vaccine stations were set up, with 700 nurses pressed into service. A five-bed emergency care facility and 10 ambulances were kept on stand-by for any emergency. Organizers said that they plan to conduct similar drives again at the same venue and also in other cities of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/about-40k-people-jabbed-in-a-mega-covid-vaccine-drive-in-hyderabad-it-hub-994541.html
06-06-2021||State||Vijayendra visited Delhi for ED probe, alleges Yatnal||Former Union minister and BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, who is at loggerheads with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, said on Saturday that the party’s state vice-president B Y Vijayendra had visited Delhi early this week to face the Enforcement Directorate (ED) enquiry, and not to meet the party leadership. “The ED had summoned him (Vijayendra) to Delhi to enquire about the source of funds parked in Mauritius and the transfer of large sums of money to Kia company,” Yatnal, the Bijapur City MLA told reporters. “Why would the party top brass talk to the state vice president on Covid and internal matters when there is a chief minister and the party’s state president? Why would they pick only Vijayendra when there are nine vice presidents (of the party) in the state,” Yatnal questioned. He added that the reports of the meeting between the party’s central leaders and Vijayendra were far from the truth. Asking Yediyurappa to keep distance from sycophants, Yatnal urged the septuagenarian to retire from politics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/vijayendra-visited-delhi-for-ed-probe-alleges-yatnal-994257.html
06-06-2021||State||Making bureaucracy accountable will help in restoring forest ecosystems: Dr T V Ramachandra||Choosing the wrong species and large-scale planting of exotic species have impacted people’s livelihoods and aggravated human-animal conflicts, says T V Ramachandra of Centre for Ecological Sciences, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru in an e-mail interview with DH. Excerpts: What according to you is lacking in the Forest Department's afforestation programmes and plantation drives?  At the beginning of the 20th century, 80 per cent of the landscape in Western Ghats districts was covered in thick forests. Now the forest cover as per the Forest Survey of India--Karnataka's forest cover stands at 20.11 per cent out of 1,91,791 sq km geographical area. As per the report, the State has 4,501 sq km of very dense forest, 21,048 sq km of moderately dense forest, and 13,026 sq km open forest. The total forest cover in the State is 38,575 sq km. 17 to 20 per cent forest cover is contrary to the National forest policy of 33 per cent.   Some gaps in the afforestation strategies are the wrong choice of species and large scale planting of exotic species have impacted people’s livelihoods, aggravated human-animal conflicts, perennial streams have become intermittent or seasonal streams, there are higher instances of mudslides and landslides (frequent occurrences in Kodagu, Uttara Kannada, Chikmagalur, Shimoga etc). For example, converting evergreen forests to monoculture teak plantations in Supa taluk has deprived wild animals of fodder and water, which has led to frequent human-animal conflicts.   For instance, the occurrence of Kyasnoor Forest Disease or monkey fever disease, a zoonotic disease in Shimoga, Uttara Kannada Kyasnoor has led to the death of 200-300 persons per year. This is mainly due to the conversion of native forests (with diverse vegetation) to monoculture plantations which has deprived fauna of their food-- monkeys were deprived of food and hence they started infesting humans, as monkey visited human habitations, ticks in monkeys started affecting humans.   Your recent study on the forest cover in Uttara Kannada shows a drastic decline to 48 per cent while the forest department maintains it as over 70 per cent...  The government reports do not reveal the true status of local conditions. Our work is based on detailed field and remote sensing data – pictures of the earth acquired through space-borne sensors at regular intervals. We have followed a well-established protocol of supervised classification of remote sensing data using field data. Also, the analysed remote sensing data was validated through accuracy assessments. Probably audit by CAG would bring out anomalies in afforestation.   It is unfortunate, that the custodians of forests have failed miserably in protecting forest ecosystems. Inclusion of all vegetation under the guise of ‘tree cover’ will only distort the actual status of forests.  Forests form vital ecosystems in sustaining water in aquatic ecosystems. Water sustenance in streams and rivers depends on the integrity of the catchment, as vegetation helps in retarding the velocity of water by allowing impoundment and recharging of groundwater through infiltration. As water moves in the terrestrial ecosystem, part of it is percolated, while another fraction gets back to the atmosphere through evaporation and transpiration. Forests with native vegetation act as a sponge by retaining and regulating water transfer between land and atmosphere. The mechanism by which vegetation controls flow regime is dependent on various bio-physiographic characteristics-- type of vegetation, species composition, maturity, density, root density and depth, hydro-climatic condition, etc. Roots of vegetation help in binding soil, improving the soil structure by enhancing the stability of aggregates that provide habitat for diverse microfauna and flora, leading to the higher porosity of the soil, thereby creating the conduit for infiltration through the soil. An undisturbed native forest has a consistent hydrologic regime with sustained flows during lean seasons. Native species of vegetation help in recharging groundwater, mitigating floods and other hydro-ecological processes. Hence, it necessitates safeguarding and maintaining the existing native forest patches and restoring existing degraded lands to sustain the hydrological regime, which caters to biotic (ecological and societal) demands.   A comparative assessment of people’s livelihood with soil water properties and water availability in sub-catchments of four major river basins in the Western Ghats reveals that streams in catchments with > 60 per cent vegetation of native species are perennial with higher soil moisture. The higher soil moisture due to water availability during all seasons facilitates farming of commercial crops with higher economic returns to the farmers, unlike the farmers who face water crisis during the lean season. In contrast to this, streams are intermittent (6-8 months water) in catchments dominated by monoculture plantations and seasonal (4 months, monsoon period) in catchments with vegetation cover lower than 30 per cent. Also, lower instances of Covid-19 in villages with native forests highlights the role of ecosystems in maintaining the health of biota.       The need to maintain native vegetation in the catchment and its potential to support people’s livelihood with water availability at local and regional levels is evident from the revenue of Rs 2,74,658 ha-1 yr.-1 (should we explain what this is)(in villages with perennial streams and farmers growing cash crops or three crops a year due to water availability),  Rs 1,50,679 ha-1 yr.-1 ( in villages with intermittent streams) and Rs 80,000  ha-1 yr.-1 ( in villages with seasonal streams). Crop yield is higher in agriculture fields due to efficient pollination with the prevalence of diverse pollinators in the vicinity of native forests. The study emphasizes the need for maintaining the natural flow regime and prudent management of watershed to i) sustain higher faunal diversity, ii) maintain the health of the water body and iii) sustain people’s livelihood with the higher revenues. Hence, the premium should be towards conserving forests with native species to sustain water and biotic diversity in the water bodies, which are vital for food security. There still exists a chance to restore the lost natural ecosystems through appropriate conservation and management practices to ensure adequate and clean water for all.  What should be the way forward to restore ecosystems? Just providing proper protection would help. For example, in a sacred grove, fencing in 1991 has helped in the improvement, evident from the increase of species  (species diversity   7.42 to 9.28), when monitored after two decades, highlights protecting degraded forest patches with fencing (or trenches as in Sagar Taluk) would  help in the rejuvenation of forests. Is universalisation of plantation programmes an issue?  Unscientific approaches with colonial mindset bureaucracy are the prime reasons as the agenda is to utilise allocated funds rather than to rejuvenate degraded forest patches. Large scale pilferage of funds and lack of accountability and transparency has resulted in the pathetic status of forests in the state. Only annual reports of the forest department provide a rosy picture of afforestation or tree cover which is contrary to the ground conditions.    What are your views on the implementation of the compensatory afforestation programme?  Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) was framed by the Government of India, with an intention to conserve nature and its natural resources amidst the various development works. The objective of the Act could be fulfilled only by utilising the CAMPA funds only for the purpose only for afforestation and wildlife conservation activities.  CAMPA could be made effective by (i) involving village forest committees in the implementation of afforestation – nurturing saplings in people’s nurseries, (ii) geotagging of the planted sapling and make the data available online, (iii) constitution of CAMPA monitoring committee to advice on the choice of location-specific native species, monitoring of afforestation endeavour progress, (iv) use of latest technologies taking advantages in the advancement of geoinformatics – availability of high-resolution spatial data, (v) annual aerial monitoring of afforested forest patches – through drones and the data available in the forest department publicly accessible data/information portals. Making bureaucracy accountable with transparency in the governance, involving people at decentralised levels will help in restoring forest ecosystems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/making-bureaucracy-accountable-will-help-in-restoring-forest-ecosystems-dr-t-v-ramachandra-994288.html
06-06-2021||State||Nirmiti Kendra constructed pool at DC's residence as demo work to prove cost-effective technology: Sindhuri||Outgoing deputy commissioner Rohini Sindhuri has denied the allegations made against her in connection with the construction of a swimming pool at the Official residence of Deputy Commissioner and claimed Nirmiti Kendra constructed the pool in order to prove cost-effective technology and as a demo work. In her letter to Regional Commissioner (RC) G C Prakash, who is conducting an inquiry against the allegation, Sindhuri has stated that the execution of the pool at the residence of DC was done by Nirmiti Kendra in January 2021 out of its own funds of Rs 28.72 lakhs in order to prove cost-effective technology and as a demo work. Since there was no space available in the Nirmithi Kendra campus, a very small piece of space was utilised in the campus of DC’s residence. Nirmiti Kendras are set up in each district for construction and building projects with the use of locally available resources by adopting cost-effective technology. Nirmiti Kendras execute pilot projects to prove locally available resources and by adopting cost-effective technologies and then implement them as a general programme. As per this exact mandate of Nirmiti Kendras, the swimming pools were planned at the district and taluk level about five-year back and were assigned to Nirmiti Kendra Mysuru.  The idea was to prove the locally available resources by adopting cost-effective technology and then extend to taluk. The same has been done in conformity with the prescribed procedure by Nirmithi Kendra with due approval in the annual general body meeting, she has stated. Sindhuri also has mentioned that the residence of DC is about 5.15 acres campus and the pool has been constructed on a small piece of land in the campus which is unconnected with the heritage building. Therefore, the allegation in this regard is also totally false, she defended. Sindhuri also has mentioned that in a similar fashion many other buildings in similar campuses have also been constructed. For example, Election Branch at Mysuru City Corporation Office, inside Vasantha Mahal campus Chamundi Meeting Hall in the campus of RC Office and PWD Building at Jaladarshini guest house. None of these constructions in the campuses constitutes any violation of any heritage building which remains untouched, Sindhuri has pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nirmiti-kendra-constructed-pool-at-dcs-residence-as-demo-work-to-prove-cost-effective-technology-sindhuri-994374.html
06-06-2021||State||No discussion on change in Karnataka CM: Nalin Kumar Kateel||State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel on Sunday said there was no discussion on change in CM post in the party.  The issue of change in the leadership has not been discussed at any level in the party, hence the question of a change in CM is irrelevant, he said. “It was our unanimous decision to have B S Yediyurappa as Chief Minister of Karnataka. He is our leader with vast experiences,” he told mediapersons in Mangaluru while reacting to the statement of CM that he would continue to head the state government as long as the party High Command had trust in him. Further, the State BJP President said that there is no rebel in the party. “We have spoken to the Ministers and MLAs. All the dissidence, differences have been sorted out. Meetings will be convened this month to discuss any differences among the MLAs and ministers.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-discussion-on-change-in-karnataka-cm-nalin-kumar-kateel-994375.html
06-06-2021||State||Reddy takes charge as MCC Commissioner||IAS Officer G Lakshmikanth Reddy assumed office as Commissioner of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), on Sunday. The outgoing Commissioner Shilpa Nag handed over the charges to Reddy. The state government transferred Nag following a spat between Nag and Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri. The government transferred both the officers on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/reddy-takes-charge-as-mcc-commissioner-994378.html
06-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru Urban DC shares lunch with crematorium staff||Bengaluru Urban Deputy Commissioner J Manjunath on Saturday celebrated World Environment Day by planting the saplings of peepal tree at Tavarekere open crematorium. He distributed ration kits to the crematorium staff and partook in the food prepared for them. He even served food to the staff who had a torrid time last month in handling the rush of bodies. The facility was created to ease the burden on the BBMP crematoriums. He also thanked Tavarekere Gram Panchayat for the support they extended when the BBMP and district administration were struggling to implement the cremation process for Covid-19 victims. About 7 to 8 trees are required to meet the oxygen requirement of a human being. There is a need for creating lung spaces that would help the 130 crore-plus population of the country. Every citizen should plant trees for posterity, the DC said. Tavarakere GP president Kempegowda, Bengaluru South assistant commissioner Dr Shivanna, TP EO Nagaveni among others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-urban-dc-shares-lunch-with-crematorium-staff-994246.html
06-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||DC persuades villager to take Covid-19 jab||Deputy Commissioner V V Jyothsna and Zilla Panchayat chief executive officer Dileesh Sasi ensured that a physically challenged man, who was reluctant to take Covid vaccination, took the crucial jab after much persuasion.  Both the DC and the CEO were in Ghattaraga village in Afzalpur taluk for launching a vaccination drive. The deputy commissioner noticed that Balabheema, a physically challenged man flatly refused to be vaccinated despite being convinced about its importance. The DC later said she would stay put at the spot till he got himself vaccinated. But Balabheema refused following which the DC said she would not move out. The CEO also joined the deputy commissioner and finally, the villager budged.  Deputy Commissioner V V Jyothsna was not available on phone for comment on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dc-persuades-villager-to-take-covid-19-jab-994248.html
06-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||HC extends survey deadline to enroll students into schools||The High Court has extended the deadline till July 15 for conducting door-to-door survey, identification and registering of children for enrollment to schools. The direction was to the Panchayat Development Officers (PDOs) to conduct the survey. The court modified the April 15, 2021 cut-off date mentioned in the show-cause notice issued by the state government. The extension was granted in view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state. “In the prevailing situation of Covid-19 engulfing the entire globe and even the rural areas of the state where the direction in the show-cause notices is to comply, it will be impossible for the PDOs to do a door-to-door survey, identify and register children. Therefore, the only indulgence that can be shown in the case at hand is the postponement of the cut-off date that is indicated in the show cause notice by another three months from April 15, 2021,” Justice M Nagaprasanna stated in his order. The petition was moved by the Karnataka Panchayat Development Officers’ Welfare Association. The PDOs were warned of strict action in case of non-compliance to the show-cause notices requiring them to ensure enrollment by April 15. The authorities had also quoted the directions issued by the High Court in a suo motu PIL regarding out-of-school children. The court had directed the state government to ensure the enrollment of all children who are in the age group specified under the Right to Education (RTE) Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-extends-survey-deadline-to-enroll-students-into-schools-994250.html
06-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||‘Kannada bikini’: Legal action against Amazon, says Limbavali||Kannada and Culture Minister Aravind Limbavali on Saturday said the government would take legal action against e-commerce giant Amazon after users reported that a bikini having Karnataka’s colours and emblem was available for sale on its Canada site.  The bikini had yellow and red colours with the government’s emblem on it. “The Kannada language, culture and heritage have a history of thousands of years. We strongly condemn any act to hurt the Kannada identity by foreign companies that are ignorant of Kannada’s nobility,” Limbavali said in a statement, adding that he had ordered legal action to be initiated against Amazon Canada. Amazon later changed the display picture of the bikini.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannada-bikini-legal-action-against-amazon-says-limbavali-994254.html
06-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Procedural blocks hit beneficiaries of housing schemes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of ‘Housing for All by 2022’ has a long way to go in Karnataka as the Affordable Housing in Partnership — Urban (AHP-U), a component under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana — has turned out to be a procedural and legal quagmire.  As part of the AHP-U Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme (CLSS), the Centre aims to provide housing to Economically Weaker Sections (EWS), Low Income Groups (LIG) and Middle Income Groups (MIG) through public-partnership. While the project cost ranges between Rs 5 lakh and Rs 15 lakh depending on the category of houses, the state government will provide a subsidy of up to Rs 2.7 lakh and the Centre will provide up to Rs 5 lakh. The beneficiary is expected to chip in Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh, while banks will extend loans between Rs 50,000 and Rs 8 lakh.  According to government data that was discussed in the most recent State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC), of the 1.6 lakh applicants, about 1.01 lakh have received bank’s in-principle approval for housing loans. However, hardly 15,758 applications (for processing loans) have been submitted to the banks by the implementing agencies, including Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation Limited and the Karnataka State Slum Development Board. One of the main reasons for the delay is lack of proper land documentation on part of the government. While the government has identified land to be allotted for construction of the houses, the flow of title and the title deed are not available in several instances.  “There were some hiccups in the government departments. In certain cases, beneficiary applications were ready, but complete land documents were not there,” SLBC convenor and Canara Bank General Manager B Chandrasekhara Rao explains. Also, once the banks give the in-principle approval for loan, the corporations have to personally go to the beneficiaries, get the applications filled and submit the documents to the banks for further processing. The process is delayed here. “Banks are committed. If the documents are in place, the loans can be processed within a week or 10 days,” Rao says.  For the urban poor, the housing scheme has turned more of a bane than a boon. A Narasimhamurthy, Convener, Slum Janandolana, Karnataka, says the banks mandate a dozen documentation checks that most beneficiaries fail to meet. “The most important thing here is that the government has not issued the sale deed to beneficiaries, without which banks will not sanction loans,” he pointed out. Housing Minister V Somanna told DH that the government was in talks with banks to make things simpler. “The banks asked the government to give surety for loans, which isn’t practical. They have now agreed to consider the plot sanctioned to the beneficiary as surety. While the Covid-19 crisis has slowed things down, the government will resolve all the issues at the earliest,” he says.  The government’s approach to pass the burden on to the beneficiary is a part of the problem, says Amruthraj Isaac, convener, Slum Janara Sanghatane. “The government wants the beneficiary to mortgage the allotted plot as security for the loan. We want the government to issue title deed and allow people to decide whether or not they want to take loans,” he says. He also alleged that officials coerce beneficiaries into taking loans just because the government wants to meet its targets. Former Congress minister Eshwar Khandre says even though the loan is in the name of the beneficiaries, they do not have a say in it. “The process must be made transparent and the government must call the beneficiaries for a consultation with banks, explaining the loan process in detail,” he opined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/procedural-blocks-hit-beneficiaries-of-housing-schemes-994258.html
06-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Some Karnataka Congress leaders wanted HDD govt to fall, says S M Krishna||Former Karnataka chief minister and Union minister S M Krishna said on Saturday that some Karnataka Congress leaders had “pressured” the then AICC president Sitaram Kesri to bring down the government headed by former prime minister H D Deve Gowda. In a recorded message on social media, commemorating 25 years of Gowda having taken charge as the prime minister, Krishna recalled how he was witness to the political roller-coaster at that time. Former prime minister P V Narasimha Rao extended unconditional support of the Congress to the United Front and invited Gowda to form the government. “He had invited Gowda to his house and I was also present on the occasion,” Krishna said.  As PM, Gowda conducted himself with utmost discipline and led the country honourably, Krishna said. “There were no complaints against him. Unfortunately, the then Congress president Sitaram Kesri had some misgivings about Gowda even though the two of them shared a good bond. The reason for this was internal pressure in the party.  Some of the Karnataka Congress leaders had pressured Kesri to withdraw the party’s support and he succumbed to it,” the BJP leader said. On getting to know that the Congress was planning to withdraw its support, former Rajya Sabha member R K Dhawan had assured Gowda that he would meet Kesri and try to stop the move. However, Kesri was unavailable and had already met the President to announce his decision, Krishna said. “Gowda was asked to secure the vote of confidence in the Lok Sabha. He was unfortunately not successful as the Congress had numerical strength against him,” Krishna said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/some-karnataka-congress-leaders-wanted-hdd-govt-to-fall-says-s-m-krishna-994260.html
06-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||IAS feud: Govt shifts Rohini Sindhuri, Shilpa Nag out of Mysuru||The Karnataka government on Saturday transferred warring IAS officers Rohini Sindhuri and Shilpa Nag CT out of Mysuru, bringing an end to their fight that had left the BS Yediyurappa administration red-faced in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic. Bagadi Gautham will replace Sindhuri as the Mysuru deputy commissioner and Lakshmikanth Reddy G will be the new Mysuru City Corporation commissioner in place of Shilpa Nag CT. The transfers came after Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar briefed Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on the fight between Sindhuri and Nag. It is said that the relationship between Sindhuri and Nag had deteriorated to the extent that the government no option but to shift both of them out of Mysuru. Earlier this week, Nag had announced her resignation from the IAS, accusing Sindhuri of targeting her. Sindhuri had refuted the allegations levelled by Nag. Sindhuri has been appointed as Commissioner for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments, a post she had held earlier. Nag has been posted as Director (e-Governance) at the RDPR department, where she was before her Mysuru assignment. In other transfers, the government has given BBMP Special Commissioner (Health & IT) P Rajendra Cholan concurrent charge as BESCOM managing director. Dayananda KA has been appointed as BBMP Special Commissioner (Administration).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ias-feud-govt-shifts-rohini-sindhuri-shilpa-nag-out-of-mysuru-994277.html
06-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Consider only CET score for professional courses'||A day after announcing that all II PUC students will be promoted with grades, the Primary and Secondary Education department on Saturday wrote to the Higher Education department asking it to consider only the Karnataka Common Entrance Test (KCET) marks for admission to professional courses. Responding positively, the Higher Education Department will work on amending the Karnataka Professional Educational Institutions Act 2006 after consulting higher education and legal experts and the Chief Minister. Every year, the Karnataka Examination Authority (KEA) would consider 50 per cent of the PUC score and 50 per cent of the CET score for awarding ranks to students for admission to professional courses. “Though the grading system will reflect the capabilities of the students, we have also given them an option of writing exams later. However, if the KEA decides to consider the marks obtained in the exam, the students who wish to appear for the exam are likely to be affected. Hence, we request you to kindly consider only the CET scores for admission to professional courses,” Primary Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar wrote in his letter. Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said, “The Primary and Secondary Education Minister has given us a valid suggestion. All these years, a student must have secured at least 45 per cent to qualify for the CET. We will discuss this in the department and consult higher education and legal experts.” Further, the decision by the state government must also obtain the approval of the Legislature as the CET admissions are based on the provisions of the Karnataka Professional Educational Institutions Act 2006. “If we want to bring in the required change, we have to amend the law and for which we will consult legal experts and discuss with CM Yediyurappa,” Ashwath Narayan said. The K-CET 2021 exams have already been scheduled to be held on August 28 and 29. In the meantime, the Department of Pre-University Education has also requested the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) to consider all the science students as eligible students to appear for the CET. The department is also writing to national agencies that conduct nationwide competitive examination such as NEET and JEE requesting them to allow all students to appear for competitive examinations. According to sources at the KEA, if the department decides to consider all science students as eligible for KCET rankings, then the number of students eligible for KCET rankings will increase. Every year, the number of students registering for KCET used to be around 1.90 lakh of which 1.30 lakh used to get the eligibility. During 2020, the total number of students in science streams were 2.15 lakh of which 1.66 lakh cleared the II  PUC exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/consider-only-cet-score-for-professional-courses-994282.html
06-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 12,209 fresh Covid-19 cases, 320 deaths||Karnataka posted 12,209 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of infections in the state so far to 26.95 lakh while the toll surged to 31,580 with 320 more deaths. The day also saw 25,659 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases. Out of 12,209 new cases reported on Sunday, 2,944 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 10,224 discharges and 187 deaths. As of June 6 evening, cumulatively 26,95,523 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 31,580 deaths and 24,09,417 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin on Sunday. Total number of active cases in the state was 2,54,505. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 7.71 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 2.62 per cent. Out of 320 deaths reported on Sunday, 187 were from Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru 19, Belagavi 15, Dharwad 9, Hassan 8, Ballari, Chamarajanagara, Davangere, Haveri, Shivamogga, Tumakuru and Uttara Kannada 6 each, followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 2,944, Mysuru 1,237, Tumakuru 698, Hassan 655, Dakshina Kannada 609, Mandya 571, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 11,83,126, followed by Mysuru 1,50,885 and Tumakuru 1,08,245. Cumulatively a total of 3.06 crore samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,58,274 were tested on Sunday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-12209-fresh-covid-19-cases-320-deaths-994482.html
06-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||II PU students likely to get marks, grades this year||The second-year pre-university students in the state who have been promoted without examination, may get both marks and grades. Following requests by both parents and teachers, the department of Pre-University Education is considering awarding both grades and marks in the final marks card for each of the subjects Acknowledging the development, Snehal R, Director of the PU Department said, “We are planning to give grades and also marks for each subject. As the marks cards of this batch of students will be different, we are planning to continue this in the future also.” Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar recently said that all PU students would be promoted and they would be given grades. According to officials, the grading will be similar to the one followed by the CBSE. There will be A, A+, B, B+, C and C+ grades. However, the department has not yet decided whether to convert grades into marks or give marks for each subject and convert it to grades. The students and parents have welcomed the decision as it would help them in getting admissions to higher classes and job recruitments in some sectors which demand II PUC as a basic qualification.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ii-pu-students-likely-to-get-marks-grades-this-year-994524.html
06-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Nature conservation: New vision of reality needed, says Yallappa Reddy||Former secretary of the Department of Ecology and Environment Dr A N Yallappa Reddy said a new vision of reality was needed for the conservation of nature as development continues to exploit the resources. He was speaking during the launch of a webinar series on Sunday. Reddy said over-dependence on the exploitation of natural resources in the name of development had made the revitalisation of ecosystems difficult. Sourcing raw materials for building industries has exhausted natural sand from rivers and streams. “Today, our top priority is mining, making granite, crushing and destroying rocks instead of conservation of resources”, he said.  He said there was a need to protect Dharwar Cratons, which are a stable part of Earth’s crust and as old as 3.5 billion years, from the industries. The Cratons are found in Nandi Hills, Savandurga and Jnana Bharathi campus of Bengaluru University. “The preservation of such rocks which can even help in the tracing of the history of the earth is important”, he said.  Reddy opined that a global network of interlocked and site-specific ecological systems should be established. Bioregionalism, harnessing ecosystem services to the fullest and a system-bound ecosystem is the need of the hour to revive living systems’ he said. T J Renuka Prasad, former coordinator of Biopark in Bengaluru University, said that the park, spread over 600 acres, had many water bodies, rich flora and fauna but the government had failed to see the value of the lung space and had been trying to to exploit it by leasing the land.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nature-conservation-new-vision-of-reality-needed-says-yallappa-reddy-994525.html
06-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP's days numbered in Karnataka, claims Shivakumar||KPCC president D K Shivakumar said that the days of the BJP government were numbered in the state as people were left unhappy over the handling of the Covid second wave. “The state government has failed to control the death rate in the state. It is now charging Rs 900 from the poor for vaccination. The days of BJP are numbered in the state,” he said. Lashing out at the pace of vaccination in Karnataka, he said that the state Congress unit was willing to provide free vaccines for everyone in Karnataka provided the government permitted the same. On Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s remarks earlier in the day about his continuation as CM, Shivakumar said that there was a hidden strategy in his remarks. His statement can be interpreted in three to four ways, he said. “It could be a dare for the high command to change him or that he is an obedient worker of the party,” Shivakumar said. “Now there are talks of replacing Yediyurappa... According to me he is a strong man and will not be easily cowed. We will wait and watch what happens,” hesaid. The spat between IAS officers in Mysuru showed that the administrative machinery of the state has collapsed. People are the victims of this misgovernance, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjps-days-numbered-in-karnataka-claims-shivakumar-994529.html
06-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Second Covid-19 wave in Karnataka largely driven by Delta variant, say experts||Scientists have found that a majority of people with Covid-19 have been infected with the so-called “Delta” double-mutant variant of the novel coronavirus. Recent sequencing of samples from 44 symptomatic individuals at HCG Strand Labs found that 41 of the patients had been infected with the B.1.617.2 “Delta” variant of the virus. This strain has been labeled a variant-of-concern (VoC) by the World Health Organisation because of its ability to evade an immune system response. Questions now arise about whether this variant is responsible for the high influx of cases in the second wave and potentially, the manifestation of more serious cases requiring hospitalisation. According to Dr Vishal Rao, Dean, Centre of Academic Research, HCG Cancer Hospital, the fact that 93 per cent of randomly tested individuals had the “Delta” variant suggests that the second wave is largely being driven by this version of the novel coronavirus. On whether it is causing aggravated effects is something that the virologist and Technical Advisory Committee member, Dr V Ravi, formerly of Nimhans, said was not borne out by the evidence. “It is true that the “Delta” variant is taking over in the state, even over its sister variant, the B.1.617.1 (‘Kappa’) which has been identified as a variant of interest (VoI). But to say that hospital cases have all been infected with the “Delta” is not true. There are many others infected with the “Delta” who do not require hospitalization,” he said.  Officially, the state has recorded 244 cases of people infected with B.1.617 variant, which includes “Delta” and 1.617.1 “Kappa.” Deputy Chief Minister, Ashwath Narayan, who was briefed on the sequencing results on Friday told DH that genomic sequencing must go hand-in-hand with testing. It also could prompt an altering of treatment protocols, he added. Although the state government had constituted a genomic sequencing committee last year, much of the impetus to expand genomic sequencing was stalled after the first wave ended. The DyCM said that has now been reversed. “We are starting or supporting seven sequencing labs across the state, including at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), which will help ramp up sequencing,” he added. Meanwhile, Dr Rao said that phase two of the sequencing trials will cover ICU patients. “The “Delta” variant was first identified globally in December 2020, but we only introduced a lockdown four months later in April 2021. This shows that there were delays in identifying the variant locally,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/second-covid-19-wave-in-karnataka-largely-driven-by-delta-variant-say-experts-994530.html
06-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Over 50k Covid patients isolated at home in rural Karnataka||The Karnataka government has been encouraging people in rural areas to shift to the Covid Care Centres but at least half the active Covid-19 positive patients are under home isolation. According to government data as on May 30, about 1.13 lakh people are isolating at home and 50 per cent of them are in rural areas, officials from the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) department said. The government has been encouraging people in villages to shift to the CCCs as a majority of the families do not have access to separate bathrooms and rooms for isolation. However, the government’s push has not seen much response.   In Yadgir, for instance, of the 1,398 active cases, only 32 are in the CCCs while 1,226 are isolating at home. In Raichur, of the 3,461 cases, 774 are in the CCCs, while 2,107 are in home isolation. A similar situation persists in the majority of the districts.  In Mysuru, of the 15,079 active cases, only 334 people have made use of the CCCs, while 11,735 are in home isolation, and in Tumakuru, of the 11,835 cases, only 613 are in the CCCs, whereas 9,758 people are in home isolation, the government data revealed.  According to officials, there is a lot of hesitancy among people in rural areas to get admitted to the Covid Care Centres. RDPR principal secretary L K Atheeq said in spite of the government’s efforts, many were reluctant. “There is a lot of fear about going to the hospital, as people feel that once admitted, they will lose control over their health,” he said. Chittapur MLA and former minister Priyank Kharge pointed out that many farmers do not want to go to the CCCs at this juncture as this is the season for agricultural activities and they want to be able to go to their farms. Hence, even though unwell, many continue to remain at home. “The government should have made it mandatory to get admitted to the CCCs much earlier,” he said.  The state government has recently created mobile clinics, apart from constituting Family Task Forces, in order to address this. These teams are meant to ensure that those infected and those who do not have adequate space at their homes, are moved to the CCCs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-50k-covid-patients-isolated-at-home-in-rural-karnataka-994531.html
06-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Shocking audio clips over oxygen supply to Chamarajanagar go viral||An audio clip of a conversation purportedly between the previous Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri and Deputy Drug Controller Arun Kumar over supplying oxygen to Chamarajanagar district has gone viral. The conversation is said to have occurred between April 29 and May 2, before the oxygen tragedy that claimed several lives in Chamarajanagar on May 3. As many as five audio clippings are doing the rounds on social media platforms. In one of the audios, purportedly between Rohini Sindhuri and Arun on April 29, the DC was heard threatening Arun of recommending his dismissal. Sindhuri is heard telling the deputy drug controller: “Arun, DC speaking. Shall I recommend your dismissal? Why is it (oxygen) going to Chamarajanagar again? Southern Gas people claim there is no oxygen to refill for Mysuru. I want the plant with 10,000 litres capacity to be filled by night. Come to the office by 11 with all the details. Why such a quantum of oxygen is going (to Chamarajanagar). Get indent from all the hospitals and details about oxygen requirements for 34 hospitals for another two days.” In his reply, Arun is heard saying, “There is no oxygen in hospitals or for the Covid patients in Chamarajanagar.  We are supplying oxygen only to government hospitals.”     The other audio clippings are said to be that of the officials of Padaki and Southern Gas agencies, which supply oxygen. In one of the audio clippings, an employee of an oxygen supplying agency is heard telling the deputy drug controller to get Mysuru DC’s permission to get oxygen to Chamarajanagar. As per the information, the conversation occurred on April 29, May 1 and May 2. ‘Need DC’s permission’ An employee of the agency was heard saying that they cannot supply oxygen without the permission of Mysuru DC.  In another audio clipping, Arun Kumar is heard pleading with the employees to supply oxygen. “There is a severe shortage and emergency in Chamarajanagar. Kindly supply oxygen. More than 20 people will die if we don’t get 50 cylinders by 6 am. The district surgeon is upset. Will fall at your feet. Please send oxygen. However, the caller on the other side was heard asking to get permission from the DC. The conversation was recorded on May 1 at 4.15 am. On May 3, 24 Covid patients died at Chamarajanagar district hospital for lack of oxygen. Two days later Chamarajanagar DC M R Ravi alleged that his Mysuru counterpart did not send oxygen on time. Days later, the High Court of Karnataka deputed a fact-finding committee comprising two HC retired judges to look into the Chamarajanagar deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shocking-audio-clips-over-oxygen-supply-to-chamarajanagar-go-viral-994534.html
06-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'SC rap for Centre over vaccination policy welcome'||KPCC spokesperson Prof B K Chandrashekar has welcomed orders and observations of the Supreme Court over Covid-19 'mismanagement' and sedition law. The SC has observed that the existing liberalised vaccination policy could place a severe burden on the states. "The Court holds out hope now for the 18-44 age group," he said. The Union government was also asked to submit a road map for accessing vaccines till December 31, 2021, he noted. Commenting on the order related to a sedition case, Chandrashekar said that "the SC has once again emerged as the ultimate protector of democracy." The SC will now review the law of sedition used generously by the Modi government against journalists, social activists, cartoonists, intellectuals and cultural artistes, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-rap-for-centre-over-vaccination-policy-welcome-994537.html
06-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sub-registrar offices to open from today||In another relaxation to lockdown norms, the government has permitted district registrar and sub-registrar offices to function from June 7. The offices will have to function “strictly adhering to Covid appropriate behavior,” an addendum to existing lockdown regulations read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sub-registrar-offices-to-open-from-today-994539.html
06-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Parents demand refund of II PUC examination fee||On the heels of the government deciding to promote second-year PU students without conducting an examination, several parents have demanded a refund of examination fees already paid to the PU Board. As per the information available from the colleges, freshers have paid Rs 190 and students from SC and ST category have paid Rs 50. "An amount of Rs 190 may not be a big amount for the parents but if you calculate the total for the 6 lakh students registered for the exams, it is a huge money and would be close to Rs 11.40 crore," said B N Yogananda, Member, Karnataka Private Schools Parents' Association Co-ordination Committee. He said that the Association had already contacted the director of the PU Board and discussed the issue. "We have requested the officer to initiate a refund. It is the right of every student to get the refund as he/she is not appearing for examination."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/parents-demand-refund-of-ii-puc-examination-fee-994543.html
06-06-2021||West||Thane district sees 621 new Covid cases, 37 fatalities||With the addition of 621 fresh coronavirus positive cases, the infection count in Thane district of Maharashtra went up to 5,21,000, an official said on Sunday. These new cases were reported on Saturday. With the death of 37 more Covid-19 patients, the toll in the Thane district rose to 9,445, he said, adding the mortality rate is 1.81 per cent. The details of recovered and under-treatment patients were not provided by the district administration. In neighbouring Palghar district, the Covid-19 case count has gone up to 1,11,713 while the death toll is 2,164, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thane-district-sees-621-new-covid-cases-37-fatalities-994323.html
06-06-2021||West||Maharashtra Unlock: Mumbai under level 3, local trains to remain off-limits for public||Restaurants, shops selling non-essential items and public places are set to reopen from Monday in Mumbai which is categorised under level 3 of the 'unlock' plan of the Maharashtra government but malls, theatres and multiplexes will continue to remain shut. As per the fresh guidelines issued by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday, local trains will remain available only for specific categories. In a notification issued on Friday night, the Maharashtra government had stated local trains will remain available for "medical, few essentials and women", but authorised the civic administrations to put additional restrictions they deem fit. The reference of "women" was deleted by the BMC in its latest order which stated that entry in suburban trains will be restricted only for "medical and few essentials." As per the state government's notification, municipal corporations and districts in Maharashtra with a positivity rate between 5 per cent and 10 per cent and occupancy of oxygen beds over 40 per cent are categorised under level 3. As per the BMC order, shops selling essential products in Mumbai can remain open till 4 pm on all days from June 7 while non-essential shops can operate till 4 pm on weekdays. Malls, theatres, and multiplexes will continue to remain shut. Restaurants in Mumbai can function at 50 per cent capacity for dining till 4 pm only on weekdays. Parcel, home delivery and takeaway services will continue, it said. Public places and open grounds in Mumbai can remain open from 5 am to 9 am every day. Private offices can function at 50 per cent capacity till 4 pm on working days, the order said. The Maharashtra government had announced a five-level plan to relax the coronavirus-induced restrictions across the state, based on the parameters of the weekly COVID-19 case positivity rate and the occupancy of oxygen beds. Mumbai recorded a positivity rate of 5.56 per cent and oxygen bed occupancy rate of 32.51 per cent for the May 28 to June 3 week. The lockdown-like restrictions in Maharashtra were imposed in April this year when the second wave of the pandemic intensified. Under the five-level unlockdown plan, each municipal area and district will be treated as a separate administrative unit. The Level 1 category includes cities and districts which have a positivity rate of five per cent and oxygen bed occupancy of less than 25 per cent. The criteria for the Level 2 category is the case positivity rate of five per cent and oxygen bed occupancy at 25 to 40 per cent. The parameters for the Level 4 category is the case positivity rate of 10 to 20 per cent and oxygen bed occupancy of more than 60 per cent. In the fifth category, the positivity rate is more than 20 per cent and the oxygen bed capacity is more than 75 per cent. The notification said that every Thursday,the state public health department will declare the number of oxygen beds and the positivity rate, based on which the disaster management authority will decide the level of an administrative unit. On Saturday, Mumbai reported 863 Covid-19 cases and 29 deaths, taking its case tally to 7,09,857 and the toll to 14,951.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-unlock-mumbai-under-level-3-local-trains-to-remain-off-limits-for-public-994341.html
06-06-2021||West||DGCA, IGF to look into bird-hit threats at Navi Mumbai airport||In a significant development, the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and the Inspector General of Forests (Wetlands) are separately looking into the environmentalists’ complaints of rising bird-hit threats to flights at the upcoming Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA) due to the rampant destruction of wetlands in and around the project area. Activists have said that the indiscriminate destruction of wetlands and mangroves in Uran under the guise of development has begun to create a tussle among hundreds of thousands of migratory birds, thus forcing them to land in the upcoming NMIA area for nesting and roosting. Environment NGO NatConnect Foundation filed an application under the Right to Information (RTI) Act with the DGCA to know the mitigation measures planned for air safety in view of the bird-hit threats looming large. The status report on the RTI site shows that two top officers from air safety and aerodrome standards are looking into the matter, said B N Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation. The Ministry of Environment and Forests, in its status report, indicated that the IGF-WL has been asked to look into the burial of wetlands. As nature research body BNHS has cautioned way back in 2015, the destruction of wetlands by JNPT, NMSEZ and CIDCO is already forcing the birds to fly around in search of ideal locations for nesting and roosting. “It is no rocket science, we can see the disappearance of birds from the traditional destinations such as Panje, Bhendkhal and Belpada wetlands in Uran and their newly found habitats elsewhere in the city,” said B N Kumar, director. NatConnect Foundation. Describing migratory birds as ‘ambassadors of environment’, the activists have called for restoring their habitats and wetlands in line with the Environment Day theme #GenerationRestoration. BNHS, which has been studying the bird flight pattern, said in its latest reports to the government that the bird-hit threat is on the rise as the wetlands are being destroyed and the birds have begun to land in the airport project area. “We need to conserve whatever little biodiversity that is left and restore the major wetlands such as Panje,” said Dr Bivash Pandav, director of BNHS. “We have to convince the planners to spare this part of the area as it supports biodiversity,” Dr Pandav said as CIDCO drew up a development plan to create a township on the wetland.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dgca-igf-to-look-into-bird-hit-threats-at-navi-mumbai-airport-994369.html
06-06-2021||West||Chhatrapati Shivaji's coronation remains a golden moment for Maharashtra: CM Uddhav||Coronation of Shivaji Maharaj is a golden moment engraved on the heart of Maharashtra, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday as he paid tributes to the warrior king who was crowned "Chhatrapati" of the independent Maratha kingdom in 1674. In normal times, public rallies and processions mark the coronation day at Raigad Fort, but due to the Covid-19 pandemic, no public function was held for the second consecutive year. The hill fort, located in Mahad in Raigad district, holds a major significance in the history of the Maratha empire founded by Chhatrapati Shivaji. Many constructions and structures on Raigad were built by Shivaji Maharaj when he made it his capital in 1674 upon being crowned the king of the Maratha kingdom. Thackeray said the legendary warrior king instituted a welfare state and gave the topmost priority to his motherland. "On the occasion of Shiv Rajyabhishek Day, Chief Minister Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray paid homage to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, the founder of Swarajya, saying this is a golden moment engraved on the heart of Maharashtra," the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said in a statement. S hivaji Maharaj was formally crowned as Chhatrapati at the Raigad fort in Maharashtra on June 6, 1674. BJP MP Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje, a descendant of Shivaji Maharaj, visited Raigad fort on the occasion. "This year's Shivrajyabhishek Ceremony will be graced by the presence of a rare coin 'Hoan' that is part of the antiques of Shivaji Maharaj's era," tweeted Sambhajiraje on Saturday. 'Hoan' itself exemplified the sovereignty and prosperity of Swarajya established by Shivaji Maharaj. It is not merely a currency, but a symbol of our collective pride, a true national treasure, he had said. "This antiquity found in the pious soil of Raigad will witness this historic occasion," the Maratha leader said. Sambhajiraje also posted pictures of the illuminated Raigad fort.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/chhatrapati-shivajis-coronation-remains-a-golden-moment-for-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-994371.html
06-06-2021||West||Maharashtra government doing everything possible to grant quota to Marathas: Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar||The Maharashtra government is making "all possible efforts" to grant reservation to Marathas, which was struck down by the Supreme Court, without disturbing the existing quotas of other communities, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said on Sunday. Pawar's comments came two days after a committee headed by high court judge justice Dilip Bhosale (retired) recommended in its report that the Maharashtra government file a review petition against the apex court's decision. Pawar was speaking to reporters at the Pune Zilla Parishad office on the sidelines of "Shiv Swarajya Din" to mark the anniversary of the coronation of Shivaji Maharaj as "Chhatrapati" in 1674. The Maharashtra government has decided to celebrate the coronation day as "Shiv Swarajya Din" by installing 'gudis'- a colourful silk scarf-like cloth tied at the top of a long bamboo- atop the offices of local bodies, schools, colleges, and houses in the state. "We, under the leadership of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, are making all possible efforts to grant reservation to the Maratha community which was struck down by the Supreme Court," Pawar said. He said the apex court had raised questions about the MC Gaikwad Commission's report, which was the basis for the Maratha quota, but some people are still trying to incite the feelings of people. Pawar was replying to a question about former MLC Narendra Patil's statement that a "true Maratha" like him will not remain silent, and if needed, he will strap a bomb to his body and detonate it for the quota cause. The Supreme Court had last month struck down the Maharashtra law granting quota to Marathas in admissions and government jobs, terming it "unconstitutional", and held there were no exceptional circumstances to breach the 50 per cent reservation cap set by the 1992 Mandal verdict. A five-judge constitution bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan concurred on three major issues, framed during the hearing, and said the MC Gaikwad commission report which was the basis for the Maratha quota did not highlight any exceptional circumstances for grant of reservation to Marathas. "On this occasion, I would like to assure the people, especially those from the Maratha community, that the MVA government is making efforts to ensure that Marathas get reservation without disturbing quotas of other communities," said Pawar. He said a delegation led by Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on the Maratha quota issue. When asked about senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis' statement that forming a government with Ajit Pawar was a mistake, the senior NCP leader said, "14 months have passed after that episode and we are now moving ahead". Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Friday described his teaming up with Ajit Pawar to form a short-lived 80-hour government in the state in 2019 as a mistake, adding he does not regret it. On November 23, 2019, amid hectic parleys between the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress to form a non-BJP government in the state after the polls threw up a hung Assembly, Fadnavis and Pawar were sworn in at dawn in a ceremony at Raj Bhavan. Queried about Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut's statement that if his party strikes an alliance with the NCP for the Pune civic polls, the Sena will contest at least 80 (out of total 162) seats, Pawar said everybody expresses his opinion to expand the base of the party he belongs to. Meanwhile, Pawar said it was his personal view that there should be a two-member ward system for civic polls. "There will be a 'one member-one ward' system in Mumbai (for 2022 civic polls). However, for other civic bodies, members of the Maha Vikas Aghadi will hold discussions. My personal view is that there should be a two-member ward," he said. The NCP leader said a decision on the ward system will be taken after consulting the alliance partners- the Shiv Sena and the Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-doing-everything-possible-to-grant-quota-to-marathas-deputy-chief-minister-ajit-pawar-994401.html
06-06-2021||West||India’s first clubfoot brace bank launched in Mumbai||India’s first clubfoot brace bank was launched at the Bai Jerbai Wadia Hospital for Children at Parel in Mumbai. The bank named ‘W-riddhi’  is now encouraging parents and doctors to donate used clubfoot braces to the bank, where they are refurbished and supplied to needy families at a very low cost of Rs 1,500  per child every month under the “each one treat one” scheme. Clubfoot is the most common musculoskeletal birth deformity affecting about 1 in 800 children. Untreated clubfoot is an important cause of long-term physical and emotional disability in low and middle-income countries (LMICs) due to lack of accessibility to quality healthcare and systemic inequities. Around 80% of clubfoot children are born in LMICs and it is estimated that over 200,000 children are born with clubfoot each year and approximately 35,000 in India alone. The bank was inaugurated by 8-year-old twins Riddhi-Siddhi, who have been successfully treated. Wadia Hospital partnered with CURE Clubfoot Worldwide in 2011, a US-based NGO to establish a dedicated Clubfoot Clinic in the hospital premises to provide a protocol-based clubfoot treatment by training doctors in the Ponseti method, providing free clubfoot braces, establishing a prospective clubfoot registry, and setting a 24x7 dedicated clubfoot helpline for parent support. Dr Rujuta Mehta HOD, Dept. Paediatric Orthopaedics, Wadia Hospital, said, “Our vast database of over 1500 patients is uploaded in-house by Wadia staff on a special online portal of the International Clubfoot Registry (ICR), hosted by the University of Iowa, USA. We are collaborating with international universities (the University of Toronto and University of Oxford) for various research projects related to developing outcome tools and treatment guidelines for late presenting clubfoot.” “Over the past 10 years, we have treated over 1500 children with clubfeet, making it one of the largest clubfoot treatment centres in India. Besides idiopathic clubfeet, we have developed special expertise in treating syndromic clubfeet, atypical clubfeet, and children who present with untreated clubfoot after the walking age. The aim is to provide uninterrupted treatment with the introduction of clubfoot braces at an affordable cost,” concluded Dr Minnie Bodhanwala, CEO of Wadia Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/india-s-first-clubfoot-brace-bank-launched-in-mumbai-994426.html
06-06-2021||West||Maharashtra taking calculated risk with easing Covid curbs: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said the government was taking a "calculated risk" by relaxing the coronavirus-induced restrictions in the state, and added that people need to take care of themselves. He made the statement during a virtual meeting with leading industrialists. The state government has announced a five-level plan to relax the coronavirus-induced restrictions in the state from Monday, based on the weekly positivity rate and the occupancy of oxygen beds. A notification to this effect was issued on Friday night. "The state government is taking a calculated risk and hence people have to take care of themselves. Nothing is going to be eased immediately. Some criteria and levels have been fixed and the local administration will take decisions on whether to ease restrictions and further tighten them," the chief minister said. As per the 'unlock' notification, areas with positivity rate of five per cent or less and oxygen bed occupancy of less than 25 per cent will be in the first category, and can open up completely. Whereas in the fifth category areas, with positivity rate of more than 20 per cent, only essential shops will remain open and office attendance will be capped at 15 per cent. During the meeting, Thackeray also said that the state should set an example before the country by showing that the industrial sector can function uninterrupted by following all Covid-19 norms during restrictions. "We should not let ourselves be knocked down by the virus," he said. "Neither a lockdown is required nor do we want to get knocked down by the virus. So all health related rules have to be followed," Thackeray added. He said if there is a need to go for another lockdown after the possible third wave, there should be no impact on manufacturing. "Industries should set up temporary accommodations in their premises for their staff and employees. The planning process should begin now," he said. Prominent among those who participated in the meetingincluded Uday Kotak, Sanjiv Bajaj, B Thiyagrajan, Naushad Forbes, Amit Kalyan,Ashok Hinduja, A N Subramanyam, Ajay Piramal, Harsh Goenka, Niranjan Hiranandani, along with the state government's Covid-19 task force members Sanjay oak and Shashank Joshi. A statement from the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said the industrialists present at the meeting welcomed the criteria of positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy to ease restrictions and the levels fixed. They said awareness should be created about this among people, and also offered help in checking the spread of corona virus in rural areas . They suggested that members of the unorganised sector should be vaccinated and the IT sector professionals should be allowed to continue working from home . Their other suggestions include vaccination of not just employees of the industrial sector, but also their families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-taking-calculated-risk-with-easing-covid-curbs-uddhav-thackeray-994429.html
06-06-2021||West||Gujarat's Kevadia to have India's first e-vehicles-only area||The Statue of Unity Area Development and Tourism Governance Authority (SOUADTGA) on Sunday said it will develop the "country's first electric vehicles-only area" in Gujarat's Kevadia. In its statement, the authority said that the area surrounding the 182-metre tall Statue of Unity in Kevadia in Gujarat's tribal-dominated Narmada district will be converted into an electric-vehicles-only area in a phased manner. The announcement comes a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that Kevadia, which houses the world's tallest Statue of Unity, will become the country's first electric vehicle city. Speaking at the release of ethanol blending road map 2020-25 on the occasion of World Environment Day on Saturday, Modi had said that necessary infrastructure is being made available to run only battery-based buses, two-wheeler, four-wheeler in Kevadia in future. Kevadia-headquartered SOUADTGA is empowered to execute development plans and manage tourism in the area around the statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. "In the area under the authority, only electric vehicles will be allowed to ply, with the buses made available for tourists also running on battery power instead of diesel," it said. A local resident of the area will be provided assistance to purchase a three-wheeled e-vehicle, it said. Apart from the assistance provided by Gujarat Energy Development Agency (GEDA) - as announced by the state government - the SOUADTGA will also provide assistance in the form of subsidy to purchase such vehicles, it said. The authority added that its officers and employees will also get the benefit of the scheme. "The beneficiary officers/employees will have to pay the amount other than subsidy, and facilities will be provided to deduct the amount of loan from their salaries in easy instalments. Beneficiaries will have to guarantee that they will not operate petrol-diesel vehicles in the area," it said. The company operating the e-rickshaw will have to run at least 50 rickshaws in the area under the authority initially. Preference in driver selection for e-rickshaws will be given to women residents of the area as well as the existing autorickshaw drivers,it said. The company operating the e-rickshaw will have to develop a smart mobile app for this, which will mention various tourist destinations in the area, their distances, and fixed fares, it said. Women drivers will be given free driving training at the Skill Development Center at Kevadia free of cost. An E-vehiclemaintenance workshop and charging station will also be set up here," it said. "It may be mentioned here that there are no polluting industries at Kevadia, and there are two hydroelectric power plants, which generate abundant environment-friendly electricity. Reserving the area only for electric vehicles will reduce air and noise pollution and add a feather to the charm of this unique tourist destination," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarats-kevadia-to-have-indias-first-e-vehicles-only-area-994440.html
06-06-2021||West||We don't want lockdowns and knockdowns: Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray||As Maharashtra opens up again, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said he does not want lockdowns and knockdowns. However, he said, "We have to follow Covid-19 related protocols and advisories." "Let us follow what is being told," Thackeray said on Sunday, addressing back-to-back meetings with industrialists and top film and TV producers. The Unlock 2.0 comes into force from Monday for which the state has been divided into five levels depending on positivity rate and percentage of occupancy of oxygenated beds. Describing the opening up as a "calculated risk", Thackeray said that hence it was necessary to maintain guard at all times. "Nothing is going to be eased immediately...some criteria and levels have been fixed and the local administration will take a call whether to tighten it or ease it," he said. Speaking on the possibility of the third wave, he said that we have to ensure that it does not affect industrial production. "Industries should set up temporary accommodation in their premises for employees...the planning has to begin," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/we-dont-want-lockdowns-and-knockdowns-maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-994454.html
06-06-2021||West||Covid-19 deaths in Maharashtra cross one lakh-mark||Nearly 15 months after the Covid-19 pandemic hit Maharashtra, the death toll crossed the one-lakh mark on Sunday. While the progressive total cases now stand at 58,31,781 the total reported deaths are 1,00,130, according to the Public Health Department. During the day, 12,557 Covid-19 cases and 233 deaths were reported. The total active cases in the state have dropped below the two-lakh mark and stand at 1,85,527. The first cases in Maharashtra were reported on March 9, 2020 in Pune when a couple tested positive while the first death of a senior citizen was reported in Mumbai on 17 March.  Maharashtra is the worst affected state in India in terms of the progressive total of Covid-19 cases and deaths. However, it has also led to combating the pandemic. In March 2020, when the pandemic broke out, the state had two Covid-19 tests labs – Kasturba Hospital in Mumbai and National Institute of Virology in Pune, however, now the state has 609 testing labs. During this period, the numbers of Covid-19 centres have increased from 2,665 to 5,595 while the bed strength rose from 3,36,384 to 4,31,902. The numbers of oxygen beds have increased from 42,813 to 86,908, while ICU beds have increased from 11,882 to 28,937. Besides, the ventilators have increased from 3,788 to 11,713. The oxygen-producing capacity in the state is 1,270 MT while the current user is around 1,615 MT. The state’s quota decided by the Centre is 1,784 MT. The state plans to scale up oxygen capacity to the tune of 3,000 MT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-deaths-in-maharashtra-cross-one-lakh-mark-994479.html
