07-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLA turns good Samaritan, helps accident victim||Sagar MLA H Halappa turned good Samaritan by helping an accident victim to get first aid in time and rescued her. Pavitra Jain sustained head injuries when she was heading towards Sorab with her spouse as the car in which they were travelling met with an accident near Lingadahalli cross. The MLA who was on the same way noticed it and stopped his vehicle and asked his convoy staff to take her to a nearby hospital. The woman was shifted to the hospital in Sagar town after being given first aid in primary health centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mla-turns-good-samaritan-helps-accident-victim-994686.html
07-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru police seize 2,410 vehicles for violating Covid-19 lockdown norms||Mangaluru Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar said that 2,410 vehicles have been seized in Mangaluru city police commissionerate jurisdiction for violating lockdown rules during the second wave of Covid-19. In a tweet, he further said 13,578 cases have been filed over not wearing masks, while 91 cases were registered for failing to maintain social distancing in public places. As many as 253 cases under NDMA Act and 286 cases under Epidemic Diseases Act have been filed in the district. The Commissioner said that 92 police officers in city commissionerate jurisdiction have been tested positive during the second wave and 22 active cases are undergoing treatment. He also appealed to the public to adhere to the lockdown guidelines issued by the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-police-seize-2410-vehicles-for-violating-covid-19-lockdown-norms-994711.html
07-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||B S Yediyurappa's remark was to put an end to questions around his leadership: B C Patil||Agriculture Minister B C Patil said that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's remark that he would quit if asked by BJP high command was to put an end to statements questioning his leadership. The chief minister will complete his tenure, he said. Patil told reporters here on Monday that Yediyurappa was hurt by the statements made every other day regarding his leadership, hence he had to put an end to them. Leadership questions also affect governance and they have become like child's play, he added.  Yediyurappa will complete his tenure and also lead the BJP in the coming Assembly elections, he said. He refuted claims of developments to replace the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/b-s-yediyurappas-remark-was-to-put-an-end-to-questions-around-his-leadership-b-c-patil-994712.html
07-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hassan priest marries physically-challenged woman||A priest from Hassan district tied the nuptial knot with a physically challenged woman in Hosanagar taluk. A P Prakash, son of H S Vijaya, of Arasikere in Hassan district married Ashalatha at Ittakki village in Sorab taluk of the district in a simple wedding ceremony. The woman was born with Phocomelia disease. It is a condition that involves malformations of human arms and legs. It is an extremely rare congenital disorder involving malformation of the limbs. It can be inherited as part of a genetic syndrome. Phocomelia can also be caused by maternal exposure to certain drugs (such as thalidomide) during pregnancy. There is no specific treatment for phocomelia. Both of Ashalatha's hands did not grow and she has only two fingers. She is the youngest daughter of the couple Gopal Achar and Sharadamma. Farming is the main occupation of the family. They have a small portion of land. Her three elder sisters have no such physical disabilities. Though she found it difficult initially to write anything, braving all the odds, she completed an undergraduate course successfully. After graduation, she searched for employment in various departments of the government, but she did not manage to get a job. At present, she is working in Mudugoppa gram panchayat in Hosanagar taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-priest-marries-physically-challenged-woman-994802.html
07-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Swimming pool at DC’s residence violates norms, says expert||Heritage experts claim that there was a clear violation of heritage norms in connection with the construction of swimming pool at the official residence of deputy commissioner in the city. The controversial swimming pool was constructed during the tenure of the previous DC Rohini Sindhuri, and there was allegation of irregularities. But, the officer had defended that there was no violation. The government has ordered an inquiry by Regional Commissioner G C Prakash. However, Heritage Committee member N S Rangaraju claimed that it is a clear violation of heritage norms as the area adjoining to the DC’s residence is also protected area, as per the new norms. Any works should be taken up as per the report from the heritage experts, he said. It has to be noted that in a letter to the Regional Commissioner, Rohini Sindhuri refuted the allegations against her in connection with the construction of a swimming pool and claimed that Nirmiti Kendra constructed the pool as a demo work to prove cost-effective technology. Sindhuri stated that the execution of the pool was done by Nirmiti Kendra in January 2021 out of its own funds of Rs 28.72 lakh. Since there was no space available in the Nirmiti Kendra campus, a very small piece of land was utilised on the campus of DC’s residence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/swimming-pool-at-dc-s-residence-violates-norms-says-expert-994894.html
07-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||IAS officer couple DCs of Mysuru and Mandya||After IAS officers C Shikha and Dr M N Ajay Nagabushan, neighbouring districts of Mysuru and Mandya, once again have a couple, serving as deputy commissioners. In a latest development, the state government put a full stop to the controversies and blame game between two women IAS officers Rohini Sindhuri and Shilpa Nag, by transferring them. In their place, Dr Bagadi Gautham and G Lakshmikant Reddy have been appointed as deputy commissioner and MCC commissioner respectively. They took charge in Mysuru, on Sunday. Incidentally, Bagadi Gautham is the husband of S Aswathi, serving as Deputy Commissioner of Mandya district. While, Aswathi, 2013 batch, took charge as Mandya DC on February 17, 2021, Dr Gautham, 2009 batch, has been appointed as the DC of Mysuru on June 7 (Saturday night). It was a love marriage for Aswathi from Kerala and Dr Gautham from Andhra Pradesh. They entered into wedlock on February 14, Valentine’s Day in 2019. Soon after taking charge, Dr Gautham said that his priority is to contain Covid in Mysuru district. “I have faced such challenges during my tenure as DC in Chikkamagalur. Covid cases were brought to zero, during the first wave. We had also managed the flood situation,” he explained. By getting vaccinated within two days of assuming charge, Aswathi instilled confidence among the residents of Mandya district, to get vaccinated for Covid-19. It may be mentioned that there was a lot of hesitancy, initially,  among the people about the vaccination. She has taken up several awareness drives on wearing masks and following Covid norms. She has also interacted with Covid patients, virtually. The other couple, who served as DCs of Mysuru and Mandya were C Shikha and Dr M N Ajay Nagabushan, respectively. Shikha was the first woman IAS officer of Mysuru and served from 2013 and 2016. Shikha was described as an efficient and upright officer. It may be mentioned that Shikha lodged a complaint against former Zilla Panchayat president K Marigowda, a close confidante of then chief minister Siddaramaiah, for intimidating her in the public. Despite pressure, she refused to withdraw her complaint. She was transferred in August 2016. Dr Ajay Nagabushan, served as the DC of Mandya, during the same period. Earlier, Dr Ajay had also served as Mysuru Zilla Panchayat CEO from 2012. Shikha and Dr Ajay were transferred at the same time in 2016. While Shikha moved to Social Welfare department, Dr Ajay was appointed as commissioner for Food and Civil Supplies. Coincidentally, both Dr Gautham and Dr Ajay are medical doctors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ias-officer-couple-dcs-of-mysuru-and-mandya-994896.html
07-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Involvement of insiders suspected in milk adulteration scam||Allegations of milk adulteration, with the support of officials and employees of Mandya Milk Union Limited (Manmul), has come to light. It is alleged that the milk was adulterated with water, cutting fat content, betraying the customers. The milk adulteration scam was exposed on May 28, and the authorities seized five tankers and suspended six officials. The tankers were designed with separate compartments for milk and water. From each tanker of milk procured from dairy farmers, 30% was allegedly sold to private dairies. The remaining 70% milk was mixed with water and supplied to Manmul, it is alleged.  The irregularities, amounting to crores of rupees, was being done with the help of Manmul employees. One lakh litres of adulterated milk was supplied to Manmul every day. The adulterated milk was packed and sold to gullible customers under the brand name of Nandini. Each milk sachet has the printed details like fat content and nutritive value in the milk. However, upon testing, the adulterated milk did not have the mentioned fat content. A technician, on a condition of anonymity, said, “The fat content of milk was not as printed, before May 28. However, as soon as the irregularities came to light, it was rectified. A comprehensive probe should be conducted.” Mandya district is popular not only for jaggery, but also for dairy farming. Manmul milk is supplied not only to Mandya, but also to Ramnagar and Bengaluru cities, under Nandini brand. The irregularities has brought disrepute to the brand. It may be mentioned that there was a controversy over Mandya jaggery, which was adulterated with the chemicals. District Food Safety and Quality Officer Dr Bettaswamy said, “As soon as the tankers were seized, the milk samples were sent for tests, along with Nandini milk samples. Results are awaited.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/involvement-of-insiders-suspected-in-milk-adulteration-scam-994897.html
07-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru is like my parental abode: Rohini Sindhuri||Outgoing deputy commissioner Rohini Sindhuri on Monday said that Mysuru is like her parental abode and thanked the people of the district. Sindhuri said that the transfer was unexpected. She explained the present situation of the district and briefed about the Covid situation. She explained the measures taken to contain the spread to new DC Dr Bagadi Gautham. Without mentioning the name of an IAS officer Shilpa Nag, who had offered to resign, citing Sindhuri’s harassment, she said, “I feel pity for the officer for her insecure feeling. Everything happened in the public. I do not want to comment on it. It is wrong to say ‘mission accomplished’ by removing an officer. It is difficult to run a system or organisation with such incidents. She should introspect.” Sindhuri declined to comment for a query, if she is a victim of a political conspiracy. “At present, people need proper Covid management,” she said. Sindhuri said that when she was appointed as Mysuru DC, her focus was to remove encroachment of lake encroachments and to protect government lands. “Measures were taken to evict encroachment of two lakes and the case of 1,500 acres of land on Kurbarahalli Survey number 4 was taken to Supreme Court. My focus was also to improve tourism and to protect government lakes and lands,” she said. Sindhuri said that encroachment of government lakes and lakes is everywhere and, there are separate committees. “Irregularities are everywhere. I give my answer through my work. Despite hurdles, I have the done best. We should have been allowed to perform our duty. Unnecessary interference is not a good development for administration,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-is-like-my-parental-abode-rohini-sindhuri-994898.html
07-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru DC withdraws tough lockdown||Deputy Commissioner Dr Bagadi Gautham on Monday ordered relaxation of the tough lockdown rules and allowed procurement of essential goods between 6 am and 10 am on all days, as per the state government’s order. The DC withdrew the order passed by the earlier DC Rohini Sindhuri on May 5, which restricted opening of essential shops only three days a week, between 6 am and 10 am on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Earlier, in an order passed on May 27, the shops were allowed to open only on two days, on Mondays and Thursdays, between 6 am and 12 noon, till June 7. However, banks and insurance services were allowed. Standalone milk parlours were open from 6 am to 6 pm on all days. In addition, goods vehicles, were allowed. As per the old order, there was relaxation on Monday, to buy essential items. Thus, a large number of people thronged the shops and markets to purchase necessary items. The vendors made good business between 6 am and 10 am. However, violation of Covid guidelines was common in many areas. People failed to maintain social distance. But, a maximum number of people were wearing masks. Movement of vehicles was high across the city. Traffic police were monitoring traffic and inquiring the people about their cause for movement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-dc-withdraws-tough-lockdown-994902.html
07-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Nagarahole : Phase IV monitoring of tiger commences||The phase IV monitoring of tiger, its prey and vegetation commenced at Nagarahole Tiger Reserve and the survey process at the second block has been completed. The monitoring of first block will commence from June first week and the monitoring process will be completed by mid-July. Nagarahole has a total of eight ranges, which is divided into two blocks. First block comprises, Anechowkur wildlife range, Metikuppe, Veeranahosalli and Hunsur wildlife range and second block comprises Nagarahole, Kallahalli, Antharasanthe and D B Kuppe Wildlife ranges. As per the previous All India Tiger estimation, Nagarahole Tiger Reserve had 125 individual tigers with an estimate of 11.82 tigers per 100 square kilometer. According to an officer, the authorities follow eight-day protocol for monitoring and 30 days camera trap. The carnivorous sign survey will be conducted during the first three days. Under carnivorous survey, scratch marks will be identified. Camera trap will be installed, where more signs will be found and the camera will be functional for one month. This is called carnivorous survey corresponding to camera trap. There will be pre-designated transects measuring two meters wide and two kilometre length and it will be cleared on the fourth and fifth day. The authorities will take up prey density estimation on sixth, seventh and eighth day. “We assess the prey species which are encountered during transect walk for two kilometres,” he said. Along with prey estimation, vegetation survey includes trees, shrubs, grass and weed estimation. The transect will be representative of the entire area, he added. The whole survey includes eight day protocol and 30 days of camera trap exercise, he explained, and added we do vulture and scavenge count during the last three days. According to Tiger Project Director Mahesh, the studies and data will be statistically analysed and will come out with density estimates. “Since we are having camera trap based exercise, we will also come out with individual tiger numbers,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nagarahole-phase-iv-monitoring-of-tiger-commences-994903.html
07-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Issue of Karnataka CM change troubles administration too: Jagadish Shettar||Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar on Monday stated that repeated discussions about leadership change would hinder effective day-to-day administration, as it would question the stability of the government. "I do not know from where such discussions are emerging, though it is repeatedly clarified that no thinking about changing the chief minister is going on in the party, and that B S Yediyurappa will continue in the post. Yediyurappa stated that he would resign if the party asks him to do so, probably to put an end to this discussion," he said. "Yediyurappa has built the party, and he has utmost commitment towards the party. His pain is reflected in his statement, in the wake of repeated murmurs about leadership change which would also damage the image of the government. When leadership change is not being discussed at the party level, the question about alternative leader also does not arise now," Shettar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/issue-of-karnataka-cm-change-troubles-administration-too-jagadish-shettar-994697.html
07-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Jolle says focused on Covid, refuses to comment on Yediyurappa's statement||Women and Child Welfare Minister Shashikala Jolle did not comment on the statement by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa that he would quit if asked by the BJP high command. She said that the chief minister has been discharging his responsibilities effectively even as rumours surrounding his leadership are rife. Jolle told the media that Yediyurappa earlier successfully managed the flood situation and has been managing the Covid-19 situation well by responding to the needs of people during the pandemic. She said she would not respond to the statements made by him. "We will try to instill confidence among children who have lost their parents due to Covid-19. Talks will be held with them over video conference. The CM has announced a scheme for orphaned children and Rs 3,500 will be credited to their bank accounts each month," she said. Education of children orphaned due to Covid-19 will be provided at Kittur Rani Channamma and Morarji Desai residential schools. Some have expressed their wishes to continue their education in the private schools they were studying. The chief minister will take note of everything, she stated. With the fear that the third wave of Covid-19 will adversely impact children and those with disabilities, the state has begun inoculating the differently abled, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jolle-says-focused-on-covid-refuses-to-comment-on-yediyurappas-statement-994768.html
07-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yediyurappa urges BJP MLAs to help people in distress instead of indulging in signature campaigns||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday asked BJP legislators to refrain from “collecting signatures or making political statements” even as some 65 MLAs are said to have signed a letter in support of his continuation in the top post. In a tweet, Yediyurappa said: “At a time when people are facing difficulties during the Covid pandemic, every single BJP MLA should prioritize Covid containment measures in their respective constituencies. No one should engage in collecting signatures or issuing political statements. I request them to provide help to the people in need.” ಕೋವಿಡ್ ಸಾಂಕ್ರಾಮಿಕದಿಂದ ಜನ ಸಂಕಷ್ಟಗಳನ್ನು ಎದುರಿಸುತ್ತಿರುವ ಈ ಸಂದರ್ಭದಲ್ಲಿ, ಪ್ರತಿಯೊಬ್ಬ ಬಿಜೆಪಿ ಶಾಸಕರು ತಮ್ಮ ತಮ್ಮ ಕ್ಷೇತ್ರದಲ್ಲಿ ಕೋವಿಡ್ ನಿಯಂತ್ರಣ ಕಾರ್ಯಗಳಿಗೆ ಆದ್ಯತೆ ನೀಡಬೇಕು.ಯಾರೂ ಕೂಡ ಸಹಿ ಸಂಗ್ರಹಿಸುವುದಾಗಲಿ, ರಾಜಕೀಯ ಹೇಳಿಕೆಗಳನ್ನು ನೀಡುವುದಾಗಲಿ ಮಾಡದೆ, ಸಂಕಷ್ಟದಲ್ಲಿರುವ ಜನರಿಗೆ ನೆರವಾಗಬೇಕು ಎಂದು ವಿನಂತಿಸುತ್ತೇನೆ This came just hours after Honnali MLA MP Renukacharya, the CM’s political secretary, said 65 MLAs were on Yediyurappa's side. “They have signed a letter. I have it with me,” he said, flashing a file without revealing the letter itself. “There’s one letter in Kannada for the state party president and another in English.” Contradicting Renukacharya, Hubli-Dharwad (West) MLA Arvind Bellad, whose recent visit to New Delhi triggered speculation over attempts to dethrone Yediyurappa, said no such pro-Yediyurappa signature campaign had taken place. “No signature for or against anyone has happened. The only signature campaign of 64-65 MLAs happened during the last legislature session seeking early release of rural development funds,” Bellad said. “I don’t know if those signatures have been used for this. We will know if a legislature party meeting is convened.” Renukacharya said Bellad was “a big man” and that he was not among the 65 signatories. “I didn’t ask him to sign. He’s a chief ministerial candidate. I’m too small,” he said. Meanwhile, the BJP has constituted a 10-member committee, including Yediyurappa, to address legislators’ grievances and stop them from washing dirty linen in public. “The committee has the state president (Nalin Kumar Kateel), the CM, four ministers and four party general secretaries. The aim is to stop people from issuing public statements for or against the CM. This is the high command’s directive,” Revenue Minister R Ashoka, who is a part of this committee, said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yediyurappa-urges-bjp-mlas-to-help-people-in-distress-instead-of-indulging-in-signature-campaigns-994825.html
07-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka BJP chief Kateel deems signature campaign unnecessary||Reiterating that B S Yediyurappa is the unanimous leader and the post of chief minister is not vacant, Karnataka BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Monday stated that signature collection or exerting pressure would get no value in the party. "Instructions from the high-command is followed in the BJP, and Yediyurappa also said the same on Sunday. All legislators and workers of the party should understand that. BJP's national leadership has also clarified about the continuation of Yediyurappa as the chief minister," he told media persons on Monday. "MLAs should stay in their constituencies and should focus on Covid-19 management. There is no need for them to give any other statements, and the party is observing all," he said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-bjp-chief-kateel-deems-signature-campaign-unnecessary-994883.html
07-06-2021||Mysuru||Covid-19 lockdown in Mysuru slightly eased; essentials available three days a week||The Mysuru district administration slightly relaxed the tough lockdown allowing the public to procure essential supplies three days a week. The lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19. Shops selling essentials are allowed to remain open on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, from 6 am to 10 am, until June 14, according to the order. All services except medical services, milk parlours, shops selling vegetables and fruits and fair price shops will remain shut on other days. Previously the district administration had these shops to remain open only two days a week. The police have been directed to take action against people violating the rules. The lockdown rules were slightly eased as cases of Covid-19 have seen a decline recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/covid-19-lockdown-in-mysuru-slightly-eased-essentials-available-three-days-a-week-994710.html
07-06-2021||Mysuru||'High surveillance' yielding more Covid cases in Mysuru||Mysuru district has not improved on the Covid-19 front despite all the efforts to check its spread and treat infected persons. The district still ranks second in the number of active cases, followed by the Bengaluru Urban district. On the population index, Mysuru (30,01,127) is third in Karnataka, followed by Bengaluru (96,21,551) and Belagavi (47,79,661), as per the 2011 Census. Besides, Hassan (17,76,421), which ranks only 14 in population is in the third place going by active Covid cases. On June 6, Bengaluru Urban had 1,17,340 active cases. With a death toll of 187 on the same day, Bengaluru Urban recorded a total death toll of 14,875. On the same date, with 1,237 news cases of infection, the number of active cases increased to 14,416 in Mysuru. With 19 deaths, total deaths increased to 1,722.  The total number of Covid cases reported up to June 6 in Bengaluru Urban is 11,83,126, Mysuru 1,50,885 and Hassan 90,492. However, on the Covid vaccination front, Mysuru has fared well with 9,42,712 doses as of June 6, while Belagavi district has administered 7,75,985 doses. Hassan district has administered 4,46,686 vaccines. District vector-borne diseases control offer Dr S Chidambara said there were two reasons for these numbers.  “First, the second wave started early in places with more population - such as Belagavi district, bordering Maharashtra. The decline started over a fortnight ago in Belagavi. Thus, saturation is expected in Mysuru by a delay of 15 days. The second reason is that there is aggressive surveillance in Mysuru compared to other districts,” he said. Dr Chidambara, also the district surveillance officer, said that there was no Mysuru-specific cause for the high numbers of infection, except for intensive intervention, tracing and testing.  “It is community spread. However, it is good to trace more cases for early intervention. On June 5, out of 7,715 tests, 1,416 persons were found to be positive. A door-to-door survey is being conducted in Mysuru city,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/high-surveillance-yielding-more-covid-cases-in-mysuru-994913.html
07-06-2021||National||Noida to relax Covid curfew from today, markets to reopen, schools to stay closed||The Gautam Buddh Nagar administration has announced relaxation in Covid curfew after over a month, allowing shops and markets outside containment zones to remain open from 7 am to 7 pm from Monday to Friday. However, educational institutes, including coaching centres, will remain closed while the Covid curfew will be in force over the weekends, it said. In a written order on Sunday, District Magistrate Suhas L Y said certain activities outside containment zones would be allowed from 7 am to 7 pm Monday to Friday, subject to conditions. "The night time curfew from 7 pm to 7 am would stay in place while the curfew will be in place over the weekend also," he stated. According to the order, vegetable markets in densely-populated areas will function in open places. Only home delivery will be allowed allowed from restaurants while street hawkers and vendors will be permitted with Covid-appropriate behaviour and distancing, it stated. "Not more than five devotees will be allowed inside a religious place at a time while a maximum of 25 people allowed in a wedding function subject to social distancing and sanitisation. A maximum of 20 people will be allowed at a funeral procession," the order stated. Schools, colleges and educational institutes will remain closed, it stated, adding online learning is to be encouraged. "Coaching centres, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, clubs and shopping malls will remain closed," according to the order. While there would be full attendance for the frontline workers, for the rest of the government employees, there would be 50 per cent attendance on rotation basis, it stated. The order made it mandatory for all offices, including private ones, to set up a Covid help desk. "Industrial units will stay open following Covid-appropriate guidelines with mandatory Covid help desk," it stated. "The private sector has been asked to encourage the employees to work from home. No employee is to be allowed with symptoms," it added. Relaxations have been given to public transport but with certain conditions that include necessary screening of passengers as per appropriate guidelines. According to the order, only two passengers will be allowed in 3-wheelers like autorickshaw, three in an e-rickshaw and four in 4-wheelers -- all subject to proper distancing and wearing of masks. “Complete curfew will be in place on weekends after Friday 7 pm over the weekend, during which cleanliness, sanitisation and fogging campaigns will be carried out,” the order stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/noida-to-relax-covid-curfew-from-today-markets-to-reopen-schools-to-stay-closed-994569.html
07-06-2021||National||New Health Ministry guideline drops use of ivermectin, HCQ, favipiravir from Covid-19 treatment||The Union Health Ministry on Sunday dropped the use of ivermectin, hydroxychloroquine and the anti-viral favipiravir from its Covid-19 treatment guideline after a section of doctors and medical researchers questioned the absence of any scientific evidence of such drugs benefitting Covid patients. The 9-page guidelines for the management of Covid-19 patients, released by the Directorate General of Health Services, don’t mention ivermectin and favipiravir — two widely prescribed medicines by doctors across the country, as well as hydroxychloroquine which was sought after during the first wave. It also doesn’t suggest the use of antibiotics. “A typical prescription for Covid-19 in India includes azithromycin, doxycycline, ivermectin, hydroxychloroquine, vitamin C, vitamin D, zinc, acetylcysteine, and inhaled budesonide, or dexamethasone. The antiviral favipiravir became the top-selling drug in India in April 2021 despite not being recommended for Covid-19 by any major guidelines,” researchers from George Institute of Medical Sciences wrote recently in a commentary in the Lancet. There was a similar editorial in British Medical Journal as well. The DGHS guidelines, however, contradict the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines that recommend the use of both ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine, even though it dropped convalescent plasma from its treatment. The ICMR guideline was released on May 17 after the council reviewed the scientific evidence on the use of plasma The new guideline also lists the diagnostic tests to be carried out and advises against indiscriminate use of high-resolution CT, which is to be done only in worsening conditions. On the use of experimental drug remdesivir, it says, “The medicine is to be used only in select moderate or severe hospitalised Covid-19 patients, who are on supplemental oxygen within 10 days of onset of disease.” “It is not indicated in mild Covid-19 patients who are in home care or Covid care centres. Physicians are advised to exercise extreme caution in using remdesivir as this is only an experimental drug with potential to harm.” “Also every hospital needs to set up a Special Drug Committee to review the use of Remdesivir in their hospital periodically. The medicine should be procured and provided by the hospitals. The patient’s attendants/ relatives should not be asked to procure Remdesivir from the retail market,” it notes. Similarly, clear instructions have been given on the use of Tocilizumab. “David Sackett, the father of Evidence-Based Medicine would have been so happy! Very impressive and the authors deserve high praise for sticking to EBM in the national guideline- conscientious, explicit and judicious use of current best evidence in making decisions for treating Covid19,” tweeted S P Kalantri, a veteran physician and director of Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Sevagram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-health-ministry-guideline-drops-use-of-ivermectin-hcq-favipiravir-from-covid-19-treatment-994613.html
07-06-2021||National||DH Toon | A task for Twitter's new grievance officer||New social media rules that came into effect last month require large social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to appoint a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer, monitoring of objectionable content, preparing monthly compliance reports and removal of objectionable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-a-task-for-twitters-new-grievance-officer-994615.html
07-06-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on June 7||India reported 1,00,636 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, the lowest in 61 days, taking the infection tally to 2,89,09,975, while the number of active cases dropped to 14,01,609, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Monday. The death toll due to coronavirus reached 3,49,186 with 2,427 new fatalities, the lowest in around 45 days. Nearly 15 months after the Covid-19 pandemic hit Maharashtra, the death toll crossed the one-lakh mark on Sunday. Meanwhile, several states began easing Covid curbs starting today seeing the declining trend  Coronavirus in India Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 2,89,09,975  as of June 7, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  3,49,186 as of June 7, 2021 No. of people discharged: 2,71,59,180 Total Vaccination: 23,27,86,482 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-june-7-994616.html
07-06-2021||National||India reports 1,00,636 lakh new Covid-19 cases, 2,427 deaths||India reported 1,00,636 fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest in 61 days, taking the infection tally to 2,89,09,975, while the number of active cases dropped to 14,01,609, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Monday. The death toll due to coronavirus reached 3,49,186 with 2,427 new fatalities, the lowest in around 45 days, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 96,982 new cases were recorded in a span of 24 hours on April 6. Also, 15,87,589 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 36,63,34,111, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 6.34 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for 14 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 6.21 per cent. The number of active cases has reduced to 14,01,609, comprising 4.85 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 93.94 per cent. A net decline of 76,190 cases has been recorded in the Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 25 consecutive days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,71,59,180, while the case fatality rate has further increased to 1.21 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India had crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4. The 2,427 new fatalities include 618 from Maharashtra, 434 from Tamil Nadu, 320 from Karnataka, 227 from Kerala and 107 from West Bengal. A total of 3, 49,186 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,00,130 from Maharashtra, 31,580 from Karnataka, 27,005 from Tamil Nadu, 24,591 from Delhi, 21,236 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,259 from West Bengal, 15,076 from Punjab and 13,217 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-100636-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-2427-deaths-994643.html
07-06-2021||National||P T Usha requests Kerala CM to vaccinate state athletes taking part in National Championships||Sprint legend PT Usha on Monday requested Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to vaccinate athletes of the state who are taking part in the upcoming National Inter-State Championships, an Olympic qualifying event to be held from June 25 to 29. The 56-year-old Usha, who won 11 medals in the Asian Games, including four gold in the 1986 edition, said sportspersons should not be ignored in the vaccination process. "A humble request to @CMOKerala to vaccinate sports persons, their coaches, support staff & medical team, who will participate in the forth coming National & other competition on priority," she tweeted. "We just can't ignore sports section!" she added. The National Inter-State Champioships, to be held in Patiala, will be the last chance for the Indian athletes to qualify for the Tokyo Olympics. The deadline for Olympics qualification for athletics is June 29. India's vaccination policy for athletes has kept its focus on the Olympic-bound group so far with most of them inoculated with at least the first dose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/p-t-usha-requests-kerala-cm-to-vaccinate-state-athletes-taking-part-in-national-championships-994663.html
07-06-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: Covishield produces more antibodies than Covaxin, shows study||The Covishield vaccine, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, likely produces a greater number of antibodies than Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, claims a pre-print of the first study involving healthcare workers that pits the two Covid-19 vaccines against each other in the country. The study is currently undergoing peer-review and was conducted by A K Singh from G D Hospital & Diabetes Institute, Kolkata and six other experts. The study shows that both vaccines generated a good immune system response among doctors and nurses, but the level of antibody production differed. The study tested the vaccines on 515 healthcare workers (305 male, 210 female), finding that, overall, both vaccines induced antibodies in 95 per cent of participants. Around 98.1 percent of those vaccinated with Covishield and 80 per cent of healthcare workers who received Covaxin showed seropositivity. The seropositivity rate, which refers to the production of antibodies, as well as the amount of anti-spike antibodies produced were significantly higher in Covishield as compared to Covaxin recipients. The two vaccines are the most widely used in the country, which is struggling to ramp up the production of doses to stave off a potential third wave. So far, only 3.5 per cent of the population has received both doses of either vaccine, while close to 14 per cent have got at least one dose of either jab. The scientists acknowledged in the paper that while the results may be surprising, to determine whether they were a result of having fewer Covaxin participants or intrinsic to the nature of the doses themselves would require more study. They also mention the findings of the study and efficacy do not necessarily predict efficacy. The study’s authors also noted that Covishield produced a strong immune response even after the first jab, while antibody production in Covaxin recipients was weaker after the first dose but closed the gap after the second. Significantly, the study also found that breakthrough infections — positive Covid-19 tests after two weeks of getting a jab — were lower in Covaxin recipients at 2.2 per cent, while Covishield takers showed a breakthrough infection rate of 5.5 per cent. This could indicate that Covaxin recipients may be less likely to contract the disease after two doses. People over the age of 60 or those with type 2 diabetes had a significantly lower antibody production, the study also found.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-covishield-produces-more-antibodies-than-covaxin-shows-study-994667.html
07-06-2021||National||India reels under a worsening vaccine-gap as Covid attacks villages||Urban Indians are getting Covid-19 shots much faster than the crores of people living in villages, government data shows, reflecting rising inequity in the country's immunisation drive. In 114 of India's least developed districts, authorities have administered just 230 lakh doses in total. That's the same number of doses as have been administered across nine major cities -- New Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Pune, Thane and Nagpur -- which combined have half the population of the least developed districts. The disparity was even stronger last month, after the government allowed private sales of vaccines for adults aged under 45 years, an offer which favoured residents of cities with larger private hospital networks. For the first four weeks of May, those nine cities gave 16% more doses than the combined rural districts, data from the government's Co-WIN vaccination portal shows. "My friends from the city were vaccinated at private hospitals," said Atul Pawar, a 38-year-old farmer from Satara district in Maharashtra. "I am ready to pay, but doses are not available and district borders are sealed because of the lockdown." The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said in a statement on Saturday that reports of vaccine inequity in India were "inaccurate and speculative in nature". "Liberalised pricing and accelerated national Covid-19 vaccination strategy ensures vaccine equity," it said, adding that smaller cities were also getting doses like the big ones. The ministry said it had asked states with fewer private hospitals to review the status of their vaccination campaigns and encourage some government-empanelled hospitals to strike deals with vaccine companies if need be. India has administered more than 22.2 crore doses since starting its campaign in mid-January - only China and the United States have administered more - but it has given the required two doses to less than 5% of its 95 crore adults. Rural areas are home to more than two-thirds of the country's 130 crore people. While urban areas account for a disproportionately large share of the confirmed Covid-19 cases, those concerned about the spread of the virus in the rural areas say statistics undercount cases in villages, where testing is less comprehensive. The health system in several regions in India collapsed in April and May as the country reported the world's biggest jump in coronavirus infections, increasing pressure on the immunisation programme. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government offers vaccines to vulnerable people, healthcare workers and those aged over 45 for free. Since last month, individual states have also been expected to procure vaccines for younger adults, or to provide them commercially through the private sector. Poorer states say this leaves their residents more vulnerable. Jharkhand, where nearly all districts are categorised as poor, this week urged Modi to give it free vaccines for all age groups. In many states the doses for those under 45 are available mostly or entirely in urban areas. Some officials say this is intentional, as the infection spreads more easily in crowded cities. "It's because of high-positivity" in urban areas, said Bijay Kumar Mohapatra, health director of Odisha, explaining the state's decision to prioritise cities. Major international and domestic firms such as Microsoft , Pepsi, Amazon, Reliance Industries , Adani Group and Tata Motors have organised inoculations for their employees, in many cases in partnership with private hospitals. Most of these companies and the huge private hospitals that serve them are located in urban centres. Vaccination rates in rural areas have also been depressed because of patchier internet access to use the complex online system for signing up for shots, and possibly because of greater hesitancy among villagers than among city dwellers. Lucrative deals The Supreme Court criticised the Centre's handling of the vaccination programme this week and ordered it to provide a breakdown of shots given in rural and urban areas. "Private hospitals are not equally spread out" across the country and "are often limited to bigger cities with large populations", the top court said in its order dated May 31. "As such, a larger quantity will be available in such cities, as opposed to the rural areas," it said. Private hospitals may prefer to sell doses "for lucrative deals directly to private corporations who wish to vaccinate their employees". Dr. Rajib Dasgupta, head of the Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health at New Delhi's Jawaharlal Nehru University, said the risk of inequity was that parts of India would build up immunity disproportionately. "It can leave the rural population relatively more vulnerable."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reels-under-a-worsening-vaccine-gap-as-covid-attacks-villages-994671.html
07-06-2021||National||AIIMS Delhi to screen children for Covaxin trials from today: Report||The trials will be conducted to check the suitability of Covaxin in children aged between two and 18 years. The trials are expected to take three to four months to complete with the participation of 525 children from different parts of the country. Many states have started preparations for the anticipated third wave. They are now focussing on creating healthcare infrastructure for children. Several states have also announced special Pediatric Intensive Care Units. Various countries around the world have started vaccinating children below 16 years of age. Countries like United States, Canada, Italy, Dubai, etc are using Pfizer-BioNTech's Covid-19 vaccine for children. On June 5, China became the first country in the world to approve emergency use of CoronaVac to vaccinate children as young as three years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-delhi-to-screen-children-for-covaxin-trials-from-today-report-994676.html
07-06-2021||National||Dilip Kumar on oxygen support, stable||Legendary actor Dilip Kumar, who was admitted to a hospital here after experiencing episodes of breathlessness, is currently on oxygen support and stable, his family shared in an update from the veteran's official Twitter handle. "Dilip Saab is on oxygen support - not on ventilator. He is stable. Waiting for few test results to perform pleural aspiration : Dr Jalil Parkar, chest specialist treating Saab," the latest update on Kumar's Twitter handle read. Update at 11:45am.Dilip Saab is on oxygen support - not on ventilator. He is stable. Waiting for few test results to perform pleural aspiration : Dr Jalil Parkar, chest specialist treating Saab. Will update regularly. Another post from the actor's account requested media to only report verified health update, which will be shared on his Twitter handle, and not rely on anyone else "who may not have direct knowledge." As per a tweet posted on the microblogging site on Sunday evening, Kumar is expected to be discharged in a few days. The actor was admitted to the same hospital last month for a regular health check-up. Kumar, who made acting debut with "Jwar Bhata" in 1944, has appeared in several iconic films in his career spanning over five decades, including "Kohinoor", "Mughal-e-Azam", "Devdas", "Naya Daur", "Ram Aur Shyam", among others. He was last seen on the big screen in "Qila" in 1998.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dilip-kumar-on-oxygen-support-stable-994687.html
07-06-2021||National||Industries cannot operate without prior environment clearance: NGT||Industries cannot operate without prior environment clearance (EC), the National Green Tribunal has said while holding that the State has no power to exempt the requirement. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said the State cannot allow the units to function without EC on payment of compensation.  “We thus hold that without prior EC the units cannot be allowed to operate. The State has no power to exempt the requirement of prior EC or to allow the units to function without EC on payment of compensation. “We are of the view that since prior EC is statutory mandate, the same must be complied,” the bench said. The green panel said prior EC is required under Environmental Impact Assessment Notification dated September 14, 2006 and there is no justification to permit function of such units in violation of mandate of law. The tribunal's observation came on a plea filed by NGO Dastak seeking quashing of the order of the Haryana government allowing manufacturers of formaldehyde, requiring prior EC, to operate for six months without the clearance, subject to making application for it within 60 days. The NGO submitted that requirement of prior EC is mandatory and there is no jurisdiction with the State to exempt the same.  The NGT in its order said, “We have no doubt that the stand of the private respondents will be duly considered by the concerned regulatory authorities, including the MoEF on merits and in accordance with law but till compliance of statutory mandate, the units cannot be allowed to function.”  The tribunal said that for past violations, the concerned authorities are free to take appropriate action in accordance with polluter pays principle, following due process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/industries-cannot-operate-without-prior-environment-clearance-ngt-994689.html
07-06-2021||National||PM Modi to address the nation at 5 pm today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation at 5 pm on Monday.  Modi has addressed the nation a number of times since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic last year, offering suggestions to people and outlining measures his government has been taking to deal with the situation. He has also made new announcements at times in the address.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-address-the-nation-at-5-pm-today-994690.html
07-06-2021||National||6,000 orders to take down social media content in 2021: Report||“The posts concerned various issues including the recent farmers’ agitation, Kashmir, Khalistan and the pandemic that could have been a threat to public order or violated section 69(A) of the IT Act. The orders were sent to Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, WhatsApp, Pinterest, Telegram. 99% of the orders have been complied with,” an anonymous source told the publication. Section 69A of the IT Act, 2000 empowers the government to block any information generated, transmitted, received, stored or hosted in any computer resource in the interest of sovereignty and security of the country, friendly relations with foreign states, public order or for preventing incitement to the commission of any cognizable offence related to these. Over 4,400 URLs from Facebook and Twitter were blocked by the government in 2020 under Section 69A of the IT Act, the Ministry of Electronics and Information and Technology told the Parliament on March 10. The order to block posts and accounts are issued by an officer appointed by the Centre. This officer chairs an inter-ministerial committee of officials from across ministries and India’s Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In). Currently, the designated officer is Pronab Mohanty, he is the deputy director-general of UIDAI. With PTI inputs Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/6000-orders-to-take-down-social-media-content-in-2021-report-994692.html
07-06-2021||National||States ease lockdown restrictions after dip in Covid-19 cases||Several state governments are lifting the strict lockdown norms and allowing some non-essential shops and services to open slowly. States like Delhi, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Odisha, Haryana, Sikkim and Jammu and Kashmir have started their 'unlock' process after witnessing a dip in Covid-19 cases after almost two months. Here’s a list of major Indian states that have eased lockdown restrictions: Delhi The Delhi government announced that from June 7, all malls and market complexes, except for the weekly markets, can open between 10 am and 8 pm, on an odd-even basis. The government has allowed private offices to run with 50 per cent staff while Group A staff of government offices will run with its total strength and Group B with 50 per cent. Maharashtra In Maharashtra, the state government has come up with a five-level plan to ease restrictions depending on the positivity rate of the district and oxygen bed occupancy recorded as of June 3. The order will come into effect starting from June 7. Areas with a Covid-19 positivity rate of five per cent or less and oxygen bed occupancy of less than 25 per cent, fall under the level-1 category and can open immediately. Initially, some non-essential shops will open, followed by malls, restaurants and marketplaces. Uttar Pradesh Apart from Gorakhpur, Meerut and Saharanpur, lockdown restrictions have been eased in every district of Uttar Pradesh. The government has allowed shops outside containment zones to operate from 7 am to 7 pm, while curfew at night and weekends will continue. Educational institutions will function online. Tamil Nadu Lockdown is extended till June 14 in Tamil Nadu with some restrictions. Standalone provision stores, vegetable shops, meat and fish stalls can open from 6 am to 5 pm in districts reporting lesser cases. Routine housekeeping in offices and residential buildings is allowed from 6 am to 5 pm, apart from 11 districts. Electricians and plumbers can go to work carrying an e-pass upon registration. Gujarat Gujarat has allowed both private and government offices to run with full staff from June 7. Also, shops were allowed to operate in the state from June 4, and home deliveries from restaurants till 10 pm have also been allowed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-ease-lockdown-restrictions-after-dip-in-covid-19-cases-994693.html
07-06-2021||National||Battle against Covid-19: ISRO develops 3 types of ventilators, to transfer technology||The Indian Space Research Organisation has developed three types of ventilators, and has come forward to transfer the technology to industry for clinical usage as the country battles the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. A low-cost and portable critical care ventilator, 'PRANA' ("Programmable Respiratory Assistance for the Needy Aid') is based on the automated compression of an AMBU (Artificial Manual Breathing unit) bag. The system has a sophisticated control system that includes airway pressure sensor, flow sensor, oxygen sensor, servo actuator as well as expiration and PEEP (Positive End Expiratory Pressure) control valves, according to an interest exploration note posted on the website of Bengaluru- headquartered space agency. The clinicians can select the ventilation mode and set the required parameters through a touch screen panel and monitor various parameters like pressure, flow, tidal volume and oxygen concentration on the same screen. The ventilator can deliver the required flow of oxygen-air mixture to the patient's lung at a desired rate set by the clinicians. It has a provision to attach external battery for backup during power failure. ISRO said PRANA supports both invasive and non-invasive ventilation modes and is capable of giving mandatory breaths (controlled by ventilator) as well as spontaneous breaths (controlled by the patient). A robust algorithm for controlled and safe ventilation of the patient is implemented which raises alarm and opens safety valves to prevent barotrauma, asphyxia and apnoea during the ventilation. Alarm is also raised in case of wrong or improper connection of the ventilation circuit or inadvertent disconnection of the hose or sensors. There are also provisions to attach bacterial viral filters at each interface to prevent cross-infection and the contamination of air. The ICU grade positive pressure mechanical ventilator titled 'VaU' (abbreviation of Ventilation assist Unit) can assist or replace the spontaneous breathing in patients under respiratory distress, ISRO said. VaU is based on a centrifugal blower which draws in filtered ambient air, compresses it and delivers it to the patient to achieve ventilation and can therefore operate without a compressed pneumatic source. Provision is also given in the ventilator to connect a high pressure oxygen source, from which oxygen is metered automatically, to achieve the desired oxygen concentration (FiO2) in the inspiratory flow. Microcontroller based control module in the ventilator acquires signals from an array of sensors and commands the electro-pneumatic components to effect closed loop control. VaU also comes with an intuitive Human Machine Interface (HMI) System running on a medical grade touch screen PC, which allows the operator to set and monitor various ventilation parameters in real time. A power supply unit, which can operate with 230VAC or an internal battery pack, is used to power the electro- pneumatic components, controller, and the HMI system of the ventilator. VaU has been configured to operate in a variety of patient/ventilator triggered invasive and non-invasive ventilation modes and has provisions to detect fault conditions and raise alarms through the HMI system to alert the operator. Gas-powered ventilator 'Space Ventilator Aided System for Trauma Assistance (SVASTA)', a basic mode for non- invasive ventilation, is well-suited for emergency use for first line treatment and as transit ventilators inside vehicles, according to ISRO. The basic design is simple, and the components can be easily mass produced for emergency use in pandemic like situations. This ventilator, which runs on compressed air, is able to perform various ventilation conditions using manual mechanical settings. The system is capable of pressure control ventilation (PCV) in its basic mode of operation with provision for setting different tidal volumes. The basic ventilator design can be re-engineered appropriately by the manufacturer to cater to various modes of ventilation with control systems, electronics, and associated software, it was stated. The prototype of the three ventilators developed at Thiruvananthapuram-based Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC), a major space research centre of ISRO, has undergone in-house test & evaluation and meets various specifications. The responsibility of obtaining mandatory certification from approving agencies of government of India before clinical usage vests with the industry, the ISRO note said. ISRO said it intends to transfer the technology of these three ventilators toPSUs/ industries/ start-ups having good track record in manufacture of critical medical/ electronic equipment manufacturing. It invited Interested industries/ entrepreneurs to submit theirexpression of interest before June 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/battle-against-covid-19-isro-develops-3-types-of-ventilators-to-transfer-technology-994698.html
07-06-2021||National||Cow takes centre stage at farmers' protest in Haryana||Taking protests to a new level in India, an unusual sight of a ''protesting" cow was witnessed at the Fatehabad district of Haryana, while demanding the release of two arrested farmers on Sunday. The farmers at the protest brought the cow inside the premises of a police station in Tohana, claiming that it was the 41st witness of the incident. The cow was left at the police station, tied to a small pole inside the premises with water and some grass kept for it. A farmer told NDTV that the police officials will be responsible for providing it with food and water. Following the release of the two arrested farmers on bail later that night, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKU) called off the plan to surround police stations in Haryana as a part of the protest. However, the farmers will continue to protest in Tohana. Vikas Sisar and Ravi Azad, two farmer leaders, were arrested for surrounding Haryana MLA Devendra Singh Babli’s home last Wednesday. Prominent farmer leader Rakesh Tikait was leading the sit-in protest at the police station in Tohana. Earlier, these farmers had registered a case against Babli for allegedly abusing them verbally while protesting against the centre’s farm laws and later he also expressed regret for the same. Many farmer groups across Haryana have been opposing the functioning of BJP-JJP leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cow-takes-centre-stage-at-farmers-protest-in-haryana-994702.html
07-06-2021||National||CBSE asks schools to submit Class 12 assessment by June 28||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Monday asked schools to complete internal and practical assessments of Class 12 students by June 28, in case they were unable to do so because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The CBSE is now working on a “well defined” and a “time-bound” criteria to declare the Class 12 results after the board examinations were canceled owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. “The schools with pending Practicals/Internal Assessments are permitted to conduct the same now in only online mode and upload marks on the provided link latest by 28.08.2021,” a circular issued by CBSE Controller of Examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj said. The previous deadline to complete the internal and practical assessment was June 11. However, some schools have not been able to complete the school-based assessments in various subjects due to the pandemic. CBSE had appointed an external examiner who would decide on a date and conduct online viva for practical examinations of project evaluations. For internal assessment, the subject teacher concerned has been asked to test students based on the instructions provided by the CBSE. The policy for conducting such assessments for private candidates would be issued soon, Bhardwaj said. Examiners were warned to “keep in mind that the marks allotted should not bunch towards the maximum marks which is highly unlikely in view of diverse levels of students”. Last week, the CBSE had constituted a 12-member panel, which will come up with “well-defined” criteria for calculation of results. The panel is expected to submit its report by June 14, following which, the board will issue instructions to the schools.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-asks-schools-to-submit-class-12-assessment-by-june-28-994703.html
07-06-2021||National||‘Misunderstandings’ with India resolved: Nepal PM K P Sharma Oli||Nepal's embattled Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli has said that “misunderstandings” with India have been resolved and that the two countries should move forward looking at the future, asserting that neighbours share both love and problems. In a recent interview to BBC Hindi Service, Oli accepted the fact that once, there were misunderstandings between the two neighbours. However, he did not elaborate on those issues. Oli, in a televised address to the nation last month, said that the outstanding issues relating to the border issue with India will be resolved through diplomatic channels on the basis of historical accords, maps and factual documents. He told BBC: “Yes, there were misunderstandings at one time, but now those misunderstandings are gone. We should not be stuck in past misunderstandings but move forward looking at the future”.  “We have to pursue a positive relationship,” the 69-year-old Nepal Prime Minister, now heading a minority government, said. Nepal's Opposition alliance has approached the Supreme Court against the "unconstitutional" move of President Bidya Devi Bhandari to dissolve the House of Representatives and fresh elections on the recommendation of Prime Minister Oli. Nepal has a unique relationship with India, unlike with any other country, Oli said. “Neighbours share both love and problems. Don’t people in Chile or Argentina have a problem?” he asked. Ties between India and Nepal came under severe strain after Nepal last year published the new political map that showed three Indian territories - Limpiyadhura, Kalapani and Lipulekh - as part of Nepal. After Nepal released the map, India reacted sharply, calling it a "unilateral act" and cautioning Kathmandu that such "artificial enlargement" of territorial claims will not be acceptable to it. India said that Nepal's action violated an understanding reached between the two countries to resolve the boundary issues through talks. The bilateral exchanges that had stalled due to the bitter boundary dispute were reset in the later part of 2020 with a series of high-level visits, as New Delhi emphasised that it sees itself as the Himalayan nation's "foremost friend" and development partner. Then Nepalese Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali visited New Delhi in January this year and held wide-ranging talks with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar covering the entire expanse of bilateral ties. Gyawali said both the countries have a common commitment to resolve the issue. "We have the common commitment to resolve it. The sanctity and security of the border is extremely important for expanding the overall developmental cooperation... We both have realised the urgency (to resolve the border issue)," he had said. Gyawali was the senior-most political leader from Nepal to visit India after relations nosedived following the boundary row. On the issue of Covid-19 pandemic, Prime Minister Oli said that India should help in a different way than other countries in controlling and ending the spread of the contagion. Nepal and India have open borders, he said, adding that India should pay special attention to help Nepal in some places. Oli said that if the Covid-19 pandemic is controlled in India and not in Nepal, it would have no meaning as the virus would ultimately spread. He thanked India for providing the vaccine for the first time and other healthcare supplies, but regretted that Nepal did not get as much help as it needed from India. There were high expectations from India, he said, adding that he would like to make a request to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “In view of these times and our friendly relations, India should extend full cooperation to Nepal. That doesn’t mean I haven’t got help from India. At this time, Nepal needs vaccinations, for which Nepal will and is urging both its neighbours and all countries.” “Whoever provides us vaccines, be it India, China, the US or the UK, it is fine to receive vaccines. It is not necessary to politicise it and we thank both our neighbours very much,” Oli said. “On one hand China has given us 1.8 million (18 lakh) vaccines and on the other India has given 2.1 million (21 lakh) vaccines. We have the help of both. We are also getting medical equipment from both. So, thank you both,” the Prime Minister added. Nepal's Covid-19 caseload crossed the 6-lakh mark on Sunday as 3,479 more peopl were infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/misunderstandings-with-india-resolved-nepal-pm-k-p-sharma-oli-994716.html
07-06-2021||National||3,621 children orphaned during Covid-19 pandemic, NCPCR tells SC||As many as 3,621 children were orphaned and 274 were found abandoned, while 26,176 lost either parent between April 1, 2020 and June 5, 2021 during the Covid-19 pandemic. The National Commission for Protection of Child's Rights told the Supreme Court that a total of 30,071 children in distress were registered on its portal 'Bal Swaraj' after collecting data from the States and Union Territories. It has uploaded the data received regarding children who have lost either their mother or father or both parents from April 1, 2020 to June 5, 2021 irrespective of their reason of death. Among the states, Maharashtra recorded highest number of 7,084 cases, followed by Uttar Pradesh with 3,172 and Rajasthan with 2,482 cases where children were either orphaned or lost one parent during the Covid-19 pandemic. Karnataka recorded that 99 children were orphaned, and six were found abandoned during this period, while 555 kids lost single parent. In response to the information sought by the top court, the Commission expressed its concern over some individuals and NGOs getting involved in collecting information of such children in distress to give them away for adoption without following due procedure mandated under the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015.    "The Commission is also concerned to note that several NGOs are seeking monetary support in the name of children impacted by Covid. However, there is no disclosure to authorities regarding actual beneficiaries. As Children in distress situations are wards of State, it is imperative for all concerned to immediately inform the statutory authority about any such child noticed by them," it said. Maintaining that the identity of the child must not be disclosed, the Commission asked the court to direct all the States to create Juvenile Justice Fund and inform general public to give donations for welfare of children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3621-children-orphaned-during-covid-19-pandemic-ncpcr-tells-sc-994733.html
07-06-2021||National||IMA writes to PM Modi, urges him to ensure 'optimum milieu' for medical professionals||In the wake of incidents of assault on doctors by relatives of patients, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Monday sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi's intervention in ensuring "optimum milieu" for medical professionals so that they can work without fear. Underlining the need for curbing the purposeful spread of misinformation against modern medicine and Covid-19 vaccination by certain people with vested interests, the IMA has appealed to the prime minister to resolve their long pending pleas. In a letter to Modi, the doctors' body said persons spreading misinformation against the Covid-19 vaccination drive must be booked and punished in accordance with law, including under relevant provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act, 2005. "All such acts of omission and commission on behalf of any person raising doubts in the minds of the common public against the protocol guidance issued by the Ministry of Health for treatment of Covid-19 infected patients – ought to be suitable punished and simultaneously, any attempt of any person to fool the gullible public and promote so-called 'magic remedies' or 'wonder drugs' without the approval of the Ministry of Health, Government of India – ought to be immediately curtailed," the IMA said in the letter. In its appeal, the doctors' body said the government should promote universal free vaccination to all above 18 years of age without leaving the vaccines to the extent of 50 per cent to the states and private hospitals. "In the midst of this pandemic, we are also deeply hurt to see the increasing incidents of physical violence against the doctors and the health care professionals in this country. The brutal assault on our young doctor in Assam and the assault on lady doctors and even on veteran practitioners across the country - are really causing mental trauma amongst the practitioners," the letter stated. "The Health Services Personnel and Clinical Establishments (Prohibition of Violence and Damage to Property) Bill, 2019, which seeks to punish people who assault on-duty doctors and other healthcare professionals by imposing a jail term of up to 10 years – which, apparently, was dismissed by the Home Ministry during an inter-ministerial consultation over the draft law, ought to be promulgated immediately along with the incorporation of provisions from the IPC/CrPC and with stipulations for a fixed time schedule for speedy conclusion of trials," it said. The doctors said all those involved in such heinous crimes ought to be punished to also create an effective deterrent for other antisocial elements who may indulge in attacking any health care professionals. The IMA said doctors who have lost their lives in the war against the Covid-19 pandemic ought to be recognised as Covid martyrs with due acknowledgment of their sacrifice and that their families ought to be duly supported by the government. The doctors' body highlighted that due to various obstacles in the procedural implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana scheme under which insurance benefits are being extended to such families, out of 754 doctors who had lost their lives in the first wave, families of only 168 doctors have been able to apply under this scheme. It urged the prime minister to create an effective mechanism for identifying and verifying all these victims through the Central Bureau of Health Intelligence (CBHI) and also ensure that support is given to all the said families as solatium at their door steps. The post Covid-19 complications of lung fibrosis, increased thrombotic events and fungal infections are on the rise and everyone needs to be prepared for the same, the IMA said. Noting that drugs needed for the mucormycosis fungal disease were not available with ease, the doctors thanked Modi for the efforts taken to import the drugs and simultaneously augment indigenous production. "We appeal to you to set up a separate research cell to study these post Covid-19 complications in detail and to come out with multi-faceted treatment guidelines in all disciplines of medicine," the IMA said. "The IMA has decided to continue to seek your intervention on the above issues and also to organise various intellectual meets, dialogues, and finally the National Protest Day on June 18 to secure smooth, cooperative and optimum milieu for Modern health care professionals which will enable them to work with much more compassion and dedication and without any fear of mental or physical harm," the letter added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ima-writes-to-pm-modi-urges-him-to-ensure-optimum-milieu-for-medical-professionals-994735.html
07-06-2021||National||Need to create more awareness about impact of nutritious food on immunity: Tomar||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday said that the current pandemic has drawn everyone's attention to the key issue of food security and creating awareness on the impact of nutritious and clean food on immunity. In today's fast-paced life, it is important to have a healthy and nutritious diet to fight diseases in order to maintain good immunity. And every step of the food chain should make an effort to keep food safe and healthy, he said. "Although coronavirus does not spread through food, the current global pandemic has drawn our attention to issues related to food security such as sanitation, antimicrobial resistance, climate change, etc," Tomar said while addressing a virtual event organised by PHD Chambers of Commerce on the occasion of World Food Safety Day. The minister also said that it has become more important for every citizen to understand and create awareness about impact of nutritious and safe food on the immune system. Stating that there are concerns about climate change not only in India but across the world because of its impact on agriculture, the minister said an absence of a holistic-balanced specific policy on food security can have a negative impact on the economy of any society or country. The minister further said the government is well aware of the importance of nutrition for the development and welfare of the society. Highlighting steps taken to ensure food and nutrition security in the country, Tomar said the government has introduced mid-day meals in schools, providing ration to pregnant and lactating mothers through Anganwadis and Public Distribution System to the poorest of the poor. The government has also launched the POSHAN Abhiyaan with an aim to make India malnutrition-free. The government has spent about Rs 15,000 crore in the year 2020-21 on nutrition related schemes / programmes to prevent malnutrition, underdevelopment and wastage in childhood. The government is taking measures in agriculture and food processing sectors to bridge nutritional gaps. Tomar noted that in the last few years, there has been a lot of progress in improving the livelihood of the vulnerable people due to the economic progress and strength of India, and the standard of living of the people is rising. On safe food, the minister mentioned Covid-19 has made governments, distribution systems and consumers aware of the prevention, detection and proper management of food-borne diseases. Any adverse food safety accident can have a global negative impact on public health, business and the economy, he said. Stating that the global level of food-borne diseases is extremely dangerous and affects people of all ages, especially children under the age of 5 and the lower class, Tomar said World Health Organisation (WHO) says that one out of every 10 people in the world fall sick after eating contaminated food and 4.5 millions of people die every year. Diarrhea is the most common disease caused by the consumption of contaminated food, which makes 550 million people sick every year and causes more than 2.5 million deaths, he said. Further, the minister said that the United Nations General Assembly declared June 7 as World Food Safety Day in the year 2018 and is happy that the work to strengthen food security efforts is being continued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-create-more-awareness-about-impact-of-nutritious-food-on-immunity-tomar-994740.html
07-06-2021||National||Some men in disguise of Antiguan police beat me mercilessly, says Mehul Choksi||Mehul Choksi, who is currently fighting a legal battle against his deportation to India in a high court in Dominica, said that some men in the disguise of Antiguan Police had physically assaulted him, leaving him unconscious. "Eight to 10 men who claimed to be from Antiguan Police beat me mercilessly. I was barely conscious. They took my phone, watch and wallet. They told me that they did not want to rob me and returned my money," Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi was quoted as saying by ANI in his complaint to Antiguan Police. The diamantaire is one of the key accused in the Rs 13,500-crore Punjab National Bank scam, along with his nephew Nirav Modi, who is also facing extradition in the United Kingdom. Choksi, on the other hand, had gained citizenship in Antigua and had moved there when the fraud case started gathering pace, taking refuge under its laws against deportation. Meanwhile, the fugitive diamantaire, who is held in Dominica after his mysterious disappearance from Antigua and Barbuda, alleged that his "friend" Barbara Jabarica was instrumental in his abduction which involved musclemen claiming to be Antiguan Police and mercenaries looking like Indians. The police have started the investigation after receiving a complaint from Choksi, Antigua Prime Minister Gaston Browne said. In his complaint to the Royal Police Force of Antigua and Barbuda accessed by PTI, Choksi has named Jabarica, Narinder Singh and Gurmit Singh besides other unidentified people as accused. Choksi has alleged that Jabarica who had developed "friendly terms with him" over the past year was an "integral part" of his abduction purportedly orchestrated by musclemen claiming to be Antiguan Police and mercenaries looking like Indians.    (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/some-men-in-disguise-of-antiguan-police-beat-me-mercilessly-says-mehul-choksi-994757.html
07-06-2021||National||SAD holds sit-in near Punjab Health Minister Sidhu's residence, demands his removal from cabinet||The opposition SAD on Monday staged a sit-in near the residence of Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu in Mohali and sought his dismissal from the cabinet over the "diversion" of coronavirus vaccine to private hospitals. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal accused the Congress-led government of "making money" by selling vaccine to private hospitals. On the one hand people are dying of Covid-19 and on the other, the Congress government is busy "making money" by selling vaccine, he charged. Badal asked Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to dismiss Sidhu for the alleged "vaccine scam". The Punjab government had last week asked private hospitals to return all vaccine stock meant for the 18-44 age group, following criticism. Badal also targeted the chief minister and said he was not bothered about the plight of people during the Covid-19 pandemic. He said the chief minister was apprised of overcharging by private hospitals from Covid patients and "black marketing" of medicines and injections, but he had done nothing to prevent this. Several senior SAD leaders, including Prem Singh Chandumajra, Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, N K Sharma and Daljit Singh Cheema, were present at the 'dharna' that continued for more than two hours. Some leaders of the SAD youth wing also held a protest outside the official residence of Sidhu in Chandigarh. Opposition parties have been attacking the Amarinder Singh-led government for allegedly diverting Covid-19 vaccine to private hospitals. The Punjab government on Friday had issued an order to take back vaccine doses given to private hospitals. The health minister had then said that the instruction of providing one-time limited vaccine doses to private hospitals had been withdrawn.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sad-holds-sit-in-near-punjab-health-minister-sidhus-residence-demands-his-removal-from-cabinet-994763.html
07-06-2021||National||Mulayam Singh Yadav receives Covid-19 vaccine||Samajwadi Party founder Mulayam Singh Yadav got himself vaccinated against Covid-19 at a private hospital here on Monday, the party said. "Today, Samajwadi Party founder and former defense minister got himself vaccinated," the Samajwadi Party tweeted from its official handle with a photograph of the leader.   Yadav, 81, was administered the vaccine at the Medanta Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mulayam-singh-yadav-receives-covid-19-vaccine-994769.html
07-06-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: Centre still weighing Pfizer, Moderna indemnity demands||The indemnity demands of international pharmaceutical companies like Pfizer and Moderna is forcing the government to weigh the commitments, since it could have long-term implications. While the indemnity demands will have an impact on domestic rules, the Centre is also concerned about the involvement of international jurisdiction in case of any dispute. To cut short the elaborate effort of seeking vaccines from Pfizer and Moderna while fulfilling their demands, the government relaxed some norms. On the other side, the government has also been trying to help domestic vaccine manufacturers ramp up their production capacity. The improved production of SII and Bharat Biotech’s vaccines will not be visible now as it takes time for manufacturing of the Covid-19 vaccines. After a persuasive pitch from the Indian government to the United States, the Biden administration removed the elements from the Defence Procurement Act that prohibited American manufacturers from exporting raw materials and components without the government’s approval. This step will help SII which depends on US supplies for vaccine production.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-centre-still-weighing-pfizer-moderna-indemnity-demands-994785.html
07-06-2021||National||Free Covid-19 vaccine for all above 18 years from June 21: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday announced a centralised procurement policy for 75 per cent of total Covid-19 vaccines, which will be provided free of cost to States for inoculation of all above the age of 18 years from June 21. The decision modifies an earlier announcement in which States were also asked to procure 25 per cent of the vaccines directly from the manufacturers. However, private sector hospitals will continue to procure 25 per cent of vaccines as decided earlier. Amid allegations of private hospitals charging a moon for the Jab, the Centre has also fixed a service charge on each dose at Rs 150 above the decided price of the vaccine, which will have to be monitored by the States. Modi announced," the central government will now buy 75 per cent of jabs from vaccine makers including 25 per cent of the state quota, and give it for free to state governments. This will be rolled out in two weeks during which Centre and states will make necessary preparations as per new guidelines. The decision announced by Modi in an address to the nation came after a number of chief ministers wrote to him regarding the difficulty in getting vaccines directly through global tenders and called for a unified procurement by the Centre. Opposition was also accusing the government of shirking its responsibility. The Prime Minister said that while the Government of India was procuring all the vaccines since January 16 to April 30, it had allowed the States to procure 25 per cent of the vaccines only after they had demanded decentralisation in vaccine procurement policy. "As the Corona cases started declining, questions were raised about lack of choice of states and some people questioned why the central government is deciding everything. 'One size does not fit all' types of arguments were forwarded...demands for decentralisation of vaccination were raised. Many types of pressures were exerted," he recalled. However, the Opposition parties rubbished the argument and shifted the blame on to the Centre. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said, "The Prime Minister inflicted a huge cost on the people of India before accepting the Opposition’s demand for centralised procurement and free vaccination for 18-44 year olds...There is no vaccine for his chronic lies." CPI-M's Sitaram Yechury accused Modi of "trying to defend his dubious discriminatory vaccine policy" and slammed him for "constant attempts to blame Opposition-run states". Delhi Dy CM Manish Sisodia expressed his gratitude to the Supreme Court saying that after its intervention, free vaccine will be available to all age groups but took potshots at the Centre saying if it wanted, it could have done this long ago. "But due to the policies of the Centre, neither the States were able to buy the vaccine nor the central government was giving it," he said. Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh tweeted "Good that Centre has decided to take over vaccine procurement & distribution for the whole country for all age groups. I had personally written to @narendramodi ji on this issue twice suggesting this as the only solution to managing #CovidVaccine crisis. The move will help Punjab & other states facing problems in sourcing vaccines to ensure early vaccination of their people. It'll also bring much-needed pricing parity - a necessity in pandemic times." On the other side, hailing the decision, BJP chief J P Nadda said whenever there has been a crisis, Modi has led from the front. Promising a massive ramp in vaccine production and procurement, Modi also said the trials of two vaccines to be administered to children are being carried amid apprehensions that children would be impacted more during a possible third wave of Coronavirus. Modi also spoke of research continuing on a nasal spray vaccine which can significantly boost India's vaccination drive. Modi said that the two made-in-India vaccines were critical for India as globally vaccine producing companies and countries are far less than the global demand for the vaccines and recalled how "in the past, India used to get vaccines decades after they were developed abroad." Amid hue and cry of vaccine shortage from states, Modi informed the nation that supply of vaccine is about to increase in coming days and that seven companies are now producing different types of vaccines. "Trials of three more vaccines are in the advanced stage," he said. He said his government raised the vaccination coverage from 60 per cent to 90 per cent in five-six years. He also claimed that the challenge of medical oxygen was also met at the war footing. The Prime Minister warned people regarding rumours on vaccination, saying some people are playing with the lives of people and there is a need to stay vigilant against them. "In many places, relaxations are being given in corona curfew but it does not mean that coronavirus has gone away. We have to remain cautious and also have to follow Covid protocols strictly," Modi said amid several states announcing easing of curbs and lifting lockdowns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/free-covid-19-vaccine-for-all-above-18-years-from-june-21-modi-994786.html
07-06-2021||National||PM Modi's address to nation: Here are the key takeaways||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday reiterated the government's efforts to procure medicines, Covid-19 vaccines and ensure strict lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the country.  "We didn’t leave any stone unturned, procured whatever we needed from across the world," PM Modi said. Stating that many of us have lost our loved ones due to Covid-19, the prime minister said, "This is the deadliest pandemic in the past 100 years. The modern world has not seen such a pandemic. Our country has fought this pandemic at many levels." Here are the key takeaways from his address to the nation:  1. New health infrastructure has been developed in the past one and a half years with Covid-19 hospitals, ventilators beds, to preparing a network of testing labs, PM Modi said.  2. PM Modi noted that during the second wave in April-May, demand for medical oxygen increased at an unprecedented rate. "India never faced such a huge demand of oxygen ever before, and for this, the country did everything possible to meet the demand," the PM said. 3. He stated that vaccination is the only shield but there are only a few vaccine companies in the world. "The Covid-19 vaccine is a lifesaver," he said.   4. He lauded the efforts of scientists across the nation for preparing a vaccine against Covid-19 in such a short span. "There were fears that how would India save such a big population from the pandemic. But we managed to launch two made-in-India vaccines in no time. Our scientists proved it that we are not behind any other country," Modi said. 5. "India is fighting against the Covid-19 pandemic on multiple fronts," the prime minister said.  6. He also said that there is a very low number of vaccine manufacturers in the world compared to its demand. "Imagine what would have happened in India if we didn't have vaccines. If you look at the history of the last 50-60 years, you will know that it used to take decades for India to get vaccines from abroad," PM Modi said. 7. The prime minister said that work on three more Covid-19 vaccines are in the advanced trial stage and research on a nasal vaccine is also being done.  8. PM Modi announced a centralised vaccination drive where all vaccines will be procured by the Government of India and it will be given to States for free. 9. "Twenty-five per cent of vaccination work with states will now be handled by the Centre, it will be implemented in the coming two weeks. Both State and Centre will work as per new guidelines in the coming two weeks. From June 21, free vaccines will be given to all those who are above 18 years," PM Modi said. 10. "No state government of the country will have to spend anything on the vaccine. Till now, crores of people of the country have got free vaccine. Only the Government of India will provide free vaccine to all the countrymen," the prime minister said. 11. The government has decided to extend Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana till Diwali. About 80 crore beneficiaries will be provided free ration, under the scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-address-to-nation-here-are-the-key-takeaways-994787.html
07-06-2021||National||Research on nasal Covid-19 vaccine under way in India: How does it work?||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that research on nasal Covid-19 vaccine is under way in the country, and if it turns out to be successful, the vaccination process will further speed up. "Research is going on for a nasal spray vaccine, which if successful can significantly boost India's vaccination drive," he said. What is nasal vaccine? A nasal vaccine is a vaccine administered to a person via the nose and does not require a needle. It induces immunity through the inner surface of the nose, a surface that naturally comes in contact with many airborne microbes.    The study, published in the journal Cell, noted that, unlike other Covid-19 vaccines, the one delivered via the nose targets the initial site of infection, and causes a more widespread immune response.  Krishna Ella, the chairman of Bharat Biotech, had said the company is focusing on the intranasal vaccine as existing vaccines require two-dose intramuscular injections and a country like India needs 2.6 billion syringes and needles which may add to pollution. "One drop of vaccine in each of the nostrils is sufficient," he had said. PM Modi also announced that from June 1, all above 18 years will get the Covid-19 vaccine for free.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/research-on-nasal-covid-19-vaccine-under-way-in-india-how-does-it-work-994788.html
07-06-2021||National||Harbhajan Singh offers apology for his Instagram post featuring Bhindranwale||Veteran Indian off-spinner Harbhajan Singh on Monday unconditionally apologised for a social media post in which he shared a picture of Khalistani militant Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale to pay homage to those who died in 'Operation Bluestar' of 1984. The 40-year-old off-spinner said he posted a WhatsApp forward on the 37th anniversary of the operation without realising that the man in the picture was Bhindranwale. "I just wish to clarify and apologise for an instagram post yesterday. It was a WhatsApp forward that I posted in a haste and without even realising the content used and what it signified and stood for," he said in an apology note posted on Twitter. "That was my mistake I accept, and at no stage do I subscribe to the views in that post or support the people whose picture were carried. I am a sikh who will fight for India and not against India. "This is my unconditional apology for hurting the sentiments of my nation. In fact any anti-national group against my people, I do not support and never will," he added. Operation Bluestar was an Army operation which was carried out in 1984 to flush out militants from the Golden Temple in Amritsar. Bhindranwale was the leader of that insurgent movement and was killed along with and several other people during the operation. "I have given my blood and sweat for this country for 20 years and will never ever support anything that is anti-India," Harbhajan asserted. The veteran has played 103 Tests for India, claiming 417 wickets in them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harbhajan-singh-offers-apology-for-his-instagram-post-featuring-bhindranwale-994793.html
07-06-2021||National||Centre mulling to allow domestic air travel without Covid-negative report post-vaccination||Central ministries, including the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, are currently discussing the matter with various other stakeholders, they added. Currently, a number of states, including Odisha, Meghalaya and Maharashtra, ask passengers coming from outside to carry a Covid-negative report with them wherein the test sample was taken not more than 72 hours before the journey. Domestic airlines, which have already taken a major hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic, have told the civil aviation ministry that such state-level requirements are hampering the growth of air travel and the fully-vaccinated passengers should be allowed to travel without Covid-negative reports, the officials said. Domestic air travel had reached around three lakh passengers per day by the end of February. However, the second wave of the pandemic has reduced it to around 85,000 passengers per day. To conserve cash and survive this tough time, all Indian airlines have taken measures such as cutting the employees' salaries, firing employees and renegotiating leases with aircraft lessors.  Since health is a state subject, the Centre is discussing with the states a way through which domestic air passengers, who have got both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, can be allowed to travel without the test reports, the officials said. The Centre is also in talks with other aviation stakeholders such as airlines, airports etc. on how it can be done, they added. While the government is considering allowing domestic air travel without Covid test reports for those who have got both doses of the vaccine, it has opposed a similar measure for international travel. At a G7 meeting of health ministers on June 4, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan expressed India's "concern and strong opposition" to allow vaccine passports for international travel at this juncture of the pandemic. "With vaccine coverage as a percentage of population in developing countries still low compared to developed countries, such an initiative could prove to be highly discriminatory," he said. Meanwhile, on May 28, the airlines were asked by the Centre to operate only 50 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights from June 1, instead of 80 per cent permitted earlier. The decision was taken "in view of the sudden surge in the number of active Covid-19 cases across the country, decrease in passenger traffic and passenger load factor (occupancy rate)", the civil aviation ministry said in an order. When the government resumed the scheduled domestic flight operations in the country on May 25 last year after a two-month break, the ministry had permitted the carriers to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic services. This cap was gradually increased to 80 per cent by December last year. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-mulling-to-allow-domestic-air-travel-without-covid-negative-report-post-vaccination-994814.html
07-06-2021||National||BJP expels Hooch tragedy accused from party; NSA to be invoked against 5 arrested||The BJP on Monday expelled Rishi Sharma, the alleged kingpin in the hooch tragedy case, from the party. District president of BJP Rishipal Pal Singh has cancelled Rishi Sharma's primary membership, a party press release said. Aligarh Police has started the process of charging all the five main accused including Sharma, who was arrested on Sunday, under the stringent National Security Act and the Gangster Act, Senior Superintendent of Police Kalanidhi Naithani said. The accused are being interrogated and are expected to reveal the entire network of the liquor mafia, police sources said. They said Rishi Sharma was in disguise and was hiding among a group of sadhus at an ashram at Garhmukteshwar near Hapur to evade the police. Police had managed to trace his whereabouts from the video footage of one of his close associates with whom he was last seen when the news of the liquor tragedy, which has claimed at least 35 lives, started trickling on the night of May 27. During the past week, police raided the premises of several of Sharma's associates in different states including Himachal Pradesh. After they traced him to Garhmukteshwar Ashram on Saturday evening, a police party rushed there only to discover that he had escaped. With the help of some informers, he was tracked down at the Aligarh-Bulandshahr border where he was ultimately nabbed after a manhunt lasting nine days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-expels-hooch-tragedy-accused-from-party-nsa-to-be-invoked-against-5-arrested-994815.html
07-06-2021||National||IOC signs up to invest Rs 24,000 cr in Gujarat refinery expansion, petchem project||State-owned Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) on Monday said it has signed up an investment pact for adding petrochemical and lube plants to its previously announced plan to expand crude oil processing capacity at its Koyali refinery at Vadodara in Gujarat. Expanding refining capacity by 4.3 million tonnes per annum to 18 million tonnes and adding plants to produce 500,000 tonnes per annum of polypropylene and 2,35,000 tonnes of lube oil base stock at the site would see total investment of about Rs 24,000 crore. "Chief Minister of Gujarat Vijaybhai Rupani and Union Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas & Steel Dharmendra Pradhan today presided over an MOU signing ceremony for 'Investment Promotion' between the Government of Gujarat and IndianOil for setting up a Petrochemical and Lube Integration (LuPech) Project and Acrylics / Oxo Alcohol Project along with other infrastructure projects at Gujarat Refinery," a company statement said. The LuPech project will produce import substitutes like Lube Oil Base Stock (LOBS) and Polypropylene. The Acrylics/Oxo Alcohol Project at Dumad and Gujarat Refinery will manufacture value-added Butyl Acrylate, a key ingredient for paints, coatings, adhesives, textile chemicals, plasticizer industry, and other similar products. The inclusion of the petrochemical-lube integration component comes as part of IOC's strategy to create a building block for future production of niche chemicals with a potential to increase petrochemical and specialty products integration index on incremental crude throughput to improve margins. "These projects will strengthen the Corporation’s readiness for venturing into petrochemical projects like PVC, Styrene, Acrylonitrile, Poly-Methyl Methacrylate and Ethylene Oxide in future. The Petrochemicals & Specialty products (Gr-II/III LOBS) integration index based on additional crude oil added under this project is estimated to be 20.7 per cent," it said. IOC said MoU was also signed for infrastructure facilities at Dumad for Koyali-Ahmednagar-Solapur Pipeline and tank truck loading facility for Linear Alkyl Benzene (LAB) - a feed-stock for detergent industries. The other infrastructure projects envisaged are a new flare system at the Gujarat refinery and a hydrogen dispensing facility for Fuel Cell Electric Vehicles (FCEV). The refinery will be implementing India's first hydrogen dispensing facility as a clean fuel initiative. This facility aims to fuel hydrogen buses plying between Vadodara and Kevadia /Sabarmati Ashram. Giving details, IOC Chairman SM Vaidya said, "Gujarat Refinery is now poised to grow to 18 MMTPA capacity. New units for the production of polypropylene, butyl acrylate and lube oil base stocks will also be added to the refinery's portfolio". These projects, he said, will enable large-scale direct and indirect employment opportunities during the peak construction period and later for the operation of these facilities. During the construction stage, around 125 million person-hours of employment will be generated. The projects aims to equip the plant with greater flexibility to weather future disruptions in the supply-demand scenario and more closely integrate its production with downstream petrochemical units.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ioc-signs-up-to-invest-rs-24000-cr-in-gujarat-refinery-expansion-petchem-project-994830.html
07-06-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Centre to take care of vaccination process, says PM Modi||In your evening news brief, Centre to take care of the entire vaccination process, says PM Narendra Modi; a writ petition was filed at Nepal's Supreme Court demanding nullification of the Cabinet reshuffle by Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli and Mehul Choksi says some men in the disguise of Antiguan Police had physically assaulted him.  Prime Minister Modi addressed the nation today at 5 pm about the vaccination strategy and said that  Centre would take care of the entire vaccination process. This will start in two weeks time. From June 21, all above 18 years will get free vaccine, he said.  Also, Modi said that the free food grain programme for the poor will be extended till November. A writ petition was filed at Nepal's Supreme Court on Monday demanding nullification of the Cabinet reshuffle by Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli, arguing that being a caretaker premier he did not have the executive power to reshuffle or induct new ministers. The writ filed by senior advocate Dinesh Tripathi urged the apex court to rescind the caretaker prime minister's decision to induct new ministers as it goes against the spirit of the Constitution, The Himalayan Times reported. Mehul Choksi, who is currently fighting a legal battle against his deportation to India in a high court in Dominica, said that some men in the disguise of Antiguan Police had physically assaulted him, leaving him unconscious. "Eight to 10 men who claimed to be from Antiguan Police beat me mercilessly. I was barely conscious. They took my phone, watch and wallet. They told me that they did not want to rob me and returned my money," Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi was quoted as saying by ANI in his complaint to Antiguan Police. Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-centre-to-take-care-of-vaccination-process-says-pm-modi-994831.html
07-06-2021||National||SC invites suggestion from stakeholders on live-streaming||In a move to start live-streamlining of court proceedings, the e-committee of the Supreme Court has released the draft model rules inviting inputs, feedback and suggestions from all stakeholders. Supreme Court Judge and Chairperson of e-Committee, Justice D Y Chandrachud has written a letter to all Chief Justices of the High Courts seeking inputs and suggestions on the draft model rules for live-streaming and recording of court proceedings.  In the letter, Justice Chandrachud said the right of access to justice, guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution encompasses the right to access live court proceedings.  “To imbue greater transparency, inclusivity and foster access to justice, the e-Committee has undertaken the project of live streaming of court proceedings on priority," a press release said. It further said that this will enable access to live court proceedings, including on matters of public interest to citizens, journalists, civil society, academicians and law students on a real-time basis, which was not otherwise possible owing to geographical, logistical or infrastructural issues. A sub-committee consisting of judges of the Bombay, Delhi, Madras and Karnataka High Courts was constituted to frame model live streaming rules.  The committee held extensive deliberations and took into account the principles enunciated in the decision of the Supreme Court in Swapnil Tripathi Vs the Supreme Court of India (2018).  The top court decision included the concerns of privacy and confidentiality of litigants and witnesses, matters relating to business confidentiality, prohibition or restriction of access to proceedings or trials stipulated by central or state legislation and in some cases to preserve the larger public interest owing to the sensitivity of the case.  The draft model rules are now available on the website of the e-committee. The e-committee of the Supreme Court along with the Department of Justice, Government of India, was working under the National Policy and Action Plan for implementation of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in the Indian Judiciary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-invites-suggestion-from-stakeholders-on-live-streaming-994840.html
07-06-2021||National||Passengers injured as Vistara's Mumbai-Kolkata flight hit severe turbulence just before landing||Eight passengers were injured on Monday when an aircraft belonging to Vistara encountered severe turbulence minutes before landing at the Kolkata Airport. According to a source at the airport, out of the eight injured passengers in Vistara’s Mumbai-Kolkata flight, three are in critical condition. Flight UK 775 landed at the airport at 4.25 pm on Monday. “Eight passengers were injured as the aircraft encountered turbulence. Three of them sustained critical injuries and five sustained minor injuries. The three have been admitted at the Charnock Hospital in Kolkata,” Airport source said. They further revealed that the aircraft carrying 123 passengers encountered turbulence due to bad weather at around 4 pm when it was around 25 nautical miles from the city. A Vistara spokesperson said that “the incident is being investigated on priority basis.” He also said that the airline was saddened by the unfortunate incident the passenger had to face.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/passengers-injured-as-vistaras-mumbai-kolkata-flight-hit-severe-turbulence-just-before-landing-994842.html
07-06-2021||National||'Biden administration could use US firms in India to push clean energy adoption'||A senior US official suggested that the United States could use the power of American private sector companies to try to drive clean energy initiatives in countries, notably like India. Speaking at virtual briefing for international journalists organised by the Foreign Press Centre of the US State Department on combating the climate crisis, Gina McCarthy, the National Climate advisor to President Joe Biden said that the United States “should be using the power” of its private sector as well as public sector investments to try to drive clean energy initiatives in India. McCarthy clarified that the aim of the Biden administration is not to cajole India into adopting clean energy technologies but rather, through US companies operating in the subcontinent, allow India and other countries to see the underlying cost-saving benefits of a clean energy economy plus improved public health. "Our aim is to advance clean energy to the extent that it becomes the preferred alternative, where it becomes less and less expensive, mandates are no longer necessary and it becomes the future that everybody demands,” she said. US officials believe that India’s own commitments to a clean energy economy potentially opens the way for more green power initiatives in the subcontinent. This could leave India potentially open to being a major beneficiary for new advances in US clean power such as green hydrogen, better carbon capture use technology and the next generation of nuclear power. “We are providing incentives for our businesses, both here and abroad, in kind – to share the most innovative technologies that they have made available and to be advancing those in other countries,” McCarthy said. Within the United States, the existing Biden administration's private sector prerogative is said to be to encourage American companies to move away from investments in coal or investments in natural gas. While the US government does not have a mandate to press private American companies to push clean energy technologies in other nations, the Biden administration does view American private sector companies as quasi-ambassadors of American values. “We do work with them to try to make sure that their work internationally reflects the values of the United States of America as well as our influence– in terms of where technologies are heading and where the opportunities lie,” McCarthy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biden-administration-could-use-us-firms-in-india-to-push-clean-energy-adoption-994847.html
07-06-2021||National||PM Modi extends free ration scheme for poor till November||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday announced that the poor would continue to get free food grains till November as the country fights against Covid-19. Modi, in his address to the nation, said the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY), which grants five kg free food grains per person a month over and above the National Food Security Act entitlements, has been extended till Diwali. “Till November, 80 crore people will get free ration as per their entitlements. Our only intention is to ensure that no one sleeps with an empty stomach,” Modi said. The PMGKAY was introduced last year for three months after the government had announced a lockdown to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. The scheme was later extended till November. In April 2021, the Centre had re-introduced the PMGKAY initiative for two months – May and June – as the country battled the second wave of Covid-19. According to the government, it had provided 28 lakh tonne foodgrains free of cost to about 55 crore beneficiaries in May through ration shops under PMGKAY. Under the PMGKAY last year, over 200 lakh tonne of free food grains were provided amounting to a fiscal outgo of over Rs 75,000 crore, covering 80.96 crore NFSA beneficiaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-extends-free-ration-scheme-for-poor-till-november-994853.html
07-06-2021||National||Mehul Choksi names 'friend' Babara, Indian agents in his 'abduction' complaint to Antigua Police||Fugitive Diamantaire Mehul Choksi who is held in Dominica after his mysterious disappearance from Antigua and Barbuda has alleged that his "friend" Barbara Jabarica was instrumental in his abduction which involved musclemen claiming to be Antiguan Police and mercenaries looking like Indians. The police have started the investigation after receiving a complaint from Choksi, Antigua Prime Minister Gaston Browne said. In his complaint to the Royal Police Force of Antigua and Barbuda accessed by PTI, Choksi has named Jabarica, Narinder Singh and Gurmit Singh besides other unidentified people as accused. Choksi has alleged that Jabarica who had developed "friendly terms with him" over the past year was an "integral part" of his abduction purportedly orchestrated by musclemen claiming to be Antiguan Police and mercenaries looking like Indians. The absconding businessman, wanted in Rs 13,500 crore banking scam in India, is getting treatment under detention at the Dominica China Friendship Hospital, Roseau.  Choksi who was held for illegal entry in the neighbouring island country of Dominica has alleged that he was invited by Jabarica to her home at Marina in Antigua on May 23 at around 5 pm. The diamantaire claimed she used to reside opposite his residential complex in Jolly Harbour, before moving to Coco Bay Hotel, and had developed friendly terms with his staff and even accompanied him on walks regularly. "On May 23, 2021, she requested that we deviate from our normal schedule of meeting in a public place directly, and asked me to pick her up at her house, which is located on the road next to the Marina, numbered as 407," he said. Choksi alleged that when he went to her house she asked him to wait inside as she would finish her wine before going out. While he was waiting, 8-10 musclemen claiming to be Antiguan Policemen barged in and beat him to a pulp, took his wallet, Rolex watch, mobile phone, and tased him before handcuffing, gagging and blindfolding him, the businessman claimed. Choksi said they told him that if tried to resist he would be booked for "obstruction of justice". He alleged that they bundled him on a wheelchair in a comatose state and took him through the backside of Jabarica's residence on a small watercraft. "The manner in which Jabarica conducted herself, including by not helping me get free from the said persons and her subsequent lack of initiative in contacting the police clearly points to the fact that she was an integral part of this entire scheme to kidnap me," Choksi alleged. He claimed that he was then transferred on a bigger vessel where two Indian men who looked like highly experienced mercenaries or contractors "hired specifically for this purpose of detaining and abducting me in such a brutal and unlawful manner" and three men of Caribbean decent were present. The Indian men told him that he was under surveillance for over an year with meticulous details of his schedule maintained by them. He was then grilled about his off shore account, money, and bank accounts, Choksi claimed. Choksi alleged he was made to speak to a person named Narinder Singh who claimed to be in-charge of the operation. Singh allegedly pressurised him to co-operate with the captors and state that he had accompanied them on his own free volition which of course was not true, Choksi alleged. "Upon hearing me resist, he threatened me by promising that physical harm would befall upon me and my family if I did not comply. He also said to leave my friendship with Barbara Jabarica out of the picture as it would lead to a public scandal and cause grievous hurt to my wife," the complaint alleged. Choksi alleged that after nearly 15-17 hours, the boat stopped at around 9.30-10 am Antiguan time and he was told that the destination had arrived. "I was told that I had been brought to this special location to give an interview to a high ranking Indian politician," Choksi alleged. Choksi claimed he was told that his citizenship would be “fixed” in Dominica and he would soon be repatriated to India. The purported plan hit a roadblock as Dominica was closed and we had to stay on the boat all day, claimed the fugitive businessman. "This caused much dismay amongst the crew members as they were constantly getting radio calls enquiring as to why my ‘operation’ had not yet been completed. They were getting harried as they were supposed to have handed me over to the ‘authorities’,” Choksi alleged. Choksi said 1500 dollars robbed from him were given to the boatman claiming that after the interview, he would take him back to Antigua. However, there was a "change of plan" and Choksi was told that he would be handed over to Dominican Coast Guard. After a long wait, the Dominican Police chief along with the coast guard informed him that he was caught because of an Interpol Red Notice. At the port, Choksi was handed over to an officer who took him to the Central Police Station. Choksi claimed he was not allowed to call his legal team, refused any change of clothes and denied medical treatment at the police station. "Looking back, I have no doubts that the agents if given enough reason and opportunity, would have not thought twice before killing me. They seemed detached from the realm of law and procedures,” he said. According to Choksi, the only way those agents could have had access to some private information regarding his household and schedule, would be through their co-conspirator Barbara Jabarica. After he was given access to his lawyers in Dominca, they filed a habeas corpus petition before the high court which had adjourned the hearing. He was also brought before a Roseau magistrate, on the orders of high court, to answer charges of illegal entry where he pleaded not guilty but was denied bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mehul-choksi-names-friend-babara-indian-agents-in-his-abduction-complaint-to-antigua-police-994854.html
07-06-2021||National||Dhruv helicopter makes emergency landing in eastern Ladakh||A Dhruv helicopter of the Indian Air Force made an emergency landing at a forward helipad in eastern Ladakh on Monday, sources said. Two pilots and another personnel onboard the advanced light helicopter were safe, the sources said, adding they have already been evacuated. The incident took place around 9:30 am, they said, adding the three personnel sustained minor injuries. The reason for the emergency landing is not immediately known. Dhruv is an indigenously designed and developed multi-role and multi-mission helicopter. It is a twin-engine helicopter in the 5.5-ton weight category.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dhruv-helicopter-makes-emergency-landing-in-eastern-ladakh-994861.html
07-06-2021||National||Centre issues SOPs to administer second dose of Covishield before 84 days for certain categories||Students, sports persons and job seekers will now be eligible for an expedited second dose of Covishield vaccine to facilitate their international travel. The Union Health Ministry, on Monday, issued Standard Operating Procedures for vaccination of those planning to undertake international travel for education purposes, joining employment and as part of the Indian contingent to the Tokyo Olympics. However, the second dose of Covishield will only be administered after 28 days from the date of the first dose. Several students, sportspersons and job seekers had petitioned the government for faster vaccination to help them travel abroad to meet their education, job or sporting event calender. Of the two vaccines administered in India, only Covishield is recognised by the World Health Organisation. The SOPs ask the states to designate a competent authority in each district to grant permission for such administration of the second dose of Covishield. The competent authority shall check whether a period of 28 days has elapsed after the date of the first dose and the genuineness of the purpose of travel, based on documents related to admission offers or the associated formal communications for the purpose of education. It will also check whether a person is already studying in a foreign educational institution and has to return to that institution for continuing his or her education, interview calls for a job or offer letters for taking up employment and the nomination to participate in the Tokyo Olympic games, before allowing the administration of the second dose. This special dispensation will be available to the students who have to undertake foreign travel for the purpose of education, those who have to take up jobs in foreign countries, athletes, sportspersons and the accompanying staff of the Indian contingent attending the Tokyo Olympic games. The ministry advised that vaccination may be availed in such cases through passport, which is one of the permissible ID documents, according to the current guidelines, so that the passport number is printed in the vaccination certificate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-issues-sops-to-administer-second-dose-of-covishield-before-84-days-for-certain-categories-994862.html
07-06-2021||National||Government issues advisory for rational use of Remdesivir in Covid-19 treatment||The government on Monday issued an advisory for rational use of Remdesivir in Covid-19 treatment, underlining that the anti-viral drug must be advised by senior faculty members directly involved in the patient's care. The drug should be provided by the hospitals, and patient's relatives should not be asked to procure it from the retail market, it said. To stop the misuse of Remdesivir, the government further recommended that if the drug is to be advised or ordered during odd hours, it should be done by the duty doctor after a telephonic consultation with a senior faculty member, specialist or a unit in-charge, and that advise or order must be written and it should bear the name, signature and stamp of the doctor concerned. According to the advisory, every hospital needs to set up a special drug committee (SDC) to review the use of Remdesivir at the facility periodically. It would be preferable to have a pharmacology professor or faculty as a member of the SDC wherever available. The committee should share its findings with the clinicians periodically to ensure rational and judicious use of Remdesivir. "Remdesivir should be procured and provided by the hospitals only; the patient's attendants/ relatives should not be asked to procure Remdesivir from retail market," the advisory underlined. The MOHFW, AIIMS and the ICMR had jointly issued treatment guidelines for management of Covid-19 patients in the form of a guidance/algorithm on 23rd April. But this guidance/algorithm does not prevent misuse/overuse of Remdesivir, the advisory said. The purpose of this document is to stop irrational use or overprescription of the reserve/experimental/emergency-use authorisation drug Remdesivir. For this reason, the Joint Monitoring Group, under the chairmanship of the Director General of Health Services, took into consideration findings of some studies to issue the advisory. The studies he took note of are -- The 'Adaptive Covid-19 Treatment Trial' that found Remdesivir is useful in cases of Covid-19 with SpO2 lesser than 94 per cent on room air (moderate to severe cases) if it is administered within seven to 10 days of illness. Remdesivir led to a shorter median time from randomisation to recovery (10 days versus 15 days with placebo) and may have reduced the time to hospital discharge (12 days versus 17 days) but did not show a mortality benefit, it showed. The 'Solidarity Trial' conducted by WHO in 30 countries from March 2020 at 405 hospitals: 11,330 adults underwent randomisation; 2,750 were assigned to receive Remdesivir. The interim results of the 'WHO Solidarity trial' published in December 2020 showed that Remdesivir had little or no effect on hospitalised patients with Covid-19, as indicated by overall mortality, initiation of ventilation, and duration of hospital stay. In view of the above, Remdesivir is to be used only in select moderate/severe hospitalised Covid-19 patients on supplemental oxygen as it is a reserve drug approved under Emergency Use Authorization only based on limited scientific evidence globally. It is not indicated in mild Covid-19 patients who are in home care/Covid Care Centres. Physicians/doctors are advised to exercise extreme caution in using Remdesivir to stop its misuse as this is only an experimental drug with potential to harm, has relatively high cost and has limited availability, the advisory said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-issues-advisory-for-rational-use-of-remdesivir-in-covid-19-treatment-994866.html
07-06-2021||National||Twitter seeks more time from Centre to comply with new IT rules||Microblogging platform Twitter had again asked for more time to comply with the new social media intermediary rules which came into force from May 26. The US-based social media company was learnt to have informed the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology that it intends to comply with the rules but needs more time due to the Covid-19 pandemic situation in India. "We have assured the Government of India that Twitter is making every effort to comply with the new guidelines, and an overview on our progress has been duly shared. We will continue our constructive dialogue with the Indian Government," the spokesperson said on Monday. Twitter has been and remains deeply committed to India, and serving the vital public conversation taking place on the service, the spokesperson said. In its notice, MeitY had said that Twitter's refusal to comply with the rules demonstrated the micro-blogging site's "lack of commitment and efforts towards providing a safe experience for the people of India on its platform". "Despite being operational in India for more than a decade, it is beyond belief that Twitter Inc has doggedly refused to create mechanism that will enable the people of India to resolve their issues on the platform in a timely and transparent manner and through fair processes, by India based, clearly identified resources," the ministry had said in the notice. According to the government, most of the social media platforms Facebook, Whatsapp, Koo and Telegram have started following new rules and appointed Indian residents as compliance and grievances redressal officers. The new rules were announced in February,  which will come into force from  May 26, requires large social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer, monitoring of objectionable content, preparing monthly compliance report and removal of objectionable content. The new rules also specify that social media firms adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification. Non-compliance with the rules would result in these platforms losing the intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-seeks-more-time-from-centre-to-comply-with-new-it-rules-994869.html
07-06-2021||National||'Central Vista project to save Rs 1,000 crore rent per annum'||Amid criticism for redevelopment of Central Vista, a government official said the project would save Rs 1,000 crore rent per annum, which currently the government spends to accommodate various offices.  As per proposal, many offices, which are currently housing in different buildings in central Delhi, will be accommodated in the newly constructed buildings in Central Vista, said an official in the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. "Several offices of the central government are scattered in different places and many are in rented buildings that require huge amount. Once entire Central Vista project gets completed, all offices will come under one place. This will not only save the rent, but also have better co-ordinated work places," said an official. The Central Vista redevelopment project involves building a new Parliament building, offices to Members of Parliament, re-modelling of Central Vista Avenue (Rajpath), constructing new residences for the Vice President and the Prime Minister, inter-connected common secretariat comprising 10 new buildings and demolishing some buildings on either side of the Rajpath. At present, only two projects - new Parliament building and Central Vista Avenue - are  being built. As per the plan, the government will convert the North and South Blocks into museums that will have around 80,000 sqm display area, which will be much larger than the National Museum. According to Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, overall cost of the project is Rs 20,000 crore, which is a gross rough estimate, and the project is expected to be completed by 2026. The Ministry said that none of the heritage buildings will be demolished. The government has been facing criticism from the Opposition for executing the Central Vista Redevelopment Project amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Hitting out at the Opposition political parties, Union Housing and Urban Affars Minister Hardeep Puri said a false narrative is being created over the central project. "It is not a vanity project. This is a project of necessity," Puri asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-vista-project-to-save-rs-1000-crore-rent-per-annum-994871.html
07-06-2021||National||GoM on GST waiver for Covid-19 essentials submits report||The Group of Ministers (GoM) set up to decide on GST relief on Covid essentials - including PPE kits, masks and vaccines - submitted its report on Monday. The GoM was set up after the GST council meeting on May 28 and was mandated to submit report by June 8. Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad Sangma on Monday met Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. The report of the panel of state ministers would be discussed in the next GST council meet, which is expected soon. The GoM on GST concessions on Covid relief items was mandated to examine whether a GST rate cut or exemption is required for medical grade oxygen, pulse oximeters, hand sanitizers, oxygen therapy equipment like concentrators, ventilators, PPE kits, N-95 and surgical masks and temperature checking equipment. Besides, the panel would also look into Covid vaccines, drugs, and medicines for treatment and testing kits for coronavirus detection. The other members of the GoM are Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitinbhai Patel, Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, Goa Transport Minister Mauvin Godinho, finance ministers of Kerala (K N Balagopal), Odisha (Niranjan Pujari), Telangana (T Harish Rao) and UP (Suresh Kr Khanna). The GST Council on May 28 left taxes on COVID-19 vaccines and medical supplies unchanged after the BJP- and Opposition-ruled states sparred over whether the tax cut benefits will reach the common man. Congress and other Opposition ruled states have been demanding a reduction in taxes but the central government felt the move may not result in tangible gains for people. Currently, 5 per cent GST is levied on domestically manufactured vaccines, while it is 12 per cent for COVID drugs and oxygen concentrators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gom-on-gst-waiver-for-covid-19-essentials-submits-report-994878.html
07-06-2021||National||India ramps up genome sequencing of Sars-Cov-2 virus by adding 18 more laboratories||India has ramped up genome sequencing of the Sars-Cov-2 virus by adding 18 more laboratories to the consortium to understand the spread of variants of Covid-19 prevalent in the country. The Indian Sars-Cov-2 Genomic Consortium (INSACOG) has now grown into a 28-laboratory consortium from the 10-lab group when it was set up in January, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan told a meeting of the Group of Ministers on Covid-19 response on Monday. The INSACOG laboratories screen samples from states and international travellers to understand the spread of mutations of Sars-Cov-2 variants prevalent in the country. “As of now, the 10 national laboratories under INSACOG have sequenced 30,000 samples,” the minister said, adding that the new laboratories added to the consortium would boost the capacity of genome sequencing. Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/free-covid-19-vaccine-for-all-above-18-years-from-june-21-modi-994786.html Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/free-covid-19-vaccine-for-all-above-18-years-from-june-21-modi-994786.html According to the INSACOG, the second wave of Covid-19 cases in the country correlated with the rise in B.1.617 variant of the Sars-CoV-2, which was first detected in India and has since been named the Delta variant. When the INSACOG consortium was set up in January, it was tasked to test 5% of all the positive samples in every state to detect variants of the Sars-Cov-2  in the country. However, scientists had later admitted that they were way short of the target due to a variety of reasons, including the integrity of samples collected from states and inadequate viral load in the samples. On mucormycosis, the health minister said 28,252 cases of the fungal infection have been reported from across the country so far of which 86% have a history of Covid-19 and 62.3% that of diabetes. Maharashtra has reported the maximum number of mucormycosis cases (6,339) followed by Gujarat (5,486), he said after chairing the 28th meeting of the GoM meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-ramps-up-genome-sequencing-of-sars-cov-2-virus-by-adding-18-more-laboratories-994879.html
07-06-2021||National||Pune fire: PM condoles loss of lives; announces Rs 2 lakh for next of kin of deceased||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday condoled the loss of lives due to a fire at a factory in Pune and announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each for the next of kin of the deceased. He also announced that Rs 50,000 would be provided to those injured. At least 12 workers, mostly women, were killed and five others missing after a major fire broke out at a chemical firm in an industrial area in Pune district on Monday afternoon, fire department officials said. According to the officials, the fire broke out at SVS Aqua Technologies, which manufactures chlorine dioxide and is located in the Pirangut MIDC area of Mulshi tehsil on the outskirts of Pune city. "The Prime Minister has announced an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from the PMNRF for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to a fire at an industrial unit in Pune, Maharashtra. Rs. 50,000 would be provided to those injured," a tweet by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said. "Pained by the loss of lives due to a fire at a factory in Pune, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families," Modi tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pune-fire-pm-condoles-loss-of-lives-announces-rs-2-lakh-for-next-of-kin-of-deceased-994880.html
07-06-2021||National||CBSE tells schools to complete pending class 12 practicals online, submit marks by June 28||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Monday asked schools to conduct their pending class 12 practicals and internal assessments only in online mode, and submit marks by June 28. In a letter sent to schools, CBSE Examination Controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said that it has been observed that some schools have not been able to complete the school-based assessments in various subjects due to the Covid pandemic. "Thus, the schools with pending practicals and internal assessments are permitted to conduct the same now in only online mode and upload marks on the provided link latest by June 28," he said. Outlining the process for practical exams, he said the external examiner will take viva-voce of students in online mode, with the internal examiner also present on-screen. "Screenshot of all three has to be taken by the school as proof of the test being conducted. Students have to be informed of the online exam date well in advance, though the actual link shall be given only on exam day," he added. The CBSE had in February asked affiliated schools to conduct Class 10 and Class 12 practical exams, internal assessments and projects between March 1 and June 11. The board had also directed schools to reconduct the practical exams for students who were not able to appear due to the student or family member being infected with Covid-19. While few schools had already completed the assessment, few could not as schools had to be closed in view of the aggressive second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. The theory exams for class 12 which were scheduled to begin from May 4, also had to be postponed and ultimately cancelled.    The Centre had last week decided to cancel the CBSE class 12 board exams amid the continuing Covid-19 pandemic, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserting the decision was taken in the interest of students. The CBSE has constituted a 13-member committee to decide an objective criterion for alternate assessment for class 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-tells-schools-to-complete-pending-class-12-practicals-online-submit-marks-by-june-28-994905.html
07-06-2021||National||India may raise Covid-19 vaccine spending to Rs 45,000 crore this fiscal||India may raise spending on Covid-19 shots by over a quarter this fiscal year to up to Rs 45,000 crore ($6.18 billion) from its budgeted amount, two government sources told Reuters after the prime minister offered free doses to all adults. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in an address to the nation on Monday that the federal government would bear the cost of vaccinating all adults from June 21. His previous policy of getting individual states to pay for immunisations for those aged under 45 years was widely criticised. The sources, who did not want to be named as they were not authorised to speak with the media, said the government would spend up to Rs 45,000 crore on Covid-19 vaccines this fiscal year, which started on April 1. The previously budgeted amount was Rs 35,000 crore. One of the sources said part of the increase could be due to higher-than-previous costs for domestically manufactured shots. He did not elaborate. India's finance ministry did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment. The country is currently using the AstraZeneca vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India, and another developed at home by Bharat Biotech. Russia's Sputnik V will be commercially launched in the country in the middle of the month.  Modi's policy shift underscored a drive to rein in a Covid-19 pandemic that has killed hundreds of thousands in India and led to the world's second-highest tally of infections. It followed weeks of criticism of a bungled vaccine rollout that has covered fewer than 5 per cent of India's estimated adult population of 95 crore. ($1 = 72.8010 Indian rupees)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-may-raise-covid-19-vaccine-spending-to-rs-45000-crore-this-fiscal-994906.html
07-06-2021||National||US Supreme Court rules against immigrants with temporary status||A unanimous Supreme Court ruled Monday that thousands of people living in the US for humanitarian reasons are ineligible to apply to become permanent residents. Justice Elena Kagan wrote for the court that federal immigration law prohibits people who entered the country illegally and now have Temporary Protected Status from seeking “green cards” to remain in the country permanently. The designation applies to people who come from countries ravaged by war or disaster. It protects them from deportation and allows them to work legally. There are 400,000 people from 12 countries with TPS status. The outcome in a case involving a couple from El Salvador who have been in the US since the early 1990s turned on whether people who entered the country illegally and were given humanitarian protections were ever “admitted” into the United States under immigration law. Kagan wrote that they were not. “The TPS program gives foreign nationals nonimmigrant status, but it does not admit them. So the conferral of TPS does not make an unlawful entrant...eligible" for a green card, she wrote. The House of Representatives already has passed legislation that would make it make possible for TPS recipients to become permanent residents, Kagan noted. The bill faces uncertain prospects in the Senate. The case pitted the Biden administration against immigrant groups that argued many people who came to the US for humanitarian reasons have lived in the country for many years, given birth to American citizens and put down roots in the US. In 2001, the US gave Salvadoran migrants legal protection to remain in the US after a series of earthquakes in their home country. People from 11 other countries are similarly protected. They are: Haiti, Honduras, Myanmar, Nepal, Nicaragua, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan, Syria, Venezuela and Yemen. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-supreme-court-rules-against-immigrants-with-temporary-status-994916.html
07-06-2021||National||Whenever there is crisis, Modi leads from the front: BJP on PM's vaccine announcement||Hailing Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the decision to provide free coronavirus vaccines to all above 18 years and ration to the poor, the BJP on Monday said whenever there has been a crisis, Modi has led from the front. Expressing gratitude to the prime minister, BJP president J P Nadda in a series of tweets said the Modi government stands with every countryman in the fight against the coronavirus. To ensure that no one sleeps hungry, Nadda said, Modi announced that 80 crore people will get free ration till Diwali under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMKAY). "Our motto is that every person should get food, every person should be vaccinated," he said. Underlining that under leadership of Modi, the country is effectively fighting against Covid-19, Nadda said, "Whenever there is any crisis in the country, our Prime Minister Modi ji has always led the country from the front." He also suggested to opposition parties that rather than making excuses and spreading confusion, they should also contribute positively in the country's fight against Covid-19 under Modi's leadership. Echoing similar sentiments, senior BJP leader and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated Prime Minister Modi for his announcement on the vaccination drive and said he has given great relief to the public and infused a new strength in the fight against the pandemic. Singh also thanked Prime Minister Modi for thwarting the attempts to spread rumours about the vaccines and said with his address Modi has increased the confidence of the countrymen in the vaccination campaign. Lauding the announcements, Union Minister Smriti Irani said that this shows the sensitivity and commitment of this government.    In his address to the nation on Monday, the prime minister announced that the central government will provide free coronavirus vaccine to states for inoculation of all above the age of 18 from June 21, and asserted that vaccine supply would be increased significantly in the coming days. The Centre has decided to buy 75 per cent of jabs from vaccine makers, including 25 per cent of the state quota, and give it for free to state governments, the prime minister said. Modi said private sector hospitals can continue to procure 25 per cent of vaccines, but their service charge would be capped at Rs 150 per dose over fixed price of the vaccine. He also announced continuation of free ration scheme for over 80 crore people in the country till Diwali.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/whenever-there-is-crisis-modi-leads-from-the-front-bjp-on-pms-vaccine-announcement-994917.html
07-06-2021||National||Explained | India's Covid-19 vaccine policy flip-flops||India's Covid-19 immunisation campaign has struggled to keep pace with demand, especially after a dramatic second wave of infections has left hospitals inundated with patients and killed more than 180,000 people since April. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday the central government would offer free Covid-19 shots to all adults, having faced criticism from health experts and the country's highest court for his inconsistent vaccine polices. How is India's vaccination programme doing? The world's second most populous country has administered more than 231 million (23.1 crore) vaccinations since starting the campaign in the middle of January. That is only behind China and the United States. Still, India has given at least one dose to just 14 per cent of its 1.35 billion citizens, a much lower proportion than in countries such as Britain, the United States and Brazil. India has given the required two doses to less than 5 per cent of its estimated 950 million (95 crore) adults. It is currently using domestically made doses of the AstraZeneca PLC vaccine and Indian company Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Why India turned from vaccine exporter to importer? India - the world's biggest producer of vaccines for polio, diphtheria and other diseases - sold or donated more than 66 million (6.6 crore) Covid-19 vaccine shots to 95 countries until the middle of April. But as infections started rising from around mid-March in India, the clamour for vaccines at home also increased. India then started looking for foreign vaccines made by companies such as Pfizer Inc/BioNTech SE, Moderna Inc and Johnson and Johnson. None of the US companies has formally applied to sell to India, though Pfizer is in active talks with the government. Millions of doses of Russia's Sputnik V have arrived in the country and its commercial sale is expected to start from next week. The United States has also pledged to donate some AstraZeneca doses to India. What have been the policy reversals? India initially planned to vaccinate only 300 million of its health/front-line workers and the most vulnerable in the first six to eight months of the year. But Modi expanded the programme to all adults from May 1, though supplies were not meant to rise until June, leading to widespread shortages across the country.  Modi's government asked individual states to buy vaccines from domestic manufacturers or import the shots themselves to inoculate their adults aged below 45 from May 1 onwards. Many states floated global tenders to import vaccines but none could secure doses via that route. Delhi's chief minister complained Indian states were made to compete against each other internationally for a scarce commodity. Modi reversed the policy on Monday, saying the central government would offer vaccines to all adults free of charge starting June 21. Rates for private hospitals - catering to those willing to pay for their shots - will be capped. Modi said in a televised address all vaccine decisions have been taken based on consultations with state leaders. Modi's government placed no advance orders for vaccines from companies such as the Serum Institute of India (SII), the maker of the AstraZeneca shot, before it was approved in early January. It signed a purchase deal with SII nearly two weeks after the company's licensed version of the vaccine was authorised for emergency use. Last week, the government placed its first advance order for a vaccine still undergoing Phase 3 trials, as it tries to speed up the immunisation drive. Until the second wave hit India ferociously, health officials had repeatedly said there was no need to vaccinate all adults. But in the past few weeks, the government has said all adults would be immunised for Covid-19 by December.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-indias-covid-19-vaccine-policy-flip-flops-994921.html
07-06-2021||National||IMA to protest on June 18 against assault on doctors, modern medicine||Days after a running feud with Yoga Guru Ramdev over his comments on modern medicine, the Indian Medical Association on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, taking noting of incidents of assault on doctors by relatives of patients and seeking his intervention to curb the purposeful spread of misinformation against modern medicine and Covid-19 vaccination by certain people with vested interests. "All such acts of omission and commission on behalf of any person raising doubts in the minds of the common public against the protocol guidance issued by the Ministry of Health for treatment of Covid-19 infected patients – ought to be suitably punished and simultaneously, any attempt of any person to fool the gullible public and promote so-called magic remedies or wonder drugs without the approval of the Ministry of Health, Government of India – ought to be immediately curtailed," the IMA said in a three-page letter to the Prime Minister. The IMA asked the Prime Minister to ensure optimum milieu for medical professionals so that they can work without fear as it highlighted the "increasing incidents of physical violence against the doctors and the health care professionals in this country". "The Health Services Personnel and Clinical Establishments (Prohibition of Violence and Damage to Property) Bill, 2019, which seeks to punish people who assault on-duty doctors and other healthcare professionals by imposing a jail term of up to 10 years – which, apparently, was dismissed by the Home Ministry during an inter-ministerial consultation over the draft law, ought to be promulgated immediately along with the incorporation of provisions from the IPC/CrPC and with stipulations for a fixed time schedule for speedy conclusion of trials. All those involved in such heinous crimes ought to be punished to also create an effective deterrent for other antisocial elements who may indulge in attacking any health care professionals," the IMA said. Besides intellectual meets and dialogues, IMA will organise a National Protest Day on June 18 to press for their demands. Lauding the PM for countering vaccination hesitancy effectively, IMA demanded that persons spreading misinformation against the Covid-19 vaccination drive must be booked and punished in accordance with the law, including under relevant provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act, 2005. It also demanded 'Covid martyrs' status for doctors who have lost their lives in the war against the Covid-19 pandemic. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ima-to-protest-on-june-18-against-assault-on-doctors-modern-medicine-994923.html
07-06-2021||National||Over 31 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses administered on June 7; total crosses 23.5 crore||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country exceeded 23.59 crore, with over 31 lakh doses given on Monday, the Union Health Ministry said. The ministry said 16,07,531 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years received their first dose and 68,661 beneficiaries of the same age group their second dose on Monday. Cumulatively, 3,02,45,100 persons in the age group across states and Union Territories have received their first dose and 2,37,107 the second dose since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive on May 1, the ministry said. Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years for the first dose of Covid vaccine, it said. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country exceeded 23.59 Cr (23,59,39,165), according to the 7 pm provisional report. This includes 99,81,949 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 68,76,906 HCWs who have taken their second.  As many was 1,62,99,343 frontline workers (FLWs) have received the first dose,and 86,96,391 FLWs their second. As many as 3,02,45,100 and 2,37,107  individuals in the 18-44  years of age group who have received the first and second dose respectively.  Besides, 7,18,38,338 and 1,14,36,520 beneficiaries aged for over 45 to 60 years old have been administered the first and second dose respectively, while 6,09,90,200 and 1,93,37,311 beneficiaries aged above 60 have taken the first and second dose respectively. As on day-143 of the vaccination drive, total 31,04,989 vaccine doses were given. The ministry said 27,97,493 beneficiaries were vaccinated for first dose and 3,07,496 beneficiaries received second dose of vaccine as per the provisional report till 7 PM.  Final reports would be completed for the day by late night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-31-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-on-june-7-total-crosses-235-crore-994937.html
07-06-2021||National||Environment clearance must for industries before starting operation: NGT||The National Green Tribunal has said industries cannot operate without prior environment clearance (EC) and State has no power to exempt the requirement. "Without prior EC, the units cannot be allowed to operate. The State has no power to exempt the requirement of prior EC or to allow the units to function without EC on payment of compensation. Since prior EC is statutory mandate, the same must be complied," the Green Bench observed. The Principal Bench of the NGT headed by its chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel made this observation while hearing a petition by an NGO. NGO Dastak sought quashing of the order of the Haryana Government allowing manufacturers of formaldehyde to operate for six months without the clearance, subject to making application for it within 60 days. The NGO submitted that requirement of prior EC is mandatory and the State has no power to exempt the same. "Prior EC is required under Environmental Impact Assessment Notification dated September 14, 2006 and there is no justification to permit function of such units in violation of mandate of the law," the bench said. For  past violations, the concerned authorities are free to take appropriate action in accordance with polluter pays principle, following due process, the Green Bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/environment-clearance-must-for-industries-before-starting-operation-ngt-994941.html
07-06-2021||National||India's defence exports since 2014-15 estimated at Rs 35,777 crore||India exported military hardware and systems worth Rs 35,777 crore in the last seven years, according to a document released by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday. The E-booklet, highlighting the major reforms undertaken by the Ministry of Defence (MoD) in 2020, also mentioned that the defence exports expanded to more than 84 countries. "The booklet is a reflection of the resolve of the government, under the able leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to make the defence sector stronger and more efficient," Singh said. He exuded confidence that the reforms undertaken by the MoD will make India a global powerhouse in the defence sector in the times to come.  According to the document, the value of India's exports in 2014-15 was Rs 1,941 crore and it increased to Rs 2,059 crore in 2015-16. The value of exports in 2016-17 was recorded at Rs 1,522 crore while it went up to Rs 4,682 crore in 2017-18 and Rs 10,746 crore in 2018-19. The value of defence exports was Rs 9,116 crore in 2019-20 and Rs 5,711 crore in 2020-21, according to the details mentioned in the document. The compilation provided a brief overview of the defence reforms undertaken in 2020 to bring about greater cohesion and modernisation of the armed forces through policy changes, innovation and digital transformation, the statement said. "To meet requirements of the changing technology, there is a constant effort to equip our armed forces with the latest weapons to meet challenges emanating from the land, air and sea; and by bringing about jointness and modernisation through reforms," Singh was quoted as saying in the document. The document listed acquisitions of the Rafale fighter aircraft, the appointment of the country's first Chief of Defence Staff, reforms in defence research and development and increasing defence reforms as some of the key initiatives of the government in the defence sector in 2020. "Policy reforms for increased transparency included the launch of new Defence Acquisition Procedure in September 2020 and revision of DRDO Procurement Manual in October 2020," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-defence-exports-since-2014-15-estimated-at-rs-35777-crore-994943.html
07-06-2021||National||Navy inducts 3 indigenously-built advanced light helicopters ALH MK III||The Indian Navy Monday inducted three indigenously-built advanced light helicopters ALH MK III that would be used for maritime reconnaissance and coastal security. The three helicopters, made by the Centre-run Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, were inducted at the Indian Naval Station (INS) Dega, Eastern Naval Command (ENC), in Visakhapatnam, an official statement said. "With the induction of these maritime reconnaissance and coastal Security (MRCS) helicopters, the ENC got a major boost towards enhancing the capabilities of the force," the Navy's statement mentioned. ALH MK III helicopters feature an array of systems previously seen only on heavier, multi-role helicopters of the Indian Navy, it noted. "These helicopters are fitted with modern surveillance radar and electro-optical equipment, which enable them to undertake the role of maritime reconnaissance in addition to providing long-range search and rescue, both by day and night," it mentioned. In addition to special operations capabilities, ALH MK III is also fitted with a heavy machine gun to undertake constabulary missions, it said. A removable medical intensive care unit (ICU) is also fitted on ALH MK III helicopters to airlift critically ill patients, it noted. "The helicopter also has a host of advanced avionics, making it truly an all-weather aircraft," it stated. The first unit of three ALH MK III helicopters were inducted in the Indian Navy on April 19. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navy-inducts-3-indigenously-built-advanced-light-helicopters-alh-mk-iii-994946.html
07-06-2021||National||Centre conducting study to assess presence of Covid in Ganga water||The Centre is conducting a study to assess the presence of SARS-CoV-2, or novel coronavirus, in the Ganga as corpses were found dumped in the river during the second Covid wave, and were fished out from districts in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, officials said Monday. The study is being conducted in phases and the first set of samples have already been collected from 13 locations, from Kannauj and Patna, said Saroj Batik, the Director of Indian Institute of Toxicology Research, Lucknow. During the virological study, RNA of viruses of interest present in the water will be extracted and subjected to an RT-PCR test to determine the presence of novel coronavirus in it, Batik said. The IITR is an institute under the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), he said. The study will also include checking the biological characteristics of the river. The process of taking samples for the next phase began on Monday, officials said. The decision to conduct such a study was taken by the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) after bodies were found dumped in the river when the second wave of coronavirus was at its peak in April-May. Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat last week tweeted, "We are making use of existing technologies, doing regular studies and monitoring the situation closely to prevent contamination of the river water, as there were reports of consigning dead bodies in some parts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar into river #Ganga." Uttar Pradesh and Bihar were among the states badly hit by the second wave of coronavirus. There was also fear whether bodies, possibly of Covid-19 patients, had led to contamination of the river water, a major source of drinking in the districts along it. Experts had dismissed that there could be any possibility of presence of the virus in the river. "The virus does not survive in these conditions (that are in the river). However, we decided to have an evidence-based study," D P Mathuria, Executive Director of the NMCG, said. An official added that the SARS-CoV2 does not survive outside the host for a long time and so it is unlikely that the virus will stay in the river. Mathuria said the study is being conducted in collaboration with the CSIR, the Central Pollution Control Board, and the state pollution control boards of UP and Bihar. Mathuria added that they have also asked the Uttar Pradesh Health Department to nominate an officer with whom the findings of the study could be shared. The NMCG is an arm of the Jal Shakti ministry that is executing the Namami Gange project to rejuvenate the river and its tributaries. After the bodies were found to have been dumped in the river, the NMCG directed the states to take necessary precautions to ensure that mortal remains are not consigned to the river.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-conducting-study-to-assess-presence-of-covid-in-ganga-water-994947.html
07-06-2021||National||B V R Subrahmanyam hands over charge as J-K chief secretary to Arun Kumar Mehta||Ending a week-long uncertainty, B V R Subrahmanyam on Monday handed over the charge of the office of the Jammu and Kashmir chief secretary to Arun Kumar Mehta, officials said.  Mehta, an AGMUT cadre IAS officer of the 1988 batch, was appointed the chief secretary on May 29 while Subrahmanyam was posted as Officer on Special Duty in the Department of Commerce,  Government of India. While Mehta began working as chief secretary on May 31, Subrahmanyam did not hand over the charge immediately.  The situation led to criticism from several quarters, like the National Conference and the Congress. Subrahmanyam, a Chhattisgarh cadre IAS officer, was appointed the chief secretary of the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir state in June 2018 and oversaw its transition to a union territory after the Centre abrogated Articles 370 and 35-A of the Constitution. Mehta has vast administrative experience in both Jammu and Kashmir and the Government of India. Previously he has served in the Government of Jammu and Kashmir as Financial Commissioner, Finance Department; Principal Secretary, Power Development Department; and Commissioner Secretary, Information Technology Department among other important positions. He has also served in the Union Government as Additional Secretary, Environment, Forest and Climate Change between 2015 and 2019, and Joint Secretary, Urban Development between 2008 and 2012.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/b-v-r-subrahmanyam-hands-over-charge-as-j-k-chief-secretary-to-arun-kumar-mehta-994949.html
07-06-2021||National||Govt confident of vaccinating all adults by December with estimated supply of 187 cr doses||Asserting that India is on track to vaccinate its entire adult population by December, top officials sources on Monday said a blueprint is in place to ensure a total supply of 187.2 crore doses by the year-end that would be enough for the country's 94 crore 18-plus population. Refuting questions raised by some critics about the government's vaccination strategy, the sources said while India will have 53.6 crore doses between January and July, the supply will zoom to 133.6 crore doses in the August-December period with more firms joining the supply chain and the existing ones ramping up their production. India is also in talks with foreign companies like Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson, and if it enters into procurement deals with them then the vaccine supply will be further boosted, while work on more domestic vaccines is also underway, they said. Speaking to a group of reporters soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the Centre will now provide free vaccination to the entire adult population and take over the 25 per cent procurement quota of states, the officials said "fluctuating" and even "contradictory" stands of states had an adverse impact on the vaccination programme in May. With the Centre back to procuring entire vaccine production, save for the 25 per cent meant for the private sector, and taking measures to end any "inequity", regional or technological, and vaccination production going up, the drive will gain more momentum, they said. The speed has already picked up with the number of vaccine doses administered rising steadily from 28 lakh on May 30 to 33.5 lakhs on June 5. On-site registration of vaccines has been made available and small private hospitals in distant regions, who were unable to compete with bigger facilities in procurement, states can now undertake their "demand aggregation" so that the government can channelise supply to them, they said.   The Centre will also tell states in advance about vaccine availability for a month so that they can plan accordingly. Asked about concerns that Covid-19 may hit children more in its next spurt, the officials noted there is no scientific backing to this apprehension and also added that serosurveys have found almost the same prevalence of infection among them as for adults. However, the severity of the disease is much less among kids, they added. They also rejected criticism about the Centre's decision to restrict vaccination programme to a certain popular age group, saying India acted no differently from many other countries, including France, Canada, the UK among others. "Our priority is to vaccinate all adult Indians in the shortest span of time, and we are on track to do so," an official said. To a question about some private hospitals reportedly not happy with the price cap of Rs 150 as service charge for every dose, they said a majority of them has found it "reasonable" given the huge scale of volumes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-confident-of-vaccinating-all-adults-by-december-with-estimated-supply-of-187-cr-doses-994955.html
07-06-2021||National||If vaccines are free for all, why should private hospitals charge for them, Rahul Gandhi asks||"If vaccines are free for all, why should private hospitals charge for them?" Congress leader Rahul Gandhi asked on Monday as the opposition party demanded universal free vaccination against Covid-19, after the prime minister announced that his government will provide free jabs to states for inoculation of all above the age of 18. The Congress also sought to credit the Supreme Court for the change in the Centre's vaccination policy and said the announcement came after the apex court reprimanded it and sought an affidavit on the inoculation drive. In an address to the nation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the Centre has decided to buy 75 per cent of jabs from vaccine makers, including 25 per cent of the state quota, and give it for free to state governments, while private sector hospitals can continue to procure the remaining 25 per cent. After PM Modi's address, Gandhi tweeted, "One simple question - If vaccines are free for all, why should private hospitals charge for them." He used #FreeVaccineForAll hashtag with his tweet. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "The prime minister is guilty of endangering the lives of Indians by repeatedly changing the (vaccination) policy and instead of accusing the states, he should be tendering an apology for endangering people's lives." Surjewala reiterated the demand for universal free vaccination and said the government should also transfer Rs 6,000 into bank accounts of the poor to help them cope with the impact of the pandemic and the resultant lockdown.   He alleged that the government has brought these changes in its vaccination policy after it was reprimanded by the Supreme Court. Some states had gone to the apex court against the Centre's vaccination policy alleging that it is not uniform. Surjewala said the Modi government has changed its vaccine policy thrice on January 16, May 1 and now today. Accusing the prime minister of endangering the lives of indians, he asked if he would take responsibility. "Why burden the middle class and the salaried people with payments in private hospitals," he asked. "Why not transfer Rs 6000 in the accounts of every poor considering there have been two crore job losses in the second wave of coronavirus," he asked. Surjewala claimed that at the current vaccination rate with the average between January 16 and June 7 being only 15.46 lakh jabs per day, it will take 1,091 days, or till May 2024, to inoculate all. "Then, how will you vaccinate 100 crore people by December 2021, as promised," he asked, alleging that only 4.61 crore have been fully vaccinated in last six months, which is 3.28 per cent of the population. The Congress has been demanding free vaccination for all and has urged the Centre to procure the jabs and provide them to states. The Congress on its official Twitter handle said, "Modi ji - stop with the tokenism, it will not heal the deep wounds you've inflicted on our nation. Instead - apologise and not give lectures". Congress leader and Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said, "Thank PM Narendra Modi Ji for acceding to our request of central procurement and distribution of vaccine for all age-groups. I had written twice to Narendra Modi Ji on this issue and to (Health Minister) Harsh Vardhan Ji suggesting this as the only feasible solution to Covid Vaccine crisis." Another Congress Chief Minister, Ashok Gehlot of Rajasthan, said PM Modi should inform which states had demanded that vaccines should be procured and provided for 18-44 years age group. "To my knowledge, no state had made such a demand and it seems that the prime minister has been misinformed," he said on Twitter. Gehlot also said that many states, including Rajasthan, had moved the Supreme Court against the Centre's vaccination policy and the result of which is that the prime minister had to change it. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/if-covid-19-vaccines-are-free-for-all-why-should-private-hospitals-charge-for-them-rahul-gandhi-asks-994958.html
07-06-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi slams government for rise in fuel prices||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday hit out at the government over the rise in petrol prices, and said the waves of tax collection epidemic are continuously coming. His remarks came as petrol prices in several cities crossed Rs 100 and were nearing the mark in Delhi. "The process of unlocking has started in many states. While paying the bill at the petrol pump, you will see the rise in inflation by the Modi government. The waves of tax collection epidemic are continuously coming," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. कई राज्यों में अनलॉक की प्रक्रिया शुरू हो रही है। पेट्रोल पम्प पर बिल देते समय आपको मोदी सरकार द्वारा किया गया महंगाई में विकास दिखेगा। टैक्स वसूली महामारी की लहरें लगातार आती जा रही हैं। Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also termed the rise in petrol prices as an "excessive public loot" and said the Modi government is responsible for it. "Excessive public loot - in the last 13 months, petrol and diesel have risen by Rs 25.72 and Rs 23.93 per litre. "In some states, petrol has crossed Rs 100 per litre. The increase in taxes by the Modi government and not high crude oil price is responsible for this rise in petrol and diesel prices," he said on Twitter. The Congress has been critical of the government for rising prices of petrol and diesel. The opposition party has also been demanding that petrol and diesel be brought under the purview of the GST regime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-slams-government-for-rise-in-fuel-prices-994684.html
07-06-2021||National Politics||Focus on Covid vaccination rather than fighting with Twitter, NCP tells Centre||The NCP on Monday said the ruling BJP at the Centre should focus more on vaccinating citizens against Covid-19 rather than fighting with micro-blogging site Twitter over its 'blue tick' verification badge. NCP national spokesperson Nawab Malik made the remarks while talking to reporters here, days after outrage over the removal of the 'blue tick' badge from the personal accounts of Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and RSS top functionaries including Mohan Bhagwat by Twitter, only to restore it later. Twitter said as per rules, the blue badge and verified status could be automatically removed from an account if it is incomplete or inactive for six months. Malik on Monday said while the BJP and the central government are fighting with Twitter over the issue of the 'blue tick', citizens of the country are fighting a battle to get themselves vaccinated against Covid-19. "Whether it is the issue of the 'blue tick' or vaccination, the Centre is being criticised, but it is ignoring the criticism and indulging in arrogance," the NCP leader claimed. "The BJP should focus more on vaccinating citizens rather than fighting over the 'blue tick' with Twitter," he added. To a query, Malik, whose party shares power with the Shiv Sena and Congress in Maharashtra, said if people follow Covid-19 prevention norms, the entire state "would come out" of the lockdown-like restrictions. "If districts and cities in level-1 do not follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, they will slip to the second or third-level," said Malik, who is also a state minister. The Maharashtra government has announced a five-level plan to relax the coronavirus-induced restrictions in the state with effect from Monday, based on the weekly positivity rate and the occupancy of oxygen beds. Under the level-1 category, cities and districts, which have a positivity rate of five per cent and the oxygen bed occupancy of less than 25 per cent, have been allowed to open up completely with regular timings of essential and non- essential shops, malls, theatres, auditoriums, restaurants, private offices, public places and sports establishments. In the level-2 category, cities and districts where the positivity rate is five per cent and oxygen bed occupancy is 25 to 40 per cent, essential and non-essential shops are allowed to open as per the regular timings, but malls, theatres, multiplexes, auditoriums and restaurants will function at 50 per cent capacity. Likewise, the state government has also issues guidelines for places falling under the other three categories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/focus-on-covid-vaccination-rather-than-fighting-with-twitter-ncp-tells-centre-994707.html
07-06-2021||National Politics||Centre 'suppressing' Covid data, prioritising propaganda over saving lives, says Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday accused the Centre of suppressing data related to the Covid pandemic, and said the Modi government’s emphasis on propaganda over saving lives had caused "immense damage". Going ahead with her Zimmedaar Kaun (who is responsible) campaign, in which she has been asking questions of the government over its handling of the pandemic, the Congress general secretary focused on the data related to Covid put out by the government. Is it more important to save the prime minister’s image than it is to save Indian lives, she asked in her posts on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram while alleging that the government was using data as a "propaganda tool". "From the very start of the pandemic, the Modi government’s attitude towards data was to utilize it as a propaganda tool rather than an invaluable weapon in the fight against Covid-19," Priyanka Gandhi added in a statement. The government's propaganda machinery repeatedly indulged in the "suppression and manipulation" of data to serve the government’s political agenda even as lives were lost in “battling the scourge of a century", she alleged.    To emphasise her point, Priyanka Gandhi said right from the beginning of the pandemic, deaths and infections were reported as a ratio of the population while testing was reported as an absolute figure.  "This was designed to mislead the public into believing that the infection and death rates were not alarming, while the testing rates were sufficient. In fact, it was exactly the opposite," she said.  The Modi government seems to be following the exact same pattern on data surrounding the vaccination programme today, Priyanka Gandhi said. "The Modi government’s emphasis on propaganda over saving lives has caused immense damage. It is answerable to the people of India," Priyanka Gandhi asserted. Experts from across India have been demanding that data surrounding the virulence and spread of the pandemic should be made public, but this has never been done, she asserted. Citing the examples of states like Uttar Pradesh, she said the government presented RT-PCR and antigen test data together in order to "manipulate the truth".  "In fact, it is widely known that antigen tests are unreliable in comparison. In UP even now, the ratio of RT-PCR tests versus antigen tests is 65:35 per cent," Priyanka Gandhi said. Both infections and the actual number of deaths have been actively "suppressed" by the government in an effort to save face, she claimed. Citing news reports claiming 2,000 dead bodies were found along an 1,100 kilometer stretch on the banks of the Ganga, Priyanka Gandhi said the stretch spanned 27 districts of UP and none of these deaths find space in government records.  "Instead, when drone footage revealed hundreds of shallow graves along the Ganga in cities like Prayagraj, the UP government immediately set up a “Safaai Abhiyan” (cleaning programme) aimed at obliterating any sign of the graves," the Congress general secretary in-charge of UP alleged.  News reports from the state revealed a glaring difference between the official death records and those kept by graveyards and crematoriums in cities like Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Kanpur, Jhansi and Meerut, Priyanka Gandhi said. The latter being many multiple times greater than the former, she added. Posing questions to the government, she asked why the Modi government summarily ignored the advice of scientists and experts and not make the data around the spread of Covid-19 transparent and public.   Did the Centre not understand the importance of correct use of data as one of the most essential tools to fight Covid or was there some other reason behind its actions, she asked. Pointing to the alleged difference between official death records, death certificates issued and crematorium/graveyard records across India, Priyanka Gandhi asked why the Modi was government doing nothing to rationalize these differences and put the true figures before the people of India.  "Does the Modi government’s image management matter more than Covid management? Is it more important to save the Prime Minister’s image than it is to save Indian lives?" Data is a double-edged sword, she said. On its own, it can never reflect the true human cost of a tragedy as it cannot account for the pain, the trauma and the suffering of people, yet it is critical in the management of any natural disaster  -- especially a pandemic -- of the scale being experienced today, Priyanka Gandhi asserted. The Congress has been critical of the Centre's handling of the Covid situation in the country, but the government has dismissed the criticism of the Opposition party, accusing it of politicising the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-suppressing-covid-data-prioritising-propaganda-over-saving-lives-says-priyanka-gandhi-994719.html
07-06-2021||National Politics||Chouhan will continue to lead BJP govt in Madhya Pradesh: Vijayvargiya||BJP General Secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya on Monday said Madhya Pradesh will continue to run under the leadership of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and scotched speculations about a change of guard in the state where the party replaced the Congress in power last year. Vijayvargiya's assertion came in the backdrop of a series of meetings of senior BJP leaders which triggered speculations in certain circles about a possible leadership change in the state. "These speculations are completely rubbish. The state will run under Chouhan's leadership," he told reporters here when asked about rumours related to a change of leadership in Madhya Pradesh. Vijayvargiya, a resident of Indore and a former state minister, is in-charge of the BJP affairs in West Bengal. He had recently met state home minister Narottam Mishra and some other party leaders during his visit to Bhopal. A series of meetings among senior BJP leaders of the state recently fuelled talks on social media about a change in leadership in Madhya Pradesh, where the saffron party assumed office in March 2020 under Chouhan after the collapse of the Congress government led by Kamal Nath. I am busy somewhere else, Vijayvargiya said when told that his name had been doing the rounds on social media as an alternative for the state's leadership. The BJP general secretary said, "The media is making a story...what I am seeing and reading about these meetings, there is nothing and all this (speculations of a change of leadership) is rubbish." Vijayvargiya termed the recent party meetings as routine and said it was not appropriate to give political colours to them. In the current era of Covid-19, people have less work so they are meeting each other and strengthening their personal relations," he said. In reply to a question, the BJP leader said West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar is doing a "very good job" and taking care of the state as per constitutional obligations. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chouhan-will-continue-to-lead-bjp-govt-in-madhya-pradesh-vijayvargiya-994852.html
07-06-2021||National Politics||PM Modi's 'reversal of vaccine policy' seems to be the result of SC intervention, says Owaisi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement that the Centre will provide free Covid-19 vaccine to states for inoculation of all above the age of 18 from June 21 appeared to be the result of the Supreme Courts intervention, AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi said on Monday. In a series of tweets on Modi's statement, the Hyderabad MP said private hospitals will continue to have a 25 per cent quota so that rich have 'VIP queue', while poor have to wait for vaccine availability. "Thanks to PM for another episode of an unnecessary lecture that could have been a press release. Reversal of vax policy seems to be the result of SC's order. Although blame of a terrible vaccine policy has been put on states, it's Modi who failed to ensure vax supply, Owaisi said in one of the tweets. Owaisi alleged that till April no money was spent on ramping up vaccine production and said the country gets only eight crore vaccine doses per month against the requirement of 60 crore by July. "PM failed in basic math, he said. He alleged that Modi has put politics before saving lives and the "liberalised vaccine policy" has chosen gimmicks over efforts to increase vaccine production. Describing the CoWIN platform for vaccination as a lottery, Owaisi said till recently the site was only available in English, a language understood by a small minority while excluding women, poor, rural Indians and a majority who dont have internet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modis-reversal-of-vaccine-policy-seems-to-be-the-result-of-sc-intervention-says-owaisi-994859.html
07-06-2021||National Politics||SC intervention behind decision on free Covid vaccines for all: Sisodia after PM announcement||His remarks came after PM Modi announced that the central government will provide free Covid-19 vaccine to states for inoculation of all above the age of 18 from June 21, and asserted that vaccine supply would be increased significantly in the coming days. "We express our gratitude to the Hon'ble Supreme Court that after its intervention, free vaccines will be available to all age groups across the country. If the central government wanted, it could have done this long ago, but due to the policies of the Centre, neither the states were able to buy the vaccines nor the central government was giving it," Sisodia tweeted. On June 2, the Supreme Court questioned the Centre's policy of paid vaccination for 18-44 age group, saying it is "prima facie, arbitrary and irrational". The top court had pointed out the changing nature of the Covid-19 pandemic and asked the Centre to review its vaccination policy. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sc-intervention-behind-decision-on-free-covid-vaccines-for-all-sisodia-after-pm-announcement-994876.html
07-06-2021||National Politics||CMs, BJP welcome PM Modi's free Covid-19 vaccine initiative; Opposition claims policy reversed due to fear of SC action||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement on Monday that his government would provide Covid-19 vaccines free of charge to all above the age of 18 years was welcomed by the chief ministers of various states and the BJP, even as opposition parties claimed that the Centre withdrew the "faulty" vaccine policy to save its face before the Supreme Court. "Whenever there is any crisis in the country, our Prime Minister Modi ji has always led the country from the front," BJP president J P Nadda said, joining other senior leaders of the ruling party in hailing the move which they said has infused new strength in the fight against the pandemic. Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, however, claimed the Centre had taken the step after being reprimanded by the Supreme Court which had questioned its “botched” vaccine policy, and demanded that the prime minister apologise. “Better late than never, but never late is better Modi ji,” the party said on its Twitter handle and noted that the Congress and its leader Rahul Gandhi have been pressing the Centre for free universal vaccination in the country. The party opposed keeping 25 percent vaccines for the private sector for which they will charge people. "One simple question - If vaccines are free for all, why should private hospitals charge for them," Gandhi tweeted using the hashtag "#FreeVaccineForAll". One simple question- Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh (Congress), Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik (BJD), Tamil Nadu CM M K Stalin (DMK), Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan (CPI-M) and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar (JD-U)were among the state leaders who appreciated that the Centre had approved their request for free vaccine supply. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, a vocal critic of Prime Minister Modi, said he has finally "listened to us" after four months, but the delayed decision has "cost many lives". "The well-being of the people of India should've been prioritised since the very start of this pandemic. "Unfortunately, this delayed decision by PM has already cost many lives. Hoping for a better managed #VaccinationDrive this time that focuses on people & not propaganda!," the Trinamool Congress chief tweeted. The well-being of the people of India should've been prioritized since the very start of this pandemic. Unfortunately, this delayed decision by PM has already cost many lives. Amarinder Singh said the move will help Punjab and other states facing problems in sourcing vaccines to ensure early vaccination of their people. It'll also bring much-needed pricing parity - a necessity in pandemic times, he said. “Every life is precious. No one is safe until everyone is vaccinated. As a nation, we stand united in this fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Thank PM Shri Narendra Modi ji for making vaccination a national mission,” Patnaik said. Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said the Centre's decisions are commendable and will help in winning the battle against the coronavirus pandemic. “The Hon. Prime Minister's declaration that the Covid-19 vaccine will be supplied free of cost to the States from 21 June, is the most appropriate response at this hour. I am happy that our request has been positively responded to by the Prime Minister,” Vijayan, who is also a CPI(M) politburo member, said The Left party, however, alleged that the prime minister had tried to “defend his dubious discriminatory vaccine policy by passing the buck on to state governments”. “Now Modi abandons his policy, fearing a Supreme Court directive for a free and universal vaccination programme by the Centre. “The Modi government must now sincerely implement the free and universal vaccination campaign and not look for excuses. There is a lot to be done. Many lives to be saved,” CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted. Stalin welcomed the decision of the Centre to procure "75 percent of the vaccines produced in the country" and provide them free to the states. “I also appreciate the Prime Minister for reversing his government’s previous position,” he said. "I am glad that looking at public sentiments, the PM had to reverse his earlier decision," Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said. AAP leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the Modi government had taken the decision after the Supreme Court's intervention and alleged that the states could not buy vaccine doses directly due to the Centre’s policies.  “We express our gratitude to the Hon'ble Supreme Court that after its intervention, free vaccines will be available to all age groups across the country. "If the central government wanted, it could have done this long ago, but due to the policies of the Centre, neither the states were able to buy the vaccines nor the central government was giving it," Sisodia tweeted. On June 2, the Supreme Court questioned the Centre's policy of paid vaccination for the 18-44 age group, saying it is "prima facie, arbitrary and irrational". The top court had pointed out the changing nature of the Covid-19 pandemic and asked the Centre to review its vaccination policy. AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi said private hospitals will continue to have a 25 percent quota so that rich have a "VIP queue" while the poor will have to wait for vaccine availability. “Reversal of vax policy seems to be the result of SC's order. Although blame of terrible vaccine policy has been put on states, it's Modi who failed to ensure vax supply (sic),” Owaisi tweeted However, BJP leaders were all praise after the prime minister's announcement. "States were given the freedom to buy vaccines for those in the age group of 18-44 years. But many states were finding it difficult to do so. We are grateful that the prime minister has resolved this issue," Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said. Union Minister Smriti Irani said that this shows the sensitivity and commitment of this government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cms-bjp-welcome-pm-modis-free-covid-19-vaccine-initiative-opposition-claims-policy-reversed-due-to-fear-of-sc-action-994907.html
07-06-2021||National Politics||Kerala CM welcomes PM's Covid-19 vaccine announcement||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday welcomed the Centre's decision to provide vaccines free of cost to everyone and said it was the "most appropriate response at this hour". "The Hon. Prime Minister's declaration that Covid-19 vaccine will be supplied free of cost to the States from 21 June, is the most appropriate response at this hour. I am happy that our request has been positively responded to by the Prime Minister," Vijayan said in a tweet. The Centre has decided to buy 75 per cent of jabs from vaccine makers, including 25 per cent of the state quota, and give it for free to state governments, the prime minister said in an address to the nation. Modi said private sector hospitals can continue to procure 25 per cent of vaccines, but their service charge would be capped at Rs 150 per dose over fixed price of the vaccine. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kerala-cm-welcomes-pms-covid-19-vaccine-announcement-994925.html
07-06-2021||North and Central||Farmers' anger to break BJP ego in next assembly poll: Akhilesh Yadav||Accusing the central government of having an adamant attitude over its three farm laws, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday said the unity of farmers agitating against these laws will break the ego of the BJP. He also accused the government of hurting farmers’ financial interests after showing them the dream of doubling their income and grabbing their votes. The farmers’ condition has deteriorated under the BJP’s rule, he said in a statement. "The farmers have been hurt financially. The black farming laws enacted by the BJP last year have destroyed the entire agriculture economy,” he said. Yadav said the farmers are very angry against the government and their anger is yet to subside. “The unity of agitating farmers will shatter the BJP’s ego,” he said. Yadav said the BJP showed dreams of doubling farmers’ income and got their votes, but BJP failed to ensure even a profitable price to them for their produce. “As a result, the farmers are forced to sell their produce to intermediaries at a throwaway price,” he said adding the government’s claims of benefits to farmers due to their various welfare scheme for them is limited merely to media advertisements,” he said. “All the items used by the farmers have become expensive and they have made up their mind to give a befitting reply to the BJP in the next assembly elections,” he added. "Once the Samajwadi government is formed in the state after the assembly elections next year, justice will be done to farmers,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-anger-to-break-bjp-ego-in-next-assembly-poll-akhilesh-yadav-994570.html
07-06-2021||North and Central||Shahi Imam Ahmed Bukhari seeks PM's help in repair of Jama Masjid||The Shahi Imam of Delhi’s Jama Masjid, Syed Ahmed Bukhari, Sunday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to instruct the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to carry out repair works at the historic mosque. In a letter to the PM, Bukhari said the internationally renowned mosque is in dire need of care and pointed out that its repairs have been carried out from time to time by the ASI since 1956 as a special case. "Many stones of the building are in a state of dilapidation and often keep falling off. Yesterday also, some stones fell down," he stated in his letter. He also sent images of the fallen stones, the damage they have caused and the dilapidated state of the minaret. "Due to falling of these stones, the support of the other stones around them has gone and they have become weakened and thus warrant immediate repairs to avoid any grave mishap," Bukhari added. He requested the PM to instruct the ASI to inspect the monument, particularly the two minarets, and commence its necessary repairs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shahi-imam-ahmed-bukhari-seeks-pms-help-in-repair-of-jama-masjid-994610.html
07-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi Metro resumes services after nearly 3 weeks; with 50% capacity||The Delhi Metro resumed services on Monday after a hiatus of nearly three weeks in view of the improved Covid situation in the national capital, but with 50 per cent seating capacity and no provision for standing travel for commuters, officials said. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) services were fully suspended since May 20 in view of the Covid-induced lockdown, which was first imposed on April 19 and then successively extended by the city government. Metro services initially ran partially, catering only to people from essential services, but from May 10, it was suspended in view of rising cases amid the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. On Monday, trains begun plying, with the scheduled starting time for services being 6 am. "Only half of the available trains will be inducted into service with a frequency ranging from nearly five to 15 minutes on different lines," a DMRC official had said on Sunday. The move comes in the wake of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announcing various relaxations on Saturday, allowing metro trains to operate with half capacity and shops in markets and malls to reopen on odd-even basis from June 7. He asserted that the city's economy needs to be revived in view of improving Covid-19 situation. Delhi recorded 381 fresh cases of Covid, the lowest in over two and a half months and 34 fatalities, while the positivity rate dipped to 0.5 per cent, according to data shared by the health department here on Sunday. "The number of trains will be inducted in full strength in a graded manner by Wednesday and thereafter, services will be available as per normal frequency which was available before the lockdown," the DMRC had earlier said. Passengers will be allowed to travel by seating only on alternate seats with no provision for standing travel till further directions, officials said. In view of this stipulation, the capacity utilisation of the system will be around 10-15 per cent of its total capacity available in normal days, the DMRC had said. The general public is advised to cooperate with the metro authorities in ensuring compliance to Covid appropriate behaviour inside metro premises throughout their travel, officials said. "In order to ensure social distancing and compliance to 50 per cent seating inside trains, public is also advised to take extra time for their daily commute and exhibit covid appropriate behaviour outside the stations also while waiting for their turn to enter the station," the DMRC had said in a statement after the chief minister had announced relaxations in lockdown norms. Entry at stations will continue to be regulated through identified gates as was the practice earlier. The DMRC has 10 lines spanning 242 stations, and 264 stations including the Rapid Metro in Gurgaon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metro-resumes-services-after-nearly-3-weeks-with-50-capacity-994624.html
07-06-2021||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal urges people to follow Covid norms as Delhi Metro, markets reopen||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday appealed to people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour amid the unlocking process in the national capital. Kejriwal on Saturday had announced further relaxations in the lockdown, and said Delhi Metro would operate at 50 per cent capacity and markets and malls in the national capital would open on an odd-even basis from June 7. "Many activities are resuming in Delhi from today. But take all the precautions to prevent corona completely - wear a mask, keep social distance and keep washing hands, there should be no laxity at all," he said in a tweet in Hindi. आज से दिल्ली में कई गतिविधियाँ फिर से शुरू हो रही हैं। पर कोरोना से बचाव के सभी एहतियात पूरी तरह से बरतें - मास्क पहनें, सोशल डिस्टेन्सिंग रखें और हाथ धोते रहें, बिल्कुल ढिलाई नहीं करनी। कोरोना संक्रमण से बचकर भी रहना है और अर्थव्यवस्था को फिर से पटरी पर भी लाना है। "One has to stay away from corona infection and also bring the economy back on track," the chief minister added. Malls, markets and market complexes (except weekly markets) will open between 10 am to 8 pm on an odd-even basis in accordance with their shop numbers, from Monday morning. The Delhi Metro also resumed services from Monday. However, only half of the available trains have been inducted into service with a frequency ranging from nearly five to 15 minutes on different lines, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-urges-people-to-follow-covid-norms-as-delhi-metro-markets-reopen-994655.html
07-06-2021||North and Central||Rumours fly thick and fast in Kashmir due to large troops movement||A large movement of troops in recent days has led to rumours flying thick and fast in Kashmir that “something big” like August 2019 was going to happen again. Similar rumours were going agog in Kashmir prior to the revocation of J&K’s special status on 5 August 2019, as massive troop build-up had started to happen 10-days before the colossal decision by the BJP government. Reports say in the last few days a large number of paramilitary forces have arrived in the union territory with most of them deployed in north Kashmir and parts of Jammu region. This has led to rumour mongering and from homes to offices, markets to playgrounds and social media, everywhere people are discussing how the Center is planning “something big” like 5 August 2019. A common rumour is that statehood will be restored to the Jammu region while Kashmir will be divided further into two or three union territories. Another rumour making rounds is that Kashmir Pandits will be given a separate homeland within the Valley which has been their long-pending demand. Not only locals but high-profile politicians too have joined the bandwagon on social media. Peoples Conference chairman, Sajjad Lone, who was a minister in PDP-BJP government from 2015-2018 tweeted:  “We want to believe even in rumours rumoured to be rumours. We love rumours don’t we. Last few days has been all about rumours and conspiracies. They say don’t believe a rumour to b true until govt actually denies it (sic).”   We want to believe even in rumours rumoured to be rumours.We love rumours don’t we. Last few days has been all about rumours and conspiracies. They say don’t believe a rumour to b true until govt actually denies it. Tanvir Sadiq, close aide of National Conference leader and former chief minister Omar Abdullah, who was detained along with dozens of high profile leaders in August 2019, said he fears they could be detained again. “While rumours are flying thick and fast - should we be ready for second semester? MLA’s hostel 2.0?” he tweeted. While rumours are flying thick and fast - should we be ready for second semester? MLA’s hostel 2.0? 😬 However, a senior police officer while dismissing the rumours said, “Some 200 companies of paramilitary forces had gone for election duties to West Bengal and other states. After being quarantined for 15-days in Jammu, they are returning back to their original locations.” He said some 200 companies of paramilitary forces from J&K were sent to states for assembly elections. “Almost 100 companies have returned and in the coming days more companies are expected to return. They are being redeployed across the UT,” the officer added. At least 400 (40,000) additional companies of security forces were deployed by the Center prior to abrogation of J&K’s special status under Article 370 and bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two UTs on 5 August 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rumours-fly-thick-and-fast-in-kashmir-due-to-large-troops-movement-994673.html
07-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi to have vaccinations for people above 45 years at polling stations as Kejriwal ramps up drive||Amid reluctance among 45 plus people to go to far-away Covid-19 vaccination centres, the Delhi government on Monday announced 'Jahan Vote, Wahan Vaccination' campaign in which polling booths will be turned into vaccination centres and booth-level officers (BLOs) visiting households to book slots for such people. This was announced by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal during a digital address. He said 27 lakh out of 57 lakh people above 45 years have got the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine so far while the remaining 30 lakh has not got a single dose. "These 30 lakh people have to be administered the vaccine. The problem that is being faced now is that the vaccination centers that we have opened up remain mostly empty, and very few people turn up to get vaccinated because of which the medicine remains unadministered. Keeping that in mind it was realized that without waiting for the people to come to us, we have to go to the people," he said. In the first week, the BLOs will start visiting households in 70 wards from Tuesday to identify eligible persons for vaccination at the polling booths. "From today onwards, in the 70 civic wards of Delhi, this scheme is going to be started. There are 272 wards in Delhi and there are two Assembly seats where there are no wards, so if we are to assume 4-4 wards each, then there are 280 wards in total in Delhi. Every week this initiative will be carried out in 70 wards. The first week in 70 wards and the next week in 70 wards, so in that sense, within 4 weeks this initiative will be completed," he said. With polling booths near their homes, Kejriwal said people need not travel long distances to get the jab. E-rickshaws are also being arranged to ferry people to the vaccination centres. The government plans to cover all the people in this category in four weeks. "After covering all the 280 wards in four weeks, the government will be able to say that all those eligible have received the vaccines,” he said. After three months, there will be a similar drive for second dose vaccination. "When we will get vaccines for the 18-44 age group in the required quantity, we will start this programme for them too,” he said. "Those who refuse to get vaccinated then the BLOs will try to convince them that vaccination is the only effective method against Covid-19. A team of 2-3 people will go to every house and will give them slots to get vaccinated," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-to-have-vaccinations-for-people-above-45-years-at-polling-stations-as-kejriwal-ramps-up-drive-994674.html
07-06-2021||North and Central||Markets, malls reopen in Delhi on odd-even basis as Covid 'unlock' begins||Jolted by the devastating second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the national capital moved slowly towards normal life as markets and malls reopened after nearly two months on Monday morning. The Delhi Metro, the lifeline of the city, also resumed service with 50 per cent seating capacity and nearly half of its train fleet running from early morning. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, in a tweet, appealed to people to follow Covid-19 guidelines amid the unlocking process in the national capital. Atul Bhargav, president of New Delhi Traders Association representing shop owners in Connaught Place, said all arrangements were in place to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. "However, the odd-even formula for opening retail shops is against our interests. We have enough space here in Connaught Place and most of the shopkeepers and their employees have already got the jabs. The government should treat retail and wholesale sectors differently," Bhargav said. Police and the district administration have formed teams to ensure no Covid norms are broken as the markets, malls and complexes reopen from 10 am to 8 pm. "Our teams have been deployed in the field for enforcement and awareness so the unlock process operates smoothly,” a senior officer in west Delhi district said. Besides the markets and malls, standalone shops also reopened in the city adding a hint of busy city life. "I am dusting and readying the shop as it was closed for so many days. People are still under awe of their experience in the last two months of Covid surge. I hope the situation will improve and customers will return in the coming days," said Varun, an electronic goods shop owner in Laxmi Nagar. A senior police officer said the shop owners in markets have been briefed to follow norms to protect themselves from the infection. "Our teams are in the field. People are normally following the precautions but we are keeping watch as the day progresses and more people are on the roads and markets," he said. The chief minister on Saturday had announced various relaxations in the ongoing lockdown that was imposed on April 19, saying Covid situation was improving and the economy of the city needed to be revived.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/markets-malls-reopen-in-delhi-on-odd-even-basis-as-covid-unlock-begins-994675.html
07-06-2021||North and Central||Plea filed in SC for postponing PG entrance test by AIIMS||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court for postponing post-graduate entrance test being conducted by AIIMS on June 16 in "utter disregard" to assurances by the Prime Minister's Office. A group of 26 doctors, led by Poulami Mondal , contended that holding of the Institute of National Importance Combined Entrance Test (INI CET) 2021 would be in contravention of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution, since NEET PG has already been deferred for four months. Other board examinations have also been cancelled due to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. The notice, issued by AIIMS on May 27, would build pressure on graduate doctors from across the country. "This is not in public interest in view of the present condition of the country and non-availability of doctors, beds in the hospitals coupled with the fact that there is a dearth of Covid-19 vaccination," their plea stated. It also pointed out after assurance from the PMO, many doctors have taken a job or duty in a state and have become frontline workers with no spare time to prepare for the test. There was also no one month prior notice for holding the examination, it said. More than 80,000 graduate doctors are expected to take up INI CET for admission to 815 seats in post-graduate courses in 10 colleges, including AIIMS, JIPMER, PGIMER, NIMHANS across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plea-filed-in-sc-for-postponing-pg-entrance-test-by-aiims-994696.html
07-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC refuses to stay order on annual, development fees levied by private schools||The Delhi High Court Monday refused to stay its single-judge order allowing private unaided schools to collect annual and development charges from students for the period after the lockdown ended in the national capital last year. A vacation bench of Justices Rekha Palli and Amit Bansal issued notice and sought response of the Action Committee Unaided Recognised Private Schools, which represents over 450 schools, on the appeals of AAP government, students and an NGO challenging the single judge’s May 31 order. The court listed the appeals before the roster bench on July 10. The Delhi government and the students have contended that the single judge's decision was based on incorrect facts and law. The May 31 verdict had quashed two office orders of April and August last year issued by the Directorate of Education (DoE) of the Delhi government forbidding and postponing collection of annual charges and development fees, saying they were "illegal" and "ultra vires" the powers of DoE stipulated under the Delhi School Education (DSE) Act and the Rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-refuses-to-stay-order-on-annual-development-fees-levied-by-private-schools-994699.html
07-06-2021||North and Central||No compromise with encroachment on forest land: Supreme Court on eviction of 10,000 houses in Aravalli ||The Supreme Court on Monday ordered the eviction of around 10,000 residential constructions, which had come up at Haryana's Lakkadpur-Khori village in the Aravalli area, saying there cannot be any compromise with the forest land. “We had passed an interim order in February 2020 since it was an encroachment of forest land and it has to be vacated," a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari said, declining to modify the order. Taking a serious view of the matter, the court sought to know from the Faridabad Municipal Corporation why encroachments have not been removed till June 2021, despite the order passed in February.  "Land grabbers can't take refuge of rule of law," the bench said as senior advocate Colin Gonsalves sought some accommodation. Gonsalves also pleaded for a reasonable cut-off date.  The bench, for its part, said as far as forest land is concerned there cannot be any compromise irrespective of the policy. If the state wants to accommodate them it is up to them, the court said. As the counsel submitted that people in the area were trying to encroach further, the bench asserted that no concession can be granted in connection with encroachment on the forest land.  Residents of Khori Gaon Basti in Faridabad, Haryana sought an immediate stay on the proposed demolition of about 10,000 houses in the area. They challenged the validity of the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran Rehabilitation Policy, which put a cut-off for rehabilitation to 2003. The bench told Gonsalves that the encroachers should vacate the land on their own so that corporation does not have to spend on the eviction. "If you want your petition to be considered, be a law-abiding citizen," the bench told him.  Gonsalves said during the Covid-19 pandemic, residents, who were poor people, would face further hardships. “Sorry, we are saying sorry plainly," the bench said, adding that people should vacate the forest land peacefully. The court directed the corporation to remove all encroachments on forest land not later than six weeks and report compliance under the signature of the chief secretary and secretary of the Haryana Forest Department. It posted the matter for further hearing on July 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-compromise-with-encroachment-on-forest-land-supreme-court-on-eviction-of-10000-houses-in-aravalli-994721.html
07-06-2021||North and Central||19-year-old dalit girl gang-raped in UP, 3 of 6 accused held||Three men have been arrested in connection with the alleged gangrape of a 19-year-old Dalit girl in this Uttar Pradesh district, police said on Monday. Senior Superintendent of Police Rohit Singh Sajwan said two of the accused were arrested on Sunday, while one was held on Monday. The incident occurred in the Izzatnagar police station area of Bareilly city on May 31. The woman, along with two of her male friends, had gone to the area on a scooty. The six accused against whom a case has been registered allegedly caught hold of her, took turns to rape her and then beat her up, while her friends were chased away, police said. Initially, the woman did not narrate her ordeal to her family members but later, told her sister about it. A case of gang rape was registered against the six accused on Saturday. Police said the accused arrested on Monday had intercepted the woman and her two friends on the day of the incident and informed the five others. Those arrested on Sunday have been sent to jail, while the one held on Monday is being interrogated, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/19-year-old-dalit-girl-gang-raped-in-up-3-of-6-accused-held-994747.html
07-06-2021||North and Central||Aligarh village calm after communal tension||The situation was peaceful in Aligarh's Nurpur village a day after police put up barricades to prevent right wing activists from entering the area following a communal brawl last month, an official said on Monday. Tension prevailed in the village in Tappal area since May 26 following the brawl near a mosque after some people objected to the music as a baraat procession approached. The marriage party filed a complaint alleging that stones were hurled at them, leaving several injured and that the windowpanes of a vehicle was damaged by stick-wielding attackers. On Monday, Senior Superintendent of Police Kalanidhi Naithani, who visited the village along with District Magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh on Sunday evening, said five people have been arrested while six others who have been booked will also be arrested soon. Police on Sunday prevented activists from Hindu Sena, Hindu Vahini and Hindu Force from entering the village and allowed only two representatives to meet the Dalit family members who had filed a complaint against a group of Muslims. There were also reports that Hindu political activist Sadhvi Prachi would also visit the village, however, she did not arrive. The activists left after performing a 'pooja' near the Agra Expressway where police had put up barriers. The leaders of the Hindu organisations demanded the arrest of an AIMIM leader who they alleged was trying to stoke communal tension in the village by issuing provocative statements. On Monday, the SSP told reporters that the situation in the village was "totally peaceful" and a citizens' committee is helping the administration in ensuring normalcy. He said that security arrangements have been tightened at the village and it has been ensured that there is no threat to citizens. Meanwhile, Circle Officer, Khair S P Singh told mediapersons on Monday that police is tracing all the remaining suspects who have been named in the case. He also said that the video footage which is currently viral on social media showing a car with broken windowpanes is not connected with the Nurpur incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aligarh-village-calm-after-communal-tension-994760.html
07-06-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 curbs in Punjab extended till June 15||Covid-19 restrictions in Punjab have been extended till June 15. Some restrictions have been eased. Shops are now allowed to remain open till 6 pm, private offices are allowed to function at 50 per cent capacity. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-curbs-in-punjab-extended-till-june-15-994775.html
07-06-2021||North and Central||Centre seeks more time in SC on PM-CARES scheme for children||The Centre on Monday sought more time from the Supreme Court to inform it of the modalities on the recently launched ''PM-CARES for Children'' scheme for kids orphaned due to Covid-19. "We need some more time to apprise the court about the modalities of the scheme as consultation is still going on. We have made district magistrates directly responsible for the children who have been abandoned or orphaned," Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Centre, said. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose said the court was inclined to give more time to respond to the court's query made on June 1, seeking details of the scheme announced on May 29 under the PM-CARES Fund to take care of children who who lost their parents during the Covid-19 pandemic. The court, however, pulled up Delhi and West Bengal governments as Additional Solicitor General K M Nataraj, appearing for the National Commission of Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), said both states have not been cooperating and have not provided latest data on the number of children who have lost their parents due to coronavirus. The court wondered why only two states had problem in giving information. "Don't wait for orders of the court and implement all the relevant schemes," the bench told the counsels of Delhi and West Bengal governments.  Nataraj said by providing the necessary information, there will be continuous monitoring and it would help in protecting the rights of children. The bench said it will issue some directions in its order in the Suo Motu matter, which may be uploaded by Tuesday. Acting as amicus curiae, advocate Gaurav Agrawal told the bench that identification process of such children has been satisfactory except for Tamil Nadu, where the situation is difficult in terms of Covid. He said Tamil Nadu is only identifying those who have lost one or both parents due to COVID-19; the approach may not be very helpful in locating all children, who may have been affected due to the virus. The bench said it understands that Covid-19 positivity rate is high, but there are Child Welfare Committees and Child Protection Units which need to be activated for identification and providing immediate assistance to those children. Advocate Joseph Aristotle, appearing for Tamil Nadu, said the state has come up with a scheme under which it is paying Rs 5 lakh to the children, who have lost both parents and Rs 3 lakh who have lost one parent. The bench asked Aristotle to instruct the officers of the state that each of such children be identified by district officers/child care units and be reported to Child Welfare Committees within 24 hours as per the Juvenile Justice Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-seeks-more-time-in-sc-on-pm-cares-scheme-for-children-994789.html
07-06-2021||North and Central||UP official seeks Aadhaar cards of 'gods' before purchasing crops produced on temple lands||How can one get Aadhaar cards of gods and goddesses made? The priests and caretakers in Uttar Pradesh's Banda district, about 200 kilometres from Lucknow, faced this problem when they were asked to bring the Aadhaar cards of the 'gods' if they wanted to sell the crops produced on the temple and 'mutt' lands in the 'mandis' (market where agricultural produce are sold). According to reports, the directives to this effect have been issued by a senior district official in Banda a few days ago. The reports said the matter came to light when the caretaker of a temple at Atarra area in the district reached the 'mandi' to sell the crop produced on the land, which, as per the revenue records, is registered in the name of 'god'. The 'mandi' officials refused to purchase the produce without the Aadhaar card of the 'god' in whose name the land was registered. Many other priests and caretakers faced similar problems, according to the reports. "How will we meet the expenses if we cannot sell the crops? And from where do we bring the Aadhaar card of the god?" asked a caretaker of a 'mutt' in the district. "It does not matter if it's a human or god... if you (caretakers) want to sell the crops, then you must bring his Aadhaar card," the official told the caretaker. Barely a few days ago, a piece of land which was registered in the name of a god was transferred in the name of another person, who claimed himself to be the 'heir' of the god in Lucknow district. In the revenue records at Mohanlal Ganj town in Lucknow district, the gods were shown as 'dead' and the ownership of the land on which their temple existed was transferred to their 'heir'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-official-seeks-aadhaar-cards-of-gods-before-purchasing-crops-produced-on-temple-lands-994797.html
07-06-2021||North and Central||Punjab extends Covid-19 curbs till June 15, allows shops to open till 6 pm||The Punjab government on Monday announced to extend the Covid restrictions till June 15 but also gave relaxations including allowing shops to open till 6 pm while adopting a graded approach to reopening. Night curfew will now remain in force from 7 pm to 6 am on weekdays, including Saturdays, but weekend curfew will continue on Sundays, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh announced. Earlier, the weekend curfew was imposed on Saturdays and Sundays. With case positivity declining to 3.2 per cent and active cases also coming down, the CM allowed gatherings of up to 20 people, including at weddings and cremations, according to a government statement. Entry restrictions (negative Covid test/vaccination) for arrivals in the state have also been done away with, he stated after a Covid review meeting. Recruitment exams will be allowed to be held subject to adherence to social distancing and other Covid appropriate norms, the CM said, but added that online mode should be preferred. Sports training for national and international events has also been permitted and the department of Sports and Youth Affairs has been asked to issue the necessary instructions and guidelines, which shall have to be strictly adhered to.   The district administration may determine opening of non-essential shops, including on weekends, on the basis of local situation, while ensuring that crowding leading to spread of Covid are avoided. On government offices, he said attendance can be decided by the head of the concerned office but comorbid/disabled employees at risk may be exempted. Further relaxations will be allowed in the coming weeks depending on the outcomes, if the cases continue to decline, Singh said, adding that gyms and restaurants could be opened after a week with 50 per cent, and other conditions according to experts' advice, if the situation improves further. Owners and workers of gyms and restaurants should get themselves vaccinated prior to the reopening, he added. The state government had imposed extensive curbs, in addition to measures like a weekend lockdown and a night curfew to check the spread of the infection. The state government had earlier extended Covid curbs till June 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-extends-covid-19-curbs-till-june-15-allows-shops-to-open-till-6-pm-994829.html
07-06-2021||North and Central||Glad PM Modi granted our request: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh on Centre's move to take over vaccine procurement||Congress leader and Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh Monday said the Centre's decision to take over the vaccine procurement and distribution will help states facing problems in securing anti-Covid jabs. "Good that Centre has decided to take over vaccine procurement & distribution for the whole country for all age groups. I had personally written to @narendramodi ji on this issue twice suggesting this as the only solution to managing #CovidVaccine crisis," Amarinder said in a tweet. "The move will help Punjab & other states facing problems in sourcing vaccine to ensure early vaccination of their people. It'll also bring much-needed pricing parity - a necessity in pandemic times. I am glad PM @narendramodi has conceded our request," he said in another tweet. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday announced that the central government will provide free coronavirus vaccine to states for inoculation of all above the age of 18 from June 21, and asserted that vaccine supply would be increased significantly in the country in coming days. The Centre has decided to buy 75 per cent of jabs from vaccine makers, including 25 per cent of the state quota, and give it for free to state governments, the prime minister said in an address to the nation. Modi said private sector hospitals can continue to procure 25 per cent of vaccines, but their service charge would be capped at Rs 150 per dose over fixed price of the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/glad-pm-modi-granted-our-request-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-on-centres-move-to-take-over-vaccine-procurement-994843.html
07-06-2021||North and Central||Arjuna awardee Sajjan Singh Cheema rejoins AAP||Former basketball player and Arjuna awardee Sajjan Singh Cheema rejoined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday. Cheema had left the AAP to join the SAD in 2019. AAP's Punjab unit chief Bhagwant Mann and state affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh welcomed him into the party fold. "Every section of Punjab is joining the Aam Aadmi Party as it is a people's party aimed at serving the people of the country," Mann said on the occasion. The people of Punjab want a change in politics and only the AAP is capable of doing it, Cheema said on joining the party. He added that he was influenced by the “pro-people” policies of the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi and decided to return to the party. Cheema had unsuccessfully contested on an AAP ticket from the Sultanpur Lodhi seat in the 2017 assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arjuna-awardee-sajjan-singh-cheema-rejoins-aap-994930.html
07-06-2021||North and Central||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal booked for flouting Covid-19 norms||Several opposition leaders in Punjab, including Sukhbir Singh Badal of the SAD and Saravjit Kaur Manuke of the AAP, were booked on Monday for staging protests against the state government in violation of the restrictions imposed to curb coronavirus spread, hours after Chief Minister Amarinder Singh directed the police to act against them, officials said. The chief minister asked the state police chief to act against opposition leaders and workers who have been staging sit-ins in the state over the past few days. Acting on the chief minister's directions, the police booked a host of opposition leaders under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Disaster Management Act, officials said. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) workers and leaders led by Badal staged a sit-in near the residence of Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu in Mohali on Monday and sought his dismissal from the cabinet over the "diversion" of coronavirus vaccine to private hospitals. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had staged a protest outside Sidhu's residence on Sunday on the same issue. For the SAD protest, besides Badal, former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra, MLAs Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, NK Sharma, Pawan Kumar Tinu, Sukhwinder Singh, Baldev Singh, Gurpartap Singh Wadala, other senior leaders and around 200 unidentified persons were booked. AAP legislators Saravjit Kaur Manuke, Amarjeet Singh Sandoa, Jai Kishan Rodi and other leaders and 150 unidentified persons were booked for Sunday's protest. The cases were registered in Mohali. In a press statement, the chief minister said the acts of the SAD and the AAP were "irresponsible" and in utter violation of the strict curbs in place in the state in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. He asked Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta to take action against them under the law. At a time when people could not gather even for weddings and funerals, leaders and workers of these parties were behaving in a “reckless manner”, showing no concern for the safety and health of the people of Punjab, said the chief minister, adding that such behaviour could not be allowed or tolerated. Pointing out that the AAP's 'dharna' on Sunday was in fact in violation of the weekend curfew in place in the state, the chief minister said such 'dharnas' and political gatherings were potential super-spreaders and had to be firmly tackled. The law should take its course, he told the DGP, adding that political leaders had a big responsibility towards the society, which these parties had “shunned”, thus “jeopardising” the lives of Punjab's people. This was not the time to play political games and indulge in dirty politicking but to come together to fight the pandemic to the finish, Singh stated. The Punjab government had last week asked private hospitals to return all vaccine stock meant for the 18-44 age group, following criticism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-president-sukhbir-singh-badal-booked-for-flouting-covid-19-norms-994945.html
07-06-2021||Opinion||What 16th-century Venice teaches us about crypto||By David Fickling, On Feb. 18, 1522, a secondhand clothing merchant named Geronimo Bambarara in the crowded Rialto district of Venice came up with a new way of clearing out stock. Instead of selling his goods directly for money, he decided to enter customers in a draw. In exchange for a 1 lira ticket, they might win more than 1,000 times that amount in cash or take home prizes of carpets, cloth of gold, fabric, amber or animals. The promotion was a success. Within a week, the numbers chancing their odds resembled the crowds at the Ascension Day religious festival, according to one contemporary diarist: “At present, in this Rialto district, nothing is done except put money on the lottery.” It didn’t last. Just 10 days after the game began, alarmed Venetian authorities banned private lotteries. Their next move was equally predictable. Having eliminated a lucrative private business, the city turned it into a public one, and started issuing tickets to raise state revenue. That’s a lesson for how cryptocurrencies may develop over the years ahead, as more widespread usage magnifies the potential for negative public consequences. Falling and rising by double-digit amounts in a matter of hours, Bitcoin has largely given up any pretense that it can offer a challenge to the greenback as a form of currency. Even the hyperinflating Venezuelan bolivar and Zimbabwean dollar exhibit less price volatility. As the $1.7 trillion invested in digital currencies attests, though, crypto remains immensely popular as a speculative investment, just as Bambarara’s lottery tickets were five centuries earlier. If Bitcoin and its ilk are to survive an era when their downsides are becoming ever more apparent — from carbon emissions to ransomware attacks — they will need to find a way to betray their libertarian roots and cut their own deals with the state. Gambling and the financial state are intimately bound up together. It’s little accident that the first modern lotteries originated in Venice, the city that issued the first sovereign bonds. Much of the Venetian economy turned on speculation about the fortunes of shipping ventures. A key plot point of Shakespeare’s play “The Merchant of Venice” occurs when one of the titular trader’s ships is “wrecked on the narrow seas,” causing him to default on a loan. The gambling craze spread through Europe as incomes rose, often deprecated by religious authorities but tolerated or co-opted by governments. When the world’s first casino opened at the Ridotto in Venice in 1638, it was sanctioned by the governing Great Council as an attempt to regulate and oversee the numerous private card clubs that had sprung up. So many great fortunes were won and lost at the gaming tables that the inventor of basset, the poker-style game played at the Ridotto, is said to have been exiled to Corsica as punishment.  None of that deterred players. The Italian artist Caravaggio, Flemish Theodoor Rombouts, and French Georges de la Tour all painted celebrated scenes of card playing, often emphasising the amount of cheating that went on. There was clearly a ready market for such scenes, as both art and gambling were popular pastimes for the rich in 17th century Europe. That situation, too, has parallels in the current craze for NFT art. The same pattern played out in northern Europe. Before it was funded by issuing sovereign bonds, Britain’s national debt was paid for in the late 17th century via the proceeds of lotteries and tontines. An early attempt to consolidate those borrowings and pay them off via proceeds from the slave trade resulted in the creation of the South Sea Company, leading to one of the first great speculative financial bubbles. The lesson of all this is that the modern state can be remarkably tolerant of people winning and losing fortunes, so long as it gets some benefit. That can come in the form of a cut of the takings; a measure of control over otherwise chaotic risk-taking; or even the capital allocation functions provided by financial markets. Where those benefits are absent, however, governments grow impatient with the turmoil of unrestricted speculation, and crack down hard. What’s unique about cryptocurrencies is the way their resistance to the nexus of traditional political and financial power is inscribed in their code. Bitcoin is “very attractive to the libertarian viewpoint,” its pseudonymous creator Satoshi Nakamoto wrote in a 2008 post. Anonymous and divorced from the state-sanctioned banking system, crypto got one of its early boosts as an untraceable way to buy illegal drugs on the internet. To this day its most useful function, outside of a simple gamble on its price, is as a currency for illicit activities. That allergy to government control makes it fundamentally different than the many other speculative activities that have been tolerated over the centuries, as they showered riches on a lucky few and bankrupted others. For digital libertarians, that’s long seemed like a key feature of the technology. As the social and economic costs of tolerating crypto mount up, though, it may look more and more like a bug. The moment governments decide the nuisance and destabilisation caused by digital currencies is too great, they will ban financial institutions from exchanging them for fiat currencies as vigorously as the US enforces sanctions on its geopolitical enemies. That possibility, once remote, seems more and more likely in an era when America’s fuel supplies can be held hostage for $5 million in crypto. By establishing a relatively efficient payments system for illicit activity, digital currencies have drastically reduced the cost of crime. That’s not the sort of challenge that the modern state can be expected to take lying down. If crypto doesn’t find a way to make its peace with the governments it was set up to circumvent, it will eventually find itself crushed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-16th-century-venice-teaches-us-about-crypto-994637.html
07-06-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh govt extends Covid-19 curfew till June 20||The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday further extended the Covid-19 curfew across the state till June 20. The curfew duration, however, has been curtailed by two hours a day and will be in force from 2 PM to 6 AM after June 10. The Covid-19 curfew, first imposed on May 5, was supposed to end on June 10 but, at a high-level review meeting on the pandemic situation, Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy decided to extend it for ten more days.  A CMO release said all government offices would function from 8 AM to 2 PM daily till June 20. Coronavirus cases have shown a significant decline in AP in the last two weeks and the daily infection positivity rate fell from a high of 25 per cent in mid-May to about 10 per cent now. Consequently, the rush in hospitals has also reduced and there is a large availability of beds, both general and ICU. Also, demand for oxygen has also fallen drastically from as high as 700 tonnes a day to 400 tonnes now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-govt-extends-covid-19-curfew-till-june-20-994713.html
07-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu government allots Rs 25 crore from CMPRF to procure Amphotericin B||Tamil Nadu has allotted Rs 25 crore from the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) towards procurement of Amphotericin B drug and other medicines to treat black fungus-affected patients in the State. The announcement on Monday comes in the backdrop of the State government declaring the black fungus as a notified disease. According to the Medical Minister M Subramanian, the number of those infected by it stands at 921 in the State as of Sunday (June 6). "Chief Minister M K Stalin has issued orders to allocate Rs 25 crore to procure Amphotericin B and other life-saving medicines towards treatment of black fungus," an official release said. Stalin had urged the Union Health Ministry to allocate an adequate number of Amphotericin B drugs. "The emergence of mucormycosis aka black fungus among the patients and sufficient supply of liposomal Amphotericin B, which is being allotted by the Central government, are increasingly becoming critical issues which need urgent intervention," Stalin had said in his letter to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan last week. The government has already appealed to the public to donate to the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and several individuals, industrialists and corporates have been extending their support. "As of today (June 7), the State government has received Rs 280.20 crore funds," the release said. According to the release, the State government has allocated Rs 50 crore towards purchase of Remdesivir medicines to treat Covid-19 affected patients, another Rs 50 crore to buy RT-PCR kits and Rs 41.40 crore to procure oxygen cylinders through the State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu (SIPCOT) from Singapore and other overseas destinations. Meanwhile,the government, in another release, said the workers of various public transport corporations have contributed their one-day salary to the Chief Minister Public Relief Fund. About 1.20 lakh workers employed in the various transport corporations have contributed Rs 14.46 crore. A cheque for the amount was handed over to the Chief Minister by Transport Minister R S Rajakannappan. Transport department principal secretary Dayanand Kataria and senior government officials were present, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-government-allots-rs-25-crore-from-cmprf-to-procure-amphotericin-b-994767.html
07-06-2021||South||Panchayat in Kerala launches mission to secure govt jobs for aspirants||While the Covid-19 pandemic has dashed the hopes of scores of job aspirants, a panchayat in Kerala has launched a mission aimed at securing government jobs to at least one member of each household by imparting online coaching. Kanjikuzhi panchayat on the coastal areas of Alappuzha in Kerala has iniatied the Career Kanjikuzhi mission. The panchayat is having around 9,000 households and most of the families are involved in agricultural activities. Though the job aspirants of the village used to attend coaching classes, those were affected due to Covid restrictions. It was in this context that the panchayat authorities initiated the project with support of the retired government employees and other volunteers willing to impart coaching. The panchayat aims at reaching the target of one government employee at each household by five years. Panchayat vice president Santhosh Kumar said that already 1,500 job aspirants have joined the online programme. A team of experts comprising retired government employees and people's representatives would be setting questionnaires of 100 questions each and three such questionnaires would be sent to the job aspirants through the online platforms. Online mock tests would be conducted and prizes would also given to best performers. The online platform for the initiative was also developed by an engineering graduate of the panchayat. An 11-member monitoring committee was also constituted to constantly review the coaching which would be ideal for school and college children, also for enhancing their knowledge. The panchayat has earmarked Rs 10 lakh for the project. Former Finance Minster Thomas Isaac, who was the former MLA of Alappuzha, inaugurated the project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/panchayat-in-kerala-launches-mission-to-secure-govt-jobs-for-aspirants-994774.html
07-06-2021||South||Covid-19 lockdown in Kerala extended till June 16||An official statement said that the existing restrictions for shops selling essential commodities and construction materials would continue. But a total lockdown would be observed on June 12 and 13. Various types of shops like textiles, optical shops, jewellery and stationery shops would be allowed to open on June 11. Total Covid deaths in Kerala reached 10,157 on Monday. The test positivity rate of the state was at 13.2 per cent after 9,313 more people testing positive for Covid-19. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-lockdown-in-kerala-extended-till-june-16-994819.html
07-06-2021||South||Hundreds of people in Lakshadweep take part in hunger stir against administration||Hundreds of people in Lakshadweep took part in a dawn to dusk hunger stir as a mark of protest against the various decisions of the Praful Khoda Patel-led administration on Monday. People, including women and children, staged the protest in their houses by holding placards, while panchayat members staged the stir at panchayat offices. Save Lakshadweep, a forum of all political parties, made the 12-hour stir call. Even BJP workers of the islands reportedly took part in the protests. All normal activities on the island also came to a halt during the day. Different modes of protests were also witnessed with youths staging protests under the sea and children posting their protest on social media. Assistant secretary of the local cooperative society at Kavaratti, Cheriya Koya, said that there was overwhelming participation of the islanders in the protests despite the administration warning of actions against gatherings and imposing curfew. Resentment has been brewing among the islanders against the Lakshadweep administration over a series of decisions like beef ban, disqualifying parents of more than two children from contesting panchayat elections, powers to take over private properties, imposing hefty fines and terminating many from service. Though the Centre assured that the concerns of the people would be addressed, so far there are no favourable moves from the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hundreds-of-people-in-lakshadweep-take-part-in-hunger-stir-against-administration-994824.html
07-06-2021||South||LGBTQIA+ are entitled to privacy and dignified existence: Madras High Court||Observing that those from the LGBTQIA+ community are entitled to their privacy and right to lead a dignified existence like cis persons, the Madras High Court on Monday came up with comprehensive eight-point guidelines on dealing with same-sex couples and sensitising the society. The court also ordered the prohibition of any attempts to medically “cure” or change the sexual orientation of LGBTIQA+ people to heterosexual or the gender identity of transgender people to cisgender, and advocated a change in curricula of schools and universities to educate students on understanding the LGBTQIA+ Community. In a detailed order, Justice N Anand Venkatesh, who underwent a counselling session to understand same-sex relationships and consulted members from the LGBTQIA+ community on the subject, said the issue on hand is “very important” and requires awakening in the society. He was hearing a petition filed by a lesbian couple seeking protection from their families against their relationship. The judge had in April declared in the court that he wanted to learn more about same-sex relationships before delivering the verdict and underwent counselling. Outlining the guidelines, Justice Venkatesh said the police, on receipt of any complaint regarding missing cases, which upon investigation is found to involve consenting adults belonging to the LGBTQIA+ community should close the complaint without subjecting them to any harassment after recording their statements. Asking the Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment (MSJE) to enlist the support of groups that have sufficient expertise in handling the issues faced by the LGBTQIA+ community and help those who face an issue for the reason of their belongingness to the community. “LGBTQIA+ persons, like cis persons, are entitled to their privacy and have a right to lead a dignified existence, which includes their choice of sexual orientation, gender identity, gender presentation, gender expression and choice of partner thereof,” the judge said in his order, listing the case on August 31, 2021, for further orders. This right and the manner of its exercise are constitutionally protected under Article 21 of the Constitution and the enactment of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019 is a clear pointer that Parliament has recognised varying forms of sexual identity,  he observed.   In his order, the judge also suggested the inclusion of ‘transgender’ in addition to M and F gender columns in application forms for admission in educational institutions, and competitive entrance exams. The court also directed the government to make adequate infrastructural arrangements to house such persons who need protection as it stressed the need for eliminating prejudices against the LGBTQIA+ community, and channelising them back into the mainstream. He also said outreach programs to be conducted in association with NGOs and members of the LGBTQIA+ Community and parents should be sensitised on issues of the LGBTQIA+ community while asking for the availability of gender-neutral restrooms for the gender-nonconforming student. “If I have to figuratively describe the change in my perspective from right at the start of the conversation and to the time it ended, the petitioners described their love and companionship in exact terms of how two cis-heterosexuals, in my understanding, would have addressed their relationship,” Justice Venkatesh said. “Whatever they said sounded very natural and made me question myself as to where the conflict actually arises. This change happened within a mere duration of 15 minutes,” he added. The judge also said over decades, the voice of the LGBTQIA+ community is now getting louder and stronger and society can no more turn a deaf ear and the time has come to make that change. “It is, therefore, clear that the actual problem is not the fact that the law does not recognise a relationship but that the sanction that is accorded by the society is not available. It is only for this reason, I strongly feel that the change must take place at a societal level and when it is complemented by law there will be a remarkable change in the outlook of the society by recognising same-sex relationships,” he observed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lgbtqia-are-entitled-to-privacy-and-dignified-existence-madras-high-court-994836.html
07-06-2021||South||Petrol price crosses Rs 100 per litre-mark in Kerala||After several states, including Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, the price of premium petrol crossed Rs 100 per litre-mark in Kerala on Monday. The price of premium petrol hit the century mark at the pumps in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Idukki, Palakkad, Wayanad and Kasaragod districts. The premium petrol cost Rs 101.14 at fuel stations in the capital district while it was Rs 100.24 in northern Wayanad. According to industry sources, the price is different in various districts, depending on the freight charges. The price of petrol and disease was increased by 28 paise in the state on Monday, they said. In the city, pumps charged Rs 97.38 per litre for ordinary petrol, while it was Rs 95.43 in Kochi and Rs 95.68 in Kozhikode today. "Increasing fuel price is a growing concern for commoners like me, especially during this lockdown period. People like me do not have any proper job due to the pandemic-induced restrictions. "In such a situation, this hike is a heavy burden," Rajath, who worked as a delivery boy in a hotel here, said. The activists of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI), the youth wing of the ruling CPI(M), burnt the effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi here today as a mark of protest against the frequent hikes of petrol and diesel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/petrol-price-crosses-rs-100-per-litre-mark-in-kerala-994865.html
07-06-2021||South||BJP Kerala chief Surendran booked for allegedly bribing candidate to withdraw Assembly poll nomination||A court in Kerala's Kasargod on Monday ordered registration of a case against BJP Kerala president K Surendran for allegedly bribing a candidate to withdraw nomination at Manjeshwar in the recent Assembly election. Meanwhile, the state government handed over details regarding the alleged hawala money flow to Kerala for BJP's electioneering to the Enforcement Directorate (ED). With series of election-related funding allegations coming up against the state leadership, the party national leadership is learnt to have appointed a three-member panel comprising 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan to probe into the allegations. The Kasargod first-class magistrate court ordered registration of case considering a petition of LDF candidate in the election V V Ramesh based on the revelation of BSP candidate K Sundara that he withdrew the nomination after receiving Rs 2.5 lakh and a mobile phone from BJP local leaders. Two local leaders who handed over the cash would be also arraigned in the case under sections of IPC 171 for election-related offences. The Badiadka police have already launched a probe into the allegation and took Sundara's statement on Sunday. Meanwhile, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in the state Assembly that the details of the case pertaining to smuggling of Rs 3.5 crore hawala money, in which many BJP leaders are facing probe, were handed over to the ED on June 1. The ED sought details regarding the case. The Opposition Congress-led UDF had sought permission for an adjournment motion over the issue alleging that the funds were meant for illegal electioneering by BJP. After permission was denied for the adjournment motion, the House witnessed a heated argument between the CPM and the Congress leader accusing each other of nexus with the BJP. Meanwhile, the probe into the hawala money smuggling was also reported to be leading to Surendran as it was found that those involved in the case had contacted Sundrendran's son on his mobile phone soon after the robbery on April 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-kerala-chief-surendran-booked-for-allegedly-bribing-candidate-to-withdraw-assembly-poll-nomination-994875.html
07-06-2021||South||4.5 lakh children and adolescents in Andhra Pradesh may be affected in Covid-19 third wave, says a panel||Andhra Pradesh could witness about 18 lakh Covid-19 cases in the third wave, out of which 4.5 lakh i.e., 25 per cent would be children and adolescents, according to the projections of a state panel. The estimation of 18 lakh cases is equivalent to the total number of cases recorded till now in the state during the first and second wave of the pandemic. Also, under 18 years formed only about 12 per cent of the total cases of the first two waves in Andhra Pradesh, similar to the corresponding figures nationally. In its report submitted to the Jaganmohan Reddy government, the Paediatric Covid-19 Task Force Committee said that 90 per cent of the 4.5 lakh under 18 years age cases would be of home isolation category, and mild symptoms. “Eight per cent (about 36,000) children would need hospital admission and two per cent (9000) cases could turn severe, requiring ICU care,” the committee said in its report accessed by DH. “Paediatric age groups were largely spared during the first and second wave, but the third wave could show a growth in the children cases. This is apparent since the infections among the adults would be less due to acquired and vaccine-related immunity,” the committee observed. “However, we do not anticipate any escalation in their illness severity.” The present inoculation drive is covering people of 18 years of age and above. Covid-19 vaccines like Covaxin are still under trials for children use. Speaking to DH, Dr Bhumireddy Chandrasekhar Reddy, chairperson of the committee, said that their estimates are based on trends and experiences from the two waves and “not any predictive model or scientific analysis.” “Our projections are meant to alert the government and prepare the healthcare infrastructure for a possible, worst-case scenario. We have kept the numbers on the larger side, considering factors like the emergence of new variants,” Dr Reddy, who is the chairman of the AP Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation, said. “The third wave is a reality we should be prepared for, though we do not know when it will occur. Children getting affected more is also an assumption, but has to be taken seriously.” Estimating that 75 per cent of the overall cases would come to the state-run facilities, the committee has asked the government to strengthen pediatric care and equip the hospitals in advance with all necessary medicines and equipment. “We need to be prepared for treating 45,000 children over a 5-6 month period, with peak of the cases expected during the 2nd or 3rd months from the third wave beginning,” the committee said, adding that 533 children could be admitted into hospitals daily during the two peak months. The committee wants 700 pediatric and neonatal ventilators installed in 15 government hospitals, among an exhaustive list of equipment like patient monitors, pulse oximeters, portable X-ray machines, pediatric size nasal cannulas and stock of antipyretics, anti-coagulants, antimicrobial drugs, steroids.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/45-lakh-children-and-adolescents-in-andhra-pradesh-may-be-affected-in-covid-19-third-wave-says-a-panel-994914.html
07-06-2021||South||Ganja saplings planted on World Environment Day in Kerala||While scores of saplings were planted across the world on World Environment Day, at Kollam district in Kerala a group of miscreants planted saplings of ganja at pubic places. Saplings of ganja were reportedly spotted at three places in the district. At Kandachira in the suburbs of Kollam, some local people became suspicious of a gang of youths planting saplings and taking photographs marking the environment day. The excise authorities were alerted and they found a couple of ganja saplings. Ganja saplings were spotted at two other parts of the district also in the last couple of days. Excise authorities suspect that the accused were ganja addicts and launched a search for them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ganja-saplings-planted-on-world-environment-day-in-kerala-994919.html
07-06-2021||South||Sasikala’s phone calls with her supporters: Decoding the plan||Fresh audio clips of ousted AIADMK interim general secretary V K Sasikala’s conversations with party cadres continue to make their way into social media almost every day, raising frenzied expectations about her “second innings” in politics. Sasikala, who had on March 3 announced that she was “stepping aside” from politics before Tamil Nadu went to Assembly polls, has begun expressing her interest in taking the active political plunge by talking to her supporters over the phone in the past week. Understandably, Sasikala’s outreach to cadres has caused disquiet within the AIADMK, which is still smarting under the defeat in the April 6 election after being in power for a decade. It is a fact that the majority of leaders who occupy top positions, including Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam, were hand-picked by Sasikala, a close aide of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa.  While many leaders chose to keep their cards close to their chest after Sasikala’s telephonic conversations with cadres went viral, Palaniswami played down the development by merely saying that his former boss was not even a member of the party. EPS, who was chosen by Sasikala as Chief Minister in February 2017, is now opposed to her entry and on the day he made light of the telephonic chats, one more audio clip went viral on social media in which Sasikala is heard telling a cadre that she will guide the AIADMK as Jayalalithaa did. Sasikala’s phone conversations part of a larger plan Sources in Sasikala’s camp told Deccan Herald that the former AIADMK leader will continue to talk to cadres over the phone as part of a “larger plan.” “While all this is just a trailer, the main picture will begin the day she visits Amma (Jayalalithaa) memorial on the Marina Beach. She will launch her political journey from Amma’s resting place, though the date is not known. But from the interactions we have with her, she is certainly committed to coming back to politics,” a close aide of Sasikala told DH. The previous AIADMK government had closed the memorial immediately after its inauguration in January this year apparently to prevent Sasikala from visiting and making a political statement. However, the memorial was opened for the public after the polling was over on April 6. The close aide said a “proper plan” has been prepared to facilitate her entry into politics to “reclaim” AIADMK, maintaining that Sasikala was only returning the favour to those who wrote letters to her, or tried getting in touch with her after she walked out of the Parapana Agrahara prison earlier this year. ‘Sasikala will not have support in AIADMK’ However, a senior AIADMK leader, who is part of the high-level Steering Committee, told DH that Sasikala’s telephonic conversation has not made any impact within the party. “It has been a week since the audio clippings were leaked, but no leader with some standing in the AIADMK has come out in favour of Sasikala. If she has support in the party, her supporters should have come out in the open by now. I think she is trying to make her voice heard, and slowly she will withdraw herself from politics,” the leader said. He also added that Sasikala was not even a member of the AIADMK and it would be impossible for her to take over the party. Senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh said EPS’ position as “undisputed leader” now stands exposed with the party’s defeat. “When the chips are down, you get hit by everyone. If EPS had won the elections, there would have been no noise or audio from Sasikala. She (Sasikala) is testing the waters,” he told DH. ‘Many AIADMK functionaries in touch with Sasikala’ Another senior politician who is in the know claimed several district secretaries and newly elected legislators are also in touch with Sasikala’s camp. “Many of these leaders reached out to her, immediately after the party’s drubbing in the elections. She (Sasikala) does not want to rush into things, and that is why she began by calling cadres. The next move is to call people with positions in the party who have touched base with her camp,” he told DH. The leader said Sasikala’s camp is attempting to consolidate the Mukulathors, the case to which Sasikala and Panneerselvam belong. And here is where, sources in the camp said, Panneerselvam’s role will be crucial as he is already in touch with Sasikala's nephew T T V Dhinakaran. Will OPS side with Sasikala? Interestingly, the former deputy chief minister who is sulking more after his bid to be the Leader of Opposition was thwarted by EPS, has not yet reacted to Sasikala’s audio clips.   “He (OPS) might be the route through which the Sasikala family wants to get a toehold in the AIADMK given the fact that he is the Coordinator of the party. But things are not that easy even if OPS is on Sasikala’s side. Everything would boil down to the number of district secretaries and MLAs supporting each side,” the leader added. As things stand today, the majority of the legislators seem to support EPS, but most of them owe their past positions to Sasikala. “One should remember that the glue called power no longer exists with the AIADMK and Sasikala knows the party in and out as she controlled it from the sidelines for almost three decades. Coming weeks and months are interesting,” a political analyst said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikala-s-phone-calls-with-her-supporters-decoding-the-plan-994926.html
07-06-2021||State||Bengaluru's Covid-19 fatality rate above Karnataka average despite drop in cases||Out of 11,958 new cases reported on Monday, 1,992 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 11,488 discharges and 199 deaths. Cumulatively 27,07,481 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 31,920 deaths and 24,36,716 discharges, the Health department said in a bulletin. The total number of active cases is 2,38,824. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 9.08 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was at 2.84 per cent. Out of 340 deaths reported on Monday, 199 were from Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru (17), Belagavi (15), Hassan and Haveri (10 each), Ballari and Shivamogga (nine each), followed by others.  With the newly reported Covid-19 deaths in Bengaluru, the city's CFR is above 7.5 per cent, which is well above the state's average CFR.    Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 1,992, Shivamogga 1,224, Mysuru 1,213, Hassan 1,108, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases with a total of 11,85,118, followed by Mysuru 1,52,098 and Tumakuru 1,08,665. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 10,62,398, followed by Mysuru 1,36,018 and Tumakuru 96,788. Cumulatively a total of 3,07,32,003 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,31,553 were done on Monday alone. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bengalurus-covid-19-fatality-rate-above-karnataka-average-despite-drop-in-cases-994860.html
07-06-2021||State||UoM develops cost-effective Covid-19 detection kit||The University of Mysore (UoM) has added another feather to its cap. It has now designed an affordable Covid-19 test kit, in association with a private company. A team led by former vice-chancellor of UoM K S Rangappa, also chemistry professor, designed the kit along with Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company Lorven Biologics. Rangappa made the announcement about the kit at a press conference on Monday. The team members are S Chandra Nayak, coordinator, UoM, and C D Mohan, assistant professor, Department of Studies in Molecular Biology, UoM. Dr Venkataramana, director, Lorven Biologics, was instrumental in the preparation of the kit and he provided the scientific and logistical support for it. “The kit will be sent to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), New Delhi, for approval. As the kit is designed by a state-run varsity, it will come at an affordable price,” he said. He said, “We are dependent on rapid detection method and RT-PCR for diagnosis of Covid. Our kit can overcome the limitations associated with these methods. The need of the hour is to have a kit that can detect all mutant variants of the virus fast. We hope that the kit will be able to detect the virus in subsequent waves too. Any person with Covid symptoms can use this kit to test for the virus in body fluids like sputum, nasal secretions and saliva,”he said. “We are providing a barcode strip that is connected to a mobile application. As soon as the barcode is scanned, the status (positive/negative) is updated on the server, which enables the governing agency to monitor Covid-positive cases. Advanced technologies related to molecular biology, nanotechnology and artificial intelligence are used to develop the kit,” he said. The team is also planning to formulate a drug for Covid in association with Hyderabad-based Indian Institute of Chemical Technology and Lucknow-based Central Drug Research Institute.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uom-develops-cost-effective-covid-19-detection-kit-994900.html
07-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Hawala worries in Karnataka sub-registrar offices||The Department of Stamps and Registration has decided to opt for digital payments at sub-registrar offices after coming across hawala transactions and instances of government funds being transferred into private bank accounts at the offices. The developments prompted the department to issue a circular recently banning demand draft (DD) and cash receipts at all sub-registrar offices. Asking officials to use only online mode for all payments, the department warned of strict action against those accepting cash payments for various services offered. "(As) government funds were illegally transferred to private accounts, and government head of accounts (HoA) and offices are being used for illegal and hawala transactions, accepting cash and demand drafts (DD) at all sub-registrar offices are banned," the order said. All transactions should be through bank transfers or digital payments, the circular dated May 31 and issued by K Ekesh Babu, Under Secretary to the state government, Revenue Department (Stamps and Registration), said. When contacted, KP Mohan Raj, Inspector General of Registration and Commissioner of Stamps, said that the order was based on a complaint filed four months ago by a sub-registrar from Sringeri in Chikkamagaluru district. "By the order, we are trying to abolish cash transactions at the offices," he said. In the complaint filed in January this year, Sringeri sub-registrar HS Cheluvaraju had alleged unlawful remittance and drawing under the government of HoA. He had submitted bank account numbers that were used for the purpose. According to sources in the department, the order was issued after complaints that money transferred for property transactions were being misused. "The amount was not realised in the government HoA even though documents reflected payment." In another irregularity, there were cases where the DDs were not honoured. There was also a delay in realisation of amounts debited through DDs. "In several sub-registrar offices, mismanagement to the tune of crores was detected. There was a departmental inquiry instituted, officials suspended and demoted," a senior official said under the condition of anonymity. According to a sub-registrar, the decision of cashless transactions could inconvenience those seeking basic documents such as Encumbrance Certificates in rural areas, which are available at the offices for the payment of Rs 35.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hawala-worries-in-karnataka-sub-registrar-offices-994574.html
07-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Discharges climb, positivity rate dips in Karnataka as Covid-19 second wave eases||Covid-19 patient discharges are outstripping new cases being found daily, with officials describing the development as a sign of the state’s recovery from the second wave. On Sunday, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar tweeted the highlights of the Covid-19 bulletin, which reported 25,659 discharges, double the cases (12,209) found on the day. The trend first began on May 22 in Bengaluru Urban, where the number of discharges has generally been exceeding new cases by a factor of between three and five.  Dr Sudhakar said the state conducted 1.58 lakh tests in the last 24 hours, with Karnataka’s test positivity rate (TPR) falling by two points in a day to 7.71 per cent. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said even though graded unlocking may happen over the course of the next two months, it did not mean, for example, that a person could go to a pub for a drink anytime soon. “There may be a reduced sense of fear of Covid-19 now, but the public will have to stay vigilant. It took a significant amount of effort, including large-scale collaborations by officers, officials, medical staff and the public to bring the surge under control,” he said. He added that testing would also be maintained at high levels. “The thumb rule is about 10,000 tests per 1,000 cases. To be on the safer side, we would increase the number of tests to 20,000 tests per 1,000 cases. So, if we had 2,000 cases daily, we would be conducting about 40,000 tests,” he said. Despite the pandemic’s downward trend, an analysis by the independent Jeevan Raksha analysis think-tank found that Bengaluru Urban continues to have the highest death moving growth rate among major cities in India. “This indicates a shorter doubling period and increase in average daily number of deaths. On the contrary, the average daily caseload has decreased by over 80%. This pattern is possible due to inadequate and timely testing,” a Jeevan Raksha report released on Sunday stated. Furthermore, the city’s actual active caseload continues to be slightly higher than normal as per projections carried out internally by the BBMP War Room and by independent data modelers. As per a mathematical model developed at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), the decline of the active caseload has not been adequate enough to show effective containment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/discharges-climb-positivity-rate-dips-in-karnataka-as-covid-19-second-wave-eases-994576.html
07-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||JSW land row: HC asks Karnataka to produce documents||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday asked the state government to place on record all relevant documents pertaining to transfer of 3,667 acres of land to JSW Steel in Ballari district. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka ordered notice to the state government on the PIL. The bench said that if the state government has taken any decision on the issue all relevant documents should be placed before the court. During the hearing, advocate for the petitioner S Dore Raju claimed that the state government is selling the land at lowest price and even some of the ministers have opposed the decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jsw-land-row-hc-asks-karnataka-to-produce-documents-994884.html
07-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka plans early flood warning project in Krishna basin||A pilot project for early warning dissemination using centralized public broadcasting system will be taken up in 100 remote gram panchayats that are vulnerable to floods. The system, when implemented, will not only broadcast weather forecasts for the benefit of farmers, but also issue alerts on lightning, storms, landslides or any other emergencies. The project is being implemented by the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC). The pilot project was revealed in the Karnataka State Action Plan for Flood Risk Management, 2021, released on Monday. The project will be first implemented in River Krishna basin, which has faced floods in consecutive years. The system will include a public broadcasting system with four speakers placed at gram panchayat offices. These devices will be remotely managed and alerts will be issued atregular intervals. During possible flooding or heavy rainfall scenario, disaster survival messages on how to safeguard oneself from lightning, the closest shelters for villagers during any flood threat and so on can be notified using the announcement systems. Speaking to DH, Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) commissioner Manoj Rajan said that villages were identified in Belagavi, Bagalkot and Raichur districts along the course of river Krishna. The 3-tier system being implemented will allow alerts to be relayed directly from central servers in Bengaluru to a particular village which might witness adverse weather conditions. The pilot project will cost around Rs 95 lakh, Rajan said. “We will see how it pans out and whether it can be implemented in other parts of the state,” he said. The KSDMA has also developed a flood preparation and evaluation matrix for all districts. Each district has to assess its vulnerability, early warning and evacuation, preparedness for emergency relief, shelter management, etc, and plan accordingly for the monsoon season.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-plans-early-flood-warning-project-in-krishna-basin-994885.html
07-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||House regularisation: Deadline extended till March 31, 2022||The Karnataka government has extended the last date for applications seeking regularisation of houses constructed on government land in urban areas to March 31, 2022. Applications accepted under Section 94C and 94CC of Karnataka Land Revenue Act will be disposed in a year, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said. The sections of the Act allow for grant of land for construction of houses on government land. Speaking to reporters, Ashoka said that the government would restart the process of regularising ‘bagair hukum’ cultivation in the state. Around 4.83 lakh of the 8.57 lakh applications received for regularization are yet to be uploaded onto the software, he said. The process was delayed after the announcement of Lok Sabha polls. The state government has extended the last date for uploading pending applications till July 31, Ashoka said. Flood-prone villages The state government has identified 1,710 villages that are either flood-affected or prone to flooding. Of these, 758 villages are susceptible to heavy flooding, while 952 can face moderate flooding. Among other precautionary measures against flooding, the government will depute a team of doctors for first-aid and various purposes during the monsoon season, he said. Forecasts show that monsoon rainfall will be above normal in 23 districts of the state, while it will be below normal in the rest of the districts. Committees are also formed at the taluk levels to disburse immediate relief for victims of any natural disasters during the monsoon season, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/house-regularisation-deadline-extended-till-march-31-2022-994886.html
07-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Textbooks to reach schoolchildren only in September||Though classes for the 2021-22 academic year are set to begin from July 1, the students may find it hard to get their textbooks with the authorities stating that the new set of books will be available only in September. Considering the delay, the Karnataka Text Books Society (KTBS) has issued directions to all Block Education Officers (BEO) to procure textbooks from old students and distribute the same to children this year through book banks. The communication to BEOs reads, “During the academic year 2020-21, textbooks have been supplied free of cost to all governments and aided schools for grades 1 to 10, in all mediums. This year also, measures have been taken to provide free textbooks, but due to Covid-19 pandemic and statewide lockdown, the process has been delayed.” It says, “considering the interest of students, the officials concerned at the local level should collect previous year’s textbooks which are in good condition from the students and distribute them to students this year through book banks,” According to sources from KTBS, the tender process for printing of textbooks is under way. “Once the tender is finalised, we will give 100 days for the printers to supply textbooks. We are expecting the textbooks probably in the month of September,” the sources said. The KTBS is printing textbooks even for private unaided and aided schools by taking 10% advance amount and indent on the number of books required by private unaided schools. For aided and government schools, it is free of cost. The government has set aside Rs 153 crore for textbooks in the budget.  This year, the deadline for printers to provide textbooks has been reduced from 140 days to 100 days. M P Madegowda, managing director of KTBS, said, “the textbook printing process has been delayed due to lockdown and the process to verify the bids is on. We will issue work orders once the tender process is finalised.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/textbooks-to-reach-schoolchildren-only-in-september-994889.html
07-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Place on record policy decision for rural healthcare: HC||The High Court has directed the government to place on record its policy decision, if any, taken to ensure that healthcare facilities are available in villages and in remote areas of the state. The PIL sought direction to set up hospitals in every Gram Panchayat (GP) area. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka ordered notice to the government on the PIL. The bench, however, said that a direction to set up hospitals in every GP area may be a very far-fetched prayer. “However, the issue raised in this petition is about the obligation of the state government to make healthcare facilities in the rural and remote area in the context of right to health which is now recognised as a part of fundamental right under Article 21 of the constitution of India,” the court said. The court said apart from right to health, the issue is relevant in the present day’s context of Covid-19 spreading to the rural areas. It has directed the government to respond within one month. The matter has been posted to July 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/place-on-record-policy-decision-for-rural-healthcare-hc-994890.html
07-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to spend Rs 1,500 crore to upgrade 149 taluk, 19 district hospitals||Ramping up health infrastructure across Karnataka ahead of the possible third wave of Covid, the state Covid task force on Monday approved an action plan of Rs 1,500 crore, upgrading 149 taluk hospitals and 19 district hospitals with ICU ventilators, high dependency unit (HDU) beds and oxygenated beds.  The task force headed by Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayana directed constitution of a technical committee and ordered the completion of the project within three months. “Our objective is to equip the state to face any type of medical challenges in the near future and not necessarily the Covid pandemic. We have decided to spruce up infrastructure from the taluk level by upgrading hospitals with advanced life support system that can stabilise patients during any emergency,” Dr Ashwath Narayana said. The DyCM said, “the action plan involves overhauling of the existing facilities. Every taluk hospital will have a 100-bed facility, including 25-bed ICU ventilator facility, 25-bed HDU and 50-oxygenated beds. Besides remote ICU facilities, all kinds of diagnostic facilities will be provided at these hospitals. We will also be working on a war-footing to recruit skilled manpower for these facilities.” As per the estimation submitted to the task force by the Health department, the proposed health infrastructure from taluk to district level with various specialised departments would at least require 4,000 doctors. “We need to appoint three nurses for each doctor and three group ‘D’ workers. The overall set-up will cost us Rs 1,500 crore, out of which Rs 600 crore will be spent as annual salaries to these employees,” Dr Ashwath Narayana said. “No patient shall come out of the taluk for any treatment and about 97% of the treatment must be available within the district. The government’s view is that there shall not be any discrepancies in maintenance and quality of services offered at the government hospital. The technical advisory committee involving experts from Boston Consulting Group will provide us technical assistance free of cost as part of their CSR initiative,” he said.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-spend-rs-1500-crore-to-upgrade-149-taluk-19-district-hospitals-994929.html
07-06-2021||West||1 dead, 5 injured after wall collapses in Mumbai's Bandra||A 28-year-old man died and 17 others were rescued when two dwellings of Rajjak Chawal at Kherwadi in Bandra caved in the wee hours of Monday. The deceased was identified as Riyaz Ahmed. Five others were injured in the incident – Nural Haq Haider Ali Sayyad (21), Salman Atik Khan (24), Rahul Mohan Khot (22), Rohan Mohan Khot (22), Lata Mohan Khot (48). According to Mumbai civic and fire brigade officials, the ground+4 and ground+2 structures caved in around 5 am. While six persons were rescued by locals, 11 were rescued by the fire brigade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/1-dead-5-injured-after-wall-collapses-in-mumbais-bandra-994628.html
07-06-2021||West||NCC, Mumbai University work on NCC studies as subject||Maharashtra NCC's Additional Director General Maj Gen Y P Khanduri on Monday met Prof Suhas Pednekar, Vice Chancellor of Mumbai University, to discuss the modalities of implementing 'NCC Studies' by all colleges having NCC units as an optional subject facilitating credits to NCC cadets in the degree college. During the meeting, the members further explored the next phase of incorporating 'NCC studies' as a General Elective that could be opted by the students thereby bettering their career prospects to join the armed and paramilitary forces. This was the third in the series of meetings by Maj Gen Y P Khanduri in facilitating implementation of NCC as an elective subject, with earlier meetings with Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and state Youth Affairs Minister Sunil Kedar. This will enable 66 colleges to adopt NCC as an elective subject, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncc-mumbai-university-work-on-ncc-studies-as-subject-994672.html
07-06-2021||West||Several Maharashtra villages to have Miyawaki plantations||It may be recalled, on Republic Day in 2020, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray formally launched BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation's Miyawaki forest project. State’s environment, tourism and protocol minister Aaditya Thackeray has taken keen interest in the project. The Miyawaki method was developed by Japanese botanist and conservationist Akira Miyawaki. Aimed at restoring and creating indigenous forests, only native species are carefully planted during afforestation in this method. Chemical fertilisers are not used and the forest by this method grows ten times faster and thirty times denser. Where conventional forests take 200-300 years to fully develop, Miyawaki forests produce the desired results in just 20-30 years. Miyawaki forests absorb 30% more carbon dioxide than conventional forests, reduce noise and dust emissions by 30%, and remain 30% greener. “This method is considered as a great alternative to our immediate environmental needs. In Maharashtra, this method has been used extensively for afforestation across the State through social organizations and public participation, and also through the efforts of the government,” according to the Directorate of Tourism. “We have decided to afforest Miyawaki in 500 villages in Maharashtra in the next 4-5 years,” said Shashank Sharma, Head of Projects Maharashtra, SayTrees Environmental Trust, Bangalore. Earlier, in association with Pani Foundation, the organisation has created forests in five villages in Maharashtra. “The fact that climate change is happening right now is proof that our earth has a deadline. The world needs more people who love the planet,” added Sharma. In addition to planting trees in the Miyawaki method, the Prayas Youth Foundation is also working on several other activities. The founder and president of the organisation, Ravi Chaudhary has planted about 1 lakh trees at 22 places in Aurangabad district, which includes hundreds of native species of trees. He has created the largest Miyawaki forest in Maharashtra and perhaps in the country at Walunj in Aurangabad. It has 75,000 plants, 70% of which are native species. Talking about the Mumbai initiative, the Founder of Green Yatri, Pradip Tripathi said, “Citizens should do something on their own rather than waiting for someone else to do the afforestation work. The whole family can join in this and it will be useful to create a good oxygen zone at your home.” Deepen Jain and Dr. RK Nair’s Forest Creators have planted 97 native species of trees at various locations in Maharashtra. The urban forests help lower temperatures in concrete heat islands, reduce air and noise pollution, and attract local birds and insects. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/several-maharashtra-villages-to-have-miyawaki-plantations-994700.html
07-06-2021||West||Maharashtra comes out with 'state-level oxygen trigger'||As Maharashtra rolls out Unlock 2.0, it would also mark a new system of reviewing the Covid-19 pandemic situation by way of a “state-level oxygen trigger” to carry forward the Lockdown/Unlock measures. To start the Unlock process after recovery from the second wave, the Disaster Management Unit of the Maharashtra government has divided the state into 48 units – districts and municipal corporations – and marked it under Level 1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 depending on the positivity rate and oxygen bed status. Level 1 means positivity rate less than 5 per cent and oxygen beds occupancy percentage less than 25 per cent. In Level 2, the positivity rate has to be below 5 per cent while the percentage of oxygenated beds should be between 25 per cent and 45 per cent. In Level 3, the positivity rate has to be between 5 per cent and 10 per cent or oxygen bed capacity more than 40 per cent. In Level 4, the positivity rate has to be between10 per cent and 20 per cent or oxygen bed capacity more than 60 per cent. In Level 5, the positivity rate would be more than 20 per cent or oxygen bed capacity more than 75 per cent. What is interesting is that every Thursday, there is going to be a review when the Public Health Department would declare the number of oxygen beds at the state level as well as the district wise positivity rate and oxygen beds occupation percentage in each district.  Liquid Medical Oxygen is “the most critical resource” in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the note issued by Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte. Presently, the state’s LMO production capacity is 1,200 tonnes per day, but there are serious challenges in importing oxygen from other states as well as internally transporting it to remote areas in the state. The note states that on an average of 1,000 patients require 20 tonnes of oxygen daily, hence the state can support 60,000 patients from its own LMO production of 1,200 tonnes daily. This necessitated the need for the ‘state-level oxygen trigger’ whereby if the total patients on oxygen beds are over 45,000-50,000 irrespective of the trend of oxygen bed occupancy, then no other local parameters like Covid positivity rate would apply and the state shall be above Level 4. Similarly, if the oxygen beds occupancy is between 35,000-45,000, or higher but with a reducing trend, those areas shall be above Level 3. The State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) will be empowered to take the necessary steps to further ease/tighten restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-comes-out-with-state-level-oxygen-trigger-994709.html
07-06-2021||West||Nagpur curbs eased, people begin to throng markets, shops||Markets and roads were buzzing with people on Monday morning as easing of coronavirus-induced restrictions came into force in Nagpur, which is in category 1 of Maharashtra government's five-level plan to remove curbs based on positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy levels. In the first category, cities and districts that have a positivity rate of five per cent and oxygen bed occupancy of less than 25 per cent, can open up completely, as per the state government's directive. However, state minister and Nagpur North MLA Nitin Raut had, on Sunday, said certain restrictions would continue to be in force in Vidarbha's largest district so that any chance of the outbreak intensifying can be avoided. "The number of people who have walked in since morning is less but we are sure it will get better in the days to come. We are opening after two-and-half months and customers are being allowed in after their temperature is checked. All staff have been told to wear masks, gloves and maintain strict social distancing," Snehil Munghate, a manager of a prominent mall told PTI. Nagpur Residential Hotels Association (NRHA) chief Tejinder Singh Renu told PTI the decision to allow dining till 10pm is a big relief to the sector, as is the nod for marriage functions to have 100 people in attendance. Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce president Ashwin Mehadia said the move to remove some restrictions was welcome but it would have been ideal if shops and establishments were allowed to function till 7pm. He said NVCC members would be given a 13-point coronavirus-related checklist to adhere to while conducting business.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nagpur-curbs-eased-people-begin-to-throng-markets-shops-994752.html
07-06-2021||West||BJP to hold demonstrations across Rajasthan against suspension of Jaipur GMC Mayor||The Rajasthan government has suspended the Jaipur Greater Municipal Corporation mayor and three councillors for allegedly misbehaving with the local body's commissioner, drawing flak from the BJP which has decided to hold statewide demonstrations against the action.   The Congress government has also decided to conduct a judicial inquiry in the matter. The Department of local self-governance issued the orders on Sunday night suspending mayor Somya Gurjar, and councillors Ajay Singh Chauhan, Paras Jain (all three from the BJP), and Shankar Sharma (independent) for allegedly manhandling, pushing and abusing the commissioner. The alleged incident happened on Friday when the commissioner, Yagya Mitra Singh Deo, had gone to the mayor's chamber to attend a meeting on a matter related to the company engaged in door-to-door garbage collection. During the meeting, a heated argument broke out between the two and the commissioner, a civil servant, got up to leave midway. In the middle of this, the councillors allegedly manhandled and abused him. Condemning the action against the four, BJP state president Satish Poonia said the party "will fight for justice" "The suspension of the mayor and the councillors is unfortunate. This will lead to the fall of the Congress," he said. Poonia termed the action against the elected mayor and three councillors as unfortunate and undemocratic and the party will hold demonstrations across the state on Tuesday. “The law and order situation has deteriorated. The government does not take such prompt action when a gang rape occurs. The Congress was not able to digest the victory of the BJP in the Jaipur greater municipal corporation elections and, therefore, was discriminating against the municipal corporation,” he alleged. He charged that the government took one-sided action and the mayor and councillors were not even given the chance to present their side. “The government took quick action and they were not even given the chance to present their side. We will fight legally as well as politically against the government,” he told reporters on Monday. The saffron party leader said disagreements between public representatives and officers do happen but this action was unprecedented. Poonia said the BJP will be holding protests in all the wards of Jaipur this evening. "Similar protests will be held across the state on Tuesday while following Covid related guidelines,” he said. He said the opposition party will launch a mass movement against the Congress government once the Covid situation is normalised. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-to-hold-demonstrations-across-rajasthan-against-suspension-of-jaipur-gmc-mayor-994754.html
07-06-2021||West||Gujarat: Covid-19 norms violated at BJP event, 6 booked||Six BJP functionaries from Malia Hatina town in Gujarat's Junagadh district were booked for alleged Covid-19 norm violations at an event organised to welcome some people who had joined it from the Congress, police said on Monday. Over 100 party workers had assembled inside a hall during the event, most without face masks, after which Malia Hatina taluka BJP general secretary Aniruddh Dodiya and five others were booked, an official said. "The event was held without permission, and social distancing was not maintained. Such events are prohibited in Gujarat currently due to the coronavirus outbreak. An FIR was lodged under IPC, Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act provisions after a video of the event was brought to the notice of the police," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-covid-19-norms-violated-at-bjp-event-6-booked-994758.html
07-06-2021||West||Heavy rain warning in coastal Maharashtra; CM Uddhav Thackeray asks officials to stay alert||Nearly a month after cyclone Tauktae hit the Maharashtra coast, a heavy rainfall warning has been issued for the next four days for Mumbai and the Konkan shoreline districts. In the wake of the alerts by the India Meteorological Department in Mumbai-Konkan from June 9-12, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray reviewed the situation. Thackeray has directed the state administration to be alert. “The treatment of patients must not be affected and if needed, shift citizens from vulnerable establishments to safer places,” Thackeray said. He has also asked people along the coastline to be shifted to safe areas ahead of the rains lashing the coast. “People from low-lying areas, dilapidated buildings, and landslide-prone areas should be moved to safer places,” the chief minister said.  The Mumbai metropolitan region comprising the financial capital of Mumbai and North Konkan districts of Palghar, Thane, Raigad, and South Konkan twin districts of Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg are expected to face heavy rains. The IMD’s Mumbai-based Regional Meteorological Centre has asked fishermen of the Maharashtra-Goa coast not to venture into the Arabian Sea. On June 10 and 11, there could be strong winds 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph, which could be accompanied by heavy rainfall, according to the weatherman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rain-warning-in-coastal-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-asks-officials-to-stay-alert-994784.html
07-06-2021||West||17 dead in massive fire at chemical factory in Pune||At least 17 persons including fifteen women were killed after a massive fire broke out in a chemical factory in an industrial area at Mulshi in Pune district on Monday. The massive fire broke out at the SUS Aqua Technologies, a chemical factory in the Urvade village in Pirangut this evening. Huge flames and thick cloud smoke could be seen billowing out of the plant. Pune Collector Dr Rajesh Deshmukh, Pune-Rural Superintendent of Police Dr Abhinav Deshmukh and Mulshi Tahsildar Abhay Chavan rushed to the spot to supervise the fire-fighting and rescue operation. Top officials of the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) too were present at the spot. The bodies have been taken to the state-run Sassoon General Hospital in Pune city. Pune district administration and police officials said that a total of 37 persons were working in the plant of which 17 were trapped and charred to death. Twenty others managed to get out or were rescued, as per reports. The Pune-Rural police have registered an Accidental Death Report (ADR) into the case. “The fire started at 4 pm…. The cooling operations are underway and will continue throughout the night,” said Dr Deshmukh. Initial investigations reveal that the fire broke out while the packaging process was underway. “The fire spread because of the plastic,” fire brigade officials said. "Heartbreaking news coming in from #pirangut #Pune. Heartfelt condolences with the those who lost their loved ones in the terrible fire! My prayers for safe and quick recovery of those who are still missing or injured in this tragedy," ShivajiNagar MLA Siddharth Shirole tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/17-dead-in-massive-fire-at-chemical-factory-in-pune-994813.html
07-06-2021||West||286 hectares of Aarey land handed over to Maharashtra govt||Aarey Colony authorities on Monday handed over 286.7 hectares of land to the Maharashtra government, paving the way for the protection of one of Mumbai's main green lungs. A statement from the chief minister's office (CMO) said the Aarey land parcel handed over comprises 125 hectares in Borivali, 71 hectares in Goregaon and 89 hectares in Marol Maroshi. The handover has been made to the chief conservator of forests, which in turn will pave the way for the creation of a jungle spread over 812 acres right in the middle of the metropolis, an official said. The Uddhav Thackeray government had declared 800 acres of land in Aarey as reserve forest last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/286-hectares-of-aarey-land-handed-over-to-maharashtra-govt-994904.html
07-06-2021||West||At 728, Mumbai's Covid-19 tally remains below 1,000 on 8th day||Mumbai on Monday reported 728 fresh coronavirus positive cases and 28 fatalities, taking the tally to 7,12,329 and the toll to 15,066, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. Mumbai had recorded 794 Covid-19 cases and 20 deaths the previous day. Mumbai has been reporting less than 1,000 cases every day for the last seven days. With 28,076 new tests, the number of samples tested so far in Mumbai rose to 64,53,499, as per the BMC data. Mumbai is now left with 15,786 active cases. A total of 980 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, raising the count of recoveries so far in Mumbai to 6,79,258, the civic body said. Mumbai's case recovery rate now stands at 95 per cent while the overall growth rate of cases for the period between May 31 to June 6 remained 0.12 per cent. The current case doubling rate stands at 550 days, according to BMC. Meanwhile, the number of active sealed buildings in Mumbai has dipped below 100-mark to 96 for the first time since the beginning of April. The civic body said Mumbai has 26 active containment zones in slums and chawls. Mumbai had logged the highest 11,163 cases on April 4 this year. The city had seen 90 deaths on May 1, which were the highest in a day during the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/at-728-mumbais-covid-19-tally-remains-below-1000-on-8th-day-994928.html
