08-06-2021||First Edit||Welcome reversal of vaccination policy||The change in vaccination policy, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, is a positive decision and is welcome, though the shift —which is to come into effect from June 21 — should have been made earlier. From a restrictive and flawed policy that pushed much of the responsibility for vaccination to the states, the Modi government has moved closer to the long-standing national policy on vaccination. The vaccination will now be free for all eligible age groups, including those in the 18-44 segment, and the Centre will procure the vaccines and supply them to the states. The earlier policy had mandated that vaccine-makers provide 25 per cent of their production to the states, another 25 per cent to the private sector and 50 per cent to the central government. The states had to pay for the vaccines, and they were also left on their own to procure vaccines from foreign companies. The policy of leaving the states on their own was made just when a shortage of vaccines was about to hit the country, and the ensuing confusion set the vaccination drive back. The number of vaccinations dropped from 7.75 crore doses in April to about six crore doses in May. Though the Prime Minister has claimed large numbers of vaccinations, it is a fact that just over 3 per cent of the country’s population has been fully vaccinated till now. There was widespread criticism from the public, the media and from the Supreme Court, which censured the government and posed some difficult questions to the Centre. The top court’s strong words and demand for answers and the all-round criticism of the extant vaccination policy amidst a devastating second wave of the pandemic perhaps forced Modi onto national television to announce the policy change. While there is a new policy, its implementation might again pose questions. Availability of vaccines might still be a problem, although the timing of Modi’s television address suggests that his government is returning to take charge of the vaccination programme just as vaccine supplies are set to get better. The two Indian vaccine-makers have both said that they will step up supplies from July; and there will be new players who would be making both the indigenous Covaxin and other vaccines licensed from foreign companies. While it has done well to reverse a flawed and unjust policy, the PM unfortunately put the blame for its failure on the states and, being on the defensive, sought to portray previous governments as having failed on vaccination programmes while his government alone had succeeded. The PM made a positive announcement. He could have made it gracefully. It must be hoped that with the return to a long-established policy of central responsibility, the vaccines will reach the maximum number of people at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/welcome-reversal-of-vaccination-policy-994992.html
08-06-2021||In Perspective||To allow or not to allow domestic helps entry?||A widely covered interaction between citizens and Police Commissioner of Bengaluru city Kamal Pant hit the local media last week. The most contentious issue seemed to be the question of whether domestic helps are allowed in apartment complexes during the current lockdown. The commissioner unequivocally said that the decision is left to the Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) but correctly hinted at the risks of doing so. Unfortunately, this answer creates more confusion. The BBMP too has at different times taken ambivalent stands and many residents of different complexes have flaunted different positions quoting BBMP. In times like this, on matters as serious as public health, it is, therefore, best to go both by the intent, letter and spirit of the law and, on a personal basis, the morality involved in making such decisions. In my view, it is the duty of all citizens to rally behind the government, even at the cost of personal discomfort, in the battle to break the chain of Covid-19 infection. This subject to medical and super senior citizens related exceptions of course. Thankfully, the notifications in the official gazette of the government signed by the chief secretary under the National Disaster Management Act (NDMA) are crystal clear. It’s a mystery as to why this issue remains contentious even today. Those in favour of allowing the entry of domestic helps like to flaunt BBMP’s advisory dated April 30, 2021, (post lockdown on April 27, 2021) which clearly stated that RWAs are allowed to take their own decision. However, they fail to recognise that with the rapidly deteriorating situation of the second wave of the pandemic, the government issued a new gazette notification on May 7, 2021, which laid the following points: First, that the severity of the second wave is far more than originally envisaged. Second, much more stringent measures are required. Third, a set of defined, specific exceptions were allowed for movement and apart from which all movements were restricted. The notification, to provide further clarity, specified that all past orders are superseded and BBMP and the police were mandated under the NDMA to enforce these regulations. Domestic helps do not fall under exceptional categories. Neither is it permissible to allow their movement between 6 am and 10 am which is only for specified purposes. Furthermore, the recent lockdown extension notification dated Jun 3, 2021, mentions clearly that the only exception to the earlier notification is for certain export-oriented industries and nothing else. The government is clear on the enactment and it is a trifle surprising that there is ambiguity in the legal position as far as the police are concerned. When such decisions on containment strategies are taken a risk assessment is conducted by the government along with inputs from public health specialists amongst others. It is our responsibility as citizens not to double guess the authorities in the outcome of the risk assessment done as we simply do not have enough inputs to make an informed judgement. Now, on the question of morality of asking, or compelling, domestic helps to come to work during this period. Questions like who will be responsible if there is police action on them whilst they come to work on their vehicles? These are likely to be seized. Aren’t they being exposed to the virus by stepping out of their homes when the risk assessment suggests that the virus is both infectious and contagious and Karnataka continues to be a national hotspot? Most domestic helps are nowhere close to getting vaccinated as yet whereas most residents in apartments have the safety net of having being vaccinated. Isn’t it a clear case of extreme selfishness displayed by residents due to this vaccination asymmetry? Are we not exposing the other vulnerable residents in the apartment complex concerned by allowing free access in large numbers of this unvaccinated population—most of whom work in multiple flats— during a raging pandemic? The general secretary of the BAF, Vikram Rai, recently lamented that this issue is polarising residents in different RWAs and advised, sanely in my view, that domestic helps be paid their salary during the lockdown. Given the risk assessment of the government and the payoff between life and death of such decisions, I would have expected a completely unambiguous position on the issue. Not allowing domestic helps in apartment complexes is both a legally and morally compliant position aligned with the core intent of a lockdown as a containment strategy. Many RWAs have started allowing entry following the aforementioned interaction on Saturday with the police commissioner. Since the lockdown continues, an urgent clarification from the government on the two conflicting positions between the chief secretary’s gazette notification and the police commissioner’s public interaction would help all of us in the management of the RWAs. We need to do what is right for public health. (The writer is a director and an advisor to chairmen of corporate boards)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/to-allow-or-not-to-allow-domestic-helps-entry-994976.html
08-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga: Renowned seer dies of Covid-19||Kavaledurga-based Bhuvanagiri Samsthan Mahamahattina Mutt seer Siddalinga Shivacharya Mahaswamy died of Covid-19 in a private hospital in the city on Monday. He was 58. He had tested positive for Covid-19 and was treated in JC general hospital in Thirthahalli town. Later, he was shifted to Shivamogga. Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa condoled the death of the seer. In his condolence message, he said the seer used to prepare food on his own and serve to devotees who visited the mutt. He had no assistants. The seer had vast knowledge of the day history of Keladi samsthan, the chief minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-renowned-seer-dies-of-covid-19-995041.html
08-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||21 child labourers rescued in Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu between 2015-2020||A total of 16 child labourers were rescued in the Dakshina Kannada district from 2015 to 2020 while five child labourers were rescued during the period in Kodagu district. According to the available information, rescued children in Dakshina Kannada were handed over to Child Welfare Committee (CWC) and were rehabilitated by enrolling them in mainstream schools. They were provided with midday meals, a kit along with books, hostel facilities and accessories. The information sought under the RTI by DH revealed that in Dakshina Kannada district, convictions happened in six cases in the past five years. Under the chairmanship of the deputy commissioner, 11 executive and one advisory committee meetings were convened by the Child Labour Rehabilitation Society in Dakshina Kannada. A total of Rs 1,20,000 Child Labour Corpus Fund has been collected in the DK district since 2015. The government has not released any amount for the rehabilitation and welfare of the rescued child labourers, the information revealed. In fact, the corpus fund was established for rescued child labourers in the name of deputy commissioners in every district as per Supreme Court’s direction in M C Mehta vs Government of Tamil Nadu case in 1996. The Deputy Commissioner of each district is the sole signatory of the corpus fund account and on the basis of directions from the Supreme Court, the state government had issued a circular to use the funds for the education, welfare and rehabilitation of the rescued children. DK Assistant Labour Commissioner in the reply to the information sought under RTI stated that awareness was being carried out in the district through the mobile vehicle ‘Janajagruthi Ratha’ to create awareness against engaging children for work. Further, surprise visits were carried out at hazardous and non-hazardous units by the section 16 and 17 inspectors appointed under the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, in the district. In Kodagu In Kodagu district, all five child labour cases have resulted in a conviction in the past five years. Kodagu district has just Rs one lakh in Child Labour Corpus Fund. All the five rescued child labourers were handed over to Balaka/Balakiyara Balamandira in Madikeri for rehabilitation, revealed the information sought under RTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/21-child-labourers-rescued-in-dakshina-kannada-kodagu-between-2015-2020-995099.html
08-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada saw 408 new Covid cases on Monday||Three Covid-19 fatalities and 408 fresh cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada on Monday. While the death tally has risen to 953, the total positive cases have increased to 80,475 in the district. With 676 recoveries, the total recoveries in the district have jumped to 72,256. The district has 7,266 active cases, Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said. Recovery rate 91% The DC said the district's recovery rate was 91% while the fatality rate was 1.19%. The second wave witnessed 210 deaths from March onwards. As many as 120 containment zones have been declared across the district. There were 15 to 16 oxygen plants and the district is preparing for the third wave, he added. Seven children were diagnosed with cases of the multisystem inflammatory disorder in the district. The diseases were managed with steroids, he added. Fifty patients diagnosed with black fungus are undergoing treatment in the hospitals in Mangaluru. So far five have died from black fungus in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-saw-408-new-covid-cases-on-monday-995154.html
08-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka to consider only CET marks for admission to professional courses||Ending confusion over admission to various professional courses in the absence of II PUC Exams, the Karnataka government on Tuesday decided to consider only the marks secured by the students at the Karnataka Common Entrance Test (K-CET) for this year, according to Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan. Soon after holding a high-level meeting with the department officials, Ashwath Narayan, who is also the Deputy Chief Minister, said, "As the state government has taken a decision to promote all the II PUC students without holding an examination, we (Higher Education Department) have decided to consider only the K-CET marks secured by students for admission to engineering, pharmacy and agricultural courses." Last week, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar had written to the Higher Education Department requesting them to consider only the K-CET scoring as the government has decided to cancel the annual exams and promote all students. “We are writing to all the agencies such as All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE),  Pharmacy Council and Agriculture Council seeking relaxation in the eligibility for admission," the Deputy CM said. The minister also clarified that there will not be any change in the K-CET 2021 exam and it will be held as scheduled on August 28-29 all over the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-to-consider-only-cet-marks-for-admission-to-professional-courses-995155.html
08-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ch’nagar: Technical problem in oxygen unit||As the new oxygen plant installed at the district hospital in Chamarajanagar has developed some technical problems, a new tank has been brought, to replace it. But, even after one week, the tank has not been replaced and the truck, with the tanker, can be seen parked on the hospital premises. According to District Surgeon Dr Srinivas, there is a technical problem in controlling outside pressure of the tank. “It is a minor problem and there will be no problem to the patients or oxygen supply. The technician of the company has repaired it,” he said. Speaking to media, earlier, Dr Srinivas said, “There is no leakage in the tank. There is a defect in the outside pressure control system. This has been temporarily set right. As it may pose a problem in future, a new tank has already been brought. The tank has reached the hospital. As permission is required from the company in Chennai, it is delayed. It will be replaced in a couple of days.” To a query, he said, “Sufficient oxygen is being supplied to the hospital regularly from Ballari. Cylinders too are being refilled. As Covid cases are coming under control in the district, there will be no problem.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ch-nagar-technical-problem-in-oxygen-unit-995279.html
08-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Congress candidate likely to be elected MCC Mayor||It is a peculiar situation of a coalition partner not having its corporators in the top posts in the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC). Election for Mayor of Mysuru will be held on June 11, following the disqualification of Rukmini Madegowda of the JD(S), who was elected on February 24. Now, the JD(S) is slated to offer the post to coalition partner Congress. R Murthy, district (city) Congress president, said that the coalition will continue for the entire term of the present council of the MCC. “JD(S) leader, MLA Sa Ra Mahesh offered the choice to the Congress, whether to have a JD(S) mayor or a Congress mayor. The offer was communicated to both Congress Legislative Party Leader Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar. Both opined that the Congress should have the mayor’s post this time,” he said. Murthy said, “As per the agreement at the beginning of the present council, this term should have been that of the Congress. The opinion of Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar is communicated to Mahesh by KPCC working president R Dhruvanarayana. Mahesh is also in touch with MLA Tanveer Sait, the only MLA of the Congress in Mysuru city. A meeting of the Congress will be held on Wednesday, to discuss about the candidate for the election, reserved for general woman.” According to the Council Secretary of the MCC, the election will be held at 12 noon on June 11 at Krishnaraja Wadiyar Hall. Regional Commissioner G C Prakash will preside over the election. It has to be recalled that Rukmini was elected as Mayor, besides Anwar Baig of Congress as as Deputy Mayor, on February 24. The term of the previous Mayor Tasneem of the JD(S) had ended on January 19. MLA Tanveer Sait had played a vital role, in continuing the coalition and had agreed to the demand of the JD(S) for the Mayor’s post. As per the agreement in 2018, the Mayor’s post was for the Congress in the first and third term of the existing council. Initially, the JD(S) was not ready to continue the alliance due to a rift between Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and JD(S) leaders, especially former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy. This development lead to a rift between Sait and Siddaramaiah. Most of the Congress leaders, supporters of Siddaramaiah, criticised Sait. Sait’s supporters went to the extent of staging protests against Siddaramaiah. The party sought an explanation from Sait. Meanwhile chairpersons of four standing committees were elected unanimously for a period of one year, on March 18. M S Shoba of JD(S) to Tax, Finance and Appeals standing committee; Corporator of Ward 5 Usha of Congress to Public Health, Education and Social Justice standing committee; G S Sathyaraju of Congress to Town Planning and Improvement standing committee; and Corporator of Ward 45 K Nirmala of JD(S) to Accounts standing committee were elected. It has to be noted that Rukmini was disqualified by the High Court on May 26. Earlier, the trial court had disqualified Rukmini for not disclosing the details of asset in her affidavit filed with her nomination papers in 2018. Rajani Annaiah of the Congress, who had lost the election to Rukmini in the 2018 polls, had filed a petition in a district court, alleging false affidavit, regarding assets. The court annulled the election. Later, Rukmini filed an appeal before the high court, which upheld the disqualification. Thus, a by-election should be held in the Ward 36, under the MCC, earlier represented by Rukmini. Under the MCC, there are 65 wards and the BJP leads with 22 corporators, followed by Congress 19 and JD(S) 17. There are five Independents, one BSP corporator and one vacancy. This time, 64 corporators have the right to vote, as Ward 36 is vacant. The others who vote in the MCC election are: MP Pratap Simha of BJP, MLAs S A Ramadass and L Nagendra of BJP, Tanveer Sait of Congress and G T Devegowda of JD(S) and MLCs of JD(S) Sandesh Nagaraj, K T Srikantegowda and Marithibbegowda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-candidate-likely-to-be-elected-mcc-mayor-995281.html
08-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||JD(S) demands Rs 5 lakh compensation to Covid victims||MLA H D Revanna urged the state government to provide Rs 5 lakh compensation to the families of the Covid victims. Revanna, along with JD(S) MLAs C N Balakrishna, K S Lingesh and K M Shivalingegowda, held a press conference in Hassan on Tuesday. He claimed that more than 30,000 people have lost their lives due to the negligence of the government. "Covid should be declared as a national disaster and the compensation should be announced. Otherwise, a petition will be filed against the Union government before the Supreme Court," he warned. "The government disburses Rs 5 lakh as compensation for death due to natural disaster. Hence, the affected, under below poverty line, should be provided Rs 5 lakh under NDRF and Rs 1 lakh from SDRF funds. I have brought this to the notice of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa also," he said. Thousands of families have been affected due to Covid. Labourers are not able to pay rent, electricity bill and others. The financial assistance of Rs 2,000 is not sufficient. They should be paid at least Rs 10,000, he opined. Commenting on the Covid situation in Hassan district, Revanna said, "The cases and the positivity rate have not declined since the last one month. Several patients were admitted to private hospitals as there were no beds and oxygen in government hospitals. The government should reimburse at least 50% from the Chief Minister's relief fund." The other JD(S) MLAs explained that several persons have sold their houses and land to treat their family members affected by Covid. "We have provided necessary financial support," they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jds-demands-rs-5-lakh-compensation-to-covid-victims-995283.html
08-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Police resume verification of vehicles for lockdown violations||Mysuru city traffic police resumed interception and verification of vehicles and seizure for violation of Covid lockdown guidelines, as there is a change in the rules since Monday. Personnel of the Law and Order wing of the Police Department are also deputed for the purpose and a total of 196 vehicles were seized on Monday. According to a press note, issued by the office of Police Commissioner Chandragupta, the seized vehicles include 156 two-wheelers, 28 cars and nine autorickshaws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-resume-verification-of-vehicles-for-lockdown-violations-995284.html
08-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yediyurappa is 'incapable Chief Minister' who 'failed' Kannadigas: Siddaramaiah||Calling B S Yediyurappa an "incapable Chief Minister" of Karnataka who "failed" Kannadigas, senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Tuesday said he is now an "unwanted child" to the BJP high command and state leaders are also waiting to push him out. The Leader of Opposition in the state assembly in a series of tweets also said that the dilemma of BJP leaders is the lack of an alternative leader for Yediyurappa in their party. "Yediyurappa is an incapable CM of Karnataka who failed Kannadigas. BJP high command is under the assumption that they can turn things around by replacing the CM. The reality of BJP is that they are a sinking ship and there is no use of changing just the sailor," Siddaramaiah said in a tweet. "Yediyurappa is an unwanted child to BJP high command now and Karnataka BJP leaders are also waiting to push him out. But their dilemma is lack of an alternate leader in their party," he said in another tweet. Speculations have been rife for some time now that efforts were on, within a section of the ruling BJP to exert pressure for unseating Yediyurappa. Amid speculations, Yediyurappa on Sunday had said that he will continue in the top post as long as the BJP high command had confidence in him, and he had no confusion about it. Siddaramaiah, a former Chief Minister, had several times in the past claimed that Yediyurappa will be replaced. Meanwhile, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar has asserted that everyone in the party is working in tandem to ensure the party's triumph in the 2023 Assembly elections. His statement has come amid reports regarding internal rifts and factionalism in the state Congress, with both him and Siddaramaiah reportedly nursing ambition to become chief minister after the next assembly polls. "Our victory in Maski has sent across the message up till Delhi. We lost Belgaum by a wafer-thin margin. We are analysing our performance in Basavakalyana... people are fed up with this incompetent government and they have given an ultimatum to BJP," Shivakumar said while speaking about the party's performance in the recent by-polls. He also said that teams of Congress workers have already been formed in all 31 districts and 224 assembly constituencies to organize vaccination camps and help Covid affected families across sections of the society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yediyurappa-is-incapable-chief-minister-who-failed-kannadigas-siddaramaiah-995316.html
08-06-2021||Main Article||Can environmental crises be fixed?||Recently, the UN Secretary General warned that humans have waged a “suicidal war” on the Planet Earth, it is now a broken planet. It is facing every conceivable environmental challenge at global and local levels, affecting the health of humans and nature. He went on to say that it is time to “declare a permanent ceasefire and reconcile with nature” in order to secure a sustainable and safe future for us and the earth.  Global environmental challenges include climate change, loss of biodiversity, land degradation, ocean pollution, deforestation, loss of wetlands, ocean acidification, ozone depletion, and so on. Any one of these environmental problems is in itself adequate to cause severe damage to humanity, imagine the combined effect of multiple stresses on humans and nature. In addition to these global challenges, there are innumerable local or regional environmental stresses such as air pollution, soil pollution, river and groundwater pollution, food wastage, faecal contamination of water, pesticide pollution, lack of sanitation, plastic pollution, dumping of municipal solid and liquid wastes.  One of the environmental challenges for which quantitative estimates are available is air pollution, which is contributing to the death of 1.67 million people a year in India alone, according to Lancet. The analysis showed that air pollution led to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, respiratory infections, lung cancer, heart disease, stroke, diabetes, neonatal disorders and cataracts. Many Indian cities and towns are among the most polluted cities in the world. Indeed, the top 15 of the 20 most polluted cities in the world are in India. The causes of air pollution are well-known, but not addressed. The loss of biodiversity and wildlife is another major environmental threat. An average of around 25 per cent of species in assessed animal and plant groups are threatened, suggesting that around one million species already face extinction, many within decades, unless action is taken to reduce the intensity of drivers of biodiversity loss. Further, local varieties and breeds of domesticated plants and animals are also disappearing. This loss of diversity, including genetic diversity, poses a serious risk to global food security by undermining the resilience of many agricultural systems to threats such as pests, pathogens and climate change. Water pollution is a major threat to human life. According to Niti Aayog, overall, 70 per cent of the freshwater sources in India are contaminated and India ranks 120 out of 122 countries in terms of water quality. The major types of contaminants include faecal, nitrate, arsenic, fluoride, iron, industrial and urban wastes. More than 1.5 million children die every year from water-borne diseases alone. Ocean plastic pollution has reached a crisis point, with over 11 million tonnes added to the oceans every year. It is projected that plastic waste will outweigh all the fish in the oceans by 2050. Overfishing from oceans is threatening the current supply and the sustainability of future supply. Apart from water pollution, availability of water itself is a challenge in large parts of India, despite receiving adequate rainfall from the monsoons. The water crisis is bigger than the Covid pandemic, with nearly 50 per cent of India’s population not having access to safe water. Nearly 200,000 die every year due to lack of access to safe water. A majority of India’s districts have been declared critical for groundwater. This means that they either have scarce supply or poor quality of groundwater, or both. Further, groundwater depletion is very severe and irreversible. Nearly 80 per cent of drinking water and two-thirds of irrigation water is from groundwater. Over 60 per cent of districts are in the category of ‘over-exploited’ for groundwater. Deforestation continues to be a major global challenge, with an annual deforestation rate of 4.7 million ha during the recent decade. In India, the area under forest is shown to be increasing, largely due to an increase in the area under plantations of eucalyptus, poplar, etc., and many horticultural crops such as mango, coconut, cashew, and not due to the expansion of natural forests, which are declining. Deforestation, forest degradation, loss of wetlands and mangroves are leading to carbon dioxide retention in the atmosphere, loss of biodiversity, loss of many ecosystem services, and spread of infectious diseases to humans. Deforestation and loss of natural habitats can be strong drivers of infectious disease transmission, including pandemics such as Covid. Land degradation is one of the biggest threats to sustained food production and freshwater availability. In India, according to the Space Application Centre, about 90 million ha is subjected to land degradation and desertification, which is perhaps an underestimate. Most land is subjected to one or more drivers of degradation, such as water runoffs and wind erosion, over-irrigation, salinisation, pesticide and fertiliser pollution, topsoil removal, over-grazing and fire. Unabated land degradation is already threatening food production. Further, 40 per cent of the food produced is wasted or lost. Imagine all the water, energy, pesticide, fertiliser, etc., used to produce food and the associated greenhouse gas emissions and loss of soil fertility.  Climate change is the biggest global and local environmental threat facing humanity and nature. So much is written about the extent of climate change, in particular, heat stress, floods, droughts, cyclones, hurricanes and sea-level rise. Climate change adversely impacts all aspects of human life and nature -- health, food production, biodiversity, water availability, land degradation, pandemics, etc. If one were to list the environmental challenges, it would fill the whole of this newspaper. So, only a few major threats have been listed, and each of these challenges is affecting human life and nature. Global multilateral conventions and agreements exist such as the Paris Climate Agreement, Ramsar Convention on Wetlands, UN Convention on Desertification, Convention on Biodiversity and a large number of national laws, policies and programmes exist. But environmental degradation continues. Technical and policy solutions exist to address most environmental threats, but there is very limited political will and citizens’ commitment. So, future generations will face the full fury of the impacts of environmental degradation. Covid-19 is just one example of those impacts. (The writer is a former Professor, Indian Institute of Science)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/can-environmental-crises-be-fixed-994994.html
08-06-2021||National||India's troop mobilization in J&K triggers rumour, send jitters to Pakistan||Islamabad on Monday asked New Delhi to “halt and reverse” its “unlawful and destabilizing actions” in Kashmir, as large scale movement of soldiers in the Union Territory of India fuelled speculation about another move by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government as a sequel to its August 2019 decision. Pakistan asked India to refrain from any “further steps that could imperil regional peace and security”. With such mobilisation, Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government in Islamabad also called upon the international community to take note of the situation. “We have noted with serious concern reports indicating that India might be plotting further division, bifurcation & (and)n demographic changes in #IIOJK (Indian Illegally Occupied Jammu and Kashmir) to perpetuate its illegal occupation. No new instrument of occupation shall have any legal effect,” Zahid Hafeez Chaudhry, the spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Pakistan Government, posted on Twitter. Ever since the Modi Government in August 2019 moved to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and reorganise the state into two union territories, Pakistan renewed its campaign against India and repeatedly raised the issue in the United Nations General Assembly. China and Turkey are among the few nations that supported Pakistan. India, however, strongly countered Pakistan’s campaign on the issue. New Delhi also resisted all attempts by Islamabad to bring the issue back on the agenda of the UN Security Council. The recent troop movements, however, once again brought back the memory of tight security arrangements that were put in place ahead of New Delhi’s August 2019 move. It sent the rumour mills into overdrive with speculation rife over a new move by the Modi Government to give Kashmiri Pandits a separate homeland or to split it again, giving statehood to Jammu and a new Union Territory tag to Kashmir. The officials in New Delhi, however, did not confirm the possibility of any fresh move. The rumours, however, sent the Khan Government in Islamabad jitters. “India’s unilateral & (and) illegal actions are violative of int’l (international) law & (and) @UN (United Nations) Security Council Resolutions,” tweeted the spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan Government. He reiterated Pakistan’s position that J&K was under illegal occupation of India and it was “an internationally recognized disputed territory”. Pakistan also vowed that it would continue to resolutely oppose attempts by India to “change its demographic structure & (and) final status” of the territory. The Indian Army and the Pakistan Army on February 25 agreed to stop firing at each other across the Line of Control (LoC) and strictly adhere to the 2003 ceasefire agreement — fuelling speculation about the resumption of the bilateral dialogue, which remained suspended since 2013. Pakistan Prime Minister however ruled out any possibility of talks between the two neighbouring nations unless the August 5, 2019 decision on J&K was rolled back by India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-troop-mobilization-in-jk-triggers-rumour-send-jitters-to-pakistan-994964.html
08-06-2021||National||As Centre changes policy, Congress says universal free vaccination still not achieved||Calling for universal free vaccination against Covid-19, Congress Monday said this goal has not been achieved as people would still have to pay for jabs at private hospitals despite the Centre changing its immunisation policy on Monday. The opposition party's statement came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the Centre will provide free coronavirus vaccines to states and union territories for inoculation of all above 18 from June 21. In an address to the nation, Modi also announced that the Centre has decided to buy 75 per cent of jabs from vaccine makers, including 25 per cent of the state quota, and give it for free to state governments, while private sector hospitals can continue to procure the remaining 25 per cent but cannot charge more than Rs 150 per dose over the pre-fixed price. "One simple question - If vaccines are free for all, why should private hospitals charge for them?" Congress leader Rahul Gandhi asked. The Congress also sought to credit the Supreme Court for the change in the Centre's vaccination policy and said the announcement came after the apex court reprimanded it and sought an affidavit on the inoculation drive. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "The prime minister is guilty of endangering the lives of Indians by repeatedly changing the (vaccination) policy and instead of accusing the states, he should be tendering an apology for endangering people's lives." He alleged that the government has brought these changes in its vaccination policy after it was reprimanded by the Supreme Court. He alleged that the PM is "Pulling the wool over someone's eyes", as his government has ignored and rejected the demand made by several Congress leaders for universal free vaccination. "The policy is also flawed even now," he alleged, asking why a middle class person, a salaried employee or a small trader or shopkeeper has to still pay for vaccines in private hospitals. Some states had gone to the apex court against the Centre's vaccination policy alleging that it was not uniform. Surjewala said the Modi government has changed its vaccine policy thrice -- on January 16, May 1 and now on Monday. Accusing the prime minister of endangering the lives of Indians, he asked if he would take responsibility. "Why burden the middle class and the salaried people with payments in private hospitals," he asked. "Why not transfer Rs 6,000 in the accounts of every poor considering there have been two crore job losses in the second wave of coronavirus," he asked. Congress leader and Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge claimed, "PM Narendra Modi has been forced to change the vaccination policy of procurement after the intervention of the opposition and SC." "The question still remains if the Government has enough doses to vaccinate the most vulnerable people by July as it plans. Where is the blueprint for it," he asked. Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury alleged that the government has changed its policy under pressure from the Supreme Court and not on its own. Surjewala claimed that at the current vaccination rate with the average between January 16 and June 7 being only 15.46 lakh jabs per day, it will take 1,091 days, or till May 2024, to inoculate all. "Then, how will you vaccinate 100 crore people by December 2021, as promised," he asked, alleging that only 4.61 crore have been fully vaccinated in last six months, which is 3.28 per cent of the population. He cited the example of America which has vaccinated about 41-42 percent of its population with both doses, England 35-36 percent, Brazil 9.5-10 percent, but India is still standing at 3.28 percent, asking who is responsible. The Congress has been demanding free vaccination for all and has urged the Centre to procure the jabs and provide them to states. The Congress on its official Twitter handle said, "Modi ji - stop with the tokenism, it will not heal the deep wounds you've inflicted on our nation. Instead - apologise and not give lectures". A Congress Chief Minister, Ashok Gehlot of Rajasthan, said PM Modi should inform which states had demanded that vaccines should be procured and provided for 18-44 years age group. Gehlot also said that many states, including Rajasthan, had moved the Supreme Court against the Centre's vaccination policy and the result of which is that the prime minister had to change it. Some Congress leaders like Anand Sharma and Shashi Tharoor welcomed the PM's decision to give coronavirus vaccine free to all above 18, but slammed the government for sticking to a "flawed" vaccination policy for long which the party alleged led to "tens of thousands of deaths". "Prime Minister's announcement on 'free vaccines for all' is a welcome change of policy. Finally a realisation of a flawed policy that led to the collapse of the national vaccination, after the govt resisted for months appeals for equitable and universal vaccination. "This is time for honest reflection. I wish this announcement was made in January. The cost of the delay has been unbearable for India as it resulted in tens of thousands of deaths. There can be no compensation for the human suffering," Sharma said. Jairam Ramesh said, 'The Prime Minister inflicted a huge cost on the people of India before accepting the Opposition's demand for centralised procurement and free vaccination for 18-44 year olds.' "Humility and reaching out will not hurt him," Ramesh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-centre-changes-policy-congress-says-universal-free-vaccination-still-not-achieved-995004.html
08-06-2021||National||Nadal into 15th French Open quarter-final||Rafael Nadal reached the French Open quarter-finals for the 15th time on Monday with a straight sets win over Italy's Jannik Sinner to stay on course for a 14th Roland Garros title and record-setting 21st Grand Slam. Third seed Nadal downed 19-year-old Sinner 7-5, 6-3, 6-0 and goes on to face 10th-seeded Diego Schwartzman of Argentina who he defeated in the semi-finals last year. Nadal has now won 104 matches at Roland Garros against just two defeats since his 2005 debut while Monday's victory extended his run of consecutive sets won in Paris to 35. The 35-year-old Spanish world number three is seeded to face Novak Djokovic in the semi-finals. World number one Djokovic defeated Sinner's compatriot Lorenzo Musetti who had to retire in the fifth set having stunned the Serb by taking the first two. "I started well but was a little too defensive. I gave him the chance to come inside the court and play his best shots. That was a mistake," said Nadal. "I broke back at 5-4 in the first set and the match changed after that. I played at a great level." Nadal had beaten Sinner in the quarter-finals in Paris in 2020 as well as at this year's Italian Open. Sinner, the 18th seed, led 5-3 in the first set but that was as good as it got as Nadal raced away with 16 of the last 19 games. He hit 31 winners with the Italian claiming just 10 points in the third set.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nadal-into-15th-french-open-quarter-final-995014.html
08-06-2021||National||DH Toon | PM's new vaccine policy 6 months too late?||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement on Monday that his government would provide Covid-19 vaccines free of charge to all above the age of 18 years was welcomed by the chief ministers of various states and the BJP. The opposition parties, however, claimed that the Centre withdrew the "faulty" vaccine policy to save its face before the Supreme Court. Leaders including Mamata Banerjee and Rahul Gandhi slammed the BJP for coming out with the new policy too late.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-pms-new-vaccine-policy-6-months-too-late-995034.html
08-06-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on June 8||India reported less than one lakh new coronavirus infections after a gap of 63 days, while the daily positivity rate dropped to 4.62 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,51,309 with 2,123 daily deaths, the lowest in 47 days, the data updated at 8 am showed.   Since Monday, several states relaxed curbs and allowed a gradual unlocking of public services after a steady decline in cases even as some states extended lockdown-like restrictions. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a key announcement, on Monday declared free coronavirus vaccines to states and union territories for inoculation of all above 18 from June 21.  Coronavirus in India Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 2,89,96,473 as of June 8, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 3,51,309 as of June 8, 2021 No. of people discharged: 2,73,41,462 Total Vaccination: 23,61,98,726 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-june-8-995035.html
08-06-2021||National||Mahatma Gandhi's great-grandaughter sentenced to 7 years in jail in S Africa||A 56-year-old great-granddaughter of Mahatma Gandhi, who was an accused in a six-million rand fraud and forgery case, has been sentenced to seven years in jail by a Durban court. Ashish Lata Ramgobin was found guilty by the court on Monday. She was accused of defrauding businessman SR Maharaj after he advanced R6.2 million to her for allegedly clearing import and Customs duties for a non-existent consignment from India. He was promised a share of profits. Lata Ramgobin, who is the daughter of noted rights activists Ela Gandhi and late Mewa Ramgobind, was also refused leave to appeal both the conviction and the sentence by the Durban Specialised Commercial Crime Court. When trial in the case against Lata Ramgobin started in 2015, Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) had said that she allegedly provided forged invoices and documents to convince potential investors that three containers of linen were being shipped in from India.  At that time, Lata Ramgobin was released on a bail of 50,000 rand. On Monday, the court during the hearing was informed that Lata Ramgobin had met Maharaj, director of the New Africa Alliance Footwear Distributors, in August 2015. The company imports and manufactures and sells clothing, linen and footwear. Maharaj’s company also provides finance to other companies on a profit-share basis. Lata Ramgobin had told Maharaj that she had imported three containers of linen for the South African Hospital Group NetCare. "She said she was experiencing financial difficulties to pay for import costs and customs and she needed the money to clear the goods at the harbour,” NPA spokesperson Natasha Kara said on Monday. "She advised him (Maharaj) that she needed R6.2 million. To convince him, she showed him what she claimed was a signed purchase order for the goods. Later that month, she sent him what seemed to be a NetCare invoice and delivery note as proof that the goods were delivered and payment was imminent," she said. Lata Ramgobin “further sent him confirmation from NetCare’s bank account that payment had been made”, Kara said. Because of Ramgobin’s family credentials and NetCare documents, Maharaj had entered into a written agreement with her for the loan. However, after Maharaj found out that the documents were forged and NetCare had no arrangements with Lata Ramgobin, he laid criminal charges. Ramgobin was founder and executive director of the Participative Development Initiative at the NGO International Centre for Non-Violence, where she described herself as “an activist with focus on environmental, societal and political interests.” A number of other descendants of Mahatma Gandhi are human rights activists and among them are Lata Ramgobin’s cousins Kirti Menon, the late Satish Dhupelia, and Uma Dhupelia-Mesthrie. Ramgobin’s mother Ela Gandhi in particular has been internationally recognised for her efforts, including national honours from both India and South Africa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mahatma-gandhis-great-grandaughter-sentenced-to-7-years-in-jail-in-s-africa-995042.html
08-06-2021||National||Vaccinated passengers may no longer need negative RT-PCR report for domestic travel; Centre holding talks||The Centre is considering a mechanism to allow air passengers who have got both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine to travel within the country without a negative test report, senior government officials said on Monday. Central ministries, including the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, are currently discussing the matter with various other stakeholders, they added. Currently, a number of states, including Odisha, Meghalaya and Maharashtra, ask passengers coming from outside to carry a Covid-negative report with them wherein the test sample was taken not more than 72 hours before the journey. Domestic airlines, which have already taken a major hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic, have told the civil aviation ministry that such state-level requirements are hampering the growth of air travel and the fully-vaccinated passengers should be allowed to travel without Covid-negative reports, the officials said. Domestic air travel had reached around three lakh passengers per day by the end of February. However, the second wave of the pandemic has reduced it to around 85,000 passengers per day. To conserve cash and survive this tough time, all Indian airlines have taken measures such as cutting the employees' salaries, firing employees and renegotiating leases with aircraft lessors. Since health is a state subject, the Centre is discussing with the states a way through which domestic air passengers, who have got both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, can be allowed to travel without the test reports, the officials said. The Centre is also in talks with other aviation stakeholders such as airlines, airports etc. on how it can be done, they added. While the government is considering allowing domestic air travel without Covid test reports for those who have got both doses of the vaccine, it has opposed a similar measure for international travel. At a G7 meeting of health ministers on June 4, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan expressed India's "concern and strong opposition" to allow vaccine passports for international travel at this juncture of the pandemic. "With vaccine coverage as a percentage of population in developing countries still low compared to developed countries, such an initiative could prove to be highly discriminatory," he said. Meanwhile, on May 28, the airlines were asked by the Centre to operate only 50 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights from June 1, instead of 80 per cent permitted earlier. The decision was taken "in view of the sudden surge in the number of active Covid-19 cases across the country, decrease in passenger traffic and passenger load factor (occupancy rate)", the civil aviation ministry said in an order. When the government resumed the scheduled domestic flight operations in the country on May 25 last year after a two-month break, the ministry had permitted the carriers to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic services. This cap was gradually increased to 80 per cent by December last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccinated-passengers-may-no-longer-need-negative-rt-pcr-report-for-domestic-travel-centre-holding-talks-995045.html
08-06-2021||National||Hand over control of vaccination to states: Stalin to PM Modi||He said the control should be given as health is a state subject. "I welcome the @PMOIndia's statement indicating that the Union Government will procure 75% of the vaccines produced in the country and provide them to the states free of cost. I also appreciate the Prime Minister for reversing his government's previous position. "As Prime Minister @narendramodi stressed multiple times in his remarks that Health is a state subject, it would be appropriate for each state to be given complete control of registration, validation and administration procedures of the vaccination," Stalin said. Tamil Nadu's efforts to procure vaccines through an international tender failed, and the state has been asking the Centre to provide more vaccines to it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hand-over-control-of-vaccination-to-states-stalin-to-pm-modi-995053.html
08-06-2021||National||With 86,498 new infections, India's daily Covid-19 cases fall below 1-lakh mark||India reported less than one lakh new coronavirus infections after a gap of 63 days, while the daily positivity rate dropped to 4.62 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A single day rise of 86,498 cases were registered, the lowest in 66 days, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,89,96,473. The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,51,309 with 2,123 daily deaths, the lowest in 47 days, the data updated at 8 am showed.   A total of 81,466 new cases were recorded in a span of 24 hours on April 2. Also, 18,73,485 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 36,82,07,596. The daily positivity rate has dropped to 4.62 per cent . It has been less than 10 per cent for 15 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 5.94 per cent.     The active cases reduced to 13,03,702 comprising 4.50 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 94.29 per cent.    A net decline of  97,907 cases has been recorded in the Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours.  Since Monday, several states relaxed curbs and allowed a gradual unlocking of public services after a steady decline in cases even as some states extended lockdown-like restrictions. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a key announcement, on Monday declared free coronavirus vaccines to states and union territories for inoculation of all above 18 from June 21. In an address to the nation, Modi also announced that the Centre has decided to buy 75 per cent of jabs from vaccine makers, including 25 per cent of the state quota, and give it for free to state governments, while private sector hospitals can continue to procure the remaining 25 per cent but cannot charge more than Rs 150 per dose over the pre-fixed price. As India's Covid-19 cases see a dip and vaccinations pick up pace, albeit in a lopsided manner, worries still prevail over the real situation in rural areas, where access to healthcare facilities and actual testing rates and severity of infections remains unknown. With PTI inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-86498-new-infections-indias-daily-covid-19-cases-fall-below-1-lakh-mark-995064.html
08-06-2021||National||Who is vulnerable in the third wave of Covid-19? Here's all you need to know||As India’s devastating second Covid-19 wave recedes, health and policy experts have called for heightened preparation to prevent a possible third wave that could be even more lethal. Much will depend on how India vaccinates its large population, but some vulnerable groups might be especially at risk. Experts have said vaccination would be key to keeping a potential third wave in check and urged the government to pick up the sluggish pace of vaccination so far. However, Raghavan has also said immunity from earlier infections and vaccines could put pressure on the virus to adapt and lead to mutations that evade existing preventive measures. This could also mean future variants that could be more adept at targeting particularly vulnerable parts of the population not under the vaccine’s protection. Are children vulnerable to a third wave? However, most experts, including those on the task force, have said there wasn’t enough evidence or genome sequencing to support the theory that children would be the exclusive or primary target of a third wave. Are the disabled vulnerable? Disability rights groups have repeatedly implored the government to prioritise the vaccination of persons with disability, some of whom would find it difficult to practise social distancing. This would make them more vulnerable to a potential third wave if changes are not made to the government’s vaccination strategy. The Supreme Court had also noted last week that the CoWIN app was not user-friendly for visually challenged persons and suggested a disability audit for both CoWIN and Aarogya Setu. The Ministry of Health on Monday approved the use of the Unique Disability Identification Card (UDID) for CoWIN registration. Are people with one dose of vaccine vulnerable? The challenge of vaccinating a huge population like India’s has pushed the government to administer more first doses and consider a single-dose vaccine policy. However, some health experts have questioned such a tactic. Still, studies have shown a single dose of the Covishield vaccine could halve Covid transmission rates. While the government had extended the gap between two Covishield doses to between 12-16 weeks last month, a study published in the Lancet journal has advised that there needs to be a shorter gap between two doses of Covid vaccines against the “Delta” variant that is prevalent in India, which could mutate rapidly and put single-dose vaccine recipients at risk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-is-vulnerable-in-the-third-wave-of-covid-19-heres-all-you-need-to-know-995080.html
08-06-2021||National||Delta variant of Covid-19 quickly becoming dominant in Punjab: Report||The Delta variant of Covid-19 is making its presence known across Punjab, and has nearly overtaken the Alpha variant's prevalence in the state. The NCDC and CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology have received 2,213 samples between January and May for whole genome sequencing, of which 1,164 samples have been processed, the report said. Of those, variants of concern have been found in 87.8 per sent of the samples. Punjab was one of the first states in India to start collecting samples for genome sequencing as the Delta variant's prevalence went up from 6 per cent of 672 tested samples in March to 46 per cent of 252 tested samples in April, as the state grappled with a devastating second wave of the pandemic, the report added. Dr Rakesh Kumar Gupta, president, Strategic Institute for Public Health Education and Research (SIPHER), alerted that as the Delta variant is more transmissible than other lineages, the government and health authorities need to be proactive in planning containment measures. “The government and its public health experts need to stay ahead of the curve for better management of the situation,” Dr Gupta told the publication. Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, Punjab Covid-19 nodal officer, said the available data points at the Delta variant replacing Alpha. He also said the health department is taking steps for strict surveillance in the affected districts and has increased other containment and management measures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delta-variant-of-covid-19-quickly-becoming-dominant-in-punjab-report-995085.html
08-06-2021||National||Take strict action against those behind 'heinous crime' at Agra hospital: Rahul Gandhi||He cited a news report about a purported video of a doctor at a private hospital in Agra going viral on social media, in which he admits that 22 people died after he shut oxygen for 5 minutes  during a mock drill. "There is an acute shortage of oxygen and humanity in BJP rule. There should be strict action against those responsible for this heinous crime. My condolences are with the family members of the deceased in this hour of grief," he said in a tweet in Hindi.  Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also shared the doctor's video on Twitter, and questioned who was responsible for the death of 22 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/take-strict-action-against-those-behind-heinous-crime-at-agra-hospital-rahul-gandhi-995094.html
08-06-2021||National||Free vaccines, food to cost India an additional Rs 80,000 crore||By Siddhartha Singh, India will need to spend an additional Rs 80,000 crore ($11 billion) to provide free vaccines and food to millions of people devastated by the deadly coronavirus wave, people with knowledge of the matter said. The government will earmark an additional Rs 70,000 crore for providing food to the poor and other eligible groups until November, said the people, who asked not to be identified as the numbers aren’t public. The administration will need an extra Rs 10,000 crore to provide free vaccinations, they said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi agreed Monday to provide free inoculations, reversing a policy where states ended up competing for supplies for certain age categories, leading to severe shortages. His administration also has been criticised for its handling of the second wave of the virus, which has killed thousands of people in India. In an address on national television, Modi said all Indians above age 18 can be vaccinated for free starting June 21, to speed up the inoculation drive. The government may not have to tap the bond market for the funds, the people familiar said, citing the Rs 99,120 crore dividend the government received from the central bank and expected inflows from asset sales. With the extra money, the government will end up spending a total of Rs 1.3 lakh crore on providing food, the people said, and has set aside Rs 35,000 core for vaccinations in the budget. A finance ministry spokesman declined to comment. Even after accounting for the bumper dividend from the Reserve Bank of India and better growth numbers that should result in higher tax revenue, the “fiscal math will likely worsen,” said Madhavi Arora, an economist with Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd. in Mumbai. That’s because of higher payouts on food and fertiliser subsidies as well as for a rural jobs-guarantee program. There’s also a risk that the asset-divestment program could raise less money than anticipated. “Amid various push and pull there is a likelihood of fiscal slippage, to the tune of around 0.5% from the initially budgeted 6.8% of gross domestic product,” she added, referring to the expected fiscal deficit. India has administrated 23.2 crore doses since the world’s biggest vaccination drive began Jan. 16, with 3.4% of the population now fully immunised. At that pace, it will take another 22 months to cover 75% of the population, according to the Bloomberg Vaccination Tracker. --With assistance from Anirban Nag.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/free-vaccines-food-to-cost-india-an-additional-rs-80000-crore-995101.html
08-06-2021||National||Fire at TMC MLA Madan Mitra's residence in Kolkata||A fire broke out at TMC MLA Madan Mitra's residence in the Bhabanipur area in south Kolkata on Tuesday morning, officials said. Three fire tenders brought the blaze under control at the century-old building, they said. No one was injured in the incident, they added. Mitra, along with his family members, rushed out of the house as soon as the fire was spotted in a room on the ground floor. A visibly shaken Mitra was seen sitting outside the house. Presumably, the fire started from a short circuit, said a fire services official. "Though we don't know exactly, as of now a purifier is suspected to be the cause of the short circuit. An investigation will be done," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fire-at-tmc-mla-madan-mitras-residence-in-kolkata-995105.html
08-06-2021||National||Centre issues revised guidelines for vaccination; manufacturers to decide rates for pvt hospitals||The Centre on Tuesday released a revised guideline for implementation of the Covid-19 vaccination programme, which among other things said “vaccine wastage factor” would be taken into account while allocating the doses to the states. “Vaccine doses provided free of cost by the Centre will be allocated to states or union territories based on criteria such as population, disease burden and the progress of vaccination. Wastage of vaccine will affect the allocation negatively,” says the new guideline, which will come into force from June 21  According to the Union Health Ministry’s May 26 data, vaccine wastage is the highest in Chhattisgarh (7.47 per cent), followed by Jharkhand (6.44 per cent) and Tamil Nadu (4.55 per cent). The national average is less than 1 per cent. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan also wrote to his Rajasthan counterpart, flagging reports of high vaccine wastage in some of the districts. The policy document comes a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi disclosed the broad outline of the policy including a reversal of the Centre’s liberalised vaccine policy. The Prime Minister announced that from now on the Union government would procure 75 per cent of the Covid-19 vaccines manufactured in the country while private hospitals could pick up 25 per cent of the stock as per the current practice. Vinod Paul, member (health) NITI Ayog said 13 states including Maharashtra – the epidemic’s biggest hotspot - wrote to the Centre requesting centralised procurement. Others include Punjab, Kerala, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Mizoram, Meghalaya and Tripura. The states would have to ensure that vaccine doses earmarked for private hospitals are equitably distributed rather than getting concentrated in a few hospitals in big cities. The reversal decision came days after the Supreme Court described the liberalised vaccination policy as “arbitrary and irrational” and asked the central government to undertake a fresh review of the policy to address the concerns raised in the court. One such concern raised by the Amicus Curiae was that the policy left the state governments to fend for themselves, rather than the Centre acting on behalf of the entire nation. Paul, however, claimed that the reversal was an independent process not linked to the Supreme Court’s observations as the government was evaluating the decentralisation model since May 1. The government was alive to the public narrative and aware of the difficulties the states faced. The new policy has a provision of sponsoring the vaccination of a person from an economically disadvantaged background in a private hospital. It allows use of non-transferable electronic vouchers enabling people to financially support Covid-19 inoculation of people belonging to the economically weaker sections at private centres. “Wihin the population group of citizens more than 18 years of age, the states may decide their own prioritisation factoring in the vaccine supply schedule,” it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-issues-revised-guidelines-for-vaccination-manufacturers-to-decide-rates-for-pvt-hospitals-995111.html
08-06-2021||National||If state fails in implementing law, it is breakdown of system: NGT on pollution in Ghaggar river||The National Green Tribunal has come down heavily on Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana for failing to stop the discharge of untreated effluents in the Ghaggar river and said that "if the State itself fails in implementing the law, it is nothing but breakdown of the system itself". A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said the three states and Chandigarh continue to contribute water pollution which is a criminal offence. "It is breach of public trust under public trust doctrine. We are left with a feeling that there is no commitment to the rule of law and no concern for the environment and health of the citizens on the part of the concerned authorities in the states of HP, Haryana, Punjab and UT Chandigarh," said the bench, also comprising Justice Sudhir Agarwal. The tribunal directed the Chief Secretary, Punjab and the Advisor to the Administrator, Union Territory of Chandigarh in coordination with other concerned officers to take appropriate remedial measures to comply with the mandate of law, including the directions of the Supreme Court. It also directed a joint committee of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Punjab PCB and pollution control committee of Chandigarh to inspect the drain and furnish a status report within two months by e-mail. The tribunal said that in spite of enactment of Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 making discharge of untreated effluents into a water body a criminal offence, the states are still struggling to prevent untreated sewage from being discharged into the water body at a huge cost to the environment and health and lives of citizens who have fundamental right to clean environment under the Constitution.  "Water pollution is a serious threat to the health of the citizens as well as other living beings who consume the water and also to the food safety for growth of which the water is used for irrigation...there can be no justification whatsoever for the State to have failed in complying with the law. "If the State finds that they are unable to manage the sewage directly, there is no bar to other options being explored but there cannot be any justification not to comply with the mandate of law and protecting the health of the citizens in accordance with the Constitutional mandate," the bench said. The green panel said that no action is being taken against the erring officers and it gives an impression that there is collapse of Environmental rule of law. "Who is to pay the cost of damage to the environment and public health of large number of unidentified citizens and other living creatures? Is such cost being calculated. How officers responsible for damage by their inaction or otherwise are being dealt with. Should the State be held liable vicariously for such failure and failure to punish the guilty," the bench said. The bench that the NGT has been passing repeated orders and as many as six reports have been submitted by a Monitoring Committee headed by a former High Court Judge and a former Chief Secretary, clearly recording failure of the State authorities but the higher authorities are also conveniently ignoring their responsibility. "Advocates for the authorities only maintain silence before this Tribunal. If the State itself fails in implementing the law, it is nothing but breakdown of the system itself. “Is this Tribunal to just remain silent spectator for such gross failure or hold highest authorities accountable by directing their prosecution for their criminal failure and indirectly being party to the crime against the law of the land? How the law of the land is to be meaningfully enforced. We expect answers to these questions from the States," the bench said. NGT said the states should realise their responsibility to function according to the Constitution and take immediate remedial measures in punishing the guilty involved in failing to comply with the law and also take prompt measures instead of repeatedly taking the same plea of being engaged in tender process. "It should not be difficult at this length of time to overcome such procedural requirements and to effectively prevent discharge of the untreated effluents after 46 years of enactment of Water Act and repeated orders of the Supreme Court and other Courts. "For delay and continued violation, realistic compensation has to be recovered from the erring officers, apart from other action or in default, the compensation has to be quantified and recovered. The Executing Committee may make its recommendation in this regard,” the bench said. The tribunal was hearing a plea against failure of statutory authorities in Punjab and Chandigarh to install necessary Sewage Treatment Plant, resulting in discharge of pollution in the drain originating from Chandigarh and passing through various sectors and villages of Mohali, before merging into Ghaggar River. "The pollution is affecting the ecosystem, including the aquatic life and also public health. Discharge of untreated sewage into the drain is violation of Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and also citizens right to clean environment. "Further, since the waste water of the drain is used for cultivation of crops and washing of the vegetables which are consumed by the residents, it is affecting the food chain and public health," the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/if-state-fails-in-implementing-law-it-is-breakdown-of-system-ngt-on-pollution-in-ghaggar-river-995120.html
08-06-2021||National||Action against NGOs, individuals collecting funds for Covid orphans by disclosing identity: SC||The Supreme Court has directed all the state governments and Union Territories to prevent any NGO from collecting funds in the names of the children affected during the Covid-19 pandemic by disclosing their identity and inviting interested persons to adopt them.  "Stringent action shall be taken by the State Governments/Union Territories against agencies/individuals who are responsible for indulging in this illegal activity," a bench of Justice L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose said. The Court pointed out an invitation for the adoption of orphans was contrary to law as such a process cannot be permitted without the involvement of the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA).  "No adoption of affected children should be permitted contrary to the provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015," the bench said. The court passed its direction after Additional Solicitor General KM Nataraj and advocate Shobha Gupta, appearing for the Centre and NGO 'We the Women of India' respectively pointed towards illegal adoptions and collections of money some NGOs in name of children orphaned during the pandemic. Gupta contended that there were several advertisements in the public domain inviting people to adopt orphans. Such posts have been found on social media as well. She submitted that most of them were fake. "We share the concern of the Additional Solicitor General and Gupta about the illegal adoption of affected children," the court said, issuing directions to the state governments to stop it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/action-against-ngos-individuals-collecting-funds-for-covid-orphans-by-disclosing-identity-sc-995130.html
08-06-2021||National||Twitter blocks Punjabi singer JazzyB, three other accounts||Microblogging platform Twitter has "withheld" the accounts of Punjabi singer JazzyB and two others on a government request. JazzyB and hip-hop artist L-Fresh the Lion, who have been frequently tweeting in support of farmers' protests were removed from Twitter. According to information on the Lumen database, Twitter received a legal request from the Indian government on June 6 for actioning four accounts, including that of JazzyB. Users checking Jazzy B's account are shown a message saying "account has been withheld in India in response to a legal demand". Reacting to this, a Twitter spokesperson said when it receives a valid legal request, the company reviews it under both the Twitter Rules and local law. "If the content violates Twitter Rules, the content will be removed from the service. If it is determined to be illegal in a particular jurisdiction, but not in violation of the Twitter Rules, we may withhold access to the content in India only," the spokesperson added. However, Twitter also said that in all cases, it notifies the account holder directly so that they're aware that the company has received a legal order pertaining to the account. "Twitter is committed to the principles of openness, transparency, details of the requests to withhold content have been published on Lumen," the spokesperson said. Earlier, Twitter suspended over 500 accounts related to the farmers' protest after the government said the accounts were tweeting inflammatory content. Twitter too removed some posts posted by journalists, politicians criticising the government handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. Twitter and the Central government are at loggerheads over the implementation of new social media rules which came into force on May 26. While the government says Twitter yet to comply with the rules, the US-based company sought more time citing the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-blocks-punjabi-singer-jazzyb-three-other-accounts-995134.html
08-06-2021||National||Over 1.19 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses still available with states: Centre||Over 24 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far through the Government of India (free of cost channel) and through direct state procurement category. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage is 23,47,43,489 doses, the ministry said. "A total of 1,19,46,925 Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered," it said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-119-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-still-available-with-states-centre-995140.html
08-06-2021||National||80% of Indians feel digital tech effectively used to respond to Covid-19: EY survey||Eighty per cent of Indian citizens feel that the government and public services in India have been effective in using digital technology to respond to the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a new 'EY Connected Citizen Survey'. Respondents in India hold a favourable attitude towards technology and see an important role for technological innovation in public service delivery, it said. The survey was conducted by market research firm, Ipsos MORI, with1000respondents from India between the age of 18 to 50, and globally12,100 respondents across 12 countries, an EY statement said. According to the survey, 73 per cent of the Indian respondents believe technology will change public services for the better, and 71 per cent think the pandemic will lead to greater use of technology in their daily lives in the future.  It revealed that 63 per cent of Indian citizens feel comfortable sharing their personal data online with the government in order to access a service. Partner and Leader, the Government and Public Sector, EY India, Gaurav Taneja, said digitisation is the new normal and the Indian Government was quick to adopt technologies, especially during the pandemic, to deliver safe, secure and improved digital services to all citizens. Respondents in India are comfortable with technology replacing face-to-face human interaction and are inclined to use an artificial intelligence-powered chatbot to communicate with the government, the survey found. They want the government to prioritise making certain services available online including pension planning, resources to help people set up businesses and providing more ways for citizens to have an online say in government decision making. Looking ahead to the future,81 per cent of the Indian respondents think that technology will change the way they bank and shop,80 per cent think that it will change the way they work/study, and79 per cent think that it will change the way they entertain themselves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/80-of-indians-feel-digital-tech-effectively-used-to-respond-to-covid-19-ey-survey-995142.html
08-06-2021||National||SC directs state authorities to ensure basic needs, education for children affected in pandemic||The Supreme Court has directed all the states to continue identifying children orphaned during the Covid-19 pandemic, and ensure their basic needs, including continuance of education in government or private schools. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose issued a slew of directions to consider the needs and monitor welfare of "the disconsolate children who are devastated by the catastrophe of losing their parent/parents". The court directed all the states to ensure financial benefits under various schemes were provided to them. "After the identification of the children who have become orphans or lost one parent, prompt action has to be taken to provide the basic needs of the children. The District Child Protection Officer should act swiftly to contact the child. The District Child Protection Units shall ensure that adequate provision is made for the ration, food, medicines, clothing etc to the child," the bench said.  Accepting suggestion by amicus curiae Gaurav Agrawal, the court directed the state governments and Union Territories to make provisions for continuance of education of the children both in government as well as in private schools. The court also directed the authorities to take action against those NGOs or individuals who were indulging in illegal adoptions of such children affected during the pandemic. In a detailed order in a Suo Motu matter, the bench directed the state governments or the Union Territories to continue identifying the children who have become orphans or lost a parent after March, 2020 either due to Covid-19 or otherwise and provide the data on the website of the NCPCR without any delay. The identification of the affected children can be done through Childline (1098), health officials, Panchayati Raj Institutions, police authorities, NGOs etc, it said. The court noted that the information provided by the State Governments and Union Territories on the ‘Bal Swaraj’ portal of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) upto June 05, 2021 showed that there are 3,621 orphans, 26,176 children who have lost one parent and 274 children who have been abandoned since April, 2020. The court directed the DCPO to produce the child before Child Welfare Committee if he is not prima facie satisfied that the guardian is capable of taking care of the child. The CWC is directed to take steps in accordance with the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (JJ Act, 2015) and the Rules framed thereunder to conduct an inquiry. During the pendency of the inquiry, the CWC is directed to ensure that the basic needs of the child are taken care of, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-directs-state-authorities-to-ensure-basic-needs-education-for-children-affected-in-pandemic-995152.html
08-06-2021||National||India witnessed 33% decline in Covid-19 cases in a week||Over the last seven days, India has witnessed a 33 per cent decline in the number of Covid-19 cases and a 65 per cent reduction in active cases, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday. Meanwhile, 15 states reported a positivity rate of less than 5 per cent, Luv Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry, told ANI.  Overall recovery has increased to 94.3 per cent (both home isolation and medical infrastructure) and the positivity rate has decreased by 6.3 per cent overall between June 1 and June 7.  There has been a continued and sharp decline in daily new Covid-19 cases, which is an almost 79 per cent fall in the figure as compared to the peak of May 7. India reported less than one lakh new coronavirus infections after a gap of 63 days, while the daily positivity rate dropped to 4.62 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A single day rise of 86,498 cases was registered, the lowest in 66 days, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,89,96,473. The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,51,309 with 2,123 daily deaths, the lowest in 47 days, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-witnessed-33-decline-in-covid-19-cases-in-a-week-995189.html
08-06-2021||National||CEC Chandra writes to Law Minister Prasad reminding him of pending electoral reforms||Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra has written to Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad requesting for expedited action on the electoral reform proposals pending with the government, including the one which seeks an enhanced two-year jail term for those furnishing incorrect information in their poll affidavit. "I have written to the law minister to expedite these proposals and hopefully they will be taken up early by the ministry," Chandra told PTI. The letter was sent by the CEC last month. Enhancing the imprisonment period for those furnishing incorrect details in poll affidavits from existing six months to two years is a key electoral reform proposal of the Election Commission. A two-year jail term could bar the candidate from contesting elections for six years. "The present six-month imprisonment does not lead to disqualification," lamented Chandra. The Election Commission has also proposed making paid news an electoral offence under the Representation of the People Act to provide a strong deterrent against the malpractice. The poll panel, reminded the CEC, has also proposed a ban on political advertisements in newspapers during the "silence period" between the end of campaign and the day of polling so that the electorate is not influenced and can exercise the franchise with a free mind. The move will require changes in the Representation of the People Act. A committee, tasked with proposing changes in electoral laws dealing with campaigning in the 48 hours prior to polling, had recommended a ban on advertisements in newspapers on the day of polling. As of now, only the electronic media is barred from showing election publicity material during the 48 hours before conclusion of polling. But the committee recommended bringing the print media under the ambit of Section 126 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. The chief election commissioner said another key proposal pending with the government relates to linking electoral roll with the Aadhaar ecosystem to root out multiple enrolments. Law Minister Prasad had recently said in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha that the EC proposal was under the consideration of the government and that this would require amendments to electoral laws. "The matter is under the consideration of the government," he had said. According to the EC proposal sent in August 2019, the electoral law should be amended to empower electoral registration officers to seek Aadhaar number of existing voters as well as of those applying to enrol themselves in the voter list. In August 2015, a Supreme Court order on Aadhaar had put the brakes on the Election Commission's project to link Aadhaar number with electoral data. The poll panel was then collecting Aadhaar number as part of its National Electoral Roll Purification and Authentication Programme (NERPAP). Seeking to check multiple entries in electoral rolls and to make them error-free, the Election Commission had embarked on the ambitious project to link Aadhaar numbers with electoral data. Since the Supreme Court order makes it clear that sanction of law is required to collect Aadhaar number, the Commission has proposed changes in electoral law, a poll panel functionary had recently explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cec-chandra-writes-to-law-minister-prasad-reminding-him-of-pending-electoral-reforms-995190.html
08-06-2021||National||Navneet Rana's caste certificate cancelled, fined Rs 2 lakh||In a significant development, the Bombay High Court has cancelled the caste certificate of Amravati MP Navneet Kaur Rana and fined Rs two lakh. Navneet (35), who is an Independent MP from Amravati (SC) Lok Sabha seat, is wife of Independent MLA from Badnera, Ravi Rana, the founder of Yuva Swabhiman Party. Navneet is a former model and actress. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, she had defeated Shiv Sena veteran Anand Adsul. The Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court comprising Justice RG Dhanuka and Justice VG Bisht, observed: "Since she got it validated from Caste Scrutiny Committee by producing fabricated and fraudulent documents, the caste certificate is cancelled and stands confiscated." The petition against her claimed that Navneet Kaur Rana hails form Punjab and belongs to Labana caste, which in Maharashtra does not come under Scheduled Caste category.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navneet-ranas-caste-certificate-cancelled-fined-rs-2-lakh-995191.html
08-06-2021||National||Covid-19: Cases dip below 1-lakh mark, but fatality rate stays high||India’s devastating second wave of coronavirus is showing signs of letting up after nearly two months. The number of fresh daily Covid-19 cases on Monday dipped below the 1-lakh mark for the first time since early April, though the impact of the wave is still reflected in the number of deaths from the infection. Though cases and positivity rate have declined significantly since May, death figures have a built-in lag as many who were infected during the wave are succumbing to the illness weeks later. India’s daily positivity rate had fallen to 4.6 per cent on Monday, a massive drop from late April when every fourth person was testing positive for the disease. On the other hand, the daily case fatality rate — the ratio of deaths to positive cases — continues to climb, reaching 2.5 per cent on Monday, the highest in more than 11 months. The daily Covid death rate in Delhi, one of the worst hit in the recent wave, shot up to over 15 per cent on Monday as new cases fall and the proportion of deaths increases. The average case fatality ratio this month has been 12.2 per cent, compared with 7 per cent in the same period last month at the height of the second wave. Similarly, Uttar Pradesh also saw a daily death rate of 11.7 per cent on Monday, even though the positivity rate has fallen to 0.25 per cent, whereas the state registered a case fatality rate in low single digits for most of April and May. Uttarakhand, Punjab and Haryana show similar trends, with declining positivity rates but an uptick in death rates. On a cumulative basis, Punjab has the highest case fatality ratio of 2.6 per cent — more than double the country’s 1.2 per cent — while Uttarakhand’s sits at 2 per cent. Maharashtra too had a relatively high case fatality rate on Monday of 3.3 per cent, though the state's figures have been showing some signs of going down in the recent past. In Karnataka, the death rate stood at 2.8 per cent, but the state’s active cases top the country and may see the death rate tick up in weeks to come.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-dip-below-1-lakh-mark-but-fatality-rate-stays-high-995193.html
08-06-2021||National||Two civil defence marshals held for robbery||Two Delhi civil defence marshals were arrested for allegedly robbing a person of his mobile phone in Narela area, police said on Tuesday. The accused have been identified as Gaurav (20) and Ayush (20), both residents of Narela, they said. On Monday around 9.30 pm, complainant Vikas Kumar, a resident of Sonipat in Haryana, along with his cousin was going home after finishing work. When they reached at MSP Mall, DSIDC, Narela, two men on a bike came there. They stopped near him, slapped him and robbed him of his cellphone, a senior police officer said. During patrolling, a police team heard loud noise from a spot and pursued it. As soon as police reached the spot, one of the marshals tried to run away, but was nabbed, the officer said. The person, who was on motorcycle, was also held, police said. During interrogation, they disclosed their names and also said they work as Delhi Civil Defence marshals. One mobile phone which was robbed from Vikas Kumar and one bike were recovered from their possession, the officer said. A case under relevant sections was registered and both the accused were arrested, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-civil-defence-marshals-held-for-robbery-995196.html
08-06-2021||National||Wrestler Sushil Kumar seeks special food, supplements in jail; court order on June 9||A Delhi court will pronounce order on Wednesday on Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar's application seeking special food and supplements in the prison where he lodged in connection with the alleged murder of a young wrestler. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Satvir Singh Lamba reserved the order after hearing the contentions of prosecution and defence at-length. Sushil, who is facing charges of murder, cupable homicide and kidnapping, is currently lodged in Delhi's Mandoli Jail. In the plea, Kumar's counsels advocate Pradeep Rana, Kumar Vaibhaw and Satwik Misra stated that their client takes supplements like isolate whey protein, omega 3 capsules, jointment capsules, pre-workout C4 and hyde, multivitamin GNC, exercises bands etc. The application added that denial of these basic requirements will have a huge implication on his career, as the special nutrition diet and supplements are extremely necessary for him to maintain his health and performance. “The applicant's career in wrestling directly depends upon his physical strength and physique without which it cannot sustain and to maintain the supplements are required,” the plea stated. However, the jail authorities in their reply to the court have stated that Kumar's medical condition does not require food supplements or an extra protein diet as an “additional diet”. During the course of proceedings today, Sushil's counsel advocate Pradeep Rana told the court that Sushil was entitled to the supplement diet as he is an “unconvicted criminal prisoner”. Advocate Rana further said that the special diet and supplements have been sought at Sushil's personal expenses and not of the Jail authorities. He added that giving an extra protein diet does not tantamount to “special treatment but is rather required by the accused on account of future preparation as he is an active sportsman and world renowned wrestler”. Meanwhile, other application seeking a seperate cell in the jail was withdrawn by Sushil's counsel after the jail authorities furnished report that he has already been provided one considering the security threat. On June 2, the district court had sent Sushil to judicial custody for nine days. He was arrested on May 23, following which he was interrogated by the police for 10 days. Sushil Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends Sonu Mahal and Amit Kumar at Chhatrasal Stadium on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over a property dispute. The 23-year-old succumbed to the injuries later. Police has called Sushil the “main culprit and mastermind” of the murder and said that there is electronic evidence wherein he and his associates could be seen beating the 23-year-old with sticks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wrestler-sushil-kumar-seeks-special-food-supplements-in-jail-court-order-on-june-9-995198.html
08-06-2021||National||Women falling behind in India's Covid-19 vaccination drive||Many more men in India have received Covid-19 vaccines than women, government data showed on Tuesday, highlighting gender disparity in the country's immunisation drive that has also disadvantaged the rural population. India has partly or fully vaccinated about 101 million men, nearly 17% more than women. Men account for 54% of the total number of people inoculated, according to the data. Many federally administered regions, Delhi, and big states such as Uttar Pradesh have seen some of the worst inequities. Only Kerala and Chhattisgarh have vaccinated more women than men.  "We are noticing that men, especially in towns and villages, prefer to take the vaccine before women as they have to travel for work, while women are relegated to domestic chores," said Prashant Pandya, medical superintendent at a government hospital in Gujarat.  Health officials say rumours about vaccines disrupting women's menstruation cycle and reducing fertility have also contributed to the skewed data. The government has rejected the concerns. "The government will have to ramp up awareness programmes in rural India to ensure women understand the importance of vaccines and prioritise themselves in this race to secure the two shots," said Sudha Narayanan, a former bureaucrat who worked in the health ministry in New Delhi. Women will have to step forward to get vaccinated or the divide will rapidly widen, Narayanan added.  India, with a population of 1.3 billion, has about 6% more men than women. A spokesperson for the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare did not respond to Reuters' questions about the gender disparity. Some women in the rural parts of Gujarat and Rajasthan have urged the authorities to deliver vaccines at their doorstep, saying they are unable to travel to hospitals leaving their children behind. "I don't know how to read and write...how will I register for the vaccine," said Laxmiben Suthar, a mother of four in the town of Vadnagar in Gujarat. "The government must send the medicine to us." India's vaccination policy has evolved fast but the government has so far resisted calls for door-to-door immunisations given that the vaccines have only been authorised for emergency use and recipients need to be monitored for a short period for any adverse reactions. Urban Indians are also getting Covid-19 shots much faster than the hundreds of millions of people living in the countryside, government data has shown. That is partly due to a policy that helped richer cities buy more vaccine doses than rural districts. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday reversed the policy and said vaccines will be offered at no charge to all adults starting June 21. The government will also facilitate more walk-in inoculations after complaints about the online registration process. India has so far administered 233.7 million doses, the most in the world after China and the United States, but given the necessary two doses to only about 5% of its estimated 950 million adults. India has the world's second-largest number of coronavirus infections after the United States, with total cases at nearly 29 million, according to health ministry data. The country has suffered 351,309 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/women-falling-behind-in-indias-covid-19-vaccination-drive-995201.html
08-06-2021||National||S Jaishankar to begin Kuwait visit on Wednesday; to carry PM Modi's letter to Kuwaiti Emir||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will carry a personal letter from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Kuwaiti Emir Sheikh Nawaf al-Ahmad al-Sabah when he travels to the oil-rich Gulf nation on Wednesday on a three-day visit to explore ways to further boost bilateral ties. It will be Jaishankar's first visit to Kuwait as the external affairs minister. "External Affairs Minister Dr S Jaishankar will visit Kuwait on June 9-11 at th invitation of Sheikh Ahmed Nasser Al-Mohammad Al-Sabah, Foreign Minister and Minister of State for Cabinet Affairs, State of Kuwait," the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said. "During the visit he will hold high-level meetings and also address the Indian community in Kuwait," the MEA said, adding Jaishankar will also carry a personal letter from the prime minister to the emir of Kuwait. The visit comes nearly three months after the two countries decided to establish a joint ministerial commission to formulate a framework to strengthen ties in sectors like energy, trade, investment, manpower and labour and information technology. Kuwaiti foreign minister Sheikh Ahmed Nasser Al-Mohammad Al-Sabah visited India in March during which both sides decided to set up the joint commission. The year 2021-22 marks the 60th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between India and Kuwait. There are around one million Indians residing in Kuwait. India is amongst the largest trading partners of Kuwait and the Gulf nation is a major supplier of oil to India. "In recent weeks, to help fight the second wave of Covid-19 in India, the government of Kuwait has been in the forefront to ensure a sustained and reliable supply of liquid medical oxygen to India including by establishing an air/sea bridge," the MEA said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-to-begin-kuwait-visit-on-wednesday-to-carry-pm-modis-letter-to-kuwaiti-emir-995203.html
08-06-2021||National||Class 5 Kerala girl writes to CJI, lauds SC for saving lives in fight with Covid||A letter by a Class V student from Kerala with an illustration appreciating the Supreme Court's intervention during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has won accolades from the Chief Justice of India.  Justice N V Ramana sent her a signed copy of the Constitution with a letter stating "I am sure you will grow up into alert, informed and responsible citizen who will contribute immensely towards the nation building". The 10-year-old Lidwina Joseph, from Thrissur in Kerala, wrote, “I am happy and feel proud your honourable court has moved orders for supply of oxygen and saved many lives. I understood your honourable court has initiated effective steps in bringing down Covid-19 and the death rate in our country, especially in Delhi. I thank Your Honour for this."  Joseph, in the hand-written letter in the form of a scroll, said she was very worried about deaths in Delhi and other parts of the country due to coronavirus, and felt happy to see top court making vital interventions to alleviate the sufferings of the people in the unprecedented health crisis unleashed by the pandemic. The letter was accompanied by a colourful illustration showing a bespectacled judge using his gavel to deliver a blow on the head of coronavirus. She also drew a portrait of the Mahatma Gandhi, which was hung on the wall behind the judge. CJI Ramana replied to Joseph saying, “I have received your beautiful letter along with a heart-warming illustration of the judge at work”.  The CJI said he was very  impressed with the way she kept track of happenings in the country. He also appreciated the concern she has displayed for the well-being of people in the wake of pandemic. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/class-5-kerala-girl-writes-to-cji-lauds-sc-for-saving-lives-in-fight-with-covid-995207.html
08-06-2021||National||From the Newsroom: CET to be conducted on August 28 and 29||In your evening news brief, Centre revises vaccination guidelines; CET to be conducted on August 28 and 29 and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is likely to hold a meeting in a day or two about lifting restrictions in Karnataka.  Here is the top news of June 8, 2021: The Government of India on Tuesday issued revised guidelines for the national Covid-19 vaccination programme, to be implemented from June 21. In a comprehensive set of guidelines, the Centre said that vaccine doses would be allocated to states/UTs "based on population, disease burden & vaccination progress. Wastage will affect allocation negatively". The Centre will provide states/UTs advance information of vaccine doses to be supplied to them to be likewise allocated by them to districts and vaccination centres. How to prioritise vaccinations with the given supply schedule has been left to the states/ UTs. States have also been asked to publicise the availability of these vaccines at the district- and vaccination-centre level to make it more visible and convenient for citizens. The Karnataka Common Entrance Test for various vocational courses, including engineering, is scheduled to be conducted on August 28 and 29. "The CET exam will take place on August 28 and 29. Each subject will carry 60 marks," Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said at a press conference on Tuesday. The Maths and Biology exams will be held on the first day while Physics and Chemistry on the second day. Registration will commence from June 15, he said, adding that the PUC marks will not be taken into account. Narayan further said students will be required to score a minimum mark to clear the entrance test. Amid talks that Karnataka may start the unlock process by lifting restrictions after June 14, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is likely to hold a meeting in a day or two, to discuss the matter and take a call. The state is currently under lockdown till June 14, and there are indications that the government is likely to go for graded relaxation of restrictions, in districts that have less positivity rate to begin with. Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-cet-to-be-conducted-on-august-28-and-29-995208.html
08-06-2021||National||Share details of relief work done during Covid-19 pandemic: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to MPs||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Tuesday urged Members of Parliament to share details of the relief work done by them in their constituencies amid the Covid-19 pandemic to develop best practices at the national level to deal with similar situations in future. Birla, in a letter to all the MPs, said as public representatives, it is the duty of parliamentarians to stand with people in this severe crisis and help them in every respect. "I believe that you have spent most of your time helping people in their adversity. You have not only given moral support to the distressed citizens but have also made all-out efforts to resolve their problems," he said in the letter. "The need of the hour is to share your stellar work and experiences with the entire country so that we are able to develop best practices at the national level to deal with such situations," the speaker said. Birla, the MP from Kota in Rajasthan, had announced that students who were preparing for medical and engineering entrance exams and had lost their parents or earning members of the family to Covid-19 would be provided free coaching and accommodation in his constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/share-details-of-relief-work-done-during-covid-19-pandemic-lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-to-mps-995212.html
08-06-2021||National||Swapan Dasgupta, Mahesh Jethmalani take oath as RS members; Naidu urges MPs to help people over vaccination||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday urged MPs to educate and motivate people to vaccinate themselves against Covid-19. His remarks came after four new MPs -- John Brittas and Dr V Sivadasan (both CPI(M) members from Kerala) and nominated members Swapan Dasgupta and Mahesh Jethmalani -- took oath as Rajya Sabha members. Brittas and Sivadasan have been elected to the Rajya Sabha for the first term. Among the nominated members, Dasgupta has been re-nominated to Rajya Sabha while Shri Mahesh Jethmalani has been nominated to the Rajya Sabha for the first time. "The MPs should educate and motivate people in their constituencies to take the vaccine at the earliest. The government has already made the vaccine free for all persons falling in the category of 18 years and above except for those who want to get vaccinated in the private hospital," Naidu said at the oath-taking function. Welcoming the new MPs, he said holding a public office is a 24x7 responsibility which entails never-ending accountability towards the citizens of the country. "People have a lot of expectations from the MPs and as their representatives, it is their duty to voice concerns as well as aspirations of the people through various parliamentary devices from the floor of this august institution. The MPs should maintain high standards of conduct in public life befitting the decency, dignity and decorum of this ‘House of Elders’," he said. Leader of the House Thaawarchand Gehlot, Deputy Chairman Harivansh, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, Ministers of State for Parliamentary Affairs V  Muraleedharan and Arjun Ram Meghwal were also present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/swapan-dasgupta-mahesh-jethmalani-take-oath-as-rs-members-naidu-urges-mps-to-help-people-over-vaccination-995218.html
08-06-2021||National||Nothing surprising if PM and Thackeray met separately: Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday said nothing was surprising if Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray met Prime Minister Narendra Modi separately in Delhi earlier in the day but added that he was not aware whether such interaction took place. Earlier in the day, Thackeray, accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister and senior NCP leader Ajit Pawar and senior Congress leader Ashok Chavan, met the prime minister and discussed issues related to the Maratha reservation, pending GST compensation and the proposed Metro carshed in Kanjurmarg. "Though I am not sure whether such one-on-one meeting took place between Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, there is nothing to get surprised even if we assume that such a meeting has taken place," the Leader of Opposition told reporters. Fadnavis said when he was chief minister of Maharashtra, the PM used to discuss various issues with him separately. "When I used to meet the prime minister with a delegation, he used to talk with them for 5 to 10 minutes. The PM later used to discuss issues concerning the state with me separately for 15-20 minutes," he said. Fadnavis said he cannot speculate on the meeting between the PM and Thackeray, an estranged ally of the BJP, as he had no information about it. The Shiv Sena, headed by Thackeray, walked out of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) after it fell out with the BJP over sharing the post of chief minister after the Maharashtra assembly elections threw up a hung verdict in October 2019. The Sena then joined hands with the NCP and the Congress to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) which came to power in November 2019. "Maharashtra has always been on the agenda of the Union government. The prime minister is always positive towards Maharashtra (and its issues)," Fadnavis said. "I welcome such a meeting with the prime minister. They help in developing coordination between the Centre and the state. We have always maintained that the state should maintain good relations with Prime Minister Narendra Modi," he said. When asked about the meeting of the Thackeray-led delegation with the PM, Fadnavis said, "It is good that the chief minister met the prime minister with a delegation over various issues, as there is a precedent of pointing fingers at the Union government for every problem in Maharashtra". Queried about the chances of Thackeray and the PM setting aside their political differences, Fadnavis said, "Politics generally starts few months before the elections and one cannot stop it. On other days, coordination between the state and the Centre helps the state. If a proper role is played at right time, Maharashtra will benefit for sure". Commenting on the issue of the Maratha reservation, which was struck down by the Supreme Court, he said, "It would be premature to expect anything concrete out of today's meeting". He said the Bhosale committee report has recommended the state to set up a backward commission and prepare a report. The state has to submit a report and take further action. But, meeting on such issues is also good".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nothing-surprising-if-pm-and-thackeray-met-separately-fadnavis-995223.html
08-06-2021||National||SCBA forms 'search committee' for elevation of lawyers from top court as HC judges||The lawyers' body of the top court has formed a "search committee" to identify deserving and meritorious advocates, practising in the Supreme Court, for their elevation as judges in the High Courts across the country. Following a request made by Supreme Court Bar Association on May 31, the Chief Justice of India has agreed and requested the Chief Justices of the High Courts to consider lawyers practising in the Supreme Court for elevation to their High Courts, a statement from Bar president Vikas Singh said. The committee, formed for the purpose, comprised SCBA president, Vice President Pradeep Kumar Rai and senior member Mahalakshmi Pavani and four eminent members of the Bar namely Rakesh Dwivedi, Shekhar Naphade, Vijay Hansaria and V Giri. This would help the High Court Collegium in considering the names along with the lawyers from the High Court Bar in order to choose the most deserving candidates amongst those available for elevation, it said. "Elevation of the lawyers practising in the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India has always been a concern of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA)," it said, adding, as the advocates practising in the top court, despite being professionally more meritorious than their colleagues at the High Court, lose the opportunity for being considered for appointment as judges. Despite having vast experience and exposure in dealing with all kinds of issues relating to civil, criminal, constitutional, commercial law, etc, the lawyers practising in the Supreme Court are rarely considered for elevation by the High Court collegium as they do not regularly practice before the High Court, it said. The SCBA also suggested putting in place "a transparent mechanism" in order to institutionalise the appointment of judges which will also help in filling up of large number of vacancies in the High Courts. It also stressed that there were a large number of women advocates practising in the Supreme Court who are to be considered for elevation and the High Courts do not recommend lady advocates on the plea that there are not enough lady lawyers fit for elevation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scba-forms-search-committee-for-elevation-of-lawyers-from-top-court-as-hc-judges-995224.html
08-06-2021||National||Centre places orders for 44 crore doses of Covishield and Covaxin||The Centre on Tuesday said it placed fresh orders to buy 44 crores of Covid-19 vaccine doses from two Indian manufacturers and the doses would be available for use from August onward. This would include 25 crore doses of Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute of India and 19 crore doses of Cavaxin produced by Bharat Biotech. The two companies would supply the doses between August and December. The government paid 30% of the cost as advance payment, said V K Paul, NITI Ayog member and the government’s principal advisor on the Covid-19 epidemic. The Centre had earlier pre-booked 30 crore doses of a protein sub-unit vaccine that would be produced by Hyderabad-based firm BiologicalE. “The provisional scientific data of the Biological E vaccine was promising. The vaccine is undergoing the last phase of the clinical trial and may be available by September. Taken together, we have secured 74 crore doses that will start coming from August,” he said. The government was waiting for the company to announce the price of its vaccine, named Corbevax, before negotiation. Part of the advance payment of Rs 1,500 crore made to BiologicalE would meet part of the vaccine price. The new tranche of vaccine doses would start flowing in after the existing order of 53.6 crore doses is exhausted. The Centre has so far provided 24.65 crore doses to the states that used 23.88 crore doses so far. Another 1.19 crore doses are either with the state or are in the pipeline. Paul said government officials had a meeting with the two manufacturers on May 24 before finalising the new vaccination policy. Later the manufacturers would also provide a month-wise road map on vaccine availability. Last week, the Supreme Court asked the government to submit its vaccine availability roadmap till December 2021 before the court. Meanwhile in the wake of reports of private hospitals charging more than the stipulated rates for Covid-19 vaccines, the Union Health Ministry once again on Tuesday informed the states about the prices of the three available vaccines and what maximum amount can be charged for each dose. For Covishield, the price set by the manufacturer is Rs 600 per dose, which after adding the GST and service charge would translate into Rs 780 at private Covid vaccination sites. Similarly for Covaxin, the base price is Rs 1,200 per dose, while the final cost would be Rs 1,410 for a single dose. The Sputnik-V (Rs 948) will cost Rs 1,145 to a recipient.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-places-orders-for-44-crore-doses-of-covishield-and-covaxin-995228.html
08-06-2021||National||Sushil Modi suggests levying 0.1% CGST, SGST on Covid vaccines||Senior BJP leader Sushil Modi on Tuesday suggested levying 0.1 per cent each of CGST and SGST on vaccines, oxygen ventilators and other essential medical devices required for treating coronavirus infections. Modi was closely associated with the GST Council during his tenure as the Finance Minister of Bihar. He had also served as the Deputy Chief Minister of Bihar. While the GST Council is expected to soon take a call on the GST (Goods and Services Tax) rates for these items, Modi said the most feasible option appears to be to charge a nominal tax and make them more affordable amid the pandemic. Modi also pointed out that bringing these medical devices and vaccines "zero-rated under the GST regime would require amendment in the GST Act from all State Assemblies and Parliament, which will be a time-consuming step". "My suggestion would be to charge 0.1 per cent, both CGST and SGST, on vaccines, oxygen ventilators, oxygen concentrators, thermometers and other essential drugs and medical devices required for treatment of Covid. By doing this, manufacturers can claim input tax credit while prices will be relatively lower," Modi said. He emphasised that it was his personal view and ultimately, the Council will take a call. CGST refers to Central GST while SGST stands for State GST. Emphasising that the ultimate aim is not to garner revenues but to help end consumers, he also suggested that drugs and medical devices should be treated as deemed export items. Describing the GST Council as "a successful example" of cooperative federalism, he said that till date, barring one occasion, all decisions taken by the Council were unanimous. On May 28, the GST Council could not decide on tweaking taxes on Covid vaccines and medical supplies as the BJP and Opposition-ruled states sparred over whether tax cut benefits will reach the common man. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushil-modi-suggests-levying-01-cgst-sgst-on-covid-vaccines-995233.html
08-06-2021||National||BJP seeks resignations of Punjab CM, health minister over alleged corruption in procuring Covid kits||Stepping up attack on the Congress government in Punjab, the BJP on Tuesday demanded the resignation of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu over alleged corruption in the award of contract for Covid kits to private firms. BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia claimed the state government first gave a tender for 'Fateh' kits for coronavirus patients to a firm for Rs 837 for a single unit and then awarded two more tenders in the next few weeks for Rs 1,226 and Rs 1,338  per unit during April. The last tender cost nearly 60 per cent more than the first one, he said, accusing the Congress of finding means for corruption and scam even during the times of a pandemic. "It is a matter of shame that the Congress is doing scam during the pandemic," he alleged at a press conference. Firms that got the tender also did not have a mandatory drug licence, he alleged, a day after opposition parties in the state, including the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party, alleged irregularities in the purchase of 'Fateh' kits. A 'Fateh' kit contains a pulse oximeter, a thermometer, face masks, a steamer, sanitisers, vitamin C, zinc tablets and some medicines for COVID-19 patients. Noting that the Congress government had sold vaccines to private hospitals "at a profit" with the private facilities selling them to people at a much higher price, Bhatia alleged that Singh has no right to continue as chief minister. There cannot be a fair probe so long as Sidhu remains the health minister, the BJP spokesperson said, and demanded his resignation. There is a "suit-boot ki sarkar" in Punjab which wants the poor to pay for vaccination at private hospitals, he claimed. "The guilty should be punished," Bhatia said, and also demanded that Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul Gandhi break their "silence" on the matter. The fresh accusation comes a few days after the opposition accused the Punjab government of “diverting” coronavirus vaccines to private hospitals. The Punjab government had last week asked private hospitals to return all vaccine stocks meant for the 18-44 age group, following severe criticism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-seeks-resignations-of-punjab-cm-health-minister-over-alleged-corruption-in-procuring-covid-kits-995234.html
08-06-2021||National||Annular solar eclipse on June 10, to be visible in India only from Arunachal, Ladakh||An annular solar eclipse is going to occur on Thursday but it will not be visible in India except in some parts of Arunachal Pradesh and Ladakh for a few minutes before the sunset, a prominent astrophysicist said. The annular solar eclipse occurs when the sun, moon and the earth come in a straight line and almost on the same plane. It is a partial eclipse when a ring of fire appears in the sky. The path of the eclipse will not touch almost any part of India, barring the North-Eastern extremes of the country in Arunachal Pradesh and Ladakh, Director of M P Birla Planetarium, Debiprasad Duari, said in Kolkata on Tuesday. "In Arunachal Pradesh, people can see, just before the sunset, a minuscule fraction of the sun covered by the moon, that is also very low in the horizon, lasting at the most 3-4 minutes depending upon the position," Duari said. "On the northern borders, in Ladakh, a sliver of land in the border region can experience the last phase of the partial eclipse, again for a short duration, but relatively at a higher altitude than the eastern part of the country," he said. One can see a very small part of the solar eclipse from the vicinity of Dibang Wildlife Sanctuary in Arunachal Pradesh at around 5:52 pm. In the northern part of Ladakh, where the sun will set at around 6.15 pm, the last phases of the phenomenon can be seen at around 6 pm. The eclipse can be seen from a vast region of North America, Europe and Asia, Duari said. First, the partial eclipse will start at around 11:42 am Indian Standard Time and the annular eclipse will appear to occur from 3:30 pm and will continue up to 4:52 pm, though for different intervals for a particular region, depending upon one's geographical location. The partial eclipse will end at around 6:41 pm IST, he said. Live coverage of the eclipse is being arranged by various organisations around the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/annular-solar-eclipse-on-june-10-to-be-visible-in-india-only-from-arunachal-ladakh-995236.html
08-06-2021||National||Stalin writes to 12 non-BJP CMs on repayment of MSME loans||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Tuesday wrote to his counterparts in 12 non-BJP ruled states asking them to take up with the Union Government and Reserve Bank of India (RBI) the issue of seeking moratorium for all small borrowers for at least the first two quarters of 2021-2022 due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Stalin wrote to Chief Ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana, and West Bengal. In the letter, Stalin told his counterparts that he was happy that “our collective efforts” have ensured reversal of the earlier policy vis-à-vis Covid-19 vaccination in the country. “….Government of India announced departure from the earlier policy and shifted the responsibility to procure and administer vaccines to people in the age group of 18 to 45 to the State Governments. Many amongst us pointed out the fact that the most appropriate monopsonic purchaser would be the Government of India,” he wrote in the letter. Noting that a moratorium was offered on repayment of loans for small borrowers during the lockdown in 2020, Stalin said relief to borrowers is not being provided for this year. “I request all the States to write to both the Union Finance Minister and the Governor, Reserve Bank of India to prevail on them to offer moratorium on repayment of loans for at least the first two quarters of 2021-2022 to all small borrowers with outstanding up to Rs.5 crore in view of the lockdowns induced by the second wave of covid-19,” Stalin said. The absence of such relief measures would force many businesses to close and would lead to widespread economic distress. These MSMEs and small businesses are the mainstay of our economy and employment generation, he added. The Chief Minister said he has already taken up this issue with the Government of India with a request to provide a moratorium on repayment of loans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stalin-writes-to-12-non-bjp-cms-on-repayment-of-msme-loans-995239.html
08-06-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: After two months of deaths and despair, second wave of Covid-19 ebbs||After nearly two months of death and despair, the second wave of Covid-19 in India finally seems to be registering a downward trend. Several states are gradually easing lockdown restrictions, while vaccination drives are also picking up pace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-after-two-months-of-deaths-and-despair-second-wave-of-covid-19-ebbs-995244.html
08-06-2021||National||Breakdown of system: NGT slams states on river pollution||If the states have failed to implement the law, it is a breakdown of the system itself, National Green Tribunal has observed while hearing a petition related to river pollution. The NGT has slammed Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana for failing to stop the discharge of untreated effluents in the Ghaggar river. "If the states fail in implementing the law, it is nothing but the breakdown of the system itself," the Green Bench observed. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said the three states and Chandigarh continue to contribute water pollution, which is a criminal offence. The tribunal was hearing a plea against the failure of statutory authorities in Punjab and Chandigarh to install the necessary Sewage Treatment Plant, resulting in the discharge of pollution in the drain originating from Chandigarh. "Water pollution is a serious threat to the health of the citizens as well as other living beings who consume the water and also to the food safety for growth of which the water is used for irrigation...there can be no justification whatsoever for the states to have failed in complying with the law. "If the states find that they are unable to manage the sewage directly, there is no bar to other options being explored but there cannot be any justification not to comply with the mandate of law and protecting the health of the citizens in accordance with the Constitutional mandate," the bench said. The NGT said the states should realise their responsibility to function according to the Constitution and take immediate remedial measures||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/breakdown-of-system-ngt-slams-states-on-river-pollution-995245.html
08-06-2021||National||Govt panel finds SII's quoted price for inactivated polio vaccine too high||Emerging as the lowest bidder, Serum Institute of India's (SII) quoted price for each dose of inactivated polio vaccine to be procured under the routine immunization programme is more than double the last purchase rate following which a government purchase committee has decided to request the Union health minister to negotiate the price with the firm. Pune-based SII has quoted Rs 188 per dose of the vaccine excluding taxes for supplying 180 lakh doses which translates into an increase of 106.65 per cent in the price, official sources said Tuesday. According to them, meetings of the Integrated Purchase Committee (IPC) was held under the chairmanship of Director General of Health Services (DGHS) on May 28, 31 and June 1 for procurement of 180 lakh doses of IPV (Inactivated Polio Vaccine) for 2021-22 under Routine Immunization Programme. The IPC found that the lowest price quoted by SII is considerably higher than the last purchase price of Rs 91 per dose excluding taxes and recommended for negotiation with the firm. The IPC meeting was reconvened on May 31 and the committee asked the representative of SII for justification of price increase. "The representative of the firm informed that they have participated in IPV tender for the first time and they have already quoted the best possible price of Rs 188.00+ taxes per dose and it is less than UNICEF price," a source privy to the development said. The IPC asked the firm to revisit its quoted price following which in a communique to the Union health ministry on May 31, Prakash Kumar Singh, director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at SII said they will not be able to reduce the quoted price and requested the ministry to place order at the earliest so that they can plan the delivery schedule. The next IPC meeting was held on June 1. "IPC noted that the firm has not agreed to reduce its quoted price. "Considering all the facts, the IPC noted that an increase of 106.65 per cent is very high and considering the urgency of this vaccine, decided to request health minister for negotiating with the firm at a higher level," the source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-panel-finds-siis-quoted-price-for-inactivated-polio-vaccine-too-high-995247.html
08-06-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi's views carry weight; Centre also implemented them: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Tuesday said views expressed by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on various issues carry weight and that most of his demands were implemented by the Union government. Speaking to reporters here, Raut said, "Many things said by Rahul Gandhi in the past were factually correct. Not just that, several of his demands were later implemented by the Union government". Raut was responding to a question over whether Rahul Gandhi's comments are factual. "Whether he was speaking about vaccination or coronavirus, his comments are true. His words carry weight," he added. The Congress is one of the constituents in the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. Rahul Gandhi has been attacking the Central government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the vaccination policy and handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. He had said India would not have been in such a painful situation due to the coronavirus pandemic today had the government ensured easy access to vaccines. He also said that a coronavirus vaccine-treatment protocol should already have been in place for children in the country. On Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the Centre will provide free Covid-19 vaccines for states and take care of their procurement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhis-views-carry-weight-centre-also-implemented-them-sanjay-raut-995264.html
08-06-2021||National||Niti Aayog, Piramal Foundation lauch campaign for at-home care of Covid-19 patients||Under the campaign, “Surakshit Hum Surakshit Tum Abhiyaan, the NGOs will be mobilising volunteers to provide home-care support to those affected, based on the guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. “Volunteers will be trained to support 20 affected families each by educating caretakers to follow Covid-19 protocols, provide psycho-social support and timely updates about patients to the administration,” said Niti Aayog in a statement. Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said the initiative will provide long-term support to India’s poorest communities in the aspirational districts by addressing the lasting impact of Covid-19. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/niti-aayog-piramal-foundation-lauch-campaign-for-at-home-care-of-covid-19-patients-995268.html
08-06-2021||National||Telangana extends Covid-19 curbs till June 18||The Telangana government has decided to extend the Covid-19 lockdown in the state for another ten days from 10 June. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao chaired a cabinet meeting on Tuesday and decided to increase the daytime relaxation hours from eight to 12 hours. “It has been decided to give relaxation from 6 am to 5 pm and a one-hour grace period till 6 pm for people to reach home. The police were instructed to enforce a strict lockdown from 6 pm to 6 am,” CMO officials said. On May 30, the state government had extended the lockdown till June 9, while allowing relaxation from 6 am to 1 pm and one-hour grace time. In seven Assembly segments - Sattupalli, Madhira, Nalgonda, Nagarjuna Sagar, Munugodu, Devarakonda, Miryalaguda - where the Covid-19 situation is not yet in control, the easing would continue to be for seven hours only, officials said. Meanwhile, Covid-19 cases are declining in the state, as per the Health Department bulletins. On Tuesday, officials reported only 1,897 new Covid-19 cases, when 1,33,134 samples were tested. The active cases in Telangana stand at 24,306. The new Covid-19 positive cases in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area are 182, down from 307 on June 2.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-extends-covid-19-curbs-till-june-18-995269.html
08-06-2021||National||After service charge cap, here's how much you'll have to pay for Covid-19 vaccine at private hospitals||After Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday announced a price cap on service charges for Covid-19 vaccines at private hospitals, prices of jabs across manufacturers have seen a revision. PM Modi had said that the Centre has decided to buy 75 per cent of jabs from vaccine makers for free supply to states, while private sector hospitals will continue to procure 25 per cent of vaccines but they cannot charge more than Rs 150 per dose over the pre-fixed price. In a letter to all states and union territories, the Health Ministry suggested that appropriate strict action be taken against private vaccination centres for overcharging. Here are the prices after the Rs 150 per dose cap (inclusive of 5 per cent GST): Covishield: Rs 780  Covaxin: Rs 1,410 Sputnik V: Rs 1,145  The Health Ministry asked states to ensure that the prices declared by various private Covid Vaccination Centres (CVCs) do not exceed the ceiling. The Serum Institute of India sells its Covishield to private hospitals at Rs 600 per dose (excluding GST). Bharat Biotech has set the cost of its Covaxin at Rs 1,200 a dose for private establishments. Both vaccines are supplied to the central government at a cost of Rs 150 a dose. Sputnik V is supplied to private hospitals at Rs 948 per dose. "The private hospitals may charge up to a maximum of Rs 150 per dose as service charges. State governments may monitor the price being so charged," the ministry said. The ministry also requested states and union territories to regularly monitor the prices being charged by the private CVCs from the citizens. "It is also requested that wherever instances of overcharging as compared to the price declared by the CVC come to notice, appropriate strict action is taken against any such private CVCs," it said. In an address to the nation on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the central government will provide free Covid-19 vaccine to states for inoculation of all above the age of 18 from June 21.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-service-charge-cap-heres-how-much-youll-have-to-pay-for-covid-19-vaccine-at-private-hospitals-995271.html
08-06-2021||National||Centre accords CISF cover for Bharat Biotech campus in Hyderabad||The Centre has accorded a security cover of armed CISF commandos for the Hyderabad premises of Bharat Biotech, one of the major Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers in the country, official sources said on Tuesday. They said the registered office and plant of the company located at Genome Valley in the Shameerpet area of Telangana's capital city will be secured by a team of 64 armed personnel of the paramilitary force. The sources said the Union home ministry recently sanctioned a proposal to deploy the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) at this facility, following which the force carried out a survey. "The organisation is an important facility when it comes to ensuring medical and health security of the country and it obviously faces a terror threat from various inimical elements. "The CISF, hence, has been tasked to secure the Bharat Biotech facility in Hyderabad," an official said. The force will be inducted at the facility on June 14, CISF Deputy Inspector General and Chief Spokesperson Anil Pandey told PTI. India at present is administering Covaxin and Covishield (manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India), apart from small doses of Sputnik V to its citizens to battle the coronavirus pandemic. The CISF was allowed to secure private installations of public importance following the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks, where five-star luxury hotels and a Jewish Chabad house were targeted by members of the Pakistan-based terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba. The force guards about 10 such facilities across the country, including the Infosys campuses in Pune and Mysuru, the Reliance IT Park in Navi Mumbai and Yoga exponent Ramdev's Patanjali factory premises in Uttarakhand's Haridwar. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-accords-cisf-cover-for-bharat-biotech-campus-in-hyderabad-995273.html
08-06-2021||National||CBI lodges FIR against FCI official for 'amassing illicit wealth', carries out searches||The CBI carried out searches at 13 locations on Tuesday after registering an FIR against an assistant in the Food Corporation of India (FCI) for allegedly amassing illicit wealth to the tune of Rs 2.93 crore in five years, which is disproportionate to his known source of income, officials said. Kishore Meena, Assistant Grade-I, was nabbed in a case of bribery in Bhopal along with his three senior colleagues, they said. During searches, cash amounting to over Rs 3 crore was recovered from a vault at Meena's premises, the officials said. Meena has been booked by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in a fresh case of alleged illicit enrichment to the tune of Rs 2.93 crore during the check period of December 2, 2016 to May 29, 2021. "Searches are being conducted at 13 locations in Bhopal, Vidisha, Khandwa, Jhabua, Narsingpur, Jabalpur, Nanded and Jalgaon, including at the premises of contractors and private persons," CBI Spokesperson RC Joshi said. He said the instant case was registered on the basis of information collected during the investigation of another case related to alleged bribery, wherein four FCI officials, including the said Assistant Grade-I, were arrested. "During the searches at the premises of the accused in the said case of bribery, cash of Rs 3.01 crore (approx.) was recovered," Joshi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-lodges-fir-against-fci-official-for-amassing-illicit-wealth-carries-out-searches-995275.html
08-06-2021||National||I will always stand for rights of my people: Jazzy B after Twitter blocks his account||According to an information on Lumen database, Twitter received legal request from the Indian government on June 6 for four accounts, including that of Jazzy B and hip-hop artist L-Fresh the Lion. The 46-year-old singer took to Instagram on Monday evening and reposted a screenshot of his Twitter account, shared by a page, which claimed that his profile was blocked for "raising his voice for the rights of farmers and calling for justice for 1984 victims." The 1984 anti-Sikh riots, which had broken out after the assassination of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, had claimed 2,733 lives in Delhi alone. "I will always stand for the rights of my people. #KisanMajdoorIktaZindabad #NeverForget 1984, #RaiseYourVoice," Jazzy B wrote on Instagram. Users checking Jazzy B's Twitter account are shown a message saying "account has been withheld in India in response to a legal demand". The singer has been at the forefront of the farmers' protest, routinely tweeting in support of the agitation. Earlier this year, he had also performed at the 'Artists for Farmers' concert at the Tikri border, where farmers are protesting to repeal the new farm laws. His protest song "Teer Punjab Ton" has over 20 lakh views on YouTube. When contacted, a Twitter spokesperson said when it receives a valid legal request, it reviews it under both the Twitter Rules and local law. "If the content violates Twitter Rules, the content will be removed from the service. If it is determined to be illegal in a particular jurisdiction, but not in violation of the Twitter Rules, we may withhold access to the content in India only," the spokesperson added. The spokesperson noted that in all cases, it notifies the account holder directly so that they're aware that the company has received a legal order pertaining to the account. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-will-always-stand-for-rights-of-my-people-jazzy-b-after-twitter-blocks-his-account-995277.html
08-06-2021||National||NIT Rourkela ranks 26th in overall category among Indian universities||National Institute of Technology (NIT), Rourkela has been ranked 26th in the overall category among Indian universities by the Times Higher Education Asia University Rankings 2021. In the general engineering (overall category), NIT, Rourkela has been ranked 12th position in the country, a statement issued by the institute said on Tuesday. The Times Higher Education Asia University Rankings 2021 judge universities across all core areas teaching, research, citations, knowledge transfers, and international outlook. According to the rankings, NIT Rourkela is No. 1 in the overall category among all the NITs in the country, the statement said. It has also topped the list in the teaching and research category among the NITs. Speaking about the achievement, Prof. Animesh Biswas, director of the educational institute said, "NIT Rourkela has a strong platform for collaborative research and knowledge sharing among the different research groups scattered over several major departments facilitating faster developments and nurturing new ideas." This ranking is the outcome of the hard work of the whole NIT Rourkela fraternity, he said. Highlighting that research is an important component for the development of scientific thinking, Biswas said, "I am glad to see that our efforts on various innovative researches are internationally acclaimed. "We already have 11 different centres of research for carrying out multidisciplinary research activity. Presently with the collaboration with ISRO, NIT Rourkela is setting up Space Technology Incubation Centre (S-TIC) at NIT Rourkela, which will augment research in the area of space science technology. The Times Higher Education World University Rankings in 2021 included 551 universities from 30 territories. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nit-rourkela-ranks-26th-in-overall-category-among-indian-universities-995280.html
08-06-2021||National||India might have 2 flag-bearers at Tokyo Olympics: IOA chief Batra||In a first, India might have two flag-bearers -- one male and one female -- at the upcoming Tokyo Olympics to ensure "gender parity", Indian Olympic Association chief Narinder Batra told PTI on Tuesday. The names will be revealed "soon", Batra said. "It's not yet decided. The matter is still in consultation stage but there is a possibility that this year there would be two flag-bearers -- one male and one female for gender parity," Batra said. The country's lone individual Olympic gold-medallist Abhinav Bindra was the flag-bearer at the opening ceremony of the 2016 Games in Rio de Janeiro. The Tokyo Games are scheduled to open on July 23 and over 100 Indian athletes would be gunning for podium finishes at the showpiece, which was postponed by a year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. At its executive board meeting last year, the International Olympic Committee had made provisions for flag-bearers from both genders at the opening ceremony. "...the IOC Executive Board also decided that there should be – for the first time ever – at least one female and one male athlete in every one of the 206 teams and the IOC Refugee Olympic Team participating at the Games of the Olympiad," IOC chief Thomas Bach had said. "Additionally, we have also changed the rules to allow NOCs to nominate a female and a male athlete to jointly bear their flag during the Opening Ceremony. We encourage all NOCs to make use of this option." Great Britain has already announced that it will have two flag-bearers for the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-might-have-2-flag-bearers-at-tokyo-olympics-ioa-chief-batra-995305.html
08-06-2021||National||Don't use saliva while packing materials: Madras HC||The Madras HIgh Court on Tuesday directed business houses, hotels, bakeries and other establishments directly involved in supplying food material to customers, not to blow the covers or touch the saliva to separate the covers and packing materials. The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy gave a direction to this effect while admitting a PIL petition from Tiruchendur-based advocate, B Ramkumar Adityan. The petitioner submitted that an awareness has to be created with regard to packing materials to the business houses. The packers used saliva to separate the covers or blew them up. This would result in the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, he contended. "These are some things we do not realise while doing it," the bench admitted. Appreciating the petitioner for making the good suggestion, the bench directed the state to create awareness or issue instructions to all business houses involved in packing food items, where such practice is in vogue. The matter stands adjourned by four weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-use-saliva-while-packing-materials-madras-hc-995312.html
08-06-2021||National||Delhi cops served show-cause notice for shooting videos for social media in uniform||The Delhi Police has issued a show-cause notice to a woman head constable and a constable for shooting videos for social media in uniform and while on duty, officials said on Tuesday. Officials also said the duo was not adhering to coronavirus guidelines while filming the videos. According to the notice issued on Monday, head constable Shashi and constable Vivek Mathur of Model Town police station made several amusement videos in uniform and while on duty during the coronavirus lockdown and posted them on social media.  In one of the videos picturised on a Bollywood song, Mathur was seen not wearing a face mask and the duo violated social distancing norms. Being members of a disciplined force, their conduct appears to be unprofessional in discharge of their official duties, the notice stated. "They are, therefore, called upon to show cause as to why their conduct should not be censured for the above said lapse. The reply to this SCN (show-cause notice), if any, should reach this office within 15 days from the date of its receipt, failing which it will be presumed that they have nothing to say in their defence and the matter will be decided ex-parte on its merit," according to the notice issued by the Northwest district police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-cops-served-show-cause-notice-for-shooting-videos-for-social-media-in-uniform-995314.html
08-06-2021||National||Covid-19 Unlock: Indian Railways to operate 100 more trains to meet passengers demand||With many states having eased lockdown, the Indian Railways is planning to operate 100 more trains in the next 5-6 days to meet the increased demand, Railway Board Chairman Suneet Sharma said on Tuesday. At present, Indian Railways is operating 889 Special Mail Express trains every day on an average. Before the second wave, Indian Railways operated 1,500 trains daily. "The railways is in touch with states and gradually increase train services, he said adding that the railways is keen to normalise the services at the earliest," he said. About 2,600 railway employees have succumbed to Covid-19. But, the number of daily infections currently had fallen to about 100-150. In early May, the number stood at about 1,000 in a day. Reacting to RTI-based reports that 8,733 people died on railway track between January and December 2020, when limited train services were in operation, he said these deaths were not “railway accidents” but “deaths by trespassing”. The deaths which were mentioned in the RTI reply was due to trespassing and nothing to do with railway operational related accidents. All 20,375 manned level crossing gates on the broad-gauge line have been eliminated in the railway network, he claimed. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-unlock-indian-railways-to-operate-100-more-trains-to-meet-passengers-demand-995315.html
08-06-2021||National||Govt allocates Rs 40,700 crore for waste management in 2 lakh villages under Swacch Bharat Mission||Over Rs 40,700 crore have been allocated to help over two lakh villages achieve solid and liquid waste management (SLWM) under the Swacch Bharat Mission (Grameen), the Jal Shakti Ministry said on Tuesday. While the Centre will spend around Rs 14,000 crore, states will spend over Rs 8,300 crore and the remaining funds will come from others sources, it said. Minister of State for Jal Shakti Rattan Lal Kataria had on Monday reviewed the progress of SWB(G). "The Ministry of Jal Shakti under Swachh Bharat Mission Grameen (SBM-G) Phase 2 is poised to support over two lakh villages achieve solid and liquid waste management (SLWM) arrangements through an investment of over Rs 40,700 crore in the present FY 2021-22," the ministry said. The National Scheme Sanctioning Committee (NSSC) of SBM-G under the chairmanship of the ministry secretary approved the Annual Implementation Plan (AIP) of states and union territories. "While the Centre's share would be around Rs 14,000 crore, the states shall spend over Rs 8,300 crore. Funds to the tune of Rs 12,730 crore will be made available through the Fifteenth Finance Commission and over Rs 4,100 through convergence with MGNREGS," the ministry said. Further, over Rs 1,500 crore will be invested by the states through other sources like business model, CSR and other schemes. SBM(G) Phase 2 aims to achieve comprehensive cleanliness, also called Open Defecation Free (ODF) Plus status, in villages by focusing on ODF sustainability and ensuring SLWM arrangements there. Implementation of SBM-G Phase 2 in 2021-2022 will see the construction of over 50 lakh Individual Household Latrines (IHHLs), one lakh community toilets, Plastic Waste Management Units in over 2,400 blocks of the country, 'Gobardhan' projects in 386 districts, faecal sludge management arrangements in over 250 districts apart from the targeted support for over two lakh villages in the implementation of SLWM interventions. Approving the state plans, the ministry secretary highlighted the need to ensure that no one is left behind and that every household has access to a toilet. He emphasised the adoption of the twin-pit toilet technology for the construction of IHHLs as it is relatively safer, low cost and easier to operate and maintain. The secretary also stressed the need for low-cost technologies for solid and liquid waste management as it would help decentralised operation and maintenance. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-allocates-rs-40700-crore-for-waste-management-in-2-lakh-villages-under-swacch-bharat-mission-995321.html
08-06-2021||National||Ex-IAS officer Anup Chandra Pandey appointed Election Commissioner||The government on Tuesday appointed former Chief Secretary of Uttar Pradesh, Anup Chandra Pandey as Election Commissioner, filling up the vacancy created in the poll panel after Sushil Chandra was elevated to its helm. The Ministry of Law and Justice issued a notification stating that President Ram Nath Kovind had appointed the retired Indian Administrative Service Officer of the 1984 batch as the Election Commissioner. Pandey, who retired as the Chief Secretary of Uttar Pradesh in August 2019, will join the poll panel as one of the two Election Commissioners, the other being Rajiv Kumar. The Election Commission comprises a Chief Election Commissioner and two Election Commissioners. The vacancy in the EC was created on April 12, when Chandra was appointed as the Chief Election Commissioner after the term of his predecessor Sunil Arora came to its end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-ias-officer-anup-chandra-pandey-appointed-election-commissioner-995338.html
08-06-2021||National||Govt ready to talk to farmers on issues other than farm Bills: Tomar||The government is ready to talk with the agitating farmers on "options other than the farm bills", Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Tuesday. Farmers have been agitating on Delhi borders against the three new farm laws since November last year. "The Central government has always talked in the interest of farmers' welfare, and it is ready to talk with farmers," Tomar said, speaking to reporters here. "If the farmers' organisations are ready to discuss options other than the agriculture bills, then the government is ready to talk with them," he added. Tomar, who represents the Morena seat in the Lok Sabha, is on a tour of Gwalior-Chambal region. Asked about the rising inflation, the minister said, "The government is keeping an eye on the prices of lentils and edible oils." The prices of lentils have come down after the government released stocks, but the prices of mustard oil have increased as the government has decided that no other edible oil will be mixed in it to ensure purity, he said. The decision will benefit farmers, Tomar claimed. The BJP leader also dismissed media reports that Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will be replaced. "In Madhya Pradesh the BJP has a permanent government and there is no chance of any change in the leadership," he said. When told that Congress leaders were speculating about a change in the leadership in the state, Tomar said, "There is a BJP government in MP and it will decide who will be its chief minister. The party has already decided that Chouhan is chief minister...Congress has no right to talk about the BJP's CM." On rumours of cabinet expansion at the Center and the state, he said it was a prerogative of the prime minister and the chief minister, respectively. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-ready-to-talk-to-farmers-on-issues-other-than-farm-bills-tomar-995342.html
08-06-2021||National Politics||Maharashtra CM meets Modi with Pawar, Chavan in tow, lists 12 demands||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi here and put forth a slew of demands ranging from ensuring reservation for the Maratha community, financial aid for cyclone relief and GST dues. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Public Works Department Minister Ashok Chavan accompanied Thackeray for the meeting with the Prime Minister that lasted for nearly 90 minutes. However, it is the brief one-on-one meeting Thackeray had with Modi that piqued interests in political circles. “Even if we may not share power, it doesn’t mean that we have snapped our relationship,” Thackeray told reporters here about his separate meeting with the Prime Minister. Shiv Sena had snapped ties with the BJP after contesting the 2019 assembly elections together and formed the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government with the NCP and the Congress in an unlikely alliance. “What is wrong if I meet him alone. I am not meeting Nawaz Sharif,” the Maharashtra chief minister said, adding that Pawar and Chavan would not mind even if he met Modi alone again. Thackeray said the Centre owed Rs 24,306 crores to the Maharashtra government on account of GST compensation and urged the Prime Minister to expedite the transfer of funds. The Chief Minister also asked the Prime Minister to impress upon Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari to expedite the nomination of 12 members to the Legislative Council, contending that the state government has submitted the list to the Raj Bhavan in November last year. Pawar, the state Finance Minister, said demand was also made to amend the parameters for awarding of funds to the state government to deal with natural disasters such as cyclones. “The norms to allocate funds under the NDRF date back to 2015, we are in 2021 and a revision is due,” Pawar said. Thackeray also raised the issue of pending dues to the tune of Rs 2,653 crore under different heads of the 14th Finance Commission and the Mumbai Metro Carshed at Kanjur and sought the intervention of the Prime Minister. The chief minister also sought classical status for Marathi language, adopting the 'Beed Model' of crop insurance and setting up of a bulk drugs park in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/maharashtra-cm-meets-modi-with-pawar-chavan-in-tow-lists-12-demands-995100.html
08-06-2021||National Politics||Akhilesh Yadav welcomes Centre's decision to provide free vaccines to states||Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday welcomed the Centre's decision to provide free vaccines to states for all above 18 years starting June 21, and asked people to get themselves vaccinated. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister also said that he would get himself vaccinated. "Seeing the public outrage, the government instead of politicising the corona vaccine announced that it would give the vaccines doses. We were against the BJP's vaccine but welcome the vaccine of 'Government of India'. I will also get vaccinated. I appeal to those who could not get vaccinated for the lack of vaccines to do so ," he said in a tweet in Hindi. In an address to the nation on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that the central government will provide free vaccines to states for all above 18 years starting June 21. When the coronavirus vaccine was launched in January, Yadav had sought to know from the government how the drive will be conducted and when the poor will get the shot free of cost. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister had said he has faith in doctors of the country but not the government.   Yadav had also triggered a controversy, saying he will not get himself injected with a "BJP vaccine" against coronavirus. "We have full faith in our doctors but not in the government. It is good that coronavirus vaccine has come out but only believe what the doctors say, not Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath," he had said. SP founder Mulayam Singh Yadav had got himself vaccinated at a private hospital here on Monday. The BJP's Uttar Pradesh unit had described it as a "good message", and said SP workers and its president should take inspiration from him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/akhilesh-yadav-welcomes-centres-decision-to-provide-free-vaccines-to-states-995109.html
08-06-2021||National Politics||Priyanka slams Modi government for using Covid-19 data as propaganda||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday slammed the Centre for allegedly not maintaining transparency on Covid-related data, and asked why the government used it as a "propaganda tool" rather than for stopping coronavirus spread. As part of her "Zimmedaar Kaun" (who is responsible) campaign, in which she has been questioning the government over its handling of the pandemic, the Congress general secretary put out a video in which she attacked the central government over the data related to Covid put out by it. कोविड से हुई मौतों के बारे में सरकार के आँकड़ों और श्मशानों-कब्रिस्तानों के आँकड़ों में इतना फर्क क्यों? In her posers to the Centre, she asked why there is such a massive deficit between official death data of Covid and unofficial data gathered from crematoriums, graveyards and other sources. Why has the government used data primarily as a "propaganda tool" rather than using it to stop the spread of Covid-19, Gandhi asked in the video posted on Twitter and Facebook. She stressed that experts around the world have said that making data public and transparent is the only way "we can win the battle against Covid". Why has our government not done so, she asked. On Monday, Gandhi had accused the Centre of suppressing data related to the Covid pandemic, and said the Modi government's emphasis on propaganda over saving lives had caused "immense damage". The Congress has been critical of the Centre's handling of the Covid situation in the country, but the government has dismissed the criticism of the Opposition party, accusing it of politicising the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-slams-modi-government-for-using-covid-19-data-as-propaganda-995115.html
08-06-2021||National Politics||Govt hopeful of holding Monsoon Session of Parliament on schedule in July: Minister Joshi||The monsoon session of Parliament is expected to be held as per schedule in July as the government hoped to complete vaccination of MPs and officials by then. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said that the government was “fully-prepared” to run Parliament. The remarks assume significance as the second wave of Covid-19 is on the wane. “We are hopeful that the monsoon session of parliament will begin as per its normal schedule in July,” Joshi told the media here. Since the outbreak of Covid-19 last year, the Parliament has had truncated sessions amid strict guidelines for physical distancing and testing. Last year, the Budget Session of Parliament had to be cut short as Covid-19 slowly spread across the country. The monsoon session, last year, was postponed to September and had to be cut short as Covid-19 cases increased. The surge in Covid-19 cases in the national capital in November forced the government to skip the Winter Session of Parliament. The Budget Session of Parliament began as per schedule on January 29 this year, but had to be cut short once again as the second wave of Covid-19 spread through parts of the country. Joshi said he expected the Parliamentarians and the staff in the secretariat and other officials to be vaccinated by July. However, discussions with political parties on holding the Parliament session were yet to commence. Since the vaccination drive against Covid-19 began in January, several Parliamentarians and staff members of the secretariat have received the first dose of the vaccine. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-hopeful-of-holding-monsoon-session-of-parliament-on-schedule-in-july-minister-joshi-995220.html
08-06-2021||National Politics||TMC turncoats in BJP cry foul, saffron party left red-faced||Former Minister in the TMC Government Rajib Banerjee who joined the BJP ahead of the Assembly elections in a veiled dig at the BJP leadership on Tuesday said that repeated threats of imposing Article 365 in West Bengal to oppose the Chief Minister will not go down well with the people. Banerjee, in a Facebook post in Bengali, headlined “There has been enough criticism” stated that “to criticise a government which came to power with a massive public mandate and to oppose its Chief Minister, the repeated reference to Delhi (Centre) and Article 356 will not go down well with the people of Bengal.”  His comments come within an hour after West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh announced that his party will approach the President regarding post-poll violence in the state. Former TMC general secretary and BJP national vice president Mukul Roy was absent from a state BJP meeting on post-poll violence. Roy said that he was not informed about the meeting and preoccupied with personal problems. His wife is currently suffering from post-Covid complications and is under ventilation. "No one informed me about the meeting. I am not thinking of such things now. I have my own problems,” said Roy. However, state BJP president Dilip Ghosh said that “he was informed about the meeting and told us that he will attend it if he had time.” Former TMC MLA Sabyacchi Dutta, who joined the BJP during the run up to the Assembly elections, also questioned the BJP leadership’s campaign strategy. Earlier Roy’s son, former TMC MLA Subhrangshu in a veiled dig at BJP in a Facebook post said that instead of criticising an elected government, introspection was required. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-turncoats-in-bjp-cry-foul-saffron-party-left-red-faced-995237.html
08-06-2021||National Politics||Politics over Covid-19 pandemic: Congress, BJP jab at each other||Politics over the Covid-19 pandemic is going on in full throttle, with both Congress and BJP trying to project their respective leaders as the efficient ones. The ruling BJP has decided to highlight the 'Brand Modi', which has come under attack after the second wave of Covid-19 ravaged the country, and poor health infrastructure is only making the situation worse. Soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday tweaked the vaccination policy and centralised it further, Congress leaders vied with one another to claim that its leaders had asked for a change in the vaccine policy long back. Hitting back, the BJP released a letter of Rahul Gandhi to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking the decentralisation of the vaccination process. Congress said, "Rahul Gandhi demanded vociferously with the Modi Govt, Modi accepts failure & announces - ONE NATION, FREE VACCINATION."  Congress leader Jairam Ramesh pointed out that it was on April 18 that former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had given suggestions for changing the vaccine strategy and he had made a demand for "one nation, one vaccine price", after which on May 12 leaders of various parties raised the demand for free universal vaccination. A day after PM Modi made the free vaccine promise, the Congress party vehemently attacked the government's vaccine policy. This came soon after Rahul Gandhi asked, "One simple question - if vaccines are free for all, why should private hospitals charge for them?" Ramesh demanded that the Centre should clarify its policy in Parliament and put forward a roadmap for providing Covid-19 vaccines to all by December, alleging that the "government is driven by headlines and not deadlines".  Congress Twitter handle said, "The constant u-turns, the chaos, the confusion, the lack of planning & the unnecessary delays - all of it has cost precious Indian lives & all of it is PM Modi's responsibility." It also said, "The US govt invested $18 billion in its vaccine makers, the Indian govt invested nothing. That is how seriously the Modi govt took this pandemic under the hashtag #FreeVaccineForAll." BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia countered by alleging a "Fateh kit scam" in Congress-ruled Punjab. He claimed that the Punjab government first gave a tender for 'Fateh' kits to a firm for Rs 837 for a single unit and then awarded two more tenders in the next few weeks for Rs 1,226 and Rs 1,338 per unit during April. "It is a matter of shame that the Congress is doing scam during the pandemic," he said.  "Today, lakhs of people in the country are being provided the vaccines, medical equipment, and materials worths lakhs of crores without any discrimination because an honest Prime Minister is leading India,"  Bhatia said before adding, "There is corruption in Congress-ruled states. They want to eat into the nation's resources like termites." BJP also took to social media to tell India's growth story under PM Modi, putting out tweets on how there has been "record purchase of crops of farmers" under Minimum Support Price this year--416.44 lakh metric tonne of wheat as compared to 317.33 LMT last year and that the Congress-ruled Punjab, the epicentre of farmers' agitation recorded purchase of 132.1 LMT. Seeking to reinforce PM Modis' 'development man' image, BJP Twitter handle spoke of many developmental works done in the country in the last seven years. "The Modi government has brought a Metro Revolution in India since 2014. The number of cities with Metro has increased from 5 to 18 in the last 7 years...National Infrastructure Pipeline was launched to provide world-class infrastructure to citizens. NIP has been expanded from 6,835 to 7,400 infrastructure projects. Road construction projects over 13,000 km worth Rs 3.3 lakh crore have been awarded under Bharatmala Pariyojana. Over 3,800 km have been completed till now," it said under the hashtag #InfraForGrowth. Modi government has brought a Metro Revolution in India since 2014.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/politics-over-covid-19-pandemic-congress-bjp-jab-at-each-other-995274.html
08-06-2021||National Politics||Sonia, Rahul Gandhi don't trust Indian Covid-19 vaccines; yet to get jabs: Prahlad Joshi||Joshi also accused the Congress leaders of raising questions on the efficacy of the vaccines and later making a beeline for the jabs. “As per my knowledge, Sonia and Rahul Gandhi have not taken vaccine. They do not have confidence in Indian vaccines,” the minister said. The Modi government accused Congress leaders of first demanding a greater say for state governments in procurement and distribution of vaccines and making a U-turn after failing to meet the challenge. As senior Congress leader P Chidambaram admitted that he was wrong in claiming that no state government had demanded that it should be directly allowed to procure vaccines, Chidambaram referred to the letter written by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee demanding that the state government be allowed to procure vaccines directly. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan hit back at Chidambaram saying he should also acknowledge that the former Congress President Rahul Gandhi had made a similar demand. “As always, it's the 0usual suspect, the forgetful & self-contradicting crown prince ...Sh Rahul Gandhi ji. Of course, staying true to Congress’ ethos, he did a complete U-turn later, receding on his earlier demand & then asking Centre to get the task done,” Vardhan said. Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh saw nothing wrong in Gandhi’s letter to the Prime Minister demanding greater say for states in procurement and distribution of vaccines. “You should decide on vaccine procurement and on vaccine distribution after having a consultation with the state governments. I can say this with the fullest of confidence, no Chief Minister would have opposed the Union Government procuring the vaccines,” Ramesh said. Congress demanded that the Modi government share a roadmap on providing vaccines to all by December. Ramesh said to vaccinate all Indians by December, the government will have to administer 80 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines every day. “The Prime Minister did not shed any light on that in his address to the nation, but, that is very important, how we reach 80 lakh doses per day when we did 16 lakh per day in May,” Ramesh said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-rahul-gandhi-dont-trust-indian-covid-19-vaccines-yet-to-get-jabs-prahlad-joshi-995303.html
08-06-2021||National Politics||Congress to protest against fuel price hike, rising inflation on June 11 in Rajasthan||The Congress will stage protests across Rajasthan on June 11 against fuel price hike and rising inflation, as part of a countrywide agitation call. State Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra told reporters here on Tuesday that due to wrong policies of the Centre, inflation has become uncontrollable in the country and the prices of all essential commodities, including petrol, diesel and cooking gas, are increasing at an unprecedented rate. He said party workers will stage protests in front of petrol pumps in all districts of the state as part of the call given by the All India Congress Committee. Dotasra said that the price of crude oil in the international market in April 2014 was $108 per barrel and the price of petrol in the country was Rs 71 per litre and diesel Rs 57 per litre.  But in June 2021, despite the price of crude oil being $61 per barrel, the price of petrol is Rs 102.82 per litre and diesel Rs 95.96 per litre, he said. Dotasra said the rising inflation has hit the common people hard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-to-protest-against-fuel-price-hike-rising-inflation-on-june-11-in-rajasthan-995324.html
08-06-2021||North and Central||Stonework at Ram Mandir in Ayodhya to begin in Dec: Temple trust||The stonework at the Ram Mandir here will start in December, the temple trust said on Monday. On November 9, 2019, the Supreme Court settled the fractious issue going back more than a century and backed the construction of a Ram temple by a trust at the disputed site. According to the Ram Mandir Trust, filling of foundation will be completed by the end of October and from the month of December, the second phase of construction work will begin which includes fixing of stones to create the structure of the upcoming grand temple. “In December, the work on base plinth will start with pink stones of Mirzapur and an order has been placed. The stones will be cut and shaped in the premises of Ram Janmabhoomi," Anil Mishra, Trustee of Ram Mandir Trust told PTI. About 50 layers of 10-inch thick mixture of building material will be laid in about 50-feet deep foundation measuring 400 feet long and 300 feet wide, he said. Six layers of building material mixture has been placed one on top of the other over the foundation land spread across 2.77 acres, he added. The construction work is going on round the clock and is being done in two shifts of 12 hours each, Mishra said, adding about 1.2 lakh cubic meters of debris have been removed from the foundation site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/stonework-at-ram-mandir-in-ayodhya-to-begin-in-dec-temple-trust-995016.html
08-06-2021||North and Central||How will Centre maintain continuous vaccine supply, asks Chhattisgarh CM||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday termed as a "delayed decision" the announcement made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide free Covid-19 vaccines to states for inoculation of all adults from June 21. Baghel said the biggest challenge is how the Centre will maintain a continuous supply of vaccines. In his address to the nation, the prime minister announced that the Central government will provide free coronavirus vaccines to states for inoculation of all above the age of 18 from June 21. The PM also said the Centre has decided to buy 75 per cent of jabs from vaccine makers, including 25 per cent of the state quota, and give it for free to state governments. "The Chhattisgarh government had already made an announcement in the budget session of the state Assembly (held in February-March) to provide free vaccines against coronavirus to every person of the state," Baghel said in a statement. He stated the Centre facilitated free vaccination of health workers, frontline workers and those above the age of 45 years. "But when it came to the age group of 18 to 44 years, the Centre left it upon states," the CM said. Even after chief ministers of all states requested the PM for free vaccination in the third phase too, he did not pay heed and the states had to arrange vaccines on their own, he added. "The states are being blamed (for slow vaccination) which is wrong and inappropriate. The Supreme Court also reprimanded (the Centre) and people raised voices and then finally Centre has woken up from slumber and now talking of free vaccination (for 18 to 44 years age group)," the CM stated. "This is a delayed decision and the biggest challenge as of now is how the Centre will maintain a continuous supply of vaccines," Baghel asked. He said Chhattisgarh received only 9,38,530 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine from May 1 to June 7. "When this is the pace of vaccine supply, then how we can expedite the drive. The allegations being levelled against the states are wrong," he said. The CM said 1.5 crore doses of vaccines have been ordered by the Chhattisgarh Health Department till now from manufacturers of Covaxin and Covishield and the payment of Rs 47.34 crore has been made for 14,18,700 doses (11,66,630 doses of Covishield and 2,52,70 doses of Covaxin). "Till now 9,38,530 doses have been received for the age group of 18-44 years and as on June 6, around 8,31,281 beneficiaries in this category have been vaccinated," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/how-will-centre-maintain-continuous-vaccine-supply-asks-chhattisgarh-cm-995017.html
08-06-2021||North and Central||UP: Couple kills children, self due to financial stress||A couple in Uttar Pradesh's Shahjahanpur allegedly killed their two children before hanging themselves in their house in Kache Katra locality due to financial problems, police said on Monday. The bodies of Akhilesh Gupta (42), his wife Rishu Gupta (39), their son Shivang (12) and daughter Harshita (9) were found hanging in a room in their house in Shahjahanpur city, Superintendent of Police, S Anand said. The matter came to light when someone called on Akhilesh Gupta's mobile and when the call was not received he reached his home, the SP said. In the suicide note, Akhilesh Gupta, who was involved in medicine trade, mentioned financial crisis as a reason for taking the extreme step, the SP added. While the bodies of Akhilesh Gupta and his wife were found in one room, those of his children were recovered from other rooms, the SP said. Police said it appears that the couple first hanged their children and then ended their lives. Circle Officer (City) Pravin Kumar said the deceased belonged to Faridpur area of Bareilly and had been living here in a rented house since the last 15 years. Akhilesh Gupta had recently spent all his savings in the construction of a new house after which he had taken a loan from an acquaintance. According to the suicide note, Gupta was being pressurised by the lender to repay the loan leading to tension in the household due to which he took the extreme step, the CO said. On the complaint of the father of Akhilesh Gupta, a case has been registered against the accused who mentally harassed him and his family for money, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-couple-kills-children-self-due-to-financial-stress-995019.html
08-06-2021||North and Central||J&K’s economy on brink of collapse: Omar Abdullah||National Conference (NC) vice president Omar Abdullah on Monday said the economy of Jammu and Kashmir is on the “brink of collapse” as every sector in the union territory has suffered losses in the last two years. Addressing a meeting of the party's constituency in-charges of north Kashmir's Baramulla District at party headquarters Nawa-e-Subha, Abdullah expressed concern over “the soaring unemployment” in Jammu and Kashmir and the alleged rising incidents of suicide among the youth. “The economy of J&K, it goes without saying, is at the brink of collapse. There is no sector of its economy -- be it tourism, horticulture, transport, or trade -- that hasn't suffered losses in the past two years,” Abdullah said. The NC leader said the UT's local economy is already on its “deathbed” due to the ravaging deluge of 2014 followed by demonetisation and successive lockdowns. “The series of occurrences over the years also had a backbreaking impact on the people. The ongoing crisis has diminished all hopes of economic revival. The recently announced economic package is insufficient to bring the ailing economy of J&K back,” he said. Referring to the recent cases of suicides in the valley, Abdullah said the “increased occurrence” of suicides in Kashmir is a “physical manifestation of the sordid anti-youth policies' of the government “pushing already aggrieved educated and skilled youth towards the wall”. “The successive clampdown and Covid-induced lockdowns have further compounded the woes of J&K youth by choking the already constrained job sector. There are thousands of unemployed medics, paramedics, engineers, graduates and post graduates waiting for job openings,” he said. “The situation has become much worse as the industrial sector, which is supposed to absorb the unemployed youths, continues to struggle,” he added. Abdullah said what little opportunities were provided by local tourism, manufacturing, handicraft and transportation sectors, have also been “clogged by the predatory impact” of tumultuous situations since August 2019 -- when the Centre revoked Jammu and Kashmir's special status -- in the shape of successive lockdowns and weather vagaries. The NC leader also exhorted the party functionaries to support the efforts of the administration in the battle against Covid and asked them to help people in whatever way they could.  “We haven't won the battle against Covid. We are half way towards eliminating it. It requires strengthening of testing, tracing and treatment mechanisms. Stepping up of vaccination drives also holds the key towards improving the herd immunity. Administration is doing its best in combating the virus, a lot needs to be done,” he said. “But people cannot absolve themselves of their duties. The best the people of J&K can do is to follow the required Covid protocols, government advisories and shun vaccine inhibition. I hope the party functionaries will take the lead in getting themselves and their families vaccinated,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-s-economy-on-brink-of-collapse-omar-abdullah-995022.html
08-06-2021||North and Central||This J&K hamlet is the first village in India to fully vaccinate its adult population against Covid-19||Vaccine advocacy, faith building, and community mobilisation were key elements in making sure that a remote and sleepy hamlet in north Kashmir’s Bandipora district becomes the first village in the country to vaccinate its entire adult population against Covid-19. There was a lot of misinformation about the Covid-19 vaccine in Weyan, 86 kms from Srinagar and 28 kms from district headquarters Bandipora, as villagers, mostly nomads, were reluctant to take the jab. Non-availability of internet in the village was another hurdle as it was not possible for the villagers to register themselves on the Cowin platform for vaccination. However, a sustained awareness campaign by health and ASHA workers accompanied by local teachers ensured the hamlet achieved the unique milestone by becoming the first village to be fully vaccinated in the country. To enable online registration for vaccines, they collected Adhar cards of all the eligible villagers, and registered them through their own mobile phones. A local resident, Riyaz Ahmed said when health workers tried to convince him to take Covid-19 vaccine some weeks ago, he, like many others in the village refused, saying that the jab may prove fatal. “I had heard somewhere that Covid vaccine shots are lethal and if a doctor errs while administering the shot, it will lead to an infection in the arm. The only way to save the person thereafter was by amputating the limb,” he was quoted by KNS, a local news agency, as saying. Block Medical Officer (BMO), Bandipora, Dr Masarat Iqbal said the myths about the vaccine was a big hurdle initially as people were strongly opposed to it. “During the first inoculation drive, our team had to come back as people refused to take vaccine shots. They were gripped by fear,” he said. The record achieved in the village, without any road connectivity and access to the Internet, is attributed to the “J&K Model”, under which the administration reached out to the people, instead of the people flooding the vaccination centres. “J&K Model” is a 10-point strategy to inoculate everyone who is eligible for the shots at a faster pace. Chief Medical Officer (CMO), Bandipora, Dr Bashir Ahmed Khan said health workers had to make a dangerous trek to make sure every single eligible individual in Weyan was vaccinated. The health workers had to cover an 18 kms distance by foot from Athwatoo which is the last village accessible by road. “Entire populations above 18 years were vaccinated with a total 362 beneficiaries. The people of the village go to the upper reaches along with cattle during summer so it was important to reach out to them before they move out,” Dr Khan said. Commenting on the achievement, Yatish Yadav, media advisor to J&K government, said the Union territory was raising the bar in the Covid vaccination drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/this-jk-hamlet-is-the-first-village-in-india-to-fully-vaccinate-its-adult-population-against-covid-19-995096.html
08-06-2021||North and Central||Did 'mock oxygen drill' at Uttar Pradesh hospital kill 22 Covid-19 patients?||Several shocking videos which went viral on social media on Tuesday claimed that 22 Covid-19 patients, who were on oxygen support at a private hospital in Uttar Pradesh's Agra in April, might have died after the hospital snapped oxygen supply as part of a 'mock oxygen drill'. The videos pertain to the period when there was an acute shortage of oxygen at the hospitals and many patients had lost their lives owing to a lack of the life-saving gas. The videos showed the owner of the Hospital purportedly saying that the 'mock oxygen drill' had been undertaken after the attendants of the patients refused to agree to the forced discharge of the patients owing to a shortage of oxygen. ''Start discharging the patients....there is no oxygen....even the chief minister can not make it available...I asked the attendants to take their patients elsewhere...they kept saying that they would not go elsewhere,'' a person, who was sitting next to the owner, was heard saying in one of the videos. The man was further heard saying that they snapped the oxygen supply of 96 patients, who were admitted there, at 7 AM on April 26 to see who 'survive'. ''Within five minutes 22 patients turned blue....they were segregated,'' the man is heard saying. The videos showed the man saying that the hospital then asked the attendants of the patients to bring their own oxygen cylinders. ''This was a very good experiment,'' he is heard saying. Official records showed that the hospital had reported only four deaths on April 26. The district officials had also not reported the deaths. UP health minister Jai Pratap Singh said that a probe has been ordered into the matter. ''We will take action after the probe report is submitted,'' he said here. Officials said that the hospital had been 'sealed' and that all the patients, who were admitted there, had been shifted to other hospitals.  ''A case under the Epidemics Act has been registered against the hospital owner,'' a senior district official said in Agra.  Congress leader Rahul Gandhi demanded stern action in the matter. ''The BJP regime lacks both oxygen and humanity,'' the former Congress president said in a Tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/did-mock-oxygen-drill-at-uttar-pradesh-hospital-kill-22-covid-19-patients-995098.html
08-06-2021||North and Central||Bihar lifts Covid-19 lockdown for a week, night curfew to remain in place||Lockdown in Bihar, clamped over a month ago in view of the spurt in Covid 19 cases, will be lifted from Wednesday, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said. He made the announcement on his social media handles on Tuesday after a meeting of the crisis management group which reviewed the pandemic situation in the state. "The lockdown has served the purpose of putting a check on coronavirus cases. Hence it would now be done away with, though a few restrictions will remain," the chief minister said. He, however, clarified that night curfew will be in place from 7 pm to 5 am. Kumar said private offices will be allowed to reopen and function with 50 per cent staff. Government offices, which have so far been functioning with 25 per cent staff strength, can do so with half of employees reporting on a day. Both government and private offices will be permitted to run till 4 pm. Shops, which had been allowed to remain open till 2 pm shall henceforth be required to down their shutters by 5 pm. Private vehicles would be permitted to ply and educational institutions could conduct online classes, Kumar added. लाॅकडाउन से कोरोना संक्रमण में कमी आई है। अतः लाॅकडाउन खत्म करते हुये शाम 7ः00 बजे से सुबह 5ः00 बजे तक रात्रि कर्फ्यू जारी रहेगा। 50 प्रतिशत उपस्थिति के साथ सरकारी एवं निजी कार्यालय 4ः00 बजे अपराह्न तक खुलेंगे। दुकान खुलने की अवधि 5ः00 बजे अपराह्न तक बढेंगी। (1/2) The chief minister further said that the aforementioned restrictions will remain in place for another week after which the situation would be reviewed and further instructions might be issued. He also cautioned people against gathering in crowds. Complete lockdown was imposed on May 5 after the state was rattled by an explosive rise in Covid 19 incidence. More than half a million people have been infected since April while over 4,000 have died. In the past few weeks, however, there has been a marked decline in the number of people contracting the disease and fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-lifts-covid-19-lockdown-for-a-week-night-curfew-to-remain-in-place-995110.html
08-06-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh relaxes in Covid-19 curfew in all districts||With active Covid-19 cases below the 600-mark in all 75 districts of the state, the Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday decided to give relaxations in the coronavirus curfew. "There will be relaxation in coronavirus curfew in all the districts of the state from Wednesday onwards, from 7 am to 7 pm, for five days as the active Covid cases have come below 600," an official spokesman said. The night curfew from 7 pm to 7 am and weekend curfew (for entire day) will, however, continue in all the districts, he said. In a high-level meeting convened through virtual medium on Tuesday, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath reviewed the Covid-19 situation and decided to give the relaxations in the Covid curfew. The spokesman said in view of the decreasing infection rate, a standard of 600 active cases was set for having coronavirus curfew effective in the districts. "Only 797 new cases were reported in the state in the past 24 hours. Now, there are 14,000 active cases in the state," he said. "On Monday, 2.85 lakh Covid tests were done. The positivity rate of the state is 0.2 per cent, while the recovery rate has gone up to 97.9 per cent," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-relaxes-in-covid-19-curfew-in-all-districts-995113.html
08-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt orders liquor vends to deploy marshals at shops to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour||The Delhi government has directed all liquor vends in the city to deploy adequate marshals and staff to strictly ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour like maintaining social distancing and wearing masks at the shops. It also directed the vendors to "coordinate with the local administration and police to maintain security and order". "All the four Government Corporations viz. DSIIDC, DTTDC, DSCSC and DCCWS shall deploy adequate marshals at all their vends (L-6 & L-8) and private licensees (L-7, L-9 & L-10) shall deploy their staff to ensure that COVID Appropriate Behaviour viz. wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing, regular use of sanitiser, no consumption of liquor, pan, gutkha, tobacco, etc. shall be ensured in all the liquor shops/vends/licensees," the Excise Department said in an order issued on June 6. There are around 850 liquor shops in the city, including those run by government agencies and private individuals. At present, 40 per cent of around 850 liquor vends in the national capital are run by private players. There are currently four-state run agencies --- the Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation, the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation, the Delhi State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited and the Delhi Consumer's Cooperative Wholesale --- to sell liquor in the city. Under the second phase of unlock, the government has allowed liquor shops to reopen. The Delhi government had earlier announced that liquor stores in the city will open on an odd-even basis from 10 am to 8 pm. The ongoing lockdown imposed since April 19 has been extended further to June 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-orders-liquor-vends-to-deploy-marshals-at-shops-to-ensure-covid-appropriate-behaviour-995138.html
08-06-2021||North and Central||Not for courts to judge couple's decision to stay in live-in relationship: Punjab and Haryana HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has granted protection to a young couple involved in a live-in relationship, observing that it is not for the courts to judge them if they want to stay together without sanctity of marriage. The order of the single bench came following a petition by a 17-year-old girl and a 20-year-old-man from Punjab's Bathinda who sought protection of their life and liberty from the family members of the former. The court also observed that honour killings were prevalent in northern parts of India, particularly in parts of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, and said it is for the state to ensure protection of such couples. The petitioners submitted that the parents of the girl wanted her to marry a person of their choice as they had come to know about her relationship. She left her parents' home and started living with her partner. They decided to live together till such time as they could solemnise a marriage on attaining the marriageable age. They further submitted that they had approached the Bathinda Senior Superintendent of Police, seeking protection but there had not been any response. Following a notice of motion, the Punjab Assistant Advocate General submitted that the couple seeking protection were not married and, according to their own pleadings, were in a live-in relationship. He further submitted that the coordinate benches have recently dismissed similar matters, where protection was sought by persons who are in live-in relationship.   “It would be a travesty of justice in case protection is denied to persons who have opted to reside together without the sanctity of marriage and such persons have to face dire consequences at the hands of persons from whom protection is sought. "In case such a course is adopted and protection denied, the courts would also be failing in their duty to provide its citizens a right to their life and liberty as enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution of India and to uphold to the Rule of law,” Justice Sant Parkash wrote in his June 3 order. “The petitioners herein have taken a decision to reside together without the sanctity of marriage and it is not for the courts to judge them on their decision,” the judge observed. While observing that one cannot lose sight of honour killings prevalent in northern parts of India, particularly in parts of states of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, the judge said,“It is for the State at this juncture, to ensure their protection and their personal liberty.” “If the petitioners herein have not committed any offence, this court sees no reason as to why their prayer for grant of protection cannot be acceded to. Therefore, with due respect to the judgments rendered by coordinate benches, who have denied protection to couples who are in live-in relationship, this court is unable to adopt the same view,” the single bench said in its order. The court directed the Bathinda SSP to grant the protection to the petitioners. Some benches have earlier given different verdicts in matters pertaining to live-in relationships. A single bench of Justice H S Madaan in his May 11 order had said a live-in-relationship is morally and socially not acceptable while dismissing a petition of a runaway couple from Punjab, seeking protection of their life and liberty. Justice Sudhir Mittal of the high court in the May 18 order had granted protection to a Haryana couple who were in a live-in relationship while observing that social acceptance of such relationships is on the increase.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/not-for-courts-to-judge-couples-decision-to-stay-in-live-in-relationship-punjab-and-haryana-hc-995161.html
08-06-2021||North and Central||Fact-check | Old images of BJP UP leader beaten by party’s female workers shared with misleading claim||Photos of a man wearing a saffron kurta are viral on social media. In the first image, a group of women is seen beating the individual while the second shows his torn kurta. Users claim that the incident occurred in Uttar Pradesh’s Amroha, where women thrashed a local BJP MLA with shoes and slippers. These images were posted on the Facebook group ‘I Support Kanhaiya Kumar’.  A keyword search led us to a News18 India video story dated June 6, 2018, reporting that BJP leader Madan Verma was thrashed by the party’s female workers in the collectorate premises of Amroha, Uttar Pradesh. Verma had gone to the collectorate to pacify women workers who had come to file a complaint about the theft of ration. However, the angry women thrashed the leader, accusing him of extortion. They alleged that he extorted money from ration shop owners by threatening them using another minister’s name.  Mehboob Ali of the Samajwadi Party is the MLA representing Amroha in Uttar Pradesh. Therefore, photos from 2018 that show BJP leader Madan Verma being thrashed by the party’s female workers at the collectorate office in Amroha are being falsely shared with the claim that a BJP MLA was recently beaten by women. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fact-check-old-images-of-bjp-up-leader-beaten-by-party-s-female-workers-shared-with-misleading-claim-995170.html
08-06-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh government relaxes Covid-19 lockdown||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday extended relaxation in Covid-19 restrictions to all 75 districts of the state, with the active cases coming down the 600-mark in each of these districts. The night curfew from 7 pm to 7 am and weekend curfew (for the entire day) will, however, continue throughout the state, an official spokesman said. By Monday, the relaxation was extended to 72 districts barring Meerut, Lucknow and Gorakhpur. "There will be relaxation in coronavirus curfew in all the districts of the state from Wednesday onwards, from 7 am to 7 pm, for five days as the active Covid-19 cases have come below 600," the spokesman said. In a high-level meeting convened through a virtual medium on Tuesday, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath reviewed the Covid-19-19 situation and decided to give the relaxations in the Covid-19 curfew. The spokesman said in view of the decreasing infection rate, a standard of 600 active cases was set for having coronavirus curfew effective in the districts. "Only 797 new cases were reported in the state in the past 24 hours. Now, there are 14,000 active cases in the state," he said. "On Monday, 2.85 lakh Covid-19 tests were done. The positivity rate of the state is 0.2 per cent, while the recovery rate has gone up to 97.9 per cent," he added. In an order issued in this regard by Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said the curfew will be relaxed as per the conditions mentioned in the government order issued on May 30 by Chief Secretary R K Tiwari. According to the order issued by Tiwari, shops and markets outside containment zones would be allowed to open for five days (Monday to Friday). Instructions were issued that over the weekend, cleanliness, sanitisation and fogging campaigns will be carried out. Shopkeepers and their employees will have to wear masks, maintain two-yard distance with each other and customers, and ensure the arrangement of hand sanitisers. While there would be full attendance for frontline workers, for the rest of the government employees, there would be 50 per cent attendance on rotation. A Covid-19-19 help desk must also be established at all offices. The private sector has been asked to encourage the employees to work from home. According to the order, industrial units will stay open while vegetable markets in the densely populated areas will function in open places. At railway stations, airports and bus stands, all Covid-19-19 protocols have to be followed. Screening of passengers and antigen tests have to be conducted. The roadways buses have been allowed to operate within the state. Schools, colleges and educational institutes will remain closed while teachers and other staff have been allowed to come to school for administrative work. Not more than five devotees will be allowed inside a religious place at a time. Coaching centres, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, clubs and shopping malls will remain closed, it said. A maximum of 20 people will be allowed at a funeral procession, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-government-relaxes-covid-19-lockdown-995180.html
08-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi reports 316 new Covid-19 cases and 41 deaths||The national capital recorded 316 fresh Covid-19 cases with a positivity rate of 0.44 per cent, and 41 fatalities, according to the health bulletin released on Tuesday. The number of new coronavirus cases and the positivity rate saw a slight increase from Monday's figures. Delhi had reported 231 instances of the Covid-19 infection, the lowest since March 2, with the positivity rate dipping to 0.36 per cent, according to the health bulletin released on Monday. The fatalities stood at 36.  Forty-one more people succumbed to the disease in a day, pushing the death toll here to 24,668, the latest bulletin said. On Sunday, Delhi had recorded 34 fatalities, the lowest in around two months, and 381 cases with positivity of 0.5 per cent. On Saturday, the city had reported 60 fatalities and 414 new cases of Covid-19 with a positivity rate of 0.53 per cent. The day before, it had recorded 50 deaths and 523 new cases with a positivity rate of 0.68 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-316-new-covid-19-cases-and-41-deaths-995184.html
08-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC asks Centre to consider allowing RWAs to run Covid vaccination camps with private hospitals||The Delhi High Court has asked the Centre to “seriously” consider involving RWAs in the Covid-19 vaccination drive in association with private hospitals, making it convenient and safe for residents to get jabs at nearby centres. In case the government finds merit in this suggestion, the position may be clarified without any delay and if the authorities are not inclined to permit Residents Welfare Associations (RWAs) to organise such camps, the reasons shall be disclosed in a status report, the high court said. “In our view, the said aspect deserves serious consideration, and unless there are any specific reasons why the Central Government would not want the RWAs to play a role in the vaccination drive, there should be no impediment in designating the camps organised by the RWAs in association with private hospitals as vaccination centres run by private hospitals. “Permitting vaccinations to be undertaken at such camps would go a long way in making it convenient and safe for the residents of the colonies to get themselves vaccinated at such centres. The Central Government should, therefore, seriously consider this proposal at the earliest,” said a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh, which was hearing pleas relating to management of Covid-19 crisis in Delhi. The court, in its June 4 order, asked the Centre to file a status report in this regard by July 7, when it will hear the matter on reopening after vacations. The issue relating to permit the RWAs to carry out vaccinations for the residents of the locality was raised by amicus curiae and senior advocate Raj Shekhar Rao. He said on May 29, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has issued a clarification regarding the scope of Covid-19 vaccination by private hospitals in accordance with the National Covid Vaccination Programme. As per the ministry’s order, private hospitals are permitted to carry out Covid-19 vaccinations through private Covid-19 vaccination centres run by them and no other avenue and the States and Union Territories have been asked to monitor the vaccination in their respective States to ensure adherence to the prescribed guidelines. The amicus pointed out that prior to issuance of this order by the ministry, several RWAs across Delhi had organised vaccination drives/ camps within their respective colonies for their residents in collaboration with different private hospitals and this was done keeping in view the convenience of the residents and to avoid overcrowding at other vaccination centres. He said looking to the significant role played by RWAs in organising vaccination drives/ camps in the context of the overall management of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Centre should consider issuing specific clarification in this regard so that the associations, in collaboration with private hospitals, may be able to qualify as private Covid Vaccination Centres of the hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-asks-centre-to-consider-allowing-rwas-to-run-covid-vaccination-camps-with-private-hospitals-995185.html
08-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: HC grants interim custody-bail to Jamia student for exams||The Delhi High Court has granted interim custody-bail to Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) student Asif Iqbal Tanha, arrested in a case related to the northeast Delhi riots last year, for two weeks to stay at a hotel here for studying and appearing in exams scheduled from June 15. A bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani noted that it is imperative for Tanha to sit in his three remaining backlog or compartment examinations to complete his BA (Hons) (Persian) programme and said he be released on interim custody- bail on the morning of June 13 and shall be brought back to prison by guards on the evening of June 26. As agreed by the counsels for the state and Tanha, he will be staying at a hotel in Kalkaji here under the custody of two prison guards deputed by the Jail Superintendent. Tanha has undertaken to bear all charges and expenses to be incurred there, including lodging and food. “During the period of interim-custody bail, the applicant shall not invite to the said facility any visitors or guests, including family members, friends, classmates or any other person,” the bench said. As the exam would be conducted online, the court asked Tanha to arrange for a laptop and basic mobile phone along with a dongle for internet connection through a pairokar (representative pursuing his case) which will be first checked by the police officer concerned and then delivered to him. The court also allowed Tanha to make a phone call to his family or counsel for 10 minutes once a day during his stay at the hotel. Tanha has been directed by the court not to use the devices for any other purpose except studying and also not to erase or tamper with browsing history on the laptop or SMSes and call records of phone. “It is clarified that even before the commencement of interim custody bail, the applicant is permitted to receive all books and reading/study material, as he may consider necessary, through the Jail Superintendent, after being checked as per usual procedures. “During the period of interim custody bail, the applicant shall be entitled to receive all books and reading/ study material that he may require for his examinations, at the said facility, which would be delivered to him after being checked by the SHO, Police Station Special Cell, and unless there is compelling reason to do otherwise, the SHO shall permit all such books etc. to be handed-over to the applicant with due expedition,” the court. It also made clear that considering the subjects of Tanha’s study, the books and reading material may be in Persian or Arabic and permission to have such books and reading material shall not be withheld for that reason alone. The court said Tanha shall not in any way misuse or abuse the guarded liberty granted to him by way of interim custody bail and added that the period spent by him in interim custody bail would be counted as period undergone in prison as an undertrial. In December last year also, the high court had granted a similar relief to the accused by directed the jail authorities to take him to a guest house to enable him to study and appear in exams. Tanha was arrested on May 19 last year in the case for allegedly being part of a premeditated conspiracy in the riots. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24, 2020 after violence between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and its protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-hc-grants-interim-custody-bail-to-jamia-student-for-exams-995188.html
08-06-2021||North and Central||Cash counter of Vaishno Devi temple gutted in fire||A cash counter located close to the main shrine or Bhawan (sanctum sanctorum) at Mata Vaishno Devi temple in Katra area of Jammu and Kashmir’s Reasi district was gutted in a fire on Tuesday. The blaze, which appeared to be massive as per visuals available of the incident, was brought under control in about 45 minutes, officials said. Three employees of the shrine were trapped in the fire but were timely rescued by security forces and fire fighting squad. Some cash and records were lost in the fire incident, but no injury was reported to anyone, they added. Reports said the fire broke out at around 4.15 pm due to a short circuit and was brought under control by 5 pm by the fire-fighting squad of the shrine along with security personnel posted there. While the yatra to Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine, located in the lap of Trikuta Hills in Reasi, is currently on, not many pilgrims are visiting due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The shrine, located 60 km north of Jammu, overlooking the Chenab river, receives more than nine million visitors annually. However, the second wave of Covid-19 has caused a steep decline in pilgrimage traffic to the hilltop temple with a few hundred pilgrims visiting the shrine daily from the peak of 30,000 in March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cash-counter-of-vaishno-devi-temple-gutted-in-fire-995225.html
08-06-2021||North and Central||Provide pension to families of govt employees dying of Covid-19 without delay: Centre||Families of central government employees, who lost their lives due to Covid-19, will get pension without any delay with the Centre on Tuesday issuing instructions to start disbursement of family pension within a month after receiving the claim from the family. Instructions have been issued by the Department of Pension and Pensioners’ Welfare (DoPPW) to all Ministries, Departments, Controller General of Accounts as well as Chairman and Managing Directors of Pension Disbursing Banks. Family pension should be started within one month of the receipt of the claim from the eligible family member of a government servant who has lost his or her life due to Covid-19, Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh said. According to the new Office Memorandum, all Secretaries have been asked to personally monitor the in-service death cases and ensure the start of family pension within a month of the receipt of claim and death certificate, on a periodic basis. The Secretaries shall also nominate for this purpose, an officer of the respective Ministry/Department, whose name and contact details shall be reflected on the website for any family member to contact in case of delay. Every Ministry and Department should also send a monthly position of such cases to the Department of Pension and Pensioners’ Welfare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/provide-pension-to-families-of-govt-employees-dying-of-covid-19-without-delay-centre-995227.html
08-06-2021||North and Central||Ready to make whatever changes Centre wants in doorstep ration scheme: Kejriwal writes to PM Modi||The Delhi government is ready to make whatever changes the Centre wants in the doorstep delivery of ration scheme, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday. He requested permission for implementing the scheme that he claimed was stonewalled by the Centre days before its launch. "People have been made to queue up for ration by the governments in last 75 years. Sir, let not remain in ration queues for the next 75 years. They will never forgive me or you," Kejriwal wrote. The AAP government last week claimed Lt Governor "rejected" its doorstep delivery of ration scheme citing lack of Centre's approval and a pending case in the high court.  Kejriwal said although the Delhi government was not legally bound, yet it sought the Centre's approval five times to avoid any dispute. "Food minister of Delhi Imran Hussain through letters on February 4, 2019, March 4, 2020, June 17, 2020, November 19, 2020, and December 3, 2020, informed the central government that Delhi government is going to implement Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna. No objection was raised on this from your side even once," he said. The Delhi government even changed the name of the scheme by dropping 'Mukhya Mantri' and addressed other objections and yet it was said that the Centre's approval was not sought and the scheme was rejected, Kejriwal said. "We are ready to make whatever changes the central government wants in this scheme. Kindly permission be given to us deliver ration to the doorstep of people," he wrote. The Union Food & Public Distribution Ministry on Saturday said that it has not asked the Delhi government to distribute the ration the way they want.  "They can do so under any other Scheme. The government of India will provide additional ration for the same. As per notified rates. Where is the issue?" the ministry had said. The Delhi government wants to "tinker with" the nationally administered programme at the cost of Delhi consumers by charging the cost of milling etc from them. The government of India had only informed them about the rule position, it had claimed further. It has been said that Delhi can start its own scheme separately without "tinkering" with the Centre's scheme, Kejriwal said in the letter. "Sir, when were we separate? Will, now there be two schemes in a state on the same issue - one by Centre and the other by the state? Does this mean the Central government and Delhi government each will spend Rs 2000 crore on ration distribution? Sir, will be a prudent thing to do?" Kejriwal asked Modi. He asserted the ration belonged to the people and not to the Chief Minister and Prime Minister or BJP and Aam Aadmi Party.  People are asking if pizza, burger and smartphones can be home delivered, why cannot ration be delivered at doorsteps of the poor, he asked. Claiming the doorstep delivery of ration scheme would end ration mafia, Kejriwal said it was very powerful and well connected and got the scheme rejected days before its launch. There should be no politics over any work of national interest, he said, requesting the prime minister to give the green signal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ready-to-make-whatever-changes-centre-wants-in-doorstep-ration-scheme-kejriwal-writes-to-pm-modi-995232.html
08-06-2021||North and Central||People from Delhi-NCR travelling to Agra to get Covid vaccination, says hospital||Moolchand Medcity, Agra, started vaccinating people in the 18-44 age group four days ago. Of the 450 people inoculated so far, 40 per cent of the beneficiaries came from places like Delhi, Gurgaon, Noida, Meerut, Etawah and Mathura. The shortest distance between Agra and Delhi is 224 kilometres. Meerut is 232 kms away from Agra. “After a ferocious second wave of Covid-19, people have realised the importance of getting vaccinated. They are even travelling 250 kilometers to get the jabs,” Vibhu Talwar, medical director, Moolchand Medcity, Agra told PTI. “People have been coming from Mainpuri, Aligarh, Etawah, Mathura, Delhi, Meerut, Gurgaon, Noida, among other places, to get vaccinated. It is a good sign that people are travelling 250 kilometres to get inoculated against Covid-19… that they are taking it seriously,” he said Talwar said around 40 to 50 per cent of those who have been vaccinated at the hospital so far are from outside Agra. Preeti Dungriyal, 35, and her husband travelled from Noida to Agra on Monday to get their second doses of Covaxin. “We took our first dose of Covaxin on May 8 and were trying to book a slot for the second dose for the last three-four days, but did not find success,” she said. “Later, we found that slots were available in Agra, so we drove there. It was pretty convenient... What is more important is that we could get the jab in time,” Dungriyal said. Pulkit Gupta, 32, from Rajouri Garden in west Delhi also travelled to Agra along with his wife to get the second dose of the vaccine. "We could not get the second dose in Delhi as the slots got filled up fast. So, I started searching for available slots in nearby cities. Agra is just a few hours away... I felt that it was important to get fully vaccinated," he said while returning to Delhi. Another man from Delhi in the 18 plus category rode a bike to Agra to get himself vaccinated. “There is scarcity of vaccines, especially for the 18-44 age group, in Delhi. I consider myself lucky to get my second dose at the Agra hospital. I believe Rs 1,800 and above charged by private hospitals is nothing as compared to a person's life,” he said. In Delhi, AAP leader Atishi had said on Monday that the youth of the city was now travelling 100 km to get vaccinated due to non-availability of Covishield and Covaxin in the national capital for the 18-44 age group. "It is becoming a serious issue as a lot of people in the 18-44 group are nearing their date for the second dose. We have also come across reports about people travelling 100-200 km to Meerut, Bulandshahr to get their shots because there are no vaccines in Delhi," she said. She said the city got 40,000 more doses of Covaxin for the 18 plus category on Sunday and these will be used to administer the second dose only. The Centre has said it will provide a fresh supply of vaccines for this age group on June 10. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-from-delhi-ncr-travelling-to-agra-to-get-covid-vaccination-says-hospital-995238.html
08-06-2021||North and Central||After more than a year, NC shows a willingness to participate in delimitation process||After abstaining from the delimitation process in Jammu and Kashmir for more than a year, the regional National Conference on Tuesday hinted that it was willing to take part in the process in the future. “The National Conference is not against the delimitation process in Jammu and Kashmir. (But) the method adopted (by the Center) is not in tandem with the procedure,” NC president and former chief minister Farooq Abdullah said while addressing a virtual meeting of the party’s provincial committee members. The Delimitation Commission was constituted by the Center last year in March to redraw Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of Jammu and Kashmir and the northeastern states of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Nagaland. However, three members of the NC – Farooq Abdullah, Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi (all MPs) – had not accepted their positions as part of the Commission since that would “tantamount to accepting the events of 5th August 2019”—when the special status of the erstwhile state was abrogated. In Tuesday’s virtual meeting, presided over by Abdullah, the NC besides showing a willingness to participate in further process of delimitation, also asserted that “it will uphold the interests of the people at all costs in every forum. “Political issues post 5 August 2019 have been challenged by the party in the apex court of the country,” an NC statement said without elaborating further. Abdullah also exhorted the cadre to further strengthen its rank and file to meet the challenges faced to Jammu and Kashmir unitedly and by “upholding the cherished philosophy of communal and regional amity.” Addressing the virtual meet, the NC vice president and former CM, Omar Abdullah expressed concern over the “uncertainty looming large in J&K.” “The National Conference has, is and will remain in the forefront to seek justice for the people of all the regions and the sub-regions of J&K. Public interest is sacrosanct for us”, he said and urged the cadre to articulate the problems of the people for seeking redressal to these.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-more-than-a-year-nc-shows-a-willingness-to-participate-in-delimitation-process-995304.html
08-06-2021||North and Central||Kanpur road accident death toll climbs to 17||The death toll in the head-on collision between a double-decker bus and a loader ferrying factory workers on the Kanpur-Allahabad highway has climbed to 17, officials said on Wednesday. District Magistrate Alok Tiwari said a probe has been ordered into the accident that took place on Tuesday night. Sub Divisional Officer (Sadar), Deepak Kumar Pal, and Circle Officer (Sadar), Rishikesh Yadav, have been asked to inquire into the incident and submit the findings within 24 hours, Tiwari said. Superintendent of Police, Kanpur Outer, Ashtbhuja P Singh, said eight of the injured are being treated at the Lala Lajpat Rai hospital here. Those with minor injuries were discharged after first aid. The Delhi-bound bus collided with the the loader ferrying 16 biscuit factory workers at Kisan Nagar, the SP said. While 10 people died on the spot, seven succumbed to injuries while being taken to hospital or during treatment, the SP said. Over 70 bus passengers had sustained minor injuries, he added.   Passengers on the bus told police that the driver had consumed liquor minutes before the accident took place, sources said. While 12 of the deceased hailed from Lalepur village, four others were residents of Ishwariganj and another was from Sakatpur village. A senior official said while one family lost three of their sons in the accident, another lost two sons. Bodies have been handed over to families after postmortem. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had expressed grief at the loss of lives in the accident. Modi had announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund for the next of kin the deceased. Chief Minister Adityanath had also announced an ex-gratia amount of Rs 2 lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased and ordered an inquiry into the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kanpur-road-accident-death-toll-climbs-to-17-995325.html
08-06-2021||Opinion||Covid-19 vaccine inequity: Pitfalls of quotas for private hospitals||The next day, when Mumbaikars, including those due for their second dose, could not access free vaccines anywhere, a housing society in Mumbai’s suburbs handed over Rs 3,00,000 to a private hospital as advance payment for the vaccination of 300 persons. These included its members, society employees and members’ friends. That day, only those Mumbaikars who chose to pay sums ranging from Rs 700 to Rs 1,250 per dose got vaccinated. The rest, i.e., the majority of Mumbaikars, went without. In the last five weeks, India’s vaccination programme, which had earned praise even from Modi critics for its near equitable distribution – though mostly in big cities – became yet another reflection of the unfair inequalities that have marked the Covid pandemic. In April, Pakistani friends shocked me by revealing they had paid (Pakistani) Rs 12,200 (Rs 5,746) for two doses of the Sputnik vaccine. Indians, I told them proudly, had to pay just Rs 500 even in private hospitals. That affordable amount, however, isn’t coming back - for neither has the Centre touched the substantial 25 per cent quota set aside for private hospitals nor has it capped the price at which manufacturers can sell to them. But while the Centre was primarily to blame for the free-market policy, as it has been for all that’s gone wrong during this pandemic, can the states be absolved? Was the Punjab government the only one to make a killing by selling its quota of vaccines to private hospitals at over 100 per cent profit? In Mumbai, vaccination drives by corporates and housing societies tying up with private hospitals has become the norm. These drives are done with the BMC’s permission under certain conditions. MLAs, especially from the Shiv Sena and the BJP, are openly facilitating such drives. One could argue that since private hospitals anyway are allowed to charge whatever they want for vaccines, and people are willing to pay, the BMC has simply fulfilled its role as a watchdog by stipulating minimum safety requirements for such drives. It can also be said that these MLAs and corporators are only helping to bring sellers and buyers of a vital product together, and since this also benefits those unable to move out due to old age or sickness, as well as those unable to register on the Co-WIN website, they are actually performing a service. Indeed, many of these elected representatives have performed a great service by getting the BMC to open multiple free vaccination centres in each ward. But the doses available at these centres are a fraction of those available with private hospitals. It’s normal to see many of these centres being allotted barely 100 doses per day, while private hospitals have enough to schedule vaccination up to 500 doses for select groups. With the Centre as the sole distributor once more, will such unfair distribution continue? This inequality was and still is, easily preventable. The BMC could have bought and can still buy from private hospitals, the bulk of the 25 per cent vaccines allotted to them by the Centre. For a corporation with an annual budget of Rs 39,000 crore, this isn’t impossible. Failing this, elected representatives could have done the same. After all, every MLA in Maharashtra got Rs three crore to spend on his/her constituents in 2020-21, raised to Rs four crore for 2021-22. Every corporator got Rs 60 lakh this year. Mumbai has 36 MLAs and 227 corporators; its population is two crore. The math is simple. These funds are normally meant for 'development works', but at this juncture, what is more crucial for development than a free vaccine, with the possibilities it throws up for resuming economic and educational activities? It makes political sense too – the BMC elections are due next year. For this to happen, authorities and elected representatives need to have a particular mindset: One which sees working for the people as their main function. The BMC, alas, is known to work for contractors. As for elected representatives, when did you last hear one promise to actually serve those on whose labour is built this glittering metropolis? (Jyoti Punwani is a Mumbai-based senior journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19-vaccine-inequity-pitfalls-of-quotas-for-private-hospitals-995059.html
08-06-2021||Panorama||Twin curses on Sundarbans||Yaas, a severe cyclone, caused massive damage in the state of West Bengal on May 26, 2021. Earthen dams at the Sundarbans were breached resulting in huge devastation, human displacement and irreparable loss. Global warming is responsible for the increased frequency and intensity of natural disasters. Fires rage in India’s arid and semi-arid forest regions while cyclones and storm surge batter the tropical and subtropical coastlines. Coastal regions cover only 4 per cent of the world’s land area but are home to around one-third of the people. The Ganges-Brahmaputra delta is extremely vulnerable to population displacement due to the rise in sea level. This large and densely populated region is protected by salt-tolerant, disaster-resilient Sundarban mangrove forests. The Sundarbans are also the world’s only abode of mangrove tigers. Two curses are destroying this unique ecosystem. The first is the colonisation of these islands by cutting down the mangroves. The second is the increased frequency of natural disasters due to climate change. The Sundarbans are spread over 4,000 square kilometre with 102 islands. Of these, 54 are colonised by humans with a dense population of 4.5 million. These islands are newly formed and unstable. They have always been the home of mangroves. Human colonisation over the last two centuries resulted in the wiping out of mangroves from more than half of the area. Without mangroves, these unstable islands are at the mercy of the devastations caused by natural disasters. Most of the arable land in this region is below the surface waterlevel. Earthen dams and levees were built along the banks to stop the villages from being inundated during high tides. Breaching of these earthen dams and intrusion of saltwater in the villages are the major impacts from recent cyclones, namely Aila (2009), Bulbul (2019), Amphan (2020) and Yaas (2021). Cyclone Yaas has flooded several islands of the Sundarbans, destroying standing crops, killing fish in the ponds and devastating homes. It has infused the arable soil with salt, rendering it unproductive for years to come. River dams are the lifelines for the communities residing in these disaster-prone islands. There has been a call to construct concrete dams all along the Sundarbans. Such concrete structures would damage the mangrove ecosystem. Mangrove reforestation along the river banks is the only sustainable method to stabilise the banks. The natural mangrove barrier of the Sundarbans had reduced the wind speed of Cyclone Bulbul by 20 kilometre per hour in 2019. Mangroves, with their extensive root system, can consolidate the soil and resist erosion by tidal waters. Mangroves can stabilise the banks and render ecosystem services such as protecting against disasters, increasing fish catch, remediating pollution and sequestering carbon. Another issue plaguing these low lying deltaic islands is the increased frequency and intensity of natural disasters, due to climate change. Between 1970 and 2019, India was battered by 117 cyclones, resulting in the loss of about 40,000 lives. A model indicates that by 2100, the sea level in the Asia-Pacific region can rise by 0.4-0.6 metre, while the temperature can increase by 2.6-4.8 degrees. The UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change predicted that by the end of this century, the maximum intensities of hurricanes or cyclone can increase by 5 per cent. This indicates more powerful storms and intense natural disasters along the tropical coasts. Policymakers must understand the uniqueness of the Sundarban islands and devise sustainable, eco-friendly methods to protect and conserve the islands’ ‘one of a kind’ mangrove ecosystem. The Centre should enact and implement strong policies to reduce GHG emissions, consistent with the nation’s commitment to the 2015 Paris Agreement to combat climate change. Sustainable development, reforestation and nature conservation are the only ways forward to protect the Sundarbans. (The writers are associate professor and dean, respectively, at Jindal School of Environment & Sustainability, O P Jindal Global University, Haryana)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/twin-curses-on-sundarbans-994986.html
08-06-2021||Panorama||The Tuesday Interview | Why this sudden urge to turn Lakshadweep into Maldives? asks MP||The people of Lakshadweep are up in arms against attempts to introduce new rules and laws on the islands, ostensibly to promote development. NCP leader and Lakshadweep’s two-term Lok Sabha MP P P Mohammed Faizal tells DH's Sagar Kulkarni that the new rules were sought to be introduced without consultations. Faizal says that if the Centre is keen to turn the islands into a tourist hub, preference should be given to proposals made by locals. You met Union Home Minister Amit Shah recently on the developments in Lakshadweep. What was the response? Not only me, but the BJP unit of Lakshadweep also met the Union Home Minister to express concerns over the developments in Lakshadweep. He has assured me that the present notifications are at the draft stage, and he will not act hastily on them. Whatever is not suitable for the island will be dropped and whatever rule is seen to be required for development purposes will be put up for consultations with the island dwellers, their representatives in panchayat and the Lok Sabha. Only then will they be implemented. This is the assurance given to me by Amit Shah. What are the issues with the draft notification? These decisions have been taken by the Administrator, Praful Khoda Patel, unilaterally. He tried to introduce the draft Goonda Act, Animal Preservation Regulation – trying to dictate the eating habits of the island-dwellers – and liquor permission; the most dangerous is the Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (LDAR). He is trying to grab land legally and there are many things that are mentioned in the draft that are contrary to the Integrated Island Management Plan which had been vetted by the Supreme Court. This draft LDAR is the most draconian and the present protest is mostly against LDAR. On top of that, there are several decisions Praful Patel took, such as retrenching contract employees who are enrolled under the centrally-sponsored schemes and some other categories as well. The Administrator relieved them of their duties unilaterally. He also shut down the Lakshadweep Building Development Board (LBDB), which was duly constituted for the benefit of the people and for protection of environment. Earlier, beach sand was used for construction and plastering purposes. That was affecting the fragile environment of the islands. So, to stop this, the LBDB was constituted to provide building materials to the people of the island at subsidised rates. This was stopped unilaterally. The services of Marine Watchers under the Ministry of Environment were also terminated unilaterally. Now who is there to look after the islands if people go to look for natural minerals on the islands? The stability of the islands is in question. The reduction in lease rent from Rs 36 per square metre to Rs 16 per square metre is another issue. Nowhere in India is the lease rent reduced like this, particularly in these times. These are the anti-people actions taken by the Administrator. What is the response of the people? The people of the islands have been protesting against the actions of the Administrator. For the first time in the history of the islands, its people have been observing a relay hunger strike. They are requesting the central government to recall this Administrator. They are also asking the Centre to send a sensitive, people-loving person who respects democratically elected institutions as Administrator. Centre wants to turn Lakshadweep into a tourist hub with resorts. If that is the case, our own young entrepreneurs have submitted proposals for development of tourism on the islands. They have even expressed readiness to bring in investors. Their proposals are pending. These proposals are as per the criteria mentioned in the IIMP. Why are these proposals not approved? What are they waiting for? They are making contrasting statements. The Administrator also claims that the government wants women to come forward in public service, which is why the new panchayat rules are being introduced. Women can take part in the election process under the existing rules as well. What does the ‘two-children’ rule achieve? To justify the Goonda Act, he said people do lock their homes before venturing out as a precautionary measure. But are the existing laws inadequate? Action can be taken under the CrPC, IPC. The Goonda Act has provisions to detain a person for six months for going against public order. He knew that the draft regulations would attract protests from the people. So, you claim that there were no consultations before introducing these draft legislations? There is a pre-legislative consultation for any law. Moreover, it was all in English. The mother tongue of the people of Lakshadweep is Malayalam. There are some procedural errors that have occurred. The consultations should be in vernacular. The drafts were launched amidst the pandemic situation when the people were unable to move out of their homes. Objections to the draft were required to be filed by email. That is the funniest thing. Why this hurry? Why this sudden urge to change Lakshadweep into Maldives? The intention is very suspect. Also, the Administrator took charge in December, and he has stayed on the island for barely 15 days so far. How could he understand the culture, the habits, the behavioural aspects of the islands? Are the protests still continuing? Yes. The people of Lakshadweep are up in protest against the Administrator. We have clearly told the Home Minister we will not cooperate with this Administrator. People are very angry with him. Earlier Administrators held consultations with locals. They kept the democratic fabric intact and discussed everything. We need a change.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-tuesday-interview-why-this-sudden-urge-to-turn-lakshadweep-into-maldives-asks-mp-994995.html
08-06-2021||Right in the Middle||Tryst with first-ever Dosa||In the late sixties, my elderly cousin’s first job in Delhi brought him to our home as the new entrant to a large family of seven members. The space in our house and the salary of my father, the sole earner, were both modest. Yet my cousin’s father a worldly-wise man so tied up since he knew that it was our home where his son could fit in with dignity at minimal or no cost. Tall, handsome and soft-spoken, my cousin had many good attributes except his miserliness. With his witty comments, concocted and real stories and flattering words, he could win the hearts of many, especially the ladies. One evening he returned from his office with a bruised right hand and torn shirt after a slip from the bus. As my father got ready to take him to a doctor, he pleaded that the wound shall heal naturally and he had enough stamina to tolerate the pain, “Why to pay the doctor?” This was not acceptable to my father. The doctor administered an anti-tetanus injection, dressed the bruise and gave pain killer. After dinner, my mother enquired about the condition of his pain but he showed more distress at the shredded shirt. One evening my tight-fisted cousin surprised me by an offer of Dosa, which I had so far only heard of, in Sarojini Nagar Market as he was just engaged. Soon we were inside Kerala Restaurant. Together with Madras Hotel close by, these two spots were the only destination in the radius of 8 km where one could have the taste of Dosa, Idli, Vada, Uttapam, etc. Delhiwalas were not used to South Indian dishes in that era. With aristocracy writ large on his face, he ordered: “Two crisp Masala Dosa, fast”. Then, looking at his wristwatch, he added in a commanding tone, “Two filter coffees five minutes after that!” Till Dosa was served, my cousin referred to the folly of spending five paise extra i.e. 35 paise for a Dosa at Madras Hotel only for cushioned chairs since the quality was the same. Saving ten paise on two Dosa is not a small amount, he declared. Far from stimulating my desire to consume the novel delicacy, the sheer large size of Dosa with the smell of coconut oil subdued my interest. “Let us start it, man,” said my cousin. By the time he had almost finished his coffee, I could somehow devour a third of the Dosa. Sensing my unease, he asked the waiter to pack the leftover as a takeaway. Tastes change with time and age. In the span of 50 years now, breakfast or main food, Dosa is my first choice. There is more to the global popularity of Dosa than safety, palatability and health considerations, I ruminate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/tryst-with-first-ever-dosa-994978.html
08-06-2021||Second Edit||Jammu & Kashmir’s drug problem is serious||Drug addiction in Kashmir has assumed alarming proportions. According to doctors at the de-addiction centre of the Srinagar-based Institute of Mental health & Neurosciences (IMHANS), the number of drug addicts seeking help has been rising since 2016. The number of patients who registered for Opioid Substitution Therapy at the de-addiction centre surged from 139 in the 2012-15 period to 309 in the 2016-19 period. Even more alarming are the figures since. Over 495 patients sought OST in 2020. This figure has jumped to 500 in just the first five months this year. The magnitude of the drug addiction problem in Kashmir is likely to be higher than what the IMHANS figures reveal. Given the social stigma attached to drug addiction, most people prefer to suffer in silence rather than seek medical help for the problem. Hence, the IMHANS figures probably indicate just the tip of the iceberg of the narcotics problem in Kashmir. Worryingly, unlike in the past when many Kashmiris turned to cough syrup, heroin has become their preferred narcotic in recent years. There are strong links between conflict zones and narcotics. An important reason for addiction in areas of armed conflict is that many people here suffer from mental health problems given the constant and prolonged state of anxiety and trauma they live in. The Kashmir insurgency has impacted every family and individual in the Valley. People have lost close kin or are survivors of blasts and gun battles. Many are grappling with the impact of torture and detention. These challenges are not easy to cope with and they end up turning to narcotics to calm their thoughts and mental anguish. Narcotics are also easily available in conflict zones as the drug trade often finances the purchase of weapons. Law enforcement officials in Kashmir say heroin and other narcotics are making their way into the Kashmir Valley from Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir. The narcotics problem in Punjab, another state that borders Pakistan, too, is serious. This underscores the need for India to step up vigilance along the border in Punjab and the Line of Control in Jammu & Kashmir. Importantly, it needs to crack down on the network in India that facilitates the transport of drugs from the LoC. This is a lucrative trade and the involvement of politicians and security officials in it cannot be ruled out. Importantly, more counselling and de-addiction centres are needed in Kashmir’s smaller towns and villages. There is a need to spread awareness about the nature of the problem. Substance use disorder is a disease and needs medical treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/jammu-kashmir-s-drug-problem-is-serious-994985.html
08-06-2021||South||Puducherry govt extends Covid lockdown till June 14, eases several curbs||The Puducherry administration has extended its ongoing lockdown by another week from June 7 midnight to June 14 and announced easing of several restrictions. The announcement comes following a decline in coronavirus cases in the union territory. An order issued late Monday night by the Secretary (Relief and Rehabilitation) and member Secretary of State Executive committee of Puducherry said the corona curfew adopted all along would continue to be in force from 10 pm to 5 am the next day. The present order permits functioning of retail units of liquor shops, including arrack shops from 9 am to 5 pm every day by strictly adhering to Covid safety norms. It pointed out that door delivery of liquor within the Union Territory could also be permitted to reduce footfalls at the liquor and arrack shops. Goods transport, public transport facilities such as buses, autos, taxies are permitted to operate up to 5 pm every day. The Registration department is allowed to function following Covid norms. While parks, gardens and entertainment centres, cinemas would continue to remain shut, the government has decided to allow morning walkers to use the beach road here from 5 am to 9 am daily. Strollers should wear masks and maintain social distancing. All places of worship and religious institutions are now permitted to stay open till 5 pm. Wedding ceremonies are permitted but only a maximum of 25 people can take part in it, while funerals and other rituals should have only a maximum of 20 mourners, the order said. Sale of vegetables and fruits will be allowed from 5 am to 5 pm. All commercial establishments can function from 9 am to 5 pm without AC facility. However, vendors, shop owners and those working in industries should get themselves vaccinated, it said. Essential services, milk booths and medical services would function without any curbs. Puducherry currently witnesses a downward trend in the number of new Covid cases and related fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-govt-extends-covid-lockdown-till-june-14-eases-several-curbs-995089.html
08-06-2021||South||Is Covid-19 vaccination the new requirement for marriage?||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, known for his unparalleled diction, shared a rather odd tweet on Tuesday afternoon. The tweet contained a picture of a matrimonial advertisement in a newspaper, presumably from Kerala.  Interestingly, among other details, the matrimonial mentioned that the woman was vaccinated with both doses of the Covishield vaccine and made clear that the groom must also be vaccinated with two doses of Covishield. "Vaccinated bride seeks vaccinated groom! No doubt the preferred marriage gift will be a booster shot!? Is this going to be our New Normal?,"  Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor said while posting an image of the advertisement published on June 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/is-covid-19-vaccination-the-new-requirement-for-marriage-995104.html
08-06-2021||South||Locals seethe over government's tourism plans in Lakshadweep||With palm-fringed beaches, turquoise seas and coral reefs, it is easy to see the appeal of India's Lakshadweep islands. But as the government pushes plans to develop the remote archipelago as a tourist hub, some islanders fear they could lose everything. Anger has erupted over proposals that could give officials powers to remove or relocate residents to make way for tourism, luxury housing and deep sea mining projects in the islands, which lie 500 km off India's southwestern coast. "For generations we have lived quiet lives, rarely protesting policies created in the mainland ... But if they take away my land and home, where will we all go?" fisherman Sakariya, who uses one name, said by phone. Like many local fishermen, his only asset is the family home his grandfather built on a roughly 1,000 square foot (93 square metre) plot of land near the beach, in the island capital of Kavaratti. "This is not a big city where people can be relocated nearby. For us, it will probably mean having to move to the mainland. How can we allow anyone to take our homes away?," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. Along with thousands of other islanders, Sakariya, 40, has taken to social media to voice his concerns as Covid-19 curbs keep them from taking to the streets to protest. A Twitter campaign started by students has gained traction on the mainland, with #SaveLakshadweep being backed by prominent politicians including Opposition leader Rahul Gandhi. This week, residents' group Save Lakshadweep Forum staged a one-day hunger strike to protest against the new land acquisition rules that have stirred up eviction fears among the islands' roughly 65,000 people. Protesters also fear the plans could strain already limited public services on the islands, including a lack of clean drinking water, healthcare and access to the mainland. Lakshadweep Administrator Praful Patel did not respond to a request for comment, but another senior official - Collector S Akser Ali - told reporters recently the goal was to develop the islands "holistically", with local people's welfare in mind. 'Mainland sensibilities' The government's plans to have "happy and prosperous islanders on ecologically protected islands" also extend to the Andaman and Nicobar archipelagoes, which lie in the Bay of Bengal. Land clearance orders have already been issued for four tourism projects in the Andaman and Nicobar islands, despite concerns about their environmental impact. "These plans do not consider the ecosystem of the islands as particularly unique and are primarily mainland sensibilities of generating revenue and employment being implemented," said conservationist Manish Chandi. "The cost of these proposed projects, on the lives of people and the ecosystem, has to be taken into account," said Chandi, who has lived and worked on the islands for decades. These biodiversity hotspots are already witnessing the impact of climate change, with rising sea levels submerging one of the uninhabited islands in the Lakshadweep, besides residents losing land to coastal erosion, studies have shown. According to the government's plans, however, the development of the island groups will take place as part of an integrated island management plan, made to protect the people and ecosystem. A senior official at the federal government's policy think-tank Niti Aayog said that under phase one of the project only some tent houses and resort villas were under construction in the Andaman and Nicobar islands. "No other plans have been green-lit yet," he said, requesting anonymity as he is not authorised to speak to the media. "A consultant has been hired to prepare a feasibility report and then phase 2 will start." 'They should be told' But in the Lakshadweep islands, mistrust is widespread. That has been fueled by authorities' recent demolition of fishermen's beach shacks, said K Nizamuddin, who belongs to the self-governing body in Kavaratti, which is reimagined as a smart city in the development plans. Nizamuddin said part of the problem was that residents had not been properly informed about the plans. "We haven't been consulted and most islanders are clueless about what the future will bring. If drastic changes are coming, they should be told about it," he said. "In a smart city, there has to be space for local fishermen and for traditional livelihoods like animal rearing to continue. Instead, authorities have broken fishermen's sheds on the beach saying it violates norms. So there is mistrust." Under the draft regulations, residents would also have to get planning permission before making even minor changes to their homes, said lawyer R. Rohith. "In other regions it may seem normal for the government to acquire land for projects, like building a road, but in the islands, it is just not done," Rohith said, referring to laws that aim to protect islanders' rights and the fragile ecosystem. In the Andaman and Nicobar islands, the government wants to build a major port facility, a greenfield international airport, townships and solar plants. "Nobody is saying there shouldn't be any development," Chandi said, highlighting the fact that the islands have poor roads, inadequate transport and water supplies and even patchy telecommunications networks. "But it has to be consultative, taking into consideration the fact that this is a unique ecosystem, home to indigenous people, settlers, all of whom have varying needs and requirements ... and not to forget marine life." The views of local people, including vulnerable tribal groups living in the islands' forests, have not been taken into consideration, said anthropologist Vishvajit Pandya. "This brilliant idea is not what the people want," Pandya said. Hundreds of miles away in the Lakshadweep islands, the fisherman Sakariya echoed Pandya's criticism. "We have lived in this small strip of land for decades. We know the impact of disturbing this ecology better than anyone. Officials should listen to us."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/locals-seethe-over-governments-tourism-plans-in-lakshadweep-995122.html
08-06-2021||South||Kerala CM assures connectivity, digital devices for all students to attend online classes||Urgent steps would be taken to ensure internet free of cost or at subsidised rate to needy children, he told the Assembly while detailing the measures to be taken by the government to avoid 'digital divide' among students in the state. Stating that internet connectivity is still an issue in some parts of the state, he said it would be ensured even in the tribal areas, the remote places which are still out of the ambit of network connectivity. "We have already called a meeting of internet service providers in this regard.A coordinated effort with the support of various sectors is needed to make this a reality.Our aim is to avoid giving any kind of burden to students and ensure them hassle-free environs for their online studies," Vijayan said. One of the major challenges faced by the online education system, implemented in the state due to the pandemic-induced situation, was the uneven distribution of digital devices among students, he pointed out. A section of children in the state could not afford to buy digital devices like mobile phone, laptop, computer or TV to pursue online education, he said. But, the government would take all possible steps to pool various resources and provide them necessary devices and internet connectivity to attend online classes, Vijayan added. "It is just as important to have a digital device in the hands of students as a textbook during this pandemic era.Even those who can not afford such a device should have it on hand for their studies," he said. As it was not clear how long the pandemic would last and whether another wave of the virus infection would be there after the expected third wave, the online classes should be continued for some more time, the Chief Minister said. The state government, last week,carried out the virtual reopening of schools and launched online classes for students through its education channel Kite Victers for the second consecutive year due to the Covid-19 situation. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-assures-connectivity-digital-devices-for-all-students-to-attend-online-classes-995150.html
08-06-2021||South||Move to renovate Kerala CM's official residence 'Cliff House' draws flak||Opposition Congress-led UDF on Tuesday slammed the Left government in Kerala over its decision to renovate Cliff House, the official residence of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan spending nearly one crore rupees at a time when the state was reeling under acute financial crunch. Raising the issue in the Assembly, P T Thomas (Congress) sought to know how the government's declared policy of financial austerity and spending whopping amount for the 'refurbishing' of the CM's bungalow would go together. "The finance minister has ensured the House that he would implement financial discipline. So, he should explain how the austerity measures and the spending of crores of rupees for the refurbishing of the buildings would go each other," the Thrikkakkara MLA said. Finance Minister K N Balagopal, however, rejected the criticism of the opposition saying the government was taking all possible steps to reduce expenditure. "At the same time, it is also important to conserve the heritage buildings under the ownership of the government by making necessary repair and renovation," he said during the question hour. There are buildings which are 100 to 120-years-old in the state and necessary maintenance work should be carried out to preserve them. The Cliff House was one among such old buildings, he added. Balagopal also cautioned the opposition that avoiding extravagant spending does not mean refraining from minimum things to be done by the government. There were media reports that the second LDF government had granted permission to renovate Vijayan's official residence here spending over 90 lakh rupees and the contract was awarded to Uralungal, a labour society based in north Kerala, without allegedly inviting any formal tender. A royal-era building constructed 79 years ago, Cliff House, located at Nanthancode in the heart of the city, had been the official residence of the majority of Chief Ministers, after the state of Kerala was formed in 1957. Earlier, it was the residence of 'diwan peshkar' (secretary of the state) during erstwhile royal rule.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/move-to-renovate-kerala-cms-official-residence-cliff-house-draws-flak-995153.html
08-06-2021||South||Renault-Nissan India unit wants TN govt to set social distancing rules||Renault-Nissan India wants the Tamil Nadu government to recommend adequate social distancing measures based on practices at other automakers amid a dispute with its workers' union over safety. It said in a court filing that it was following practices at other automakers including "Maruti, Hyundai, Kia, Ford, BMW" and that increasing the distance between workers to more than two to three feet at some work stations was "impossible". M Moorthy, the general secretary of the Renault-Nissan India workers union, said the union will file a counter petition. "Other manufacturers need to adopt the best practices we are pushing for, not the other way around. We feel unsafe, and that is why we are against what the company is doing," Moorthy said. The Renault-Nissan plant resumed operations last week after workers earlier went on strike saying they felt unsafe due to a rising number of coronavirus infections at the factory. Tamil Nadu is one of the worst Indian states affected by the pandemic and labour unions for Renault-Nissan, Ford Motor Co and Hyundai Motor Co have written letters of protest, arguing that hundreds of workers in the auto manufacturing hub of Chennai have fallen ill with Covid-19 and dozens have died. Ford and Hyundai also halted work at their plants last month after workers protested and some went on strike.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/renault-nissan-india-unit-wants-tn-govt-to-set-social-distancing-rules-995178.html
08-06-2021||South||56 elephants in two camps in Tamil Nadu undergo tests for Covid-19||Swab tests were carried out on 56 elephants on Tuesday at two camps in Coimbatore and Nilgiris districts, days after a lioness succumbed to Covid-19 and nine others in the pride tested positive for the infection at a zoo in Chennai. Forest minister K Ramachandran personally monitored the process at Kozhikmudi camp in Topslip in the district, where 28 elephants underwent the test. The camp has 18 male and 10 female elephants, of which three are kumkis (tamed elephants), five 'safari' elephants and four aged ones, an official release said. A total of 60 mahouts and assistants and their family members got vaccinated in the camp, thus becoming the first one in Tamil Nadu where 100 per cent got vaccinated, it said. The minister distributed a total of Rs 3.5 lakh to families affected by elephant attacks in the area. He also distributed uniform for staff of the anti-poaching squad and PPE Kits to forest guards, the release said. Meanwhile, samples of all the 28 elephants in Theppakadu camp at Mudumalai in Nilgiris district were also collected this morning. A total of 52 mahouts and 27 kavadies (assistant to mahouts) there were vaccinated against Covid-19. Ramachandran ordered samples to be collected from all the elephants and send to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute at Izatnagar, Uttar Pradesh for testing, forest department sources said. The testing is being done after a lioness at the Arignar Anna Zoological Park at Vandalur in Chennai died due to coronavirus on Thursday, and nine of the 11 in the park tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/56-elephants-in-two-camps-in-tamil-nadu-undergo-tests-for-covid-19-995181.html
08-06-2021||South||K Sudhakaran made Kerala Congress president||In further revamp of the Congress leadership in Kerala, Lok Sabha MP K Sudhakaran has been made the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president replacing Mullappally Ramachandran. The decision that came close on the heels of replacing senior leader Ramesh Chennithala with V D Satheesan as the Leader of Opposition is also considered as a strong message by the Congress national leadership against groupism in Congress in Kerala as both Sudhakaran and Satheesan were not part of the Ramesh Chennithala and Oommen Chandy groups in the Congress in Kerala. Congress high command took the decision to make Sudhakaran Kerala PCC president based on a report given by AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar. The national decision was learnt to have gone by the majority opinion in the party. While Suresh will continue as working president, P T Thomas MLA and T Siddique MLA were also appointed as working presidents. Former union minister K V Thomas, who was made the Kerala PCC working president earlier this year after he expressed differences with party leadership, was dropped from the post. Sudhakaran reacted that he was given a challenging responsibility by the national leadership to strengthen the party. He said that he would be able to ensure cooperation of all senior leaders in strengthening the Congress in Kerala. 73-year-old Sudhakaran, who is a native of Kannur, is a firebrand leader. He was a former forest minister in Kerala and is MP for a second term. He was MLA in Kerala for four terms. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/k-sudhakaran-made-kerala-congress-president-995210.html
08-06-2021||South||Son locks 95-year-old mother in toilet for two weeks in Tamil Nadu, rescued||In a shocking case of human cruelty, a 95-year-old woman was allegedly starved and kept confined to a toilet in her house for a fortnight by her son in the Salem district. Luckily, the woman's feeble cries for help were heard by the neighbours, who alerted the district authorities and she was rescued on Sunday, police said. The woman, a mother of four, was taken to an NGO for the old, where she was provided food and is undergoing treatment, they said. On receiving a complaint that the nonagenarian was forcibly locked up in a toilet by her son, a team of officials from the Social Welfare department and the police reached the flat in Dalmia Board locality at Omalur and found her lying in an unhygienic condition in the reeking toilet.  The woman, identified as Radha, reportedly survived on running water in the small toilet as her son refused to care for her. Radha was living off the pension of her late husband which was swindled by her youngest son, police said. Despite being subjected to such inhumane treatment, the woman declined to file a complaint against her son, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/son-locks-95-year-old-mother-in-toilet-for-two-weeks-in-tamil-nadu-rescued-995215.html
08-06-2021||South||Tree-felling row in Kerala snowballing into a major scandal||A tree felling row in Kerala seems to be snowballing into a major scandal with reports that rosewood and teak trees worth around Rs. 500 crore could have been illegally axed under the cover of a controversial government order of last year. While the initial reports said the illegal tree felling took place in Wayanad district only, fresh reports were emerging that the tree felling took place in many other districts. Even as state Forest Minster A K Saseendran ordered a probe by the forest department, the Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front demanded a probe under the High Court's direct supervision alleging a political nexus of the timber lobby.  The trees were felled from revenue lands assigned to farmers under the Kerala Land Assignment Act. A 2020 October order of the Kerala revenue department allowed axing of protected trees like rosewood and teak grown by farmers in the assigned lands. A massive tree felling allegedly took place under the cover of this order. After it came to the notice of environmentalists and many approached courts, the government cancelled the order by Feb. 3.  Wayanad Prakrithi Samrakshana Samiti president N Badusha said that the damage was already done as the timber lobbies managed to smuggle over 100 trees, mainly rosewood by that time, at Muttil in Wayanad alone. It is quite certain that massive illegal tree felling took place in other parts of the state also, he said. The Opposition asked how the smugglers could ferry the timber worth crores from the northern district to a sawmill in Ernakulam.  Cases were registered in connection with the Wayanad tree felling against a gang comprising Roji Augustine and Anto Augustine. Rosewood worth around Rs. 10 crore was recovered. Forest officials who exposed the illegal tree felling also allegedly faced threats. Forest department sources said that now there were reports that massive tree felling took place in many other districts also. Roughly 500 trees could have been illegally axed under the cover of the order and the cost would be around Rs. 100 crore. There were also unconfirmed reports that some district collectors had expressed initial apprehensions over the government order. Even then, the government kept silent for a few months. The issue rocked the Kerala Assembly on Tuesday with the Opposition seeking permission for an adjournment motion and staging a walkout after the permission was denied. Congress leader P T Thomas, who moved the notice for the adjournment motion, alleged that the controversial government order was issued to facilitate the politically influential timber lobbies. The tree felling at Muttil in Wayanad that already came to light was just the tip of the iceberg, he said. The forest minister said that principal chief conservator of forest - vigilance was directed to probe whether tree felling took place in other parts of the state also. He also said that the tree felling took place by misinterpreting the government order. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tree-felling-row-in-kerala-snowballing-into-a-major-scandal-995221.html
08-06-2021||State||Covid-19 protocols, reluctance hit cadaver organ donation in Karnataka||Cadaver organ donations have plummeted from 105 in 2019 to 35 in 2020, and further to 23 in the first six months of 2021 alone. Each donor can donate up to eight organs. The donors have reduced drastically as the RT-PCR test of the body requires at least eight hours with labs having huge backlogs. On top of this, organ-specific committees in Jeevasarthakathe, the body overseeing cadaver organ transplantation in the state, are asking for repeat RT-PCR tests in the fear of getting false-negative results. With many reports of Covid-19 patients presenting lung infection only in chest CT scans which RT-PCR tests are unable to pick up, doctors have become extra-cautious and this has further made screening for organ donation difficult and time-consuming. At the same time, organ retrieval teams have to work against the clock to ensure that the organs are still viable.  Lijamol Joseph, Chief Transplant Coordinator, Jeevasarthakathe, told DH, "In a recent case, Jeevasarthakathe did tests thrice on a donor, and took samples from deep inside the lungs from the bronchioles to be sure of the donor's Covid-19 negative status." This when there are thousands of patients waiting for a transplant in the State. The slow pace of organ donation is, for example, affecting 110 patients waiting for a heart transplant, 22 for heart and lungs, 1190 for a liver, 27 for liver and kidney, 3,645 for kidney, 14 for kidney and pancreas, 46 for lungs, and two patients waiting for a small bowel. "Even if a non-Covid patient becomes brain dead days after being hospitalised, we're repeating RT-PCR tests to check if they've got hospital-acquired Covid-19 infection. Due to these extra protocols, it is adding to the routine tests we did pre-pandemic for donor screening. The advisory committee for each organ is taking extra precautions. Instead of taking a nasopharyngeal swab, they are doing bronchoscopy to check for infection. Now, infection disease specialists are also actively involved in decision-making as they take into account the amount of exposure the donor has had to hospital settings too," Joseph said. From these 23 donors alone this year, 56 organs and 28 tissues were retrieved (Heart - 6, Liver - 19, Kidney - 24, Kidney and pancreas - 2, Liver and kidney - 1, Small bowel - 1, Lungs - 3, Heart valves - 10, and Corneas - 18). Grief counselling Earlier it would take less time to convince the families of the deceased to donate organs. "Now it is taking more time. Earlier, we would have a six-hour gap between testing the brain-dead status of the patient the first time and then the second time, then the counselling would happen and the organ retrieval would start. Now families are scared. It is difficult to convince them to donate," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-protocols-reluctance-hit-cadaver-organ-donation-in-karnataka-995146.html
08-06-2021||State||Bhaskar Shetty murder: Three sentenced to life imprisonment||The Principal District and Sessions Court convicted three accused in the sensational murder of hotelier Bhaskar Shetty and sentenced them to life imprisonment on Tuesday. The court found them guilty of the murder in the morning and Judge Subrahmanya J N pronounced the quantum of punishment in the noon. The main accused in the case are Shetty’s wife Rajeshwari Shetty, son Navaneeth Shetty and astrologer Niranjan Bhat of Nandalike. Shetty was murdered on July 28, 2016 at his residence and his body was burnt in a homa kunda, in an alleged attempt to destroy evidence. The accused had dumped the remains including ashes into rivulets. In his 296 page judgement, the judge noted: “The accused No 1 to 3 (Rajeshwari Shetty, Navaneet Shetty and Niranjan Bhat) are sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life for having committed the offence punishable under sections of IPC.  The accused No 1 to 3 are sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life for having committed the offence punishable under section 120B, Section 34 of IPC. The accused No 1 to 3 are sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for a period of four years for having committed the offence punishable under various sections of the IPC. All the three sentences shall run concurrently.” Special public prosecutor Shantharam Shetty, who argued on behalf of the prosecution, told DH that the judgement is the victory of justice. He said that the accused number one who was out on bail is taken into custody by the court and is sent to the jail in Bengaluru. The other two are already in prison in Bengaluru. The court has examined 78 witnesses, 270 exhibits and documents and 131 material objects before during the trial, he said. The accused number 4  Srinivas Bhat (father of Niranjan Bhat) died midway of court trial owing to illness. The accused number 5, car driver Raghavendra, who was also arrested for destroying the evidence, is acquitted.  Timeline July 28, 2016: Bhaskar Shetty goes missing July 29, 2016: Gulabi Shetty, the mother of Bhaskar Shetty, files a missing complaint at the Manipal police station. August 7, 2016: Shetty’s wife Rajeshwari Shetty and son Navaneeth were arrested August 8, 2016: Niranjan Bhat was arrested and attempt to commit suicide. August 10, 2016: Shetty’s bones were recovered from a water body in Nandalike August 16, 2016: Case referred to the CID November 2, 2016: A preliminary chargesheet was filed to the court by CID December 28, 2016: Udupi District and Sessions Court rejects bail to Rajeshwari Shetty January 25, 2017- CID submits additional 101 page chargesheet to the court.  July 2, 2018: Udupi District and Sessions Court begins the trial June 8, 2021: Court delivers verdict||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bhaskar-shetty-murder-three-sentenced-to-life-imprisonment-995149.html
08-06-2021||State||Two newly elected Karnataka legislators administered oath of office||Two newly elected legislators were administered the oath of office by Karnataka Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on Tuesday. BJP MLA Sharanu Salagar and Congress MLA from Maski Basavanagouda Turvihal had won from Basavakalyan and Maski assembly segments, respectively. While Salagar was accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi and Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chavan, Turvihal was flanked by Congress state president D K Shivakumar and party chief whip Ajay Singh. The by-elections had taken place on April 17 and the results were announced on May 2. The bypoll to Maski took place after the sitting Congress MLA Prathapgouda Patil resigned from his seat in 2019 to join the BJP. He contested the bypoll but lost. The Basavakalyan by-election was necessitated following the death of Congress MLA B Narayan Rao due to Covid-19 last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-newly-elected-karnataka-legislators-administered-oath-of-office-995187.html
08-06-2021||State||Karnataka MLA C M Udasi passes away at 85||Senior BJP leader, former minister and six-time legislator C M Udasi passed away due to age-related illness at a private hospital here on Tuesday. He was 85. Udasi represented the Hangal constituency in the Haveri district. He had served as public works minister in the B S Yediyurappa-led government in 2008, as RDPR minister in the BJP-JD(S) coalition before that, and as forest minister in the 1980s.  He is survived by his wife, daughter, and son Shivakumar Udasi, who is BJP MP from the Haveri constituency. Condolences poured in over Udasi’s demise. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa recalled their association spanning decades and said that his demise was like the loss of a brother. "We were together throughout our political career and unitedly faced its ups and downs," he said. When Yediyurappa broke away from the BJP and formed the Karnataka Janata Paksha (KJP), Udasi followed him there. However, Udasi lost the 2013 Assembly polls as the KJP candidate. He returned to the BJP along with Yediyurappa and won Hangal in 2018.  He became a legislator for the first time in 1983 as an independent candidate. In 1985, he won as the Janata Party’s candidate. In 1999 when the Janata Dal split up, Udasi went with the JD(U). He joined the BJP in 2004.  Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai remembered Udasi's contribution to the departments of public works and rural development, describing him as a teacher and a guide. "It's an irreparable loss to the state," he said. Former chief ministers Siddaramaiah, H D Kumaraswamy and Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar also condoled Udasi’s demise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-mla-c-m-udasi-passes-away-at-85-995197.html
08-06-2021||State||Land scam behind Mysuru IAS officers' fight: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Tuesday claimed that a land scam was behind the feud between two IAS officers in Mysuru.  The feud between Mysuru DC Rohini Sindhuri and Mysuru City Corporation commissioner Shilpa Nag, which ended up with the government transferring them both, reflected how weak the government had become, said Siddaramaiah, a Mysuru native.  “The BJP MP (Pratap Simha), MLAs and former JD(S) minister Sa Ra Mahesh are the reason for the officers’ feud,” he said. “First, Simha was supportive of Sindhuri. Then, he opposed her. It was the BJP legislators who pitted both officers against each other,” he said.  “Sindhuri herself has said that the reason for her transfer was an investigation she wanted to launch into a land scam. This has to be investigated,” the Congress leader said.  According to him, BJP leaders wanted Shilpa Nag as the DC. “When that failed, they got the two officers to fight each other. This wouldn’t have happened if we had a strong, tight government,” he said.   'BSY high command's unwanted child' Siddaramaiah mocked the goings-on in the ruling BJP, calling it "a sinking ship" and terming Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa as "an unwanted child". "Yediyurappa's statement that he's ready to resign is a strategy to show he's obedient to the high command. On the other hand, he's getting a signature campaign done through Renukacharya. But Yediyurappa himself says signature campaign shouldn't be done. Then, K S Eshwarappa says these signatures have no value. It's clear that all this is a drama," he said. "Yediyurappa is an unwanted child to the BJP high command now and BJP's Karnataka leaders are also waiting to push him out. But their dilemma is lack of an alternative leader in their party," he said. The Congress will return to power if elections are held now, Siddaramaiah claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/land-scam-behind-mysuru-ias-officers-fight-siddaramaiah-995294.html
08-06-2021||State||Karnataka CM releases Rs 2,000 subsidy to registered street vendors||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday released Rs 2,000 as subsidy to registered street vendors, under the relief package announced by the state government for those whose livelihoods have been hit by Covid-19 second wave. He also said that the banks have been directed not to adjust the amount released under the subsidy to any loans availed by the street vendors. Out of 2,16,439 beneficiaries, Rs 38.33 crore have been transferred to 1,91,684 beneficiaries whose Aadhaar has been linked to their bank accounts through direct benefit transfer, Yediyurappa was quoted as saying by his office in a release. Action will be taken to link the Aadhaar cards of the remaining beneficiaries to their bank accounts, he said, adding registered street vendors need not apply separately to avail this benefit. As per the release, the money was released under Deendayal Antyodaya Scheme- National Urban Livelihood scheme which comes under Skill Development, Entrepreneurship and Livelihood Department. Noting that Covid-19 second wave has affected us badly, the Chief Minister said, in these difficult times, a relief package of more than Rs 1,700 crore has been announced to labourers, farmers, teachers, Asha workers, priests and others belonging to different sectors who have been hit by the pandemic. Cash assistance to construction workers has been disbursed through DBT and action will be taken to disburse the amount to beneficiaries of other sectors under the relief package soon, he added. Yediyurappa also stated that, since there are high chances of street vendors getting affected by Covid, instructions are given to urban local bodies to vaccinate the street vendors on priority, and this programme is already initiated in Bengaluru City. He also requested that street vendors should take all precautionary steps by maintaining cleanliness, social distancing and by wearing masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-releases-rs-2000-subsidy-to-registered-street-vendors-995313.html
08-06-2021||State||Karnataka reports less than 10,000 new Covid-19 cases, 179 deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday reported less than 10,000 new Covid-19 cases and 179 fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 27.17 lakh and the toll to 32,099. The day also saw 23,449 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases. Out of 9,808 new cases reported on Tuesday, 2,028 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 7,664 discharges and 44 deaths. Cumulatively 27,17,289 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 32,099 deaths and 24,60,165 discharges, the Health department said in a bulletin. The total number of active cases is 2,25,004. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 7.53 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 1.82 per cent. Out of 179 deaths reported on Tuesday, 44 were from Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru (15), Haveri (11), Shivamogga (10), Hassan (9), Bengaluru Rural (8), followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 2,028, Mysuru 974, Shivamogga 703, Hassan 659, Tumakuru 589, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district also topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 11,87,146, followed by Mysuru 1,53,072 and Tumakuru 1,09,254. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 10,70,062, followed by Mysuru 1,37,259 and Tumakuru 98,178. Cumulatively a total of 3,08,62,227 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,30,224 were done on Tuesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-less-than-10000-new-covid-19-cases-179-deaths-995322.html
08-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||5% of daily cases to undergo genome sequencing in Karnataka||The Karnataka Covid Task Force on Monday directed the health department to carry out genome sequencing of at least 5 per cent of the total Covid-19 positive cases across the state in a day. An eight-member high-level committee has been formed to oversee the process. Task Force Chairperson and Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayana said, “Previously we had approved constitution of genomic labs at seven places in Karnataka, including four labs at government medical colleges and three by the health department. Now, we have directed that at least 5 per cent of the total positive cases in a day have to be sequenced for genomic clarity. This will help us in understanding the changing behaviour of the virus and alert us about the possible treatment facilities required.” The government has roped in experts and virologists, including Dr V Ravi of Nimhans, to oversee the operations. “They will periodically meet and analyse the test results and submit detailed reports as and when they come across mutations in the viral composition,” he said, adding that each test would cost about Rs 6,000. Last week, the Karnataka Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Covid had also recommended to the state government to start genomic sequencing of Covid-19 samples of children to obtain insights into the viral behaviour and prepare for a possible third wave of the pandemic, which is widely believed to impact kids.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/5-of-daily-cases-to-undergo-genome-sequencing-in-karnataka-994996.html
08-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CET exam to be held on August 28, 29||The Karnataka Common Entrance Test for various vocational courses, including engineering, is scheduled to be conducted on August 28 and 29. "The CET exam will take place on August 28 and 29. Each subject will carry 60 marks," Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said at a press conference on Tuesday. The Maths and Biology exams will be held on the first day while Physics and Chemistry on the second day. Registration will commence from June 15, he said, adding that the PUC marks will not be taken into account. Narayan further said students will be required to score a minimum mark to clear the entrance test.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cet-exam-to-be-held-on-august-28-29-995103.html
08-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Decision on unlocking Karnataka likely in a day or two||Amid talks that Karnataka may start the unlock process by lifting restrictions after June 14, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is likely to hold a meeting in a day or two, to discuss the matter and take a call. The state is currently under lockdown till June 14, and there are indications that the government is likely to go for graded relaxation of restrictions, in districts that have less positivity rate to begin with. "The Chief Minister, after discussing with everyone, will take a decision on what measures need to be taken in this regard, by taking everyone into confidence," Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said on Tuesday in response to a question on unlocking. Speaking to reporters here, he said, the Chief Minister is likely to call a meeting (with experts, Ministers and officials), in a day or two, during which all aspects will be discussed and the outcome will be made known. "In most of the districts, other than a few, the numbers have come down.. we will also have to ensure that the cases don't increase again, it will also be looked into," he added. Yediyurappa had earlier said that the state will start its unlock process only in those districts where the Covid-19 positivity rate drops below 5 per cent. The Karnataka government had initially announced 14 days "close down" from April 27, but subsequently imposed a complete lockdown from May 10 to May 24, as the Covid cases continued to spike. Citing lockdown yielding results and experts advice, it was further extended till June 7 and then again till June 14. Karnataka on Monday had reported 11,958 fresh cases and 340 fatalities, taking the tally to over 27 lakh and the toll to 31,920.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/decision-on-unlocking-karnataka-likely-in-a-day-or-two-995118.html
08-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka among states with lowest Covid-19 deaths among doctors||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Tuesday said nine doctors have lost their lives to Covid-19 during the second wave of the pandemic, which is one of the lowest among medical practitioners in the country. Sharing details on his Twitter handle, Sudhakar said, "Karnataka has one of the lowest mortality rates among doctors during the second wave. Of the 646 doctors, who succumbed to Covid-19 in the country, Karnataka accounts for 9. This is a testimony to steps taken by our Government in protecting Covid Warriors." According to the Indian Medical Association, the highest is Delhi with 109 deaths followed by Bihar with 97 and UP with 79. Karnataka on Monday reported 11,958 fresh Covid-19 infections and 340 deaths while there are 2,38,824 active cases. The state has so far reported 27,07,481 infections and 31,920 fatalities since the outbreak of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-among-states-with-lowest-covid-19-deaths-among-doctors-995126.html
08-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Need platform to be heard, BJP MLA says amid disgruntlement||Karnataka BJP legislator and the government’s chief whip V Sunil Kumar on Tuesday asked the party leadership to “provide us a platform” where they can air their grievances, in a sign of possible implosion waiting to happen. “Remarks coming in the media in the last three days are not good in the interest of the party. A few comments from a few people are not the same as all MLAs & party workers,” Kumar said in a tweet.  “We can't tell our opinion to the media, request party leaders to provide us a platform to hear us,” Kumar said, tagging BJP national general secretaries Arun Singh (who is in charge of Karnataka), CT Ravi, and state party president Nalin Kumar Kateel.  Kumar belongs to that group of MLAs who consider themselves as loyal to the party’s ideology, natives who have risen through the organization, including the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the BJP’s ideological parent.  When contacted, Kumar declined to comment.  Sources say Kumar’s tweet was in response to BJP leaders making public statements, some favouring Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and some against.  One MLA told DH on the condition of anonymity that there is “much disillusionment” within the party over the way the government is functioning and the direction the party is headed in. “In the last one year, there’s much internal disgruntlement and we’re not able to say it openly,” the MLA said. “There are 60 plus like-minded MLAs and just because we’re quiet, it doesn’t mean we agree with whatever is happening.”   According to this MLA, there is discontentment that the B S Yediyurappa administration is not functioning “based on the ideals of PM Modi”. There is some anger over the alleged nepotism and interference of Yediyurappa’s family members in the administration. “MLAs have not been taken into confidence. Not only is there disparity in allocating grants to constituencies, but there are also many policy decisions that we want the government to make,” the MLA added.   The BJP’s move to constitute a 10-member committee, including Yediyurappa, to address legislators’ grievances and stop them from washing dirty linen in public has inspired little confidence. “We haven’t been told anything officially about such a committee,” the MLA said.  A senior BJP MLC said the committee was of little use at a time when the demand is to convene a legislature party meeting where legislators can express themselves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/need-platform-to-be-heard-bjp-mla-says-amid-disgruntlement-995143.html
08-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt fears hoarding as tur, vegetable oil price hit new highs||The Karnataka government has written to the Centre seeking to impose limits on the stocking of a few food commodities to prevent hoarding and artificial price rise. The price of tur dal has gone up from Rs 95-105/kg in March to Rs 125-Rs 130 by the end of May. During the said period, vegetable oil prices have also increased. The price of sunflower oil per kilo went up from Rs 137 in December to Rs 162 by April. Some companies selling the oil in 5 litre cans have jacked up the price from Rs 680 in the beginning of the year to Rs 800. Sources said that following a report by the food commissioner, the state government had last week written to the Centre, seeking approval for an order to check hoarding on the lines of rules issued in 2016. As per the order, tur dal wholesale traders in city corporation limits within Karnataka are not allowed to stock more than 2000 quintals of pulses while the limit in other areas is 1000 quintals. For retailers, the limit is 50 quintals. For vegetable oil, a similar order in 2017 fixed the stock limit at 1200 quintals in corporation limits and 1000 quintals in other places. The retailers could stock 100 quintals.  A senior official in the government said the state cannot on its own take decisions in the matter. “The state government has written to the Centre seeking its permission to impose limits. The price escalation is being monitored at 12 centres across the state. However, it is true that retail rates are going up every other day, making it difficult to provide accurate figures,” the government sources said. Professor A V Manjunath from Institute of Social and Economic Change said the lockdown has added to the price rise. “The demand in the market has fallen but the manufacturing and other input cost has gone up considerably. Add to this, the spiralling fuel prices will further push the prices upwards,” he said. Meanwhile, fuel prices in Bengaluru have gone up by Rs 10 in the last five months. The price of petrol has increased from Rs 87 in January to Rs 98.20 while the price of diesel went up from Rs 78.87 to Rs 91 per litre. This has in turn led to higher price of commodities. Dealers said fuel prices will increase further in the coming days. “As the lockdown is lifted in other parts of the country and the world, the demand will go up which will, in turn, lead to higher crude prices. This is what we saw last year,” said Karnataka Petroleum Dealers Federation vice president Taranath||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-fears-hoarding-as-tur-vegetable-oil-price-hit-new-highs-995296.html
08-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Need platform to be heard, says BJP MLA Sunil Kumar||BJP legislator and the government’s chief whip V Sunil Kumar on Tuesday asked the party leadership to “provide us a platform” where they can air their grievances, in a sign of possible implosion waiting to happen. “Remarks coming in the media in the last three days are not good in the interest of the party. A few comments from a few people are not the same as all MLAs & party workers,” Kumar said in a tweet.  “We can't tell our opinion to the media, request party leaders to provide us a platform to hear us,” Kumar said, tagging BJP national general secretaries Arun Singh (who is in charge of Karnataka), C T Ravi and state party president Nalin Kumar Kateel.  Kumar belongs to that crop of MLAs who consider themselves as loyal to the party’s ideology, natives who have risen through the organization, including the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the BJP’s ideological parent.  When contacted, Kumar declined to comment.  Sources say Kumar’s tweet was in response to BJP leaders making public statements, some favouring Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and some against.  One MLA told DH on condition of anonymity that there is “much disillusionment” within the party over the way the government is functioning and the direction the party is headed in. “In the last one year, there’s much internal disgruntlement and we’re not able to say it openly,” the MLA said. “There are 60+ like-minded MLAs and just because we’re quiet, it doesn’t mean we agree with whatever is happening.”  According to this MLA, there is discontentment that the Yediyurappa administration is not functioning “based on the ideals of PM Modi”. “MLAs have not been taken into confidence. Not only is there disparity in allocating grants to constituencies, there are many policy decisions that we want the government to make,” the MLA added.   The BJP’s move to constitute a 10-member committee, including Yediyurappa, to address legislators’ grievances and stop them from washing dirty linen in public has inspired little confidence. “We haven’t been told anything officially about such a committee,” the MLA said.  A senior BJP MLC said the committee was of little use at a time when the demand is to convene a legislature party meeting where legislators can express themselves. "There is some anger over the alleged nepotism and interference by Yediyurappa’s family members in the administration," the MLC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/need-platform-to-be-heard-says-bjp-mla-sunil-kumar-995298.html
08-06-2021||West||Goa in a bind after Centre drops ivermectin from Covid drug list||With the Union Health Ministry's decision to drop anti-parasitic ivermectin from its Covid treatment protocol, the Goa government is left in a bind as it had announced free distribution of the drug among for Covid patients two months ago. In April this year, the Goa government's expert committee had recommended the use of ivermectin, with the Health Minister Vishwajit Rane claiming that the drug helped cut down the severity of the infection and helped to save lives. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has said that the circular, issued by the Union Health Ministry's Directorate General of Health Services, has been sent to Goa's Health Secretary Ravi Dhawan for study. "I have sent the circular to the Secretary of Health. We will have to see now," Sawant briefed reporters after the Union Health Ministry's Directorate General of Health Services' decision to drop ivermectin as a treatment of Covid-19 earlier on Monday. The Goa Congress has already pressurised the BJP-led coalition government claiming an alleged scam worth Rs 22.50 crore in the procurement of ivermectin. According to the Goa Health Ministry, all adults were to be given a course of five ivermectin tablets free of cost, in order to quell the potential severity of the symptoms in case they get infected by the deadly virus. The tablets were to be availed free of cost at all public health centres. Soon after the Goa government's announcement in April, the World Health Organisation had advised against the use of the drug for Covid use.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-in-a-bind-after-centre-drops-ivermectin-from-covid-drug-list-994971.html
08-06-2021||West||Maharashtra forest dept buys 812 acres of Aarey Milk Colony||In a decision that would go a long way in protecting Mumbai’s 'green lung', the Maharashtra Forest Department (MFD) has got possession of 812 acres of land of the Aarey Milk Colony. This piece of land is located off the Sanjay Gandhi National Park, which is spread over 103 sq kms and sandwiched between the Eastern and Western suburbs of Mumbai – and has the distinction of being the only such forest in the world to be located within a metropolitan city. The SGNP and its green stretch along the periphery is considered the green lung of Mumbai. The land parcels in Borivali, Aarey, Goregaon and Marol-Maroshi were handed over to the MFD and SGNP in presence of Borivli Tahsildar and Town Survey Officer. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray tweeted: “812 acres of notified land of Aarey Milk Colony, Aarey land at Borivali, Goregaon, Marol Maroshi village have been officially handed over to the MFD and SGNP. This decision paves a path for a massive forest to blossom in the heart of Mumbai.” In September last year, Thackeray had announced that the government would designate a 600-acre parcel of land in the Aarey Milk Colony as a reserve forest. Later, the government decided to expand the reserve forest in Aarey from 600 acres to 812 acres. Under Indian Forest Act, 1927, the land will become unavailable for development activities. “Now it is officially under the protection of the Indian Forest Act under section 4,” added state environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray. The SGNP has the largest leopard density of the world - with 47 leopards roaming the jungles in the middle of urban expanses. The SGNP and its larger periphery - spread in three districts of Mumbai Suburban, Palghar and Thane - is frequented by people of Mumbai. Besides leopards,  the SGNP and its neighborhood which include the Aarey Milk Colony and FilmCity is home to more than 275 species of birds, 35 species of mammals, 80 species of reptiles and amphibians, 170 species of butterflies, several species of fish and a staggering 1,300 species of plants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-forest-dept-buys-812-acres-of-aarey-milk-colony-995072.html
08-06-2021||West||Rain lashes Mumbai; MeT dept calls it pre-monsoon showers||Rains lashed Mumbai and its neighbouring areas on Tuesday morning, bringing respite from the sweltering heat, and the MeT department termed it as pre- monsoon showers. As per the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) in Mumbai, up to 30 mm rainfall was recorded in areas like Malvani, Borivali and Dahisar here till 11 am. Earlier, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday confirmed the arrival of the south-west monsoon in Maharashtra, when it had reached up to Harnai port in coastal Ratnagiri district. But, despite favourable conditions, the monsoon has still not progressed to Mumbai. When contacted, Shubhangi Bhute, director at the RMC Mumbai, termed the present rainfall in the city as "convective precipitation". "You can observe that there is thunder, lightning and a constant variation in the intensity of the showers. You can call it pre-monsoon showers, but certainly not the south-west monsoon," she said. These are no indications of onset of the monsoon here as yet, the official said. "There has to be less variation and rains have to be widespread (to be called as monsoon showers). Apart from Mumbai, there should be rains over central Maharashtra also. Then only we can identify it as the south-west (SW) monsoon, she said. The official further said going by the present observations, the SW monsoon onset here could be declared after a couple of days- by June 10. "There is also an off-shore trough in the Arabian Sea, but it is weak. Had it been strong, it could have helped in the advancement of the monsoon," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rain-lashes-mumbai-met-dept-calls-it-pre-monsoon-showers-995093.html
08-06-2021||West||Pilots' body moves HC for Covid death compensation; asks to be made priority category for vaccinations||An association of Indian pilots has approached the Bombay High Court seeking schemes for adequate compensation for pilots who died of Covid-19 or got infected by it, priority in vaccination against the disease and insurance coverage for those working during the pandemic. The petition, filed by the 'Federation of Indian Pilots' on June 7, said pilots are providing essential services, and sought a direction to the Union government to provide an ex-gratia amount of Rs 10 crore to the families of pilots who died due to Covid-19. As per the public interest litigation (PIL), since February 2021, 13 pilots have succumbed to Covid-19. The petition said since March 2020, all airlines and pilots are diligently working to operate the 'Vande Bharat' and other flights for evacuating Indian citizens stranded in other countries and also for the air transportation of medical supplies during the second wave of the pandemic this year. "In such times, several pilots have been infected by the coronavirus and many have lost their lives. Several pilots also face the risk of permanent or temporary disability due to the after-effects of Covid-19, like mucormycosis," it said. The PIL further said pilots have operated flights during the pandemic with substantial risk to their personal and family safety. "Despite this, several pilots have been subjected to massive pay cuts since the beginning of 2020," it said. As per the PIL, the petitioner and the Indian Pilots Guild had made a representation to the Centre, seeking that they be declared as frontline workers and given priority in vaccination against Covid-19. But, till date there is no scheme for adequate compensation for the families of pilots who died due to Covid-19, it claimed. The PIL has also sought a direction to the Centre to frame a comprehensive insurance policy for all pilots, and to create of a separate class of Covid-19 first responders as 'Air Transportation Workers' for the purpose of priority of vaccination. The petitioner and other airline pilot unions have their own individual welfare schemes for eventualities, but the same does not envisage or factor in the severity or probable death in the present pandemic situation, it said. The petition will be taken up for hearing in due course of time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pilots-body-moves-hc-for-covid-death-compensation-asks-to-be-made-priority-category-for-vaccinations-995132.html
08-06-2021||West||Pune fire: Search operations resume, firm owner summoned||Authorities resumed search operation to look for any more victims at a chemical plant here on Tuesday, a day after a massive fire broke out in the premises, and also summoned the firm's owner to ascertain what kind of materials were being used there, officials said. Maharashtra Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil is expected to visit the site later in the day and take stock of the situation. While sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Sandesh Shirke on Monday said 18 bodies were recovered from the firm's premises, Superintendent of Police Abhinav Deshmukh on Tuesday said 17 completely charred bodies and one body part were recovered so far during the search operation. "We suspect the recovered body part could be of one of the 17 victims. That is why we are as of now considering 17 casualties," Deshmukh said. He also said as per the company officials, there were 17 employees at the site when the incident took place. The fire broke out on Monday afternoon at SVS Aqua Technologies, which manufactures chlorine dioxide among other chemicals and is located in the Pirangut MIDC area of Mulshi tehsil on the outskirts of Pune city. The search operation was stopped late Monday night due to darkness and heat caused due to the blaze. On Tuesday morning, fire brigade officials resumed the search operation to find out any more victims at the fire- ravaged plant. "We have resumed the search operation inside the firm on Tuesday morning to find if anyone is still under the gutted wreckages," a fire brigadeofficial said. Besides, the police have summoned the firm's owner for questioning to gather information on what kind of chemicals and materials were being used at the plant, Deshmukh said. Meanwhile, SDM Shirke said they have started a probe into the incident. A committee, led by the SDM, was formed to conduct a probe into the incident. Shirke earlier said all the bodies, which were completely charred, were sent to the government-run Sassoon General Hospital for autopsy. The bodies were burned beyond recognition and their identify will have to be ascertained by conducting DNA testing, he said. A fire official earlier said as per the company authorities, the blaze started during packing of plastic materials in the premises. "Due to some spark at the (packaging) section, the fire broke out and as there was plastic around, it spread rapidly," he had said. Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar had said an inquiry was ordered to find out the exact cause of the fire and a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each will be given to the next of the kin of the deceased. The firm, located near Uravade village, around 40 km from the city, is into manufacturing of chemicals, including chlorine dioxide, which are used in water purification.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-fire-search-operations-resume-firm-owner-summoned-995136.html
08-06-2021||West||Goa's tourism activities must resume after total vaccination: Minister||Goa Tourism Minister Manohar Ajgaonkar on Tuesday said tourism activities should resume only after the entire population of the coastal state is completely vaccinated against Covid-19. While the Goa government has allowed hotels to function, restaurants and other tourism-related activities have been shut due to the curfew, which has been in place in the state since May 9, when Covid-19 cases started peaking. Speaking to PTI, the minister said only tourists who are "fully vaccinated" should be allowed to enter the state. "We can't keep Goa's tourism industry shut forever, as it is an important backbone of our state's economy," Ajgaonkar said. The tourism industry can resume all its activities once the entire population of the state is "fully vaccinated" with both doses of the vaccines, he said. The state should also open itself for tourists with caution, by allowing entry only to those visitors who have taken both doses of the Covid-19 vaccines, the minister said. "Once tourism resumes in Goa fully, the state will take up an intensive media campaign, inviting domestic tourists here," he said, adding that the industry will have to earn back its past glory, as it has suffered losses due to the pandemic. In case of international travellers, Ajgaonkar said the state will have to depend on the Centre's decision for resumption of chartered flights. Meanwhile, the Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) is pinning its hope on early resumption of tourism activities to minimise its losses. The state-run special purpose vehicle has been operating 13 hotel properties, mostly in the coastal belt, to cater to tourists. The corporation has been running into "historic losses" since last two years due to Covid-19 pandemic, GTDC managing director Nikhil Desai said. "We are pinning our hopes on early resumption of tourism industry, as the last two years have been a washout for us," he said. Few residencies (hotels) run by the corporation have been shut amid the pandemic, while the staff has been redeployed to other assignments, the official said. "At least during the last lockdown, the state government had taken over some of our residencies to set up quarantine centres. But this time, there has been no occupancy," Desai said. The corporation has been burdened with financial losses, as it has to pay salaries of 400-odd staff, apart from liabilities such as pensions for former employees, he said. The exact quantum of losses incurred in the last fiscal will be quantified in the next couple of months, but the losses are certainly huge, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goas-tourism-activities-must-resume-after-total-vaccination-minister-995159.html
08-06-2021||West||Mumbai’s 'Green Lung' to expand, forest dept gets possession of 812 acres of land||In a decision that would go a long way in protecting Mumbai’s 'Green Lung', the Maharashtra Forest Department has got possession of 812 acres of land of the Aarey Milk Colony. This piece of land is located off the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), which is spread over 103 sq km and sandwiched between the Eastern and Western suburbs of Mumbai. SGNP holds the distinction of being the only such forest in the world to be located within a metropolitan city. The SGNP and its green stretch along the periphery is considered the 'Green Lung' of Mumbai. Land parcels in Borivali, Aarey, Goregaon and Marol-Maroshi were handed over to the MFD and SGNP in presence of Borivli Tahsildar and Town Survey Officer. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray tweeted: “812 acres of notified land of Aarey Milk Colony, Aarey land at Borivali, Goregaon, Marol Maroshi village have been officially handed over to the MFD and SGNP. This decision paves a path for a massive forest to blossom in the heart of Mumbai.” 812 Acres of notified land of Aarey Milk Colony, Aarey land at Borivali, Goregaon, Marol Maroshi & Marol Maroshi village have been officially handed over to the State Forest Department & SGNP. This decision paves a path for a massive forest to blossom in the heart of Mumbai. In September last year, Thackeray had announced that the government would designate a 600-acre parcel of land in the Aarey Milk Colony as a reserve forest. Later, the government decided to expand the reserve forest in Aarey from 600 acres to 812 acres. Under the Indian Forest Act, 1927, the land will become unavailable for development activities. “Now it is officially under the protection of the Indian Forest Act under section 4,” said state environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray. The SGNP has the largest leopard density of the world - with 47 leopards roaming the jungles in the middle of urban expanses. The SGNP and its larger periphery - spread in three districts of Mumbai Suburban, Palghar and Thane - is frequented by people of Mumbai. Besides leopards,  the SGNP and its neighborhood, which include the Aarey Milk Colony and FilmCity, is home to more than 275 species of birds, 35 species of mammals, 80 species of reptiles and amphibians, 170 species of butterflies, several species of fish and a staggering 1,300 species of plants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-s-green-lung-to-expand-forest-dept-gets-possession-of-812-acres-of-land-995217.html
08-06-2021||West||5-year-old girl dies of thirst in Rajasthan||A five-year-old girl died of thirst while her grandmother fell unconscious in Raniwara in Jalore district of Rajasthan, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place on Sunday afternoon when Sukhi (60) and her granddaughter Manju (5) were travelling by foot to see a family member in Roda village, Station House Officer Padma Ram said. While on the way, they felt thirsty but could not find water around as the place was uninhabited, he said.  Later, some shepherds spotted the duo from atop a small hill and informed the village sarpanch who informed the police. The police rushed to the spot and after first aid, both were taken to the hospital where Manju was declared dead while Sukhi is undergoing treatment. “We rushed to the spot which was not motorable. We found the girl had died while the old woman was unconscious due to dehydration," the SHO said. The deceased's body was given to her family members after post-mortem, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/5-year-old-girl-dies-of-thirst-in-rajasthan-995222.html
08-06-2021||West||Gujarat government seeks Rs 9,836 crore cyclone aid from Centre||The Gujarat government on Tuesday said it has sought a Rs 9,836-crore relief package from the Centre under the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) for the redevelopment of areas affected by cyclone Tauktae last month. A memorandum detailing damage caused to crops, fruit trees, houses, marine infrastructure, the fishing industry, roads, electricity and other infrastructure by the powerful storm was submitted to the Centre by the state government, said an official release here. Through the memorandum, the state government has sought Rs 9,836 crore as per NDRF norms to carry out various relief, restoration and rehabilitation works in the areas hit by Tauktae, it said. The cyclone had made a landfall on the Gujarat coast on the night of May 17 with a wind speed of up to 220 km per hour. Tauktae was the most powerful cyclone to hit Gujarat in the last 50 years and had caused widespread devastation in 23 districts of the state, the release said. The cyclone remained active over Gujarat for 28 hours before it weakened and moved towards Rajasthan, the state government said in the memorandum. It caused large-scale damage in Amreli, Gir-Somnath, Bhavnagar and Junagadh districts, the government said. In the memorandum, the state government has given details about loss of human lives, death of cattle, damage to houses as well as other infrastructure, said the release. In all, the state government said it needs Rs 9,836 crore as financial assistance under the NDRF to carry out relief, rehabilitation and restoration works in the affected regions. In addition, the Gujarat government has sought an additional assistance of Rs 500 crore for the State Disaster Response Fund from the Centre, said the release. Notably, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 19 had approved an assistance of Rs 1,000 crore for "immediate relief activities" in Gujarat after conducting an aerial survey of the areas ravaged by the cyclone. He had also announced that Gujarat will get additional assistance after an inter-ministerial central team submits its assessment of damage caused by the cyclone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-government-seeks-rs-9836-crore-cyclone-aid-from-centre-995248.html
08-06-2021||West||Monsoon may arrive in Mumbai on June 9: IMD||The southwest monsoon is likely to set in over Mumbai on Wednesday, a senior official of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said here. Rains lashed the city on Tuesday morning but the Met department termed them as pre-monsoon showers. "There are indications of southwest monsoon's arrival in Mumbai on Wednesday," said Shubhangi Bhute, director of the Regional Meteorological Centre here, in the evening. "The current favourable conditions have brought showers in various parts of Mumbai today," she said in a video message. The IMD on Saturday had confirmed the arrival of the southwest monsoon in Maharashtra as it reached Harnai in coastal Ratnagiri district. But, despite favourable conditions, the monsoon's further progress seemed to be slow. The Maharashtra capital on Tuesday received showers ranging between 20 mm to 40 mm in Colaba, Mahalaxmi and parts of Dadar area, while some weather stations in north Mumbai including Chincholi, Borivali and Dahisar received around 60 mm of rainfall in the first half of the day. The IMD said in an afternoon forecast that thunderstorms accompanied with lightening or gusty winds and very heavy rain were very likely at isolated places in Mumbai, Raigad, Thane, Palghar, Pune, Nashik and some parts of Marathwada in central Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/monsoon-may-arrive-in-mumbai-on-june-9-imd-995253.html
08-06-2021||West||Goa Opposition outrage over unreported Covid-19 deaths||While Congress has demanded the resignation of Sawant and Rane, the Aam Aadmi Party has demanded a judicial probe into the late reporting of Covid deaths in the state by the private sector. "Seventy two Covid deaths were kept hidden from government records for months. This is scandalous. The government has really cheated the people of Goa, who fully need to know the data related to the pandemic. Rane and Sawant must resign instantly for this sinister plot," state Congress spokesperson Amarnath Panjikar told a press conference on Tuesday.Late on Tuesday, in its daily official statement related to Covid-19 deaths and new infections, the Health Ministry had said that 67 Covid-related deaths were reported late by private hospitals in the state. "67 additional death cases are added to the cumulative deaths, which were of the period August 5, 2020, to May 22, 2021, and have been reported late from private hospitals. The appropriate action of public health act will be initiated against these hospitals," the statement said. On Tuesday, the Health Ministry said that it was informed about five more previously unreported Covid deaths, by more private hospitals in Goa, taking the cumulative tally of previously unreported deaths to 72. The Aam Aadmi Party has also demanded a judicial probe into the issue. "@DrPramodPSawant @visrane why are the 67 deaths from Aug 20 to May 21 in fine print as footnote. We demand a judicial enquiry why 67 deaths from Aug 20 were not reported.This govt knows only to betray people of Goa," state AAP convenor Rahul Mhambre tweeted. Shocking!67 Covid deaths NOT reported by Dr Sawant Why has the Sawant Govt tried to hide this? The Goa government is already on the backfoot over the more than 80 deaths due to oxygen shortage when the second Covid wave was at its peak in the state more than a month back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-opposition-outrage-over-unreported-covid-19-deaths-995262.html
08-06-2021||West||At 7, Mumbai sees single-digit Covid-19 deaths after March 28||For the first time after March 28 this year, the Covid-19 fatalities in Mumbai fell to a single digit at seven on Tuesday. Mumbai reported 673 new coronavirus positive cases during the day, the lowest after February 23, taking the tally to 7,13,002, as per the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). With the new additions, Mumbai's death toll mounted to 15,073. Mumbai had reported 8 fatalities on March 28. Mumbai is now left with 15,701 active cases after 751 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the count of recoveries to 6,80,009, as per the BMC data. Mumbai's case recovery rate now stands at 95 per cent while the case growth rate for the period between June 1 to June 7 is 0.12 per cent, it said. The case doubling rate now stands at 543 days. Mumbai now has 27 active containment zones in slums and chawls and 98 active sealed buildings. Mumbai had logged the highest 11,163 cases on April 4 this year. The city had seen 90 deaths on May 1, which were the highest in a day during the second wave of the pandemic||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/at-7-mumbai-sees-single-digit-covid-19-deaths-after-march-28-995285.html
08-06-2021||West||Gujarat may get new Congress unit chief soon; lobbying intensifies||The Gujarat Congress may soon get a new president and an in-charge as both these posts are lying vacant following the resignation of incumbent Amit Chavda and the death of Rajiv Satav, respectively, ahead of the next year's Assembly polls, sources and a party functionary said on Tuesday. The Congress wants to give priority to Gujarat because of the 2022 polls, they said. Chavda and Gujarat Congress Legislative Party (CLP) chief Paresh Dhanani had resigned in March this year after the party lost against the BJP in the local body polls. Chavda and Dhanani were asked by the Central leadership of the Congress to continue till their replacements are found. Gujarat Congress in-charge Rajiv Satav had started the process to select a new Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) president. However, he died of post-Covid-19 complications last month. "GPCC president Amit Chavda and CLP leader Paresh Dhanani had resigned from their posts in March after the party's defeat in local body polls. The high-command may replace them as the elections are scheduled in the next year," Gujarat Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi said, adding that the party will also appoint state Congress in-charge soon. In the 2017 Gujarat Assembly polls, the Congress increased its tally to 77 while restricting the ruling BJP at 99 seats in the 182-member House. According to sources, hectic lobbying is going on for the post of the state PCC president. The high command is keen to appoint the state in-charge too. Senior leaders Shaktisinh Gohil,Bharatsinh Solanki and Arjun Modhwadia are in the race for the post of state Congress president, sources said, adding Solanki, former central minister, has been camping in Delhi for the last two days. According to sources, the names of Avinash Pandey, Mohan Prakash and B K Hariprasad are being considered as the new Gujarat in-charge for the Congress. CLP chief Dhanani may not be replaced this time, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-may-get-new-congress-unit-chief-soon-lobbying-intensifies-995310.html
08-06-2021||West||Gujarat govt appoints OSD for Rs 1,200 crore redevelopment of Sabarmati Ashram||Taking a step closer towards developing Sabarmati Ashram into a "world class memorial", the Gujarat government has appointed a retired IAS officer to the Executive Council, constituted for the project earlier this year, as an officer on special duty (OSD) for a period of one year. The state government has earmarked Rs 1,200 crore for the Gandhi Ashram Memorial and Precinct Development Project, which aims to redevelop the Ashram into its original state, when it was established back in 1917 by Mahatma Gandhi in Ahmedabad on the bank of Sabarmati river. The master planner of the project is city-based architect Bimal Patel, who is also designing the new parliament in Delhi. "The services of I K Patel, IAS (Rtd) are placed at the disposal of Industries & Mines Department (Tourism, Devasthanam management, Civil Aviation & Pilgrimage) for contractual appointment as Officer on Special Duty to the Executive Council, Sabarmati-Gandhi Ashram Memorial Project for a period of one year..." state a notification issued by the state government dated June 7. Earlier in March, the state government had passed a resolution for setting up an executive council and a governing council. Executive council is for ensuring coordination between the governing council and the implementation body while the government council, headed by chief minister Vijay Rupani, is supposed to ensure coordination between government bodies and formal and information stakeholders of the project. The redevelopment of Sabarmati Ashram aims at integrating over 35-acres of its campus which has 63 heritage properties established during Gandhi's lifetime. After independence, the Ashram was divided into five trusts- Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust (SAPMT), Sabarmati Ashram Gaushala Trust, Harijan Ashram Trust, Harijan Sevak Sangh and Khadi Gramodyog Prayog Samiti. SAPMT manages Sabarmati Ashram, popular among tourists, that houses Hriday Kunj where Gandhi lived during his stay. In the plan, around 200 families, mostly dalits, who are descendents of Ashramites who settled with Gandhi, are also likely to be evicted from their current homes and rehabilitated in the periphery of the larger Ashram. Some of the residents had protested against the plan. After several rounds of negotiations, most of the residents are said to have come to a settlement. Earlier this year, over 50 such residents were taken to the circuit house where master planner Bimal Patel gave them a presentation on redevelopment plans and their possible scheme for relocation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-appoints-osd-for-rs-1200-crore-redevelopment-of-sabarmati-ashram-995326.html
