09-06-2021||First Edit||China must come clean on virus origin||With a growing number of scientific studies indicating that SARS-CoV-2, the coronavirus responsible for the pandemic that has ravaged the world, emerged from a Wuhan laboratory, the need for an independent and comprehensive probe into the origin of the virus has become imperative. The claim that the virus may have leaked from the Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV), whether intentionally or not, has gained traction in recent weeks. US President Joe Biden has ordered American intelligence agencies to “redouble” their efforts to find out the origin of Covid-19. As DH reported recently, the first red flag about the possible lab-origin of the virus was raised in early 2020 itself by Indian biologists at IIT-Delhi who studied its protein structure. Recent studies have claimed to have found new evidence of it. A study by British professor Angus Dalgleish and Norwegian scientist Birger Sorensen, for instance, states that the SARS-CoV-2 does not have a “credible natural ancestor”, as Covid-19 samples reveal “unique fingerprints” that could have only arisen from manipulation in a lab. Their study claims that the Wuhan scientists tried to cover their tracks by retro-engineering versions of the virus to make it appear that it had evolved naturally from bats. Earlier this year, a team comprising WHO and Chinese scientists probed the pandemic’s origin. The team visited the Wuhan lab but did not seem to take the lab-leak theory seriously enough; the report paid only fleeting attention to examining this issue. It said that the coronavirus had emerged in bats and dismissed the lab-leak theory as “extremely unlikely.” In the light of several scientific studies, as well as the ongoing detective work of the disparate online group calling itself DRASTIC, pointing to the Wuhan lab as the origin of the virus, another probe must be done. Millions have lost their lives to Covid-19 and millions more will perish, and economies and the future of entire nations will continue to be threatened if we do not get a grip on the virus’ origin and nature. China likes to project itself as a responsible power. It could convince the world of this if it were transparent on the origin of the virus and its own decision-making from the time it knew of the spreading infection. For a start, it should share the case reports of the Wuhan lab employees who fell ill long before China publicly reported the first Covid-19 case. Beijing will do well to cooperate with the international community’s investigations and come clean on the whole affair. If the lab-leak theory were found to be correct without China’s cooperation, Beijing is liable to face serious consequences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/china-must-come-clean-on-virus-origin-995421.html
09-06-2021||In Perspective||Time to lift the ‘political veil’||For the better part of April and May, crematoriums were overwhelmed as thousands of dead bodies burned on funeral pyres in mass cremations across the country every day. More and more graves were dug for those that had to be buried. As if those weren’t enough, the whole world saw pictures of vultures, crows and dogs nibbling at the decomposed remains of thousands of corpses floating in the Ganga in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Patients were left to fend for themselves, citizens left gasping for oxygen, vaccines were out of stock and hospitals were out of beds even as the number of deaths continued to be underreported. The cost of both living and dying went up. India endured a Covid apocalypse. A man-made one! But even as the country’s healthcare systems crumbled and institutions virtually failed the nation, there was no accountability. Frustrated by the Election Commission holding elections in five states in the midst of the raging pandemic, the Madras High Court observed that the Commission’s officers must be booked for murder; the Allahabad High Court remarked that the death of Covid patients due to lack of oxygen supply was no less than “genocide”. The government and several institutions of the State paid absolutely no heed to warnings against holding super-spreader events. They allowed religious festivals and election rallies drawing millions of people to go ahead. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had declared earlier this year that India was in the “endgame” of the epidemic. In fact, until April, the government’s task force on Covid-19 had not met in months. Callousness was the reason why our very own government presided over a self-inflicted national catastrophe. Criticism was only inevitable.   But is criticism enough? Especially when bureaucrats and elected leaders to Offices of the Union’ are grossly negligent in their actions that subsequently leads to the deaths of thousands of innocent citizens? Will statements like “things got out of control, we take complete responsibility” or a mere apology be enough when their decisions have wreaked havoc on citizens? Are the courts’ harsh remarks a mere show of symbolism or are they hinting towards a lacuna in the law? We argue that it’s the latter. Intriguingly, why is it that legislators are very eager to hold the rest of us accountable for what we choose to do in our lives whereas they expect us citizens to ‘move on’ when things go wrong on their part. Common citizens are fined, imprisoned and even killed for disobeying the law whereas politicians get away with an apology, public criticism or in some cases, a resignation at the most. The unfairness of this model demands the criminal prosecution of leaders elected to public offices and bureaucrats for mishandling a crisis. The rule of law cannot apply disproportionately against citizens in a democracy. Such is the case only in Public Law where those taking sensitive decisions in key positions have no accountability whatsoever if their decisions lead to such a havoc as transpired during the second wave of Covid-19 in India. In Corporate Law, for instance, the courts ‘lift the corporate veil’ to hold the ‘key managerial personnel’ (KMP) of a company liable for fraud or improper conduct. We do that even in International Humanitarian Law. What stops us from using the same principle in Public Law?  This is not an exaggerated idea. The case of Iceland Prime Minister Geir Haarde is a good example. After the infamous financial crash of 2008, a Truth Commission was set up which found the Prime Minister responsible for failing to take necessary action to respond to a coming crisis. He was found grossly negligent in failing to even hold meetings with his cabinet and inform them about the impending danger. Following this, a Court of Impeachment was set up to try him and he was convicted. He challenged the decision before the European Commission on Human Rights, which later upheld the conviction. There are, however, strong arguments against prosecuting political leaders and government officials post a crisis. Some argue that the prospect of criminal liability could weaken decision-making during a crisis and that an ex-post facto rationalisation is inaccurate. But these arguments also hold true for a company and its managers as well as for citizens who we hold liable irrespective. Why are political leaders any different then?  If rule of law is to be protected, the rise of populism prevented, accountability must be sought. Above all, if citizen’s trust in State institutions is to be restored, then leaders holding public offices and government officials need to be booked for being grossly negligent. We cannot wait for the voter to decide for every wrong by exercising his right to vote once in five years. This is clearly a flawed idea and does not belong to this century.  (Anurag is a student at National Law University, Visakhapatnam and an ‘Impact Fellow’ at Global Governance Initiative; Anshumaan is a student at National Law University, Odisha)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/time-to-lift-the-political-veil-995427.html
09-06-2021||Kalaburagi||Ambulance driver arrested for attempted rape of Covid-19 patient in Karnataka||A driver of a private ambulance attempted to rape a woman Covid-19 patient at Gulbarga Institute of Medical Science (GIMS) on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. The accused has been identified as Pintu. Brahmapur police have taken him into custody. Around 12 am on Wednesday, the accused attempted to rape the 25-year-old woman, who is being treated at Jayadeva Heart Hospital located in Gulbarga. When the patient screamed, Pintu fled. On coming to know of the incident, the police visited the spot and nabbed the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/ambulance-driver-arrested-for-attempted-rape-of-covid-19-patient-in-karnataka-995477.html
09-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||1,279 artistes apply for Covid relief package in Dakshina Kannada||As many as 1,279 artistes in Dakshina Kannada district have applied for Covid relief package, as announced by the state government. The government in its relief package had announced that artistes and art troupes will be given Rs 3,000 each, benefiting 16,095 people, at an expense of Rs 4.82 crore through Kannada and Culture Department. Accordingly, the artistes of various art forms, including Yakshagana, have applied for the same through Seva Sindhu portal. However, the prescribed age limit of above 35 years to avail the assistance has not gone down well with the Yakshagana artistes. The age limit has prevented several artistes in the age group of 18 years to 35 years from seeking the assistance. Kannada and Culture Department Assistant Director Rajesh said, “The government has not given any relaxation in the age limit for the artistes. The last date for applying for the assistance is already over and the government has not extended it.” The Yakshagana artistes from outside the state and from Gadinadu, who are working with various Yakshagana Melas in Dakshina Kannada, also could not apply for the relief package. Last year, as part of relief package, the state government had disbursed Rs 2,000 each through Karnataka Yakshagana Bayalata Academy. In fact, the artistes and various organisations associated with the Yakshagana had expressed displeasure at the age limit fixed by the government to avail the relief. “The government has not given any relaxation on the age limit,” officials said. On magicians being kept out of the relief package benefit, the officer said that the department had not included magicians in the list of artistes. The government had announced relief package for the artistes of more than 25 art forms. “We can help only if the state government issues any guidelines on the same. Magic is still not included in the list of art forms announced in the list of Kannada and Culture Department,” the officer added. In fact, to help the artistes to apply online for relief package, Karnataka Tulu Sahithya Academy had arranged a team at the Academy office in Mangaluru. Accordingly, 650 artistes have applied with the help of the Academy, said Academy President Dayananda G Kathalsar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/1279-artistes-apply-for-covid-relief-package-in-dakshina-kannada-995380.html
09-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Bharatha Sindhuri': A film based on the IAS officer's life||Based on the achievements of IAS officer Rohini Sindhuri, Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wodeyar Films of Mandya city is launching a Kannada film 'Bharatha Sindhuri'. Actor Akshatha Pandavapura will enact the role of Sindhuri in the film. Writer, Director Krishna Swarnasandra will produce and direct the film. According to director Krishna, the film will be launched after the lockdown is lifted. The film will be shot in Andhra Pradesh, Rohini's native place and also at Mandya, Mysuru, Hassan and Bengaluru, where she served as officer. The Krishnaraja Wodeyar Films has already produced 'Negila Dharma' and 'Bharatha Sindhuri' will be its second venture. However, the director has claimed there is no connection between the tussle between IAS officers Rohini Sindhuri and Shilpa Nag and the launch of the film. Rohini has given approval for the script, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bharatha-sindhuri-a-film-based-on-the-ias-officers-life-995397.html
09-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||How a Karnataka village remained Covid free for a year||With effective measures, Elaneer village, under Malavanthige Gram Panchayat on the border of Chikkamagaluru district, has remained free from Covid-19 for the last one year. As many as 136 families with a total population of 632 are residing in the village. The villagers had strictly adhered to Covid-19 regulations of the state government and did not move around unnecessarily. As a result, they did not contract the infection. Mundaje Primary Health Centre Medical Officer Dr Kavya said, “The swabs of all 632 were tested for Covid-19 and the reports showed they were negative. In addition, of the total 135 persons, who are above 45 years in the village, 120 have received their first dose of vaccine and are getting ready for the second jab.” Dr Kavya and staff visited the village frequently to check on the health of the villagers. “Elaneer is situated 35 km away via Didupe from the Belthangady taluk headquarter. However, one can not travel via Didupe during monsoon and we have to travel on Karkala-Bajagoli or Charmadi-Samse route to reach the village. Owing to the precautionary measures initiated by the villagers, the village has remained free from Covid-19,” Kavya said. Asha workers visit the houses frequently to enquire about any symptoms of Covid-19. Further, the residents are also cautious and inform the health workers about anyone from outside the district arriving in the village. They ensure that those from outside the village remain in quarantine for few days in the house, the Asha workers said. The villagers have to travel six kilometres to reach Kalasa to purchase essential commodities. The Covid-19 task force is also engaged in supplying grocery items to the doorsteps of the villagers. Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V too has lauded the villagers and Asha workers for ensuring that the village is free from Covid-19. He has even directed officials to hold a vaccination camp at Elaneer. Malavanthige Gram Panchayat President Anitha said that the people of Elaneer do not come out unnecessarily and hence their contact with others from outside the village is less. Another Gram Panchayat member from Elaneer Prakash Jain said, “We have been creating awareness on the spread of Covid-19 since the beginning. Though people from Elaneer are working in different parts of the state, we had appealed to them not to return in the interest of the village.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/how-a-karnataka-village-remained-covid-free-for-a-year-995470.html
09-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru sees rise in black fungus cases||Cases of mucormycosis, also called 'black fungus', have increased in Mysuru. As many as 85 cases were reported and 10 people died due to the fungus as of June 8. While 62 persons are undergoing treatment in different hospitals, 13 people had recovered and were discharged from the hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-sees-rise-in-black-fungus-cases-995517.html
09-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vacant posts affect medical care in KR Pet taluk||Shortage in medical staff has affected the government hospital, Primary and Community health centres in KR Pet taluk, Mandya district, represented by District In-charge Minister K C Narayana Gowda. In all, 302 posts have been sanctioned, but 198 posts are vacant, leaving the patients in a lurch. Around 63% of the posts are vacant in the taluk hospital. Out of this, 37% is of 'D' group employees, which directly affects cleanliness and hygiene of hospital wards and the doctors' chambers. According to chief medical officer Dr Jayanth, shortage in medical staff includes anesthetists, dentists, senior ophthalmologists, and medical assistants. "We are managing the Covid situation with available staff," he said. The taluk has a government hospital, 20 primary health centres and two community health centres, for which 302 posts were sanctioned. But, 198 posts are yet to be filled, affecting healthcare, especially during the Covid crisis. However, it is claimed that except one health centre, all others have medical staff. But there is a lack of medical interns and postgraduates to attend to patients. There are 20 pharmacists, 11 lab technicians, 23 male and 49 women assistants, two block health education officers, 48 'D' group employees, six first grade and nine second grade clerks in KR Pet taluk. There is a shortage of five drivers, for ambulance services, the officials said. With 'Vaidyara Nade Halliya Kade' programme underway, doctors are visiting villages, examining patients at their doorsteps. Despite this, there is a rise in Covid positive cases in the taluk. The taluk administration has been appealing to the people to follow Covid guidelines, to prevent the spread of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vacant-posts-affect-medical-care-in-kr-pet-taluk-995663.html
09-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Bharatha Sindhuri’, film based on IAS officer||Based on the achievements of an IAS officer Rohini Sindhuri, Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar Films of Mandya will soon produce a Kannada film ‘Bharatha Sindhuri’. Actor Akshatha Pandavapura will enact the role of Sindhuri. Writer Krishna Swarnasandra will produce and direct the film. According to Krishna, the film will be shot after the lockdown. “Shooting will be held in Andhra Pradesh, the native of Rohini, Mandya, Mysuru, Hassan and Bengaluru, where she has served. Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar Films has already produced ‘Negila Dharma’. The director said, “There is no connection with the tussle between IAS officers Rohini Sindhuri and Shilpa Nag. The preparations are underway since last year. It will be based on the achievements of Sindhuri during her tenure in Mandya, Hassan and Mysuru. Rohini has approved the script and has expressed curiosity to watch the film.” When Sindhuri was Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer of Mandya, she made Mandya the first open defecation-free district in the state, third in the country. She bagged a national award and was appreciated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. She was instrumental in building 1.30 lakh toilets in just one year (2014-15), he said. Sindhuri strived to check child marriages and female foeticides. Mandya ZP was witness to various political developments, when she was the CEO. Seven presidents were changed during her tenure. She worked under political pressure, he recalled. Actor-politician Ambareesh had once said: “You (Rohini) are beautiful and also work efficiently” during a programme. Ambareesh’s role will also be prominent in the film, Krishna said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bharatha-sindhuri-film-based-on-ias-officer-995664.html
09-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||High command decision final over leadership change: MP||MP V Srinivas Prasad on Wednesday said that a change in leadership in the state is left to the sole discretion of the high command. Speaking to reporters, after a meeting in Kollegal, he said, "Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has clarified on the confusions and speculations over change in leadership. He has informed that he is committed to the decisions of the high command. BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel too has said there is no change in leadership, as of now. Asking the leaders not to issue statements in this regard, Kateel said that he has no opinion on this and is committed to the decision taken by the high command." Commenting on the Covid situation, Prasad said, "Covid cases are on a decline in Chamarajanagar district and the state. Death rate has also come down. Covid will come under control after June 15. The chief minister will take a suitable decision on lifting lockdown. District and taluk administrations and the Health department are working efficiently. There is no shortage of beds, oxygen or medicines in Covid hospitals." MLAs N Mahesh and B Harshavardhan, Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi, Assistant Commissioner Girish Dileep and District Health Officer Dr M C Ravi were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/high-command-decision-final-over-leadership-change-mp-995667.html
09-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||R Chetan new SP; Pradeep Gunti new DCP||IPS officer R Chetan has been appointed as new Superintendent of Police and Pradeep Gunti as Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order). R Chetan is replaced by C B Ryshyanth and Gunti by A N Prakash Gowda. Chetan, a 2010 batch IPS officer, was serving as SP Coastal Security Police, Udupi district and Gundi, a 2016 batch officer was SP, Internal Security Division, Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/r-chetan-new-sp-pradeep-gunti-new-dcp-995668.html
09-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Revanna demands resignation of MPs||MLA H D Revanna demanded the resignation of BJP MPs, alleging their failure to raise their voice against the Union government, when it meted out injustice to the state. Addressing media persons here, on Wednesday, Revanna said, “The Centre has been doing politics even in the distribution of vaccines. The MPs remained silent even when the Union government displayed its step-motherly attitude.” “The MPs travel to and fro to Delhi for getting Dearness and Travel Allowances. They have been meting out injustice to the people who voted for them. If the MPs have any respect towards them, they should tender resignation to their posts,” he said. “Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has said that he will be visiting Hassan on June 11, and discuss about the Covid situation in the district.The government shouldprovide Rs 5 lakh compensation from NDRF and Rs 1 lakh from the SDRF fund,” he stressed. “The airport project in Hassan has been kept pending since several years. Approval was given for the airport, when H D Kumaraswamy was the chief minister. But, Yediyurappa stopped the work in 2008. Similarly, an action plan for developing the Channapattana lake was prepared at an estimated cost of Rs 144 crore and a blue print was ready. Now, the funds has been stalled. The national parties are against the development of Hassan district,” he criticised. Revanna alleged that Yediyurappa was responsible for stalling the development works in the district. “He also prevented establishment of IIT in the district. If the government is not possible to disburse compensation, let it announce bankruptcy,” he ridiculed. The Union government had earmarked Rs 36,000 crore for Covid vaccines. There is no answer to what happened to the money and how much vaccines were supplied. If sufficient vaccines are not supplied to Hassan district, a protest would be staged, he warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/revanna-demands-resignation-of-mps-995669.html
09-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru sees rise in black fungus cases||Even as the incidence of Covid-19 cases are subsiding with the combined efforts of the district administration and the Health Department, cases of Mucormycosis (black fungus) are on a rise in Mysuru district. As many as 88 cases have been reported and 10 persons have died of the fungus as on Wednesday. While 62 persons are undergoing treatment in different hospitals, 16 persons have recovered and are discharged from the hospitals. While 51 patients are undergoing treatment at Krishna Rajendra (KR) Hospital of Mysuru Medical College and Research Centre (MMC&RI), six persons are under treatment at JSS Hospital, three in Apollo BGS and one each in Columbia Asia and Cauvery Hospital. The first case was detected in early May and two persons, infected with black fungus, died at KR Hospital, on May 20. With the cases of black fungus on a rise, the district administration and MMC&RI, which manages the KR Hospital, opened a separate ward for treating the patients affected by black fungus. A few patients have undergone surgeries for black fungus and are stable. According to health professionals, the infection is more likely among Covid-19 patients suffering acute diabetes and those who were treated with excessive amounts of steroids. The chances of survival of the patients can be ensured with early detection and proper care, said a medical officer. Fever, headache, cough, shortness of breath, blood while vomiting, illness, pain near eyes, nose are a few symptoms of the infection. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) suggests controlling of diabetes and diabetic ketoacidosis. ICMR has also directed reduction in use of steroids, with an aim to discontinue their use rapidly. ICMR has suggested controlling hyperglycemia and monitoring of blood glucose level post Covid-19 discharge. It also suggests use of steroid judiciously – correct timing, correct dose and duration. Use clean, sterile water for humidifiers during oxygen therapy and use antibiotics and antifungals judiciously.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-sees-rise-in-black-fungus-cases-995670.html
09-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rs 50K electricity bill per month at ex-DC’s residence: MLA||Even after IAS officer Rohini Sindhuri transferred from Mysuru, JD(S) MLA Sa Ra Mahesh continued to level allegations against the officer. After the swimming pool row, now, the official residence of Mysuru deputy commissioner is in the news for a high electricity bill. In a press conference, here on Wednesday, Mahesh said that the official residence of the DC received Rs 50,000 electricity bill per month. He released documents in this regard and said that the maximum electricity bill was Rs 7,000 to Rs 8,000 earlier. But, the electricity bill was more than Rs 50,000 in May. "The power consumption is high due to the swimming pool and gym inside the residence. If you are a prompt, upright officer, why did you go to Bengaluru, asking the CM to cancel the transfer? Why did you use official car and driver to go to Bengaluru?" he asked. The MLA said, "The officer has claimed that land mafia is the reason behind her transfer. But, she was transferred due to dereliction of duty. In the last eight months, she has never tried to vacate at least one cent of encroachment. She should have been kept under suspension, rather than transfer." “I have written a letter to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar in connection with the 10 allegations against the officer, with relevant documents. A thorough probe must be conducted. I will raise the issue in the assembly,” he said. Mahesh said, "Plans are afoot to produce a movie on an IAS officer from Andhra Pradesh. Let the movie be released, I will produce a movie on the tragic end of a Kannadiga IAS officer, also son of a farmer in 2015. The movie will be based on the CBI report.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rs-50k-electricity-bill-per-month-at-ex-dc-s-residence-mla-995671.html
09-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||MAHE to offer fee waiver for students who lost parents due to Covid-19||Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) has decided to offer a full fee waiver, as a scholarship, to its students who lost their father or mother to Covid 19 infection during this pandemic. The entire course fee will be offered as a scholarship across all programmes for the remaining duration of the study. By this MAHE hopes to ensure that such students do not face any financial difficulties and will be able to complete their course. "MAHE always stands by its students and supports them in times of difficulties. I am sure that this decision of MAHE will help students who have lost their father or mother, sole earning member of the family, to Covid infection,” MAHE Pro-Chancellor Dr H S Ballal said. MAHE in a bid to ensure the safety of its students will organise a free vaccination drive for all the students across its institutions. MAHE plans to vaccinate 25,000 students. This initiative will ensure the safety of all its students on the campus. MAHE administration will bear the entire cost of this vaccination drive for its students. Ballal said; "MAHE is in the forefront to ensure safety for all its students. The drive will be organised in line with protocols. Everyone needs to get vaccinated to fight the virus and contain the spread. “ MAHE has begun vaccinating students staying in the hostels. The drive will also help all our students who are residing in and around Manipal. These students are requested to contact their respective institutions to get their vaccinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mahe-to-offer-fee-waiver-for-students-who-lost-parents-due-to-covid-19-995683.html
09-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru tops among districts in vaccination with 9.57L doses||Outside the Bruhath Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) limits, Mysuru tops the vaccination list among districts with 9.57 lakh doses administered till June 8. Belagavi is second with 7.91 lakh doses, making up only a fraction of the 1.56 crore vaccinations completed in Karnataka since January 16. Despite a late surge, the vaccination numbers from the districts are low as an estimated 3.26 crore people are in the target group. In the 18-44 years age group, only 22.87 lakh people have been vaccinated so far with the first dose. Less than 4,300 have been administered the second dose in the entire state. Data from the Department of Health and Family Welfare shows that five districts have crossed the five lakh doses mark. Besides Mysuru, Belagavi with 7.91 lakh doses, Tumakuru (6.13 lakh), Ballari (6.04) and Dakshina Kannada with 5.26 lakh are on this list. Kodagu has seen the least number of vaccinations with only 1.68 lakh doses. Of the 1.56 crore vaccinated in the state, 36.28 lakh are in the BBMP limits. While 10.18 lakh are in the 18-44 age group, as many as 15.7 lakh people in the 45+ age group have been given the first dose. As many as 4.65 lakh people under this category have been administered the second dose, the highest in the state. State-wide, a total of 90.93 lakh people over 45 years of age have been given the first dose, and 22.06 lakh the second dose. A week back, on June 2, this figure for the younger age group stood at 12.97 lakh and 86 lakh for the older category.  So far, Kolar has completed the maximum number of vaccinations in the 18-44 category outside BBMP with 1.48 lakh doses. Mysuru tops the list again under the 45+ category with 6.36 lakh doses administered. Facing a critical shortage of vaccines, the state has still a steep mountain to climb. Currently facing an active caseload of 2.25 lakh, Karnataka has already seen 32,099 deaths due to the dreaded Covid-19. The test positivity rate for Wednesday stood at 6.68%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-tops-among-districts-in-vaccination-with-957l-doses-995696.html
09-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||I won't talk on change of Karnataka CM: V Somanna||Minister for Housing V Somanna stated that BJP high command has instructed the party leaders not to make any comment on change of chief minister. The central leadership has considered the issue seriously. Speaking to media persons here on Wednesday, he said there is no dissidence in BJP. State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel has made it clear that chief minister post is not vacant in the state. He said Covid-19 has hit the entire country and Karnataka is also yet to recover from it. The government's objective is to eradicate the Covid strain from the state and safeguard public health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/i-wont-talk-on-change-of-karnataka-cm-v-somanna-995497.html
09-06-2021||Main Article||‘Gujarat Model’ in Lakshadweep||A little-known member of the BJP has set off a political storm in Lakshadweep, the tranquil archipelago of coral islands and reefs that makes up India’s smallest Union Territory (UT). He is the recently appointed administrator, Praful Khodabhai Patel, who in a telling picture on an official website can be seen bowing in what appears to be servile gratitude to his political master, Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Patel was the administrator of Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu, where his profile notes that he is a diploma holder in civil engineering and began his career in the construction sector. Patel took over on December 8, 2020, as the administrator of Lakshadweep, where he is talking shades of a language that the BJP tried, tested and perfected first in Gujarat – the so-called story of development, contracts, power to detain, beef ban, control on the number of children you can have, and some tough administrative action against local fisherfolk. Understandably, he has set off protests and demands that he be recalled, the strongest voices coming from Kerala, which is the closest in affinity and language and culture to the archipelago. There is enough already written on how the ecological balance of these frontier islands will be destroyed, of how the equivalent of a ‘Goonda Act’ is being enforced to stave off protests against the outpouring of “development” with the push for tourism and how this is a prescription-BJP agenda being forced on a population that is 96.58% Muslim (2011 census). For example, the draft ‘Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation, 2021’ sets out “prohibition against selling or buying beef or beef products” (Section 8), “power to enter and inspect premises” (Section 9), “prohibition against slaughter without certificate from Competent Authority” (Section 5). Here’s a police State coming for the people of Lakshadweep, from not one but many angles as the administration prepares to welcome luxury tourism to the calm waters and the unspoilt beauty of the islands In fact, just one day after he took over, Patel visited “various construction sites” and evaluated the developmental activities of Lakshadweep and ongoing projects. A little over a month later (Jan. 16-18), on a visit to Moola beach, he said this was an “apt location for adventure and beach tourism”. In February 2021, official records show him again as visiting various construction sites. It is not that Lakshadweep does not need support and development, but the kind of development being envisaged will wreck the islands, deliver an ecological disaster and render the local residents poorer, pushed to the margins of a model that will import advisers, strategists, hoteliers and the like. Patel himself is an import, with big questions on his qualifications to lead the islands. He was a Gujarat Assembly member who took over the state home portfolio when Amit Shah quit as home minister in Gujarat following his arrest in the Sohrabuddin case. Patel lost a subsequent election there, even when the BJP won the state. He is quite obviously close to the leadership to be handpicked to run first Daman & Diu and now Lakshadweep, though he is a political lightweight. Something has pulled him to the top of a place he knows nothing about, and he thinks not twice about pulling it apart. This is the harm the BJP delivers to the nation and its unity and strength – naked, in your face, care-a-damn and often openly and defiantly on an ugly agenda. Lakshadweep is one more example of how bad things can get under the BJP. We stand to lose freedom, integrity of political process, the safety of our land and people and an ethos that has helped the nation stand proudly democratic while others around us failed. But there is another loss that the BJP delivers that is not so well discussed in the face of the nakedness of the obvious, in-your-face, harm. And this is that it pretends to bring change, like the argument that political leaders can head UTs, and why should it be that only a retired bureaucrat be given this portfolio, as has been the case in the past. This is a fair argument, and the BJP could have set a new precedent by giving the UTs a clean, efficient, people-oriented leader who understands local sensitivities and protects and guards and empowers. That would be the best way to show that political functionaries can lead as administrators in a way that bureaucrats, often retired after long years of comfortable berths, cannot. But even in this change, the BJP has delivered a no-ball. Patel is the administrator you can pick and say this is the kind you do not need, and that the practice of having bureaucrats here must therefore continue. In short, there is nothing on the agenda of change from past practices that can stand out as fundamental and constructive in the approach, outlook and direction of the BJP. In the changes that the BJP seeks, short-termism, narrow mindedness and a twisted Hindutva agenda overpowers. This cannot offer lasting approaches or bring fresh thinking to the idea of people-led growth and development. This is so in every sphere. The BJP tends to speak of the rich history of India, but it has done nothing to support, build or nurture the depth of study that the Indian scriptures or wisdom traditions offer. In fact, its leaders stand out as unscholarly and understand none of the values that make India what it is. The BJP speaks of the depth of Indian thinking, but it has done everything to smother dialogue, debate and openness – the very stuff that is inherently Indian and has deep traditions in Indian society. The BJP speaks of ‘Lutyens Delhi’ that it wants to break but it is only creating its own version of Lutyens Delhi, with its pick of players. In short, look around and what we can see is a party in a hurry to capture, command and control, all in the name of the rich traditions that make India great but, in actuality, it is an attack on those traditions to make India smaller and smaller, day by day. Lakshadweep is only the latest hot spot in a national heat map that is burning India across many places and institutions. (The writer is a journalist and faculty member at SPJIMR. Views are personal) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/gujarat-model-in-lakshadweep-995424.html
09-06-2021||National||Restaurant business didn’t go well, Kanta Prasad is back at 'Baba ka dhaba'||A little less than a year after Kanta Prasad of 'Baba ka dhaba' fame was showered with monetary support from across the country resulting in the opening of a restaurant, the 80-year-old is back at his roadside eatery, following a short and unsuccessful stint as a restauranteur. “The restaurant did well in the beginning. After a while, customers stopped coming, and the expenses were a lot more than the income. I had to spend Rs 1 lakh to run the restaurant, but we were earning only Rs 30,000,” Prasad said, adding he is back at his old dhaba and is “happy” with it. When asked why he decided to open a restaurant so soon after receiving the monetary support, he said he was encouraged about the idea by some social workers, including Tushant Adlakha. “The social workers came and did everything. They only set up the restaurant. I did not know or understand what they were doing,” he said. Prasad came into the spotlight last year when a post on social media showing him crying because of his financial woes became viral, provoking overwhelming support in cash and in kind. Prasad allegedly received a total of Rs 42 lakh as help, said social worker Adlakha, who had helped ‘baba’ set up the new restaurant. He however denied Prasad’s allegations about encouraging him to open a restaurant. “He already had the idea. I just helped him execute what he and his sons wanted,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/restaurant-business-didn-t-go-well-kanta-prasad-is-back-at-baba-ka-dhaba-995391.html
09-06-2021||National||Biden Asia chief 'relatively confident' on billion vaccine timing despite India crisis||President Joe Biden's policy coordinator for the Indo-Pacific said on Tuesday he was "relatively confident" a target for the production of a billion vaccine doses for the region by the end of 2022 would be met, despite the Covid-19 crisis in India, where they are due to be made. Asked at an online event hosted by the Center for a New American Security think tank if he expected a delay in the four-nation plan, which was announced at the White House in March with great fanfare, Kurt Campbell said Washington had been in close consultation with India and others involved in the project. "Obviously, this is an extremely difficult period for Indian friends. The United States has tried to stand with Delhi and to bring others, both in the private and public sector, to support them," he said. Our discussions with both our partners in the private sector, and also in government, suggests that we are - knock on wood - still on track for 2022." "I think we're feeling relatively confident as we head in to 2022," he added, while stressing that across Asia and the world even countries that did well in handling the virus were facing outbreaks due to new strains. "I think we understand, the only way to be effective, to counter this, is through vaccine diplomacy. We're trying to step that up more generally," he said. The United States, India, Japan and Australia, a grouping known as the Quad, agreed at a March summit that Indian drugmaker Biological E Ltd would produce at least a billion vaccine doses by the end of 2022 that would go to Southeast Asian countries, elsewhere in the Indo-Pacific, and beyond. India, the world's largest vaccine producer, was subsequently hit by a catastrophic wave of infections and halted vaccine exports amid intense criticism of Prime Minster Narendra Modi for a domestic vaccine rollout that covered less than 5% of his country's estimated adult population of 950 million.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biden-asia-chief-relatively-confident-on-billion-vaccine-timing-despite-india-crisis-995400.html
09-06-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on June 9||India reported less than one lakh Covid-19 cases for the second straight day on Wednessday, bringing in sight the receding of the second wave of the virus.  However, the fatality rate is still quite high. Death figures have a built-in lag as many who were infected during the wave are succumbing to the illness weeks later.  Coronavirus in India Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  2,90,89,069 as of June 9, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  3,53,528 as of June 9, 2021 Total Vaccination: 23,90,58,360 No. of people discharged: 2,75,04,126 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-june-9-995405.html
09-06-2021||National||India logs 92,596 daily Covid-19 cases; 2,219 deaths||India reported 92,596 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the infection tally to 2,90,89,069, while the number of active cases dropped to 12,31,415, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Wednesday. The daily infections remained below one lakh for the second straight day. The death toll due to Covid-19 reached 3,53,528 with 2,219 more fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases has reduced to 12,31,415, comprising 4.23 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 94.55 per cent. A net decline of 72,287 cases has been recorded in the Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 19,85,967 tests were conducted on Tuesday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 37,01,93,563, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 4.66 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for 16 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 5.66 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 27 consecutive days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,75,04,126, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.22 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 23,90,58,360 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. India had crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4. The 2,219 new fatalities include 702 from Maharashtra, 409 from Tamil Nadu, 179 from Karnataka and 124 from Kerala. A total of 3,53,528 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,01,172 from Maharashtra, 32,099 from Karnataka, 27,765 from Tamil Nadu, 24,668 from Delhi, 21,425 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,460 from West Bengal, 15,219 from Punjab and 13,257 from Chhattisgarh. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-92596-daily-covid-19-cases-2219-deaths-995442.html
09-06-2021||National||Mehul Choksi's bail hearing adjourned till June 11||The Dominica High Court has adjourned the bail hearing of fugitive diamond merchant Mehul Choksi till June 11, local media reports stated. Choksi had approached the high court after the magistrate rejected his bail petition. The bail hearing took place before high court judge Wynante Adrien-Roberts through video-conferencing on the plea of Choksi's local legal team comprising Julien Prevost, Wayne Norde, Wayne Marsh and Cara Shillingford-Marsh. The government side represented by Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) Sherma Dalrymple "strongly objected" to Choksi's plea calling him a flight risk, Dominica News Online reported. The judge adjourned the matter till June 11, it said. The high court is also hearing a separate matter of habeas corpus filed by Choksi's team in which the hearing has also been adjourned. Choksi had mysteriously gone missing on May 23 from Antigua and Barbuda where he has been staying since 2018 as a citizen. He was detained in neighbouring island country Dominica for illegal entry after a possible romantic escapade with his rumoured girlfriend. His lawyers alleged that he was kidnapped from Jolly Harbour in Antigua by policemen looking like Antiguan and Indian and brought to Dominica on a boat. The businessman was also brought before a Roseau magistrate on the orders of high court judge Bernie Stephenson, hearing the habeas corpus matter, to answer charges of illegal entry where he pleaded not guilty but was denied bail||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mehul-choksis-bail-hearing-adjourned-till-june-11-995443.html
09-06-2021||National||Personal details on CoWIN vaccine certificate wrong? You can correct it online!||The government has announced a new update that enables an applicant to correct any inadvertent errors in name, year of birth and gender printed on the CoWIN vaccination certificate. Users can make the correction through the CoWIN website. "Now you can make corrections to your name, year of birth and gender on your Cowin vaccination certificates if inadvertent errors have come in," the official handle of the Aarogya Setu app tweeted on Wednesday. The CoWIN vaccination certificates are used at the time of travel and helps in the access of several other premises. Earlier, the government had also allowed people who are vaccinated to update their status voluntarily on the Aarogya Setu app through a self-assessment process. Those who have got the single dose of the vaccine will get a single blue border with vaccination status on their home screen along with Aarogya Setu logo with a single tick. A 'Blue Shield' with double tick will appear on the app for those who are fully vaccinated, after 14 days of the second dose. This double tick will appear after verification of vaccination status from the CoWIN portal. Vaccination status can be updated through the mobile number used for CoWIN registration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/personal-details-on-cowin-vaccine-certificate-wrong-you-can-correct-it-online-995457.html
09-06-2021||National||Uber to hire close to 250 engineers in India to expand tech, product teams||Uber on Wednesday announced it is recruiting close to 250 engineers for its Bengaluru and Hyderabad-based teams, as the company continues to expand the scope of operations for its engineering and product work in the country. The current round of hiring will strengthen the company'srider and driver growth, delivery, eats, digital payments, risk & compliance, marketplace, customer obsession, infrastructure, adtech, data, safety and finance technology teams, a Uber statement said. These roles are currently split between the Hyderabad and Bengaluru tech centres. Uber said its expansion plans are in line with its vision to make mobility and delivery more accessible, and to become the backbone of transportation in over 10,000 cities across the globe. Senior Director - Engineering, Manikandan Thangarathnam, said,"Our teams in Hyderabad and Bengaluru work on important global mandates, and pioneer various industry-first innovations." "In order to serve more people across the globe, were expanding our teams and are looking for bright engineering minds so we can collectively solve mobility and delivery challenges across all our global markets", he said. Uber has started reaching out to prospective candidates for building new teams and adding to existing ones, including Uber infrastructure, Eats, Marketplace, Risk and Payments, Uber for Business (U4B), marketing and advertising platforms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uber-to-hire-close-to-250-engineers-in-india-to-expand-tech-product-teams-995471.html
09-06-2021||National||India's low-income frontline workers burned by rising fuel prices||Rizwanudeen, a 37-year old worker who delivers food in the southern Indian city of Chennai, struggles to pay his rent and loan instalments at the end of every month as he has been hit by the double whammy of higher fuel prices and fewer food orders. Millions of weekly wage earners like Rizwanudeen who make their living ferrying goods or people throughout India have been hit hard by record high fuel prices which are among the highest in Asia, having risen by a third in the 15 months since the coronavirus first struck the country. The average cost of a litre of petrol in Mumbai has risen above 100 rupees ($1.37) this month, 50 to 70% more than in Bangkok, Hanoi and Manila. State and federal taxes, which have doubled since Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power in 2014, account for more than 60% of India's retail fuel price. With the federal government facing ballooning healthcare costs tied to its ongoing battle with Covid-19, and committed to vast farm and other subsidies, a finance ministry official said there was little scope for a meaningful tax cut that might ease the pain on low earners. "I used to spend 1,500 rupees ($20.58) a week on petrol before the pandemic, now I spend 2,000 rupees. I am already earning less due to fewer orders due to lockdowns," Rizwanudeen lamented, saying a third of his earnings went on fuel. For an Indian earning the average national wage, a litre of petrol  would take up a quarter of their daily income, according to Reuters calculations. Federal government fuel tax revenues have risen 80% to 2.55 trillion rupees over six years ending 2019/20, P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarajan, the finance minister of southern Tamil Nadu state said in a meeting on taxes in May. But tax revenues shared with the states have declined by over Rs 20,000 crore over that period, he added, echoing a common gripe among state officials over fuel tax allocations. With total federal tax collections hit by the industrial slowdown caused by coronavirus-induced lockdowns, New Delhi has been reluctant to lower fuel taxes, even after oil prices collapsed to multi-year lows last year. State authorities, which have faced soaring healthcare costs this year due to the pandemic, have blamed the federal levies for the higher prices. The federal government in turn has said it would only cut taxes if states-level taxes are cut. Inflation warnings Despite the standoff over who should move first to lower tax rates, the country's central bank governor Shaktikanta Das acknowledged last week that surging fuel prices posed a threat to the broader economy and required coordinated action by central and state governments. His warnings came after India's wholesale price index surged 10.49% year-on year in April. Further key cost increases are on the way. Rental rates of trucks, which deliver everything from perishable produce to machine parts in India, could rise by 10% this month on the back of higher fuel costs, said SP Singh, senior fellow at Indian Foundation of Transport Research & Training. "In May, rentals declined as truckers saddled with monthly instalments for vehicle purchases were absorbing fuel prices in the absence of business. Now, as lockdowns are easing, freight rates are firming up," Singh said. RBI Governor Das also said that while federal and state governments may be inclined to tackle high fuel prices, their options may be limited by their already-tattered budgets. For Selva Murugan, a 35-year old former driver around Chennai for car service Ola, the damage has already been done. "I was able to pay my loan dues when diesel cost about 65 rupees a litre. After that, I started feeling the crunch and around the time it touched 75 rupees I decided to sell my car," Murugan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-low-income-frontline-workers-burned-by-rising-fuel-prices-995482.html
09-06-2021||National||DRDO invites EoI to transfer technology of 2-DG drug for bulk production||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), which developed 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose (2-DG), a drug used for treatment of Covid-19 patients, has called for Expression of Interest (EoI) to transfer the technology to Indian pharmaceutical industries for production. 2-DG was developed by the Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences (INMAS), a lab of DRDO, in collaboration with Dr Reddy's Laboratories. Clinical trial results have shown that this molecule helps in faster recovery of hospitalised patients and reduces supplemental oxygen dependence. Higher proportion of patients treated with 2-DG showed RT-PCR negative conversion in Covid patients. According to the EoI document, applications should be submitted before June 17 through email. "The EoI submitted by industries will be scrutinised by a Technical Assessment Committee (TAC). Only up to 15 industries will be given ToT on their capabilities, technical hand holding capability of DRDO and on First Come First Served Basis," it said. The bidders should have a Drug license to manufacture Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API) from Drug Licensing Authorities and WHO GMP (Good manufacturing Practices) certification among others. Laboratory synthesis process for 2-DG has been developed using D-Glucose as starting material. The synthesis process consists of conversion of D-Glucose to 2-DG through five chemical reaction steps followed by purification. The process has been established at batch scale (100g) and pilot plant scale (500g) and necessary patents have been filed by DRDO in this regard, the Defence body said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-invites-eoi-to-transfer-technology-of-2-dg-drug-for-bulk-production-995483.html
09-06-2021||National||Agra hospital shut down after oxygen 'mock drill' fiasco||Following the video clip of an owner of a private hospital in Agra talking about cutting Covid-19 patients’ oxygen supply as a part of a “mock drill” surfaced on the internet, the Agra district administration has now ordered sealing of the hospital. The incident took place at Shri Paras Hospital in Agra, where the owner of the hospital carried out a mock drill in which the oxygen supply was cut out for five minutes to find out which Covid-19 patients would die in case of oxygen shortage. In the video, Jain said he was warned by the “biggest (oxygen) supplier” of Agra that due to limited stock, oxygen will only last till April 26. “Kuch log ko vyaktigat taur pe samjhana shuru kiya… Kuch log… bole nahin jayenge. Maine kaha koi nahin ja raha, dimag mat lagao… ab woh chhaanto jinke oxygen bandh ho sakti hai. Ek trial maar do, mock drill karke dekh lo. Samajh jayenge kaun sa marega, kaun sa nahi marega. (We started making some patients understand individually. Some of them didn’t agree to leave. I told that there’s no need to think so much, now identify whose oxygen supply stopped. Do one trial, try to do a mock drill. We will get to know who will die and who won’t),” Jain can be heard saying in the video. “Ek mock drill kari humne subah 7 baje… Shoonya kar diye sabke. Phir chhaant gaye 22 mareej… Turant khol diye. 22 chhaant gaye je marenge. Chhatpata gaye, neele padne lage… Chalo, 74 bache… Time mil jayega… Sabse bada prayog yahi raha (We conducted a mock drill at 7 am. We brought it [oxygen supply] to zero. Then 22 patients (in critical state) were filtered out … Then restored supply immediately. Those patients were started turning blue… 74 remained… We got some time… It was our biggest experiment),” he added. When questioned about the incident on Tuesday, Jain told The Indian Express, “We adjusted the bed flow of oxygen of patients just to check what amount was required. Since everyone had been saying that oxygen must be used judiciously, we decided to adjust levels to see if we could use less. We identified 22 patients who required high-flow oxygen. We had sleepless nights over oxygen supply and this was our experiment to stabilise supply. We did not cut off oxygen as is being said everywhere. There is no irreversible impact of lowering oxygen supply." “We would send five cylinders wherever there was scarcity. In the case of Paras Hospital, we first sent five cylinders. When they faced more requirement, and their usual vendor could not deliver, we sent them cylinders through one of our suppliers,” Prabhu Narain Singh told the publication. After a probe by ADM (City) and the Chief Medical Officer (CMO), the district administration ordered the hospital to shut down from June 8. There are 55 patients in the hospital who need to be shifted elsewhere and the CMO will be in charge of it, Singh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/agra-hospital-shut-down-after-oxygen-mock-drill-fiasco-995486.html
09-06-2021||National||NIV researchers identify new weight loss-inducing Covid-19 variant B.1.1.28.2||Scientists at Pune’s National Institute of Virology have isolated and characterised a coronavirus variant from two travellers — one who returned from the UK and the other from Brazil — that exhibits increased disease severity in hamsters but doesn’t pose a public health problem at the moment. The two samples of the B.1.1.28.2 variant are the only ones of its kind isolated by Indian labs so far. The variant was isolated from nasal/throat swabs from a traveller who returned to India from the UK in December 2020, and another who came back from Brazil in January 2021. The samples of the variant, first identified in Brazil last year, were collected as part of the ongoing SARS-CoV-2 genomic surveillance. “The finding is significant since the variant is classified as a variant of interest by the World Health Organization,” said study lead author Pragya Yadav from ICMR-NIV Pune. “We also observed an increased disease severity and neutralisation reduction in the study which point towards the need for screening the current vaccines for efficacy,” Yadav told PTI. To understand the pathogenicity of the variant, researchers infected nine Syrian hamsters with the B.1.1.28.2 variant and compared it to nine animals infected with the B.1 variant, which is defined by one mutation of concern in spike protein, i.e D614G. Spike protein helps the virus to infect and enter human cells. The authors of the yet-to-be-published study, posted on the preprint repository BioRxiv on May 24, noted that B.1.1.28.2 induced body weight loss, viral reproduction in the respiratory tract, lung lesions, and caused severe lung disease in the infected hamsters in comparison with those infected with the B.1 variant. The blood plasma isolated from hamsters infected with the B.1.1.28.2 variant of coronavirus efficiently neutralised the B.1 variant. However, a six-fold reduction in the antibody neutralisation was seen in case of blood serum isolated from the B.1 mutant infected hamsters on the B.1.1.28.2 coronavirus variant. Antibody neutralisation renders the virus no longer infectious or pathogenic. A mutation means a change in a nucleic acid base or amino acid molecule, and a virus containing this change is termed a mutant.   Mutations eventually accumulate to generate variants that differ from the original virus more and more, and so, a variant can have limited or even cumulative mutations, Yadav explained. The findings of increased disease severity and antibody neutralisation reduction is of great concern and point towards the need for screening the current vaccines for efficacy, the researchers noted in the paper. Yadav said the variant has shown potential reduction in neutralisation by some monoclonal antibody treatments and reduced neutralisation by post-vaccination blood serum from some mRNA vaccines. While RNA is the genetic material of the coronavirus, messenger RNA or mRNA vaccines teach our cells how to make a protein or a part of it that triggers an immune response inside our bodies. Monoclonal antibody therapy uses lab-made antibodies to treat Covid-19 in patients at high risk for developing severe illness. According to Yadav, the variant at the moment does not pose a public health problem for the country. She said the research team had performed another study in April to assess the neutralisation potential of the blood serum from natural SARS-CoV-2 infected individuals and recipients of the Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine developed by the Hyderabad based Bharat Biotech. She said the two-dose inactivated virus vaccine significantly neutralised the B.1.1.28.2 variant, adding, therefore that immunisation should protect individuals against it. Over the year of the Covid-19 pandemic, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Corona virus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) has accumulated severe mutations leading to the emergence of new variants. The first SARS-CoV-2 variant of concern, B.1.1.7 was identified in late December in the UK which is now reported in more than 62 countries. The recent emergence of B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2 has caused concern in India, with some blaming the variants for the devastating second wave in the country. Yadav said active epidemiological surveillance is ongoing in India with the partnership of multiple agencies and the country is capable of detecting any warning signals in time to alert the concerned authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/niv-researchers-identify-new-weight-loss-inducing-covid-19-variant-b11282-995487.html
09-06-2021||National||Kerala govt selling ayurvedic medicine made from cow urine, cow dung||The Kerala government-owned ayurvedic medicine company, Oushadhi, is selling ‘Panchagavya Ghrutham’ made from cow urine and cow dung. This five-ingredient medicine is made from cow dung, cow urine, cow milk, ghee and curd. Oushadhi claims that ‘Panchagavya Ghrutham’ can be used to cure mental diseases, jaundice, fever and epilepsy; and also improves memory power and concentration. This move of the Kerala government has garnered the attention of social media. Last year, the Kerala government asked the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to look at a petition seeking permission to use ayurvedic medicine from cow urine for Covid-19 treatment. Oushadhi is one of the largest public-sector ayurveda companies in the country, producing 498 ayurvedic formulas while offering various ayurvedic treatment services in Panchakarma Hospital. In 2015, the Kerala government gained revenue worth Rs 82 crore from Oushadhi, while the profit margin increased from Rs 10 crore to Rs 23 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-govt-selling-ayurvedic-medicine-made-from-cow-urine-cow-dung-995489.html
09-06-2021||National||Here’s the real reason behind the viral matrimonial ad seeking a 'vaccinated groom'||Figueiredo came up with the idea to put out an ad like this after he lost close friends in the second wave of Covid-19. He was determined to spread the word on vaccine awareness. “I lost very dear friends in the second wave because they did not get vaccinated in spite of me begging them,” he told the publication. In the original post, he shared the humourous ad with the details of the vaccination centre and details of the vaccine. As soon as the post went viral, Figueiredo started getting calls from Kolkata, Odisha and Mangaluru inquiring about the matrimonial ad. “It was meant for just my friends on Facebook. But if it means that some people will get motivated and convinced to get vaccinated, I don’t care about the inconvenience,” he said about the calls he has been getting ever since the ad went viral. The 58-year-old said he is happy that his ad reached a large audience, stressing that he never meant for it to go viral in the first place. “If even 10 people who are on the fence get vaccinated, I will be satisfied,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/here-s-the-real-reason-behind-the-viral-matrimonial-ad-seeking-a-vaccinated-groom-995501.html
09-06-2021||National||Centre reserves all govt jobs in Ladakh for locals||In a major decision that could bring joy to the residents of frontier Ladakh region, the Union Territory (UT) administration has reserved all government jobs for the locals. Though the rules to define the criteria of such locals are yet to be framed, it shall come into force from the date of its publication in the official gazette. The new recruitment rules were announced by Ladakh’s Lieutenant Governor R K Mathur on Tuesday. “No person shall be qualified for appointment to the Service unless the person is a Resident of Union Territory of Ladakh,” read the Union Territory of Ladakh Employment (Subordinate) Service Recruitment Rules, 2021. However, this rule shall not apply to persons allotted service in UT of Ladakh under the provisions of section 89(2) of Jammu and Kashmir Re-organization Act 2019, or such rules as may be prescribed by the administration, it adds. As per 2011 census, the population of Ladakh, which comprises the districts of Leh and Kargil, was around 2.7 lakh. The UT of Ladakh was created after bifurcation of erstwhile State of Jammu & Kashmir on August 5, 2019. By reserving jobs for the locals, the Centre has addressed a key demand of the people of Ladakh. Last year, J&K introduced the domicile certificate as eligibility criteria for appointment to government services, replacing Permanent Resident Certificate (PRC), which had been rendered null and void after the abrogation of the special status.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-reserves-all-govt-jobs-in-ladakh-for-locals-995509.html
09-06-2021||National||PAGD vows to fight for restoration of J&K’s special status||Asserting that they stand by its 4 August 2019 declaration, the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), on Wednesday reiterated that it will continue to fight for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. The meeting which was chaired by National Conference (NC) chief Farooq Abdullah, who is also the president of the PAGD vowed that there had been no change in their stance on the 4 August 2019 declaration. PAGD - an alliance of NC, PDP, CPI, CPM, Peoples Movement and Awami National Conference- was formed in October last by Kashmir centric leaders with the pledge of perseverance and steadfastness towards the restoration of the special status of J&K revoked by the Center in August 2019. However, for the last almost six months, the alliance neither could hold any meetings nor issue any statement. Differences started cropping up in the PAGD after the District Development Council (DDC) polls. People’s Conference led by Sajad Lone parted ways accusing the bigger parties of fielding proxy candidates. The meeting took place at a time when rumours have been going agog in Kashmir that the Center was planning to further bifurcate J&K. Heavy troops movement and J&K LG Manoj Sinha’s recent visit to New Delhi fuelled these rumours further. Officials have clarified the troops were on poll duty in West Bengal and other states and have now returned. Holding the first meeting since December at PDP president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti’s Fairview residence in Srinagar, the PAGD leaders declared that they will go by the resolution passed a day before the abrogation of Article 370. The resolution states that all the parties would be united in their resolve to protect and defend the identity, autonomy and special status of J&K against all attacks and onslaughts whatsoever. Talking to reporters after the meeting Abdullah said the PAGD has and will remain always open for everyone. Asked whether today’s meeting was an outcome of recent speculations that the Center may further bifurcate Jammu and Kashmir, he said, “We have not been asked or informed about anything so far regarding the ongoing speculations.” The PAGD also appointed CPI (M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami as its new spokesperson in place of Sajjad Lone. Tarigami told reporters that the alliance will not leave any stone unturned for the betterment of the people of J&K. “The alliance will use every opportunity for the wellbeing of the people,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pagd-vows-to-fight-for-restoration-of-jk-s-special-status-995524.html
09-06-2021||National||States still have over 1.33 crore vaccine doses: Centre||More than 1.33 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and union territories and over 3 lakh doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. Over 25 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far, through the government of India (free of cost channel) and through the direct state procurement category. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage, is 23,74,21,808 doses (according to data available at 8 am on Wednesday), the ministry said. "A total of 1,33,68,727 Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and UTs to be administered.  "Furthermore, 3,81,750 vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by states and UTs within the next three days," the ministry said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the government of India has been supporting states and UTs by providing them Covid-19 vaccines free of cost. In addition, the government of India has also been facilitating direct procurement of vaccines by states and UTs. Vaccination is an integral pillar of the comprehensive strategy of the government of India for containment and management of the pandemic, along with 'test, track, treat' and Covid appropriate behaviour. Implementation of the liberalised and accelerated phase-3 strategy of Covid-19 vaccination had started from May 1 this year. Under the strategy, in every month 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer would be procured by the government of India.  It would continue to make these doses available to the state governments totally free of cost as was being done earlier, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-still-have-over-133-crore-vaccine-doses-centre-995525.html
09-06-2021||National||Vaccination going to drive revival of tourism sector: Culture and Tourism Minister Prahlad Patel||Vaccination is going to drive the revival of the tourism sector, Culture and Tourism Minister Prahlad Patel said on Wednesday, adding that the government is working on a uniform policy and setting up protocols for travellers getting vaccinated against Covid-19. Patel, while addressing an event to launch Confederation of Hospitality, Technology and Tourism Industry (CHATT), an industry body of travel and hospitality tech players like Airbnb, EaseMyTrip, OYO and Yatra, who have come together to help smaller operators in the tourism sector, said the industry needs to be ready for all kinds of travellers and offer them varied choices. He lauded the efforts of the new-age technology, travel and hospitality companies that have come together to promote the interest of the smallest and often under-represented operators and work together with the government on various fronts in this space. "CHATT's formation is a landmark decision to boost India's robust domestic tourism market and support small hotel partners, homeowners, agents to expand their offerings catering to the needs of tourists. The Tourism Ministry is continuously making efforts to make data available of hotels, homestays on a unified portal, NIDHI, to benefit tourists and CHATT will play a crucial role in it." "Vaccination is going to drive the tourism sector's revival and we are working on a uniform policy and setting up protocols for travellers getting vaccinated against Covid-19. The consolidated efforts by CHATT will be highly beneficial for SME, MSMEs hotels, homeowners, partners, and I welcome them to join various government committees to represent the unified voice of the industry," he said. CHATT aims to promote domestic tourism, lead the digital transformation of tourism-related business and operating models, proactively engage via advocacy programmes to be a thought leader, impart educational training and beneficial programs to all industry segments. Every member will be able to access all CHATT resources and benefits, including participation in year-round programs, signature business events, access to the travel-tech ecosystem, including experts and regional leads, a statement from CHATT said. "The efforts of CHATT are highly inclusive and once the impact of second-wave subsides a group like CHATT will present greater economic impact. Technology is at the forefront of many initiatives at the Ministry of Tourism and we look forward to closely working with CHATT to strengthen the sector," said Tourism Secretary Arvind Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccination-going-to-drive-revival-of-tourism-sector-culture-and-tourism-minister-prahlad-patel-995542.html
09-06-2021||National||Arunachal Pradesh villagers lap up offer of free rice in return for Covid-19 jabs||Free rice in return for a Covid-19 jab, and as much as 20 kg. The prospect turned out to be lucrative enough to dispel rumours around vaccination among villagers of an administrative circle in Arunachal Pradesh, as over 80 of them turned up on foot for the inoculation within days of the announcement of the sop. The brainchild of Circle Officer Tashi Wangchuk Thongdok of Yazali in Lower Subansiri district, the offer of free rice for those getting vaccinated in the 45-plus age group was launched on Monday and is valid till Wednesday. "We are constantly trying to work out strategies to improve vaccination coverage in the circle and in the district.  "Till today noon, 80 people have come to receive the jabs. Our aim is to achieve 100 per cent inoculation in the circle by June 20," Thongdok, a 2016-batch APCS officer, said. There are 1,399 people above the age of 45 in the Yazali Circle, officials said. Many of those who came to get themselves vaccinated came on foot from far-flung villages, braving inclement weather, Thongdok said. He said the administration is chalking out a roadmap for taking the vaccination drive to every village of the circle. "We are planning door-to-door visits on Friday and Saturday to administer vaccines to people above 45 years of age. Our offer will continue but the quantity of rice will be 10 kg instead of 20 kg," Thongdok said. Two former students of Vivekananda Kendra Vidyalaya have donated the rice for distribution among the beneficiaries, he added. Rumours surrounding the Covid-19 immunisation, including severe ailments post-inoculation and the possibility of microscopic tracking devices being injected through the serum, have turned many sceptical in the northeast, the officials said. State Immunisation Officer Dimong Padung said a total of 3,95,445 people have been vaccinated so far in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arunachal-pradesh-villagers-lap-up-offer-of-free-rice-in-return-for-covid-19-jabs-995546.html
09-06-2021||National||Centre approves allocation of 5 MHz spectrum to railways worth Rs 25,000 cr to improve communication||The Centre on Wednesday approved the allocation of 5 MHz spectrum in the 700 MHz band to Indian Railways for improving its communication and signalling systems. The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi took this decision. The project will help in augmenting both communication and signalling networks of the railways, Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar said. The project with an estimated cost of Rs 25,000 crore will be completed in the next five years. It will help to improve the safety of passengers on the transport network as well, the Minister said. The Railways currently relies on optical fibre for its communication network but with the allocation of fresh spectrum, it will be able to use high-speed radio on a real-time basis. "The project brings a strategic shift in Railways' operations and safety. It will also ensure seamless communication with loco pilots and guards," said a statement from the Indian Railways. Once the project completes, it will provide secure voice, video and data communication services for operational, safety and security applications, said the railways. In addition, Railways has approved Train Collision Avoidance System, an indigenously developed system, which will help in avoiding train collisions thereby ensuring passenger safety, said the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-approves-allocation-of-5-mhz-spectrum-to-railways-worth-rs-25000-cr-to-improve-communication-995552.html
09-06-2021||National||CBI carries out searches in Yes Bank case||Oyster Buildwell Private Ltd and Avantha group promoter Gautam Thapar are among six named by the CBI in its FIR in connection with a case of diversion of Rs 466.51 crore which they got through a loan from Yes Bank during 2017-19. After filing an FIR, a statement said on Wednesday, the CBI carried out searches at 14 locations in Delhi-NCR and three other cities -- Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh), Secunderabad (Telangana) and Kolkata (West Bengal). Besides Thapar, the CBI has also booked directors of Oyster Buildwell Pvt Ltd - Raghubir Kumar Sharma, Rajendra Kumar Mangal and Tapsi Mahajan - as well as unidentified executives of Avantha Realty Pvt Ltd and Jhabua Power Ltd. Thapar is also being probed in a case related to diversion of public money in Yes Bank allegedly involving the bank's former chief Rana Kapoor. The case was registered on June 2 following a complaint filed by bank's Chief Vigilance Officer Ashish Vinod Joshi on May 27. Oyster Buildwell Pvt Ltd (OBPL) is part of Avantha group with over 97 per cent percent stake held by Avantha Realty. According to the CBI FIR, the accused have "committed breach of trust, cheating, criminal conspiracy, forgery for diversion/misappropriation of the public money during the period from 2017 to 2019, thereby, causing loss to the tune of Rs. 466.51 crore (approx) to Yes Bank". The CBI alleged that Oyster Buildwell Private Ltd availed a term loan facility of around Rs 515 crore from Yes Bank Limited in December, 2017. The loan amount was declared as non-performing asset (NPA) on October 30, 2019. "Further, the borrower was allegedly declared ‘Red Flagged Account’ on March 6, 2020 on the basis of Early Warning Signals (EWS)," it said. The Yes Bank, in its complaint that is part of the FIR, had alleged that Jhabua Power Limited (JPL), a group concern of Oyster Buildwell Pvt Ltd, entered in an operations and maintenance contract for its 600 MW power plant with its holding company Jhabua Power Investment Ltd (JPIL) for 10 years. The Oyster Buildwell Pvt Ltd was to pay an interest-free refundable security deposit of Rs 515 crore to JPIL for which Yes Bank had sanctioned a long-term loan of Rs 515 crore for 10 years. However, the complaint said, the company defaulted on payments. A forensic audit of the account showed that only Rs 14.16 crore of the Rs 514.27 crore given by the bank were transferred to JPIL and "ultimate end use of Rs 500.11 crore loan fund could not be ascertained", Yes Bank said in its complaint. It also showed that JPIL gave an advance of Rs 345.15 crore to Avantha Power and Infrastructure Ltd from the security money received from Oyster Buildwell Private Ltd. However, the complaint said, the money trail could not be established by the auditor as there were no account statements in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-carries-out-searches-in-yes-bank-case-995555.html
09-06-2021||National||'Only in India we are liberal with health concerns', says SC on bail plea in food adulteration case||“Only in India we are liberal with the health concerns,” the Supreme Court observed while refusing to entertain pre-arrest bail pleas of two Madhya Pradesh-based businessmen who are accused in a food adulteration case. A vacation bench comprising Justices Indira Banerjee and M R Shah was hearing the anticipatory bail applications of Prawar Goyal and Vineet Goyal of Neemuch district in Madhya Pradesh. Hearing appeals against dismissal of their pre-arrest bail pleas by the Madhya Pradesh High Court at Indore, the bench was told by lawyer Puneet Jain that penal provisions relating to offence of food adulteration are bailable ones and hence, they deserved anticipatory bail. “Only in India we are liberal with health concerns,” Justice Shah said, adding, “Mr Jain, answer this. Will you eat this adulterated wheat”. As the bench was disinclined to consider the anticipatory bail plea, the lawyer decided to withdraw the same. “On the prayer of Christi Jain, the Special Leave Petition is dismissed as withdrawn,” the bench noted in its order on Tuesday. Besides the offence of cheating, the accused have been booked under section 272 (adulteration of food or drink intended for sale) and 273 (sale of noxious food or drink) of the IPC which provides for maximum jail term of six months or maximum fine of Rs 1,000 or both. As per the FIR lodged by the Food Safety department, the businessmen have been accused of using of “non-edible golden offset colour” for polishing wheat at the premises of Darshil Agro Industries situated in Village Kanawati at Neemuch. In the raid conducted on December 3, 2020, the Food Safety Officer of Neemuch seized a 1,20,620 kg of “sub-standard and misbranded polished wheat” valued at Rs 27.74 lakh. The high court had on March 12 rejected the pre-arrest bail plea of the accused saying that the allegations were serious in nature.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-in-india-we-are-liberal-with-health-concerns-says-sc-on-bail-plea-in-food-adulteration-case-995556.html
09-06-2021||National||Asaram uncooperative with doctors, has 'ulterior motive' to get shifted out of custody, SC told||The Rajasthan government has told the Supreme Court that self-styled godman Asaram Bapu, serving life term in a rape case, was not cooperating with the doctors at AIIMS Jodhpur with an ulterior motive to get himself shifted out of his custody. Opposing his plea to allow him Ayurvedic treatment as an abuse of the process, the state government said Asaram has made third attempt to get his sentence suspended, under the garb of medical treatment. In an affidavit, the state government said, “In previous round of petitions, the accused had prayed for immediate medical surgery of his ailment, through allopathic method, which failed and now the accused through this present petition raised his concern to get his treatment from Ayurveda.” Asaram was not cooperative to the doctors at AIIMS Jodhpur, and as per May 21 discharge report, he had refused to take injection and some oral medicine, it claimed. “The accused was stable and fit to discharge and there was no any complication. Hence, there is no requirement of any further super specialities’ treatment of the accused," it added. The government said Arun Kumar Tyagi was the treating Ayurvedic doctor of the accused, who continued to treat him even after retirement from Jodhpur Ayurvedic Hospital, under the order of the top court. The government claimed Asaram was deliberately trying to delay the pending trial in the other case at Gandhi Nagar and Jodhpur, under the garb of Ayurvedic treatment. Asaram had moved the top court seeking permission to be treated at Prakash Deep Institute of Ayurvedic Sciences, Uttarakhand. The Rajasthan government placed on record May 23, medical report which established that Asaram’s health was found normal without any complications. “The accused/petitioner with ulterior motive has been attempting to change the venue of his custody, under the guise of medical treatment. Such change, with due respect, an abuse of process of law,” it said. The government also pointed out that Jodhpur is one of the rare centres, where both the allopathic and Ayurvedic treatment are available. Last week, the top court agreed to examine the possibility of temporarily shifting godman Asaram Bapu to an Ayurvedic treatment centre. Post-Covid, he had requested not to put on allopathic drugs. The High Court had dismissed Asaram’s application for temporary suspension of sentence and directed the district and jail administration to ensure that proper treatment at a suitable medical institution. Asaram is serving a life term at Jodhpur Central Jail in connection with the rape of a minor girl. The top court has put his plea for consideration on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/asaram-uncooperative-with-doctors-has-ulterior-motive-to-get-shifted-out-of-custody-sc-told-995561.html
09-06-2021||National||Centre hikes kharif MSP, says open for talks with agitating farmers||The Government of India on Wednesday announced a hike in the minimum support price (MSP) for summer crops for the 2021-22 marketing season and also held the door open for talks with the farmers protesting against agricultural reforms. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) increased the MSP for paddy by Rs 72 per quintal, tur and urad by Rs 300 per quintal, jowar by 118 per quintal and ragi by Rs 82 per quintal. The MSP on paddy (common variety) has been increased to Rs 1,940 per quintal for the 2021-22 crop year (July-June) from Rs 1,868 per quintal in previous year. Similarly, MSP for jowar has been hiked to Rs 2,738 per quintal from the Rs 2,620 per quintal last year, while MSP for tur and urad has been fixed at Rs 6,300 per quintal as against Rs 6,000 of the previous year. In the case of groundnut and nigerseed, there has been an increase of Rs 275 per quintal and Rs 235 per quintal, respectively, in comparison to last year. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the Cabinet has approved the MSP of 14 kharif crops for the 2021-22 crop year (July-June) and farmers would get 50-85 per cent returns over their cost of production. The government increased the support price of bajra by Rs 100 to Rs 2,250 per quintal from Rs 2,150 per quintal last year, while ragi support price has been increased by Rs 82 to Rs 3,377 per quintal from Rs 3,295 per quintal last year. On the farmers’ protests, Tomar said that the government was ready to talk to the farmers’ union leaders to address their concerns over the agricultural reforms. “We urge farmers’ leaders to point out flaws in the three farm laws and we are ready to address their concerns,” Tomar said. The minister said the government had held 11 rounds of talks with the farmers’ representatives but they had failed to point out the flaws in the laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-hikes-kharif-msp-says-open-for-talks-with-agitating-farmers-995570.html
09-06-2021||National||Only way to end farmers' protest is govt withdrawing farm laws, says Congress||The only way to end the ongoing farmers' protest is to withdraw the three contentious farm laws, the Congress said on Wednesday and asked the government to shed stubbornness and accede to the demand. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi stood in support of the farmers who have been agitating against the Centre's farm laws for over six months now, and said they have died fearlessly defending their farms and the country. "Farmers have died while defending their farms and the country. And yet the farmers continue to be fearless and true," he said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag "#500DeathsAtFarmersProtest". Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the protesting farmers are not begging but are seeking their rights and the government should shed its stubbornness and agree to their demands. "The farmers are not begging and don't want alms, they want justice. Farmers don't want ego, they want their rights. Come down from the throne of pride, give up your stubbornness and the only way is to withdraw the three black laws," he said on Twitter. किसान को भीख नही, न्याय चाहिए । किसान को अहंकार नही, अधिकार चाहिए ।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-way-to-end-farmers-protest-is-govt-withdrawing-farm-laws-says-congress-995571.html
09-06-2021||National||Elephants in India tested for coronavirus after rare Asiatic lion's death||Twenty-eight elephants have been tested for Covid-19 at a forest reserve in southern India, officials said Wednesday, after the reported death of a rare Asiatic lion from the virus. In what is believed to be the first known death of an animal in India from the coronavirus, a nine-year-old lioness at a zoo in Chennai in Tamil Nadu state passed away in early June, local media reported. The feline was among nine lions that had tested positive for the virus, including two who were in critical condition. "After lions in Vandalur Zoo tested positive for Covid-19, we were asked to test the camp elephants as a precautionary measure," a forest ranger at Mudumalai Tiger Reserve in the south of Tamil Nadu told AFP on Wednesday. Nasal and anal samples were taken from 28 elephants, including two calves, on Tuesday, and sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh. The animals' handlers lifted their trunks to collect a sample from a nostril, according to video shared by the reserve. They also inserted swabs into the elephants' rectums. The results are expected to arrive in a week. "The animals had no symptoms, it was just as a precaution," the ranger said. "There was no difficulty in taking the sample swabs themselves as these are all trained elephants." Some 21 tigers in a zoo in the eastern state of Jharkhand underwent virus tests last week after a 10-year-old tiger with a fever died, local media reported. The tiger had returned a negative rapid antigen test but officials said they were also awaiting results from an RT-PCR test, the Press Trust of India reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elephants-in-india-tested-for-coronavirus-after-rare-asiatic-lions-death-995573.html
09-06-2021||National||Why India's second Covid-19 surge is so much worse than the first||India’s relatively mild first wave of Covid-19 last year intrigued scientists and led the country’s leadership to declare what turned out to be a very premature victory over the novel coronavirus. The current surge has been much more deadly. Some researchers and media outlets have pinned the blame on new viral variants, which early studies suggest may be more transmissible than the original strain. But many experts familiar with the situation on the ground argue that large gatherings and crowds in closed, compact urban spaces—in contrast with the draconian lockdown imposed during the first wave—are driving most of the spread. Both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Mamata Banerjee, chief minister of West Bengal, held crowded political campaign rallies during state elections in India even as Covid-19 cases were spiking this past April. Later that month Modi told state leaders that a lockdown should be considered only as “a last option” as numbers rose across various states, eventually topping 400,000 daily new cases nationwide on April 30. India’s economy suffered significantly after the 2020 lockdown, so officials were under tremendous political pressure to avoid similar restrictions when cases started rising again in April. This time the central government left pandemic policy decisions to state governments—which were also loath to implement economically damaging restrictions.  “I think this is an important lesson to other countries. It is complacency and poor leadership that caused the surge,” says Carlos del Rio, a professor of medicine in the infectious diseases division at the Emory University School of Medicine. The sudden new spike simply overwhelmed India’s already ailing health infrastructure. Sumit Ganguly, a political scientist at Indiana University Bloomington, calls it “the chronicle of a disaster foretold.” Epidemiologists agree that last year’s lockdown was extreme. More than 1.3 billion people were forced to remain inside their home for weeks at the outset of the pandemic. “The entire country shall go under complete lockdown. A total ban is being imposed [to prevent people] from stepping out of their homes for 21 days,” Modi announced in a televised address on March 24, 2020, when there were fewer than 600 confirmed Covid-19 cases in the entire nation.  The prime minister gave the country less than four hours before putting each state, municipality, village, street and household in complete lockdown. He argued that if the situation was not brought under control within 21 days, the country could be set back 21 years, and families would be devastated forever. This intensive and preemptive policy response was prompted by tangible fear among leaders and the public. The lockdown brought daily life to an immediate grinding halt—and also seemed extremely effective in limiting the spread of the virus. The contrast between last year’s harsh lockdown and the government’s much more lenient second-wave response could not be more stark. Manoj Jain, an adjunct professor at Emory’s Rollins School of Public Health, agrees the lockdown worked well because it relied on strict police enforcement. But in hotspots such as Delhi and Mumbai, he says, even basic social distancing practices disappeared as the restrictions were lifted—which is proving costly now. It is likely that “loosening of activity restrictions does play a major role in the current transmission dynamics in India,” says Markus Hoffmann, a postdoctoral infection biology scientist at the German Primate Center–Leibniz Institute for Primate Research, who has published several papers on coronavirus transmission and infection. Scientific American reached out to the offices of India’s prime minister and the chief ministers of several of its states for comment but did not receive a response to its questions. This time, rather than a nationally coordinated lockdown, India’s states were left to their own devices. Daily new infections in Maharashtra—the hardest-hit state during both the first and second waves—increased more than sixfold this past March. On April 4 its state government announced a ban on more than five people gathering in public places during the day on weekdays and on anyone being out at night or during the weekend without a valid reason (such as getting medicine for a family member). But the curfew appears not to have been enforced. Crowds of people, often not properly masked, were everywhere. Daily new cases continued to rise sharply. And as the new surge steadily overwhelmed the health infrastructure, Maharashtra repeatedly changed its guidelines. The state government provided scant information about what should be open or closed, making it difficult to enforce social-distancing rules. Maharashtra’s weekly average test positivity rate rocketed to 22.5 per cent in the second week of May, with the figure climbing as high as 40 per cent in some districts. The union territory of Delhi, another hotspot, announced evening-only movement restrictions on April 6—after new cases in India’s capital grew more than 10-fold during March. But most daytime activities proceeded as usual. Restrictions on driving personal vehicles and using public transportation, within or between states, were not widely enforced. During most of the time new cases were surging, bars, restaurants, movie theaters, the metro system and buses were still operating (albeit at reduced capacity). Jain reasons that in crowded urban areas such as Delhi, it is nearly impossible to enforce social-distancing guidelines without a complete lockdown—and that less stringent measures would have done little to impede the spread of the virus, given its high transmissibility. Unsurprisingly, by April 22, Delhi recorded a test positivity rate of 36.2 per cent. Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populous state, also imposed only half-hearted restrictions during the second wave. It even went ahead with elaborate village council elections. A prominent teachers union in the state has asserted that more than 1,600 teachers who administered those elections died of Covid-19 throughout April and May. (The state government says only three died of the disease, a claim contested by the teachers’ union, which has now released the names and addresses of those who had died.) The new B.1.617.2 viral variant (now called the Delta variant) was first detected in India last December, and it has also been blamed for the rapid spread of Covid-19 here. But Jain says more evidence is needed to determine whether this variant is truly more transmissible than the original strain—and whether it might evade the antibodies from a previous infection or vaccine. There is some indication that the Delta variant has played a significant role in the current growth of cases, although India has only sequenced the viral genomes involved in a tiny fraction of cases. Even if the Delta variant is shown to be more transmissible, however, loosened restrictions probably provided the right set of conditions for the virus to spiral out of control. Evidence to date suggests the existing vaccines provide good protection against all known variants. A recent study by Public Health England found the Pfizer vaccine was 88 per cent effective at preventing disease from the Delta variant, and the AstraZeneca vaccine was 60 per cent effective, but unvaccinated people remain vulnerable. "A convergence of factors—including an increase in potentially more transmissible variants, the lack of hospital infrastructure for treating Covid-19 patients and the occurrence of possible superspreader social gatherings—may have caused a “perfect storm,” says S. V. Subramanian, a professor of population health at Harvard University’s Geographic Insights laboratory. He contends that India’s mass vaccination efforts themselves have probably been superspreader events. “The vaccine roll-out in India has been a notable effort, given India’s poor public health infrastructure,” Subramanian says. “However, administering millions of vaccines through hospitals and health care centres—the last place one should be at this point, unless desperately needed—also is a cause for concern with likely overcrowding.” The number of new infections in the country has declined significantly in recent weeks, but it is still extremely high. India is still seeing well over 100,000 new cases daily—a large proportion of the global number. To curb the spread, researchers say authorities could start with simpler, more easily implementable solutions, such as improved ventilation, mask wearing and social distancing. These simple strategies could be especially helpful in rural India, where most cases and deaths go undetected because many rural communities lack infrastructure for testing and treatment. Emory’s Jain, who says he has been advising several Indian state governments on Covid-19-related issues, recommends preparing for a potential rural wave by engaging local village councils. And he suggests pharmacies could step in to help track infections in rural areas. Vaccinations also need to be stepped up, and they should be administered in large open spaces, such as sports stadiums. The vaccination drive, Subramanian says, is currently the single most unrestricted activity going on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-indias-second-covid-19-surge-is-so-much-worse-than-the-first-995579.html
09-06-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Which is the best approach in the quest to vaccinate the world?||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-which-is-the-best-approach-in-the-quest-to-vaccinate-the-world-995595.html
09-06-2021||National||Center announces 15 days special casual leave for govt employees whose parents test Covid positive||All central government employees will be able to get 15 days of special casual leave (SCL) in case their parents or any dependent family members test Covid-19 positive, according to an order issued by the personnel ministry. "In case of active hospitalisation of any of the family members/parents even after 15 days of the expiry of SCL, the government servants may be granted leave of any kind due and admissible beyond 15 days of SCL till their discharge from hospital," it said. The ministry has come out with the detailed order on treatment, regularisation of hospitalization or quarantine period during Covid-19 pandemic after it received several queries related to it and keeping in view the "hardships faced by the government servants". A government servant shall be granted commuted leave up to 20 days when he or she is Covid-19 positive and is in home isolation/quarantine, the order said. In case of a government servant testing Covid-19 positive and is in home isolation and has also been hospitalised, he or she shall be granted commuted leave/SCL/earned leave (EL) for a period up to 20 days starting from the time having tested positive, it said. "In case of hospitalization beyond the 20th day from his testing Covid positive, he shall be granted commuted leave, on production of documentary proof of hospitalization," said the order issued to all central government ministries. A government servant shall be granted special casual leave of 15 days in case a dependent family member or parents (whether dependent or not, living with him) are Covid-19 positive, it said. In case the government servant comes into direct contact with a Covid-positive person and remains in home quarantine, "he shall be treated as on duty/work from home for a period of seven days", the ministry said in its order dated June 7. It said that the period of quarantine spent by government servant, as a precautionary measure, residing in the containment zone "shall be treated as on duty/work from home till the containment zone is de-notified".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/center-announces-15-days-special-casual-leave-for-govt-employees-whose-parents-test-covid-positive-995598.html
09-06-2021||National||Who is Anup Chandra Pandey, the new Election Commissioner?||Pandey, 62, is a retired Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of the 1984 batch. In his nearly 35 years of service, Pandey has held positions at the state as well as central levels. Before serving as the Chief Secretary of UP from July 2018 to August 2019, he was the state’s industrial development commissioner. He has also served for four years as a joint secretary at the Centre. Pandey will join Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra and Election Commissioner Rajiv Kumar ahead of the elections in Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, scheduled for next year. Pandey graduated from Punjab Engineering College, Chandigarh. Along with a master’s degree in business administration from Panjab University, he also has a doctorate from Bihar’s Magadh University in ancient history. During his tenure at the Centre, he played a key role “in introducing Abolition of Child Labour Act and ratification of ILO (Internation Labour Organisation) convention 138 & 182 on Child Labour,” as mentioned in his LinkedIn profile. It also notes that the “peaceful, transparent & incident-free conduct of Lok Sabha elections 2019” of UP was a “very big achievement” of his.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-is-anup-chandra-pandey-the-new-election-commissioner-995599.html
09-06-2021||National||UAE launches drive to upgrade skills of Indian blue-collar workers||The Indian Consulate in Dubai has initiated a new drive to upgrade skills and roles of the Indian blue-collar workers in the UAE to boost their confidence, a media report said on Wednesday. As part of the drive that started on Tuesday, the Indian mission has collaborated with Skyline University College and the Indian Association, Sharjah and will train the blue collar Indian workers in English language and communication skills, basic computer literacy and soft skills that will help their confidence level get boosted, the Gulf News reported. Addressing the launch of the initiative, Dr Aman Puri, Consul General of India in Dubai, said Indian blue-collar workers are highly sought by employers in the UAE owing to their “hard working and law-abiding nature”. More than 3.3 million Indians live and work in the UAE, with some 65 per cent of them estimated to be from the blue-collar category, he added. He said it is imperative that efforts are made to complement the expectations of the gracious Indian workforce in terms of their skill sets. “Having the largest working diaspora in the UAE, it is natural that the Indian Consulate is always interested in understanding about the skill sets that can enhance the employability and productivity of the Indian human resources in the UAE,” Puri said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uae-launches-drive-to-upgrade-skills-of-indian-blue-collar-workers-995603.html
09-06-2021||National||Why is the Centre, and not states, distributing Covid-19 vaccines to private hospitals, asks Mamata Banerjee||Alleging that the Narendra Modi government is not following the spirit of federalism, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday wondered why the Centre kept to itself the right of distribution of 25 per cent Covid-19 vaccines to private hospitals and not to the states. The Prime Minister had on Monday announced that the Centre has decided to buy 75 per cent of jabs from vaccine makers for free supply to states, while private sector hospitals will continue to procure the remaining 25 per cent. Banerjee said that she opposed the imposition of Goods and Services Tax (GST) on medicines, equipment and vaccines required for the treatment of Covid-19. Addressing a press meet at the state secretariat 'Nabanna' after meeting leaders of agitating peasants, she said that from "Covid to farmers", the BJP-led central government has pushed the country into serious crisis. "The Centre has said that it will directly provide 25 per cent of vaccines to private hospitals. Why by the Centre? The state implements the policy of the Centre in a federal set-up," she said. Taking a dig at the prime minister, she said, "He only knows how to speak against states. He only knows about divide and rule. Why is there no word by the PM about withdrawing 5 per cent GST on Covid vaccines?" Banerjee said that the prime minister did not think about spending Rs 34,000 crore from PM Cares Fund to fully vaccinate the people of the country in all these days. Had the Centre taken up the free vaccination drive in this period, "we would not have to lose so many citizens in the age group of 18-45 years", she claimed. "What happened to the promise by Modi before the Bihar elections about free vaccination to everyone? So many months elapsed afterwards," she said. The Bihar Assembly election was held in three phases in October-November last year. "The PM should not take credit for the free vaccine policy of the Centre now and should explain what happened in all these days," Banerjee said. The CM said that two crore people were inoculated in West Bengal and the state government spent Rs 200 crore to procure vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-is-the-centre-and-not-states-distributing-covid-19-vaccines-to-private-hospitals-asks-mamata-banerjee-995614.html
09-06-2021||National||Cabinet approves extension of New Investment Policy benefits to RFCL||The government on Wednesday extended the subsidy benefits under the amended New Investment Policy 2012 to Ramagundam Fertilisers and Chemicals Ltd (RFCL), located in Telangana. A decision in this regard was taken in the Cabinet meeting, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Briefing media after the Cabinet meeting, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said, "The subsidy benefit under the (amended) New Investment Policy 2012, which was brought in 2014, was applicable to those factories set up till 2019. But, RFCL has been set up in 2021, and this policy has now been extended to this also." As per norms, the urea factories set up till 2019 were eligible for subsidies under the amended New Investment Policy 2012. Still, the benefits are extended to RFCL that was set up in 2021 because farmers will benefit at the end of the day, he said. RFCL will manufacture 12.70 lakh tonnes of urea annually. This would help reduce the country's dependence on imports and move towards the direction of self-reliance, he added. The New Investment Policy 2012 was amended on October 7, 2014. RFCL is a joint venture company of National Fertilizers Ltd (NFL), Engineers India Ltd (EIL) and Fertilizers Corporation of India Limited (FCIL). It is reviving the erstwhile Ramagundam unit of FCIL by setting up a new gas-based neem-coated urea plant at a cost of Rs 6,165.06 crore. In a statement, the government said the start of the Ramagundam plant will add 12.7 lakh tonnes of indigenous urea production in the country and help achieve self-reliance in the urea production. It will be one of the largest fertiliser manufacturing units of southern India. This project not only improves the availability of fertiliser to farmers but also give a boost to the economy in the region. The government is reviving five closed units of FCIL/ HFCL by setting up new ammonia urea plants of 12.7 lakh metric tonne per annum (LMTPA) capacity each at Ramagundam (Telangana), Talcher (Odisha), Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh), Sindri (Jharkhand) and Barauni (Bihar). This will be done through formation of joint ventures of leading PSUs with an investment of about Rs 40,000 crore. On operationalisation of these plants, indigenous urea production will be increased by 63.5 lakh tonnes, which will reduce the import of urea to that extent and will save huge amount of foreign exchange, the government added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-extension-of-new-investment-policy-benefits-to-rfcl-995617.html
09-06-2021||National||Forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' inside Tihar, 'ISIS man' tells court||An alleged ISIS member arrested for planning suicide attacks and serial blasts across the country, approached a Delhi court on Wednesday claiming that he was beaten up by other inmates in Tihar jail and forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. The accused, Rashid Zafar, was arrested in 2018 on the allegations of being member of an ISIS-inspired group who were planning suicide attacks and serial blasts, targeting politicians as also government installations in Delhi and other parts of north India. Advocate M S Khan claimed in the application, which is likely to come up for hearing on Thursday, that the incident was disclosed by the accused to his father telephonically from Tihar Jail. “The accused was beaten up and forced to chant religious slogans like 'Jai Shri Ram' by his inmates,” the application said. The plea, moved by advocate Qausar Khan, requested that “appropriate directions may be passed to the Jail Superintendent to look into the matter". The accused were arrested along with nine others in December 2018 after NIA carried out searches, in coordination with Special cell of Delhi Police and Anti-Terrorism Squad of Uttar Pradesh Police, at six places in Jafrabad, Seelampur in Delhi, and 11 places in Uttar Pradesh -- six in Amroha, two in Lucknow, two in Hapur and two in Meerut.  The searches and the arrests came a month before the Republic Day celebrations on January 26. According to NIA, a locally-made rocket launcher, material for suicide vests and 112 alarm clocks to be used as timers were recovered from the searches. The agency also said it recovered 25 kg of explosive material -- Potassium Nitrate, Ammonium Nitrate and Sulphur. The group allegedly had also purchased remote control cars and wireless doorbells to use their circuits in assembling remote-controlled improvised explosive devices. Besides, the NIA also recovered steel containers, electric wires, 91 mobile phones, 134 SIM cards, 3 laptops, knife, sword, ISIS-related literature during the searches. The probe agency had initially rounded up 16 persons of the group 'Harkat ul Harb e Islam', which loosely translates into war for the cause of Islam. Of the 16 detained, 10 were later arrested - five from Amroha, in UP and five from Seelampur and Jafrabad localities in north-east Delhi, the agency had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/forced-to-chant-jai-shri-ram-inside-tihar-isis-man-tells-delhi-court-995621.html
09-06-2021||National||NIA arrests a key conspirator in Kerala gold smuggling case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday arrested Muhammed Mansoor P. H, alleged to be a "key conspirator" in the gold smuggling case pertaining to the seizure of the yellow metal from a baggage addressed to an embassy official in Kerala, agency spokesperson said here. Mansoor was arrested by the NIA upon his arrival at the Calicut International Airport from Dubai, United Arab Emirates, the spokesperson said. The case pertains to the seizure of 30 kg gold, worth Rs 14.82 crore, on July 5, 2020 at Air Cargo of Trivandrum International Airport by Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate, Cochin, from the baggage addressed to the Charge D' Affaires of UAE Consulate, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala. The NIA had registered the case on July 10, 2020 and taken up the investigation. A charge sheet has been filed by the NIA against 20 accused persons in January this year. The spokesperson said the probe in the case has revealed that Mohammed Mansoor while being in the UAE had conspired with the charge-sheeted accused Mohammed Shafi P. and others to facilitate smuggling of gold to India, through import cargo addressed to diplomats at the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. The NIA special court in Ernakulam had issued a non-bailable warrant of arrest against Mansoor. He was produced before a special court in Kochi and has been remanded in the agency custody for five days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-arrests-a-key-conspirator-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-995622.html
09-06-2021||National||Is a woman in live-in-relationship entitled to her partner's pension?||Is a woman having a live-in relationship with a man, entitled to his retirement and pension benefits after his death and following the demise of his legally wedded wife, who is none other than her own sister? This question has been raised in the Madras High Court and a single judge has referred the matter to a larger bench for adjudication. S Kaliyaperumal, working in TANGEDCO (Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation, state-run electricity monolith) in Kumbakonam, married Susila and she was declared as his nominee in official records. As she was suffering from cancer, she permitted her sister Malarkodi to marry her husband and all the three were living under one roof with their three sons and three daughters. Susila later died and her husband applied for making Malarkodi as the legal nominee in 2015 and his sons and daughters had also consented to make Malarkodi the nominee. Before the electricity corporation effected the change, Kaliyaperumal too died the same year. But, the TANGEDCO did not take any decision. Hence, the present writ petition from Malarkodi. Justice S Vaidyanathan, before whom the petition came up for hearing recently, observed that the matter has to be referred to a larger bench to arrive at a finality. Due to continued live-in relationship, whether a woman attains the status of a wife to get pensionary and other terminal benefits due to the deceased person were among the issues that needed to be looked into, the judge said pointing out women are to be respected and protected. The registry was directed to place the matter before the Chief Justice to constitute a bench for deciding the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/is-a-woman-in-live-in-relationship-entitled-to-her-partners-pension-995629.html
09-06-2021||National||Centre approves building of 3.61 lakh houses under PMAY||Aiming to revive the real estate sector hit severely due to Covid-19, the Centre has approved the construction of 3.61 lakh new houses under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana - Urban (PMAY-U). The decision was taken in the 54th Central Sanctioning and Monitoring Committee (CSMC) meeting held on Tuesday, which was also the first discussion held amid the second wave of the pandemic. The approval was given based on 708 proposals submitted to the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs by states.  The meeting was attended by 13 states/UTs. These houses are proposed to be constructed across beneficiary-led construction and affordable housing in partnership verticals, a statement from the Union Ministry of  Housing and Urban Affairs stated. "As on date, the total number of sanctioned houses under PMAY(U) is now 112.4 lakh and so far, 82.5 lakh have been grounded for construction of which 48.31 lakh have been completed/delivered. Total investment under the mission is Rs 7.35 lakh crore which has Central assistance of Rs 1.81 lakh crore of which Rs 96,067 Crore of funds have been released," said the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-approves-building-of-361-lakh-houses-under-pmay-995637.html
09-06-2021||National||ISRO to help development projects in Northeast, says Minister Jitendra Singh||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Wednesday said the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) will assist development projects in the Northeast by offering optimum utilisation of satellite imaging and other space technology for better accomplishment of targets. Chairing a high-level meeting with senior officers of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) and ISRO scientists, Singh said six out of the eight states of the Northeast have already sent their proposals for execution by the ISRO, while the remaining two, Sikkim and Assam, will send their proposals soon. The ISRO will assist development projects in the Northeast through space technology and will contribute by offering optimum utilisation of satellite imaging and other space technology applications for better accomplishment of infrastructural projects in all eight states, he said. Singh said the ISRO is already monitoring and geo-tagging 67 projects at 221 sites in all eight states funded by Ministry of DoNER and the NEC. He said this is first of its kind in the whole country where there is an institutionalised involvement of the ISRO in mapping and sharing of data for developmental projects and it can become a model for other states too. The minister said one of the major highlights of the Modi government has been that in the last seven years, the ISRO is no longer confined mainly to the launching of satellites, but it has been constantly enlarging its role in development activities, thus contributing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's mission of "transforming India". The North Eastern Space Applications Centre (NESAC) at Shillong has received a number of proposals from the Northeastern states. It would be discussing the feasibility and desirability of all such projects, one by one with each of the states in the next fortnight. Once identified, all such projects are likely to be funded jointly by respective states and the NESAC. Singh said Union Home Minister Amit Shah visited Shillong and held a meeting with the NESAC in January this year where major projects to be taken up were flagged. Some of the important projects on which work is under progress are like the mapping of forest gap areas, expansion of land area for horticulture development, identification and rejuvenation of wetlands and diversion of floodwater, assessment of bamboo resources for livelihood needs. The minister said the home minister is likely to visit the centre again in July to review the progress of the projects. He said despite the crippling effects of the Covid-19, much headway was made in execution of these projects. Singh said in Northeastern region, space technology is now being used in diverse sectors, including agriculture, railways, roads and bridges, medical management, telemedicine, procurement of timely utilisation certificates, disaster forecast and management, weather, rain, flood forecast. Senior officials from the ISRO informed the minister that seven projects from Arunachal Pradesh in areas like dam construction and flood mitigation, three model villages, horticulture and border fencing at zero level are nearing completion. Similar projects from other states are also on way to achieve target. The NESAC is an autonomous organisation under the Department of Space and located in Shillong and provides dedicated service to the region's eight states viz. Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura. The centre was set up with a vision to play the catalytic role in holistic development of Northeast by providing space science and technology support on natural resource management, infrastructure planning, healthcare, education, emergency communication, disaster management support, and space and atmospheric science research.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-to-help-development-projects-in-northeast-says-minister-jitendra-singh-995638.html
09-06-2021||National||Gangster Ravi Pujari admits role in 2018 Kochi beauty parlour shooting case: ATS report||Gangster Ravi Pujari, arrested by the anti-terrorist squad of the Kerala police in connection with the Kochi beauty parlour shooting case of 2018, has admitted his role and involvement in the case, says the remand report filed by the ATS. In the remand report filed before the additional chief judicial magistrate court (Economic Offences), Ernakulam, on Tuesday, the ATS said he was interrogated in detail while in police custody during which he admitted his role and involvement in the case. He has also admitted his involvement and the role in the shooting case, executed in 2010 by his gang members at Bevincha in Kasargod, which he masterminded from Senegal. In the Bevincha shooting case, the assailants targeted one Mohammad Kunhi, a dealer in gold business, in an attempt to extort money from him. Pujari was brought to Kochi from Bengaluru last Wednesday as part of the probe into the shooting which occurred at the beauty parlour run by actress Leena Maria Paul in December 2018. After completing his custody period on Tuesday, Pujari was remanded to judicial custody and sent back to Parappana Agrahara Central Prison at Bengaluru. In her complaint, the actress has alleged that she had received Internet threat calls on her mobile phone, demanding Rs 25 crore on November 3, 2018 under instructions from Pujari. According to her, the caller had threatened to kill the actress if the money was not paid. The ATS said the investigation has revealed that with the intention of extorting money from the actress, Pujari made many threatening phone calls and SMS via internet numbers (Senagalese phone number) and a France mobile number and from a Malaysian phone number to the phone numbers used by the actress. When Pujari made threatening calls, he introduced himself as Ravi Pujari, an underworld don, and demanded Rs 25 crore and also threatened that she would be killed if she failed to pay up. When she ignored his demand, to prove his power, Pujari conspired over phone and other means, with other accused, at different times and at different places. As the result of their conspiracy, first accused Bilal and second accused Vipin Varghese, went to the beauty parlour located in Kadavanthra on a motorcycle, fitted with fake registration number plate, the report says. The motorcycle was provided by fourth accused Althaf Khan. Both Bilal and Varghese, carrying the pistol and revolver, which were also brought by Khan, on December 15, 2018, trespassed into the beauty parlour on the second floor, threatened the complainant and fired single shots each at 2.25 pm, causing fear of death to the complainant,according to the report. They had earlier parked the two-wheeler in front of the parlour. For the planning and execution of the attack , fifth accused Nisam Salim and sixth accused Ajas provided every support, as per the report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gangster-ravi-pujari-admits-role-in-2018-kochi-beauty-parlour-shooting-case-ats-report-995644.html
09-06-2021||National||Modi may travel to US for first in-person meeting with Biden later this year||Prime Minister Narendra Modi may visit Washington D.C. later this year for his first in-person meeting with US President Joe Biden, if the Covid-19 pandemic does not worsen in India and the United States again. The officials of India and the United States are discussing the possibility of scheduling the visit of the Prime Minister to Washington D.C. and his meeting with the US President some time between September and November this year. Biden spoke to Modi over phone twice after taking over as the US President on January 20 last. The two leaders also attended two virtual multilateral summits over the past few months. But if Modi travels to Washington D.C. and holds talks with Biden, it will be the first meeting between the two leaders after the change of guard in the White House. A source confirmed to DH that the Biden Administration had recently shared with New Delhi its plan to invite the Prime Minister to Washington D.C. later this year. The two sides had some discussion, but would take a call on scheduling the Prime Minister’s visit and his meeting with the US President only after assessing the Covid-19 situation in both the countries a few weeks later, the source in New Delhi said. Apart from his bilateral meeting with the US President in White House, the visit of the Prime Minister to Washington D.C. may also create an opportunity for the first in-person summit of the ‘Quad’ as the US President is keen to host Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga of Japan and Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia around the same time. “Our goal is to hold an in person Quad meeting…very ambitious meeting here in Washington in the fall with all leaders in attendance,” said Kurt Campbell, the coordinator for Indo-Pacific at the US National Security Council. He was speaking at an event hosted by Center for New American Security, a think-tank based in Washington D.C. The ‘Quad’ is a coalition forged by India, Japan, Australia and the US in 2007 and revived in 2017 – in order to create a bulwark of democratic nations to counter China’s expansionist move and hegemonic aspirations in the Indo-Pacific region. Modi, Biden, Suga and Morrison had held the first ever summit of the ‘Quad’ through video-calls on March 12, elevating the four-nation coalition to the level of the leaders. They were expected to hold another in-person summit on the sideline of the G7 summit hosted by British Prime Minister Boris Johnson at Cornwall in South West England from next Friday to Sunday. But Modi decided against travelling to the United Kingdom to attend the conclave, in view of the second Covid-19 wave, which wreaked havoc across India.    Biden, Suga and Morrison, however, are expected to travel to the UK for the summit India is not a member of the G7, which comprises Japan, Italy, France, Germany, Canada, the United States and the United Kingdom, while the European Union is a ‘non-enumerated’ member of the bloc. Johnson, however, had invited Modi to attend the conclave as a “Special Invitee”. Morrison too would attend it as a “Special Invitee”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-may-travel-to-us-for-first-in-person-meeting-with-biden-later-this-year-995645.html
09-06-2021||National||Centre asks states not to share data on Covid-19 vaccine stocks, temperature of vaccine storage in public||The Centre has written to the states and Union territories, advising them not to share the data of the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) system on vaccine stocks and the temperature of vaccine storage at public forums, and stating that it is a "sensitive information and to be used only for programme improvement". In a recent letter to the states, the Union health ministry said the Centre, with support from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), has rolled out the eVIN system under UIP, which is used to track the vaccine stock status and the temperature at all levels of vaccine storage, from national to the sub-district level. In the letter, the health ministry said it was overwhelming to see that all the states are using the system to update the stock and transactions of Covid vaccines on a daily basis. "In this regard, please be advised that data and analytics generated by eVIN for inventory and temperature is owned by the Ministry of Health and not to be shared with any other organisation, partner agency, media agency, online and offline public forums without the consent of the ministry. "This is very sensitive information and to be used only for programme improvement," said the letter written by Pradeep Haldar, Advisor, Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) to all mission directors of the National Health Mission in all the states and Union territories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-states-not-to-share-data-on-covid-19-vaccine-stocks-temperature-of-vaccine-storage-in-public-995646.html
09-06-2021||National||Centre issues guidelines on Covid-19 for children; suggests rational use of CT scan, Remdesivir not recommended||The government has come out with comprehensive guidelines for the management of Covid-19 among children in which Remdesivir has not been recommended and rational use of HRCT imaging has been suggested. The guidelines issued by the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) under the health ministry also said that steroids are harmful in asymptomatic and mild cases of infection. The DGHS recommended steroids only in hospitalised moderately severe and critically ill Covid-19 cases under strict supervision. "Steroids should be used at the right time, in the right dose and for the right duration. Self-medication of steroids must be avoided," it said. The guidelines also said Remdesivir (an emergency use authorization drug) is not recommended in children. "There is lack of sufficient safety and efficacy data with respect to Remdesivir in children below 18 years of age," the guidelines said. The guidelines suggested rational use of High-resolution CT (HRCT) for seeing the extent and nature of lung involvement in patients with Covid-19. "However, any additional information gained from HRCT scan of the chest often has little impact on treatment decisions, which are based almost entirely on clinical severity and physiological impairment. "Therefore, treating physicians should be highly selective in ordering HRCT imaging of the chest in Covid-19 patients," the guidelines said. They said Covid-19 is a viral infection, and antimicrobials have no role in the prevention or treatment of uncomplicated Covid-19 infection For asymptomatic and mild cases, the guidelines said antimicrobials are not recommended for therapy or prophylaxis while for moderate and severe cases antimicrobials should not be prescribed unless there is clinical suspicion of a superadded infection. Hospital admission increases the risk of healthcare-associated infections with multidrug-resistant organisms. For asymptomatic infection among children, the guidelines recommended no specific medication and promoted Covid-appropriate behaviour (mask, strict hand hygiene, physical distancing) and suggested giving nutritious diet. The guidelines said that for mild infection paracetamol 10-15mg/kg/dose may be given every 4-6 hours for fever and throat soothing agents and warm saline gargles in older children and adolescents have been recommended for cough. In case of moderate infection, the guidelines suggested initiating immediate oxygen therapy. "Corticosteroids are not required in all children with moderate illness; they may be administered in rapidly progressive disease and anticoagulants may also be indicated," the guidelines said. For severe Covid-19 among children, the guidelines said if  Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) develops, necessary management to be initiated. "In case shock develops, necessary management should be initiated. Antimicrobials to be administered if there is evidence/strong suspicion of superadded bacterial infection.  May need organ support in case of organ dysfunction, e.g. renal replacement therapy," it said. The guidelines also recommended a six-minute walk test for children above 12 years under the supervision of parents/guardians "It is a simple clinical test to assess cardiopulmonary exercise tolerance and is used to unmask hypoxia.  Attach a pulse oximeter to his/her finger and ask the child to walk in the confines of their room for six minutes continuously," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-issues-guidelines-on-covid-19-for-children-suggests-rational-use-of-ct-scan-remdesivir-not-recommended-995660.html
09-06-2021||National||We have no time to lose, conclude talks on patent waiver proposal by July-end, India tells WTO||The negotiation on the proposal mooted by India and South Africa for temporarily waiving patent protection on the anti-Covid-19 vaccines and drugs will commence at the World Trade Organization next month, but a counter-proposal by the European Union may make it a long-drawn-out process. The TRIPS Council of the WTO had a meeting at the headquarters of the organization in Geneva on Tuesday and Wednesday and held a discussion on both the proposals – the one presented by India and South Africa for temporarily waiving the Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) protection on the anti-Covid-19 vaccines and drugs as well as the one tabled by the European Union to block it. The two-day meeting ended with the member nations agreeing to start “text-based negotiations” on both the proposals next month. Informal consultation is likely to be held on June 17 to set the stage for discussion at the WTO General Council on July 21 and 22. “Looking at the severity of the second and third wave (of the Covid-19 pandemic) hitting different parts of the world Chair, we have no time to lose, we look at concluding these negotiations by the end of July before we go for the summer break,” India’s representative to the WTO, said during the discussion at the TRIPS Council. Irked by the EU’s counter-proposal to block the move to grant a patent waiver on anti-Covid-19 drugs and vaccines, India recently warned that if the WTO failed to deliver during the pandemic, it would “do more harm” to the credibility of the organization and the “collective failure” would be “remembered by posterity”. The original October 2, 2020 proposal by India and South Africa wanted to waive four categories of Intellectual Property Rights – copyright, industrial designs, patents and undisclosed information – under the Agreement of Trade-Related Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS Agreement) until the majority of the world population would receive effective vaccines and develop immunity to Covid-19. The revised proposal submitted by the two nations along with 60 others suggested that the TRIPS Council of the WTO would assess the need for continuing the waiver after three years. The EU’s counter-proposal submitted on June 4 called upon governments to “facilitate the use of compulsory licensing” within the existing TRIPS agreement. The Medicines Sans Frontier, which is running a global campaign in support of the proposal by India and South Africa, argued the EU’s counter-proposal had brought “nothing significantly new” to the table and instead was “merely a manoeuvre to stall the waiver negotiation process”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-have-no-time-to-lose-conclude-talks-on-patent-waiver-proposal-by-july-end-india-tells-wto-995665.html
09-06-2021||National||Covaxin offers protection against Delta, Beta Covid-19 variants, ICMR-NIV and Bharat Biotech researchers claim||Covaxin offers protection from the Delta and Beta variants of SARS-CoV-2, researchers from the Indian Council of Medical Research, National Institute of Virology-Pune and Bharat Biotech have claimed in a pre-print work. B.1.617.2 aka Delta is reported as the coronavirus variant primarily responsible for the Covid-19 second wave in the country. The virus sub-lineage showing high infection transmissibility was classified as a Variant of Concern by the World Health Organization last week. B.1.351 or Beta is another Variant of Concern reported in India, which is known to be showing lesser response to several approved vaccines. To assess the efficacy of Covaxin, presently in public use, against B.1.351 and B.1.617.2, the ICMR-NIV and Bharat Biotech investigators have evaluated the neutralisation potential of sera collected from 20 Covid-19 recovered patients (post 5-20 weeks of infection) and 17 individuals 28 days after they received two doses of Covaxin, and compared with the prototype B.1 (D614G) variant. The results of the limited sample study have appeared in bioRxiv, a preprint host, and are yet to be peer reviewed. The study has demonstrated a reduction in neutralisation titers with sera of Covid-19 recovered cases (3.3-fold and 4.6-fold) and BBV152 vaccines (3. 0 and 2.7 fold) against B.1.351 and B.1.617.2 respectively. “Although, there is a reduction in neutralisation titer, Covaxin demonstrates a protective response against B.1351 and B.1.617.2,” Dr Pragya Yadav of ICMR-NIV, Pune and corresponding author of the study said. The indigenously developed BBV152 or Covaxin resulted from a joint collaboration between the ICMR-NIV and Bharat Biotech last year.    Covaxin is a whole-virion inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, which requires BSL-3 facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covaxin-offers-protection-against-delta-beta-covid-19-variants-icmr-niv-and-bharat-biotech-researchers-claim-995675.html
09-06-2021||National||India, US discuss supply of Covid-19 vaccines||Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla and the acting envoy of the United States in New Delhi, Daniel B Smith discussed the supply of the Covid-19 vaccines that President Joe Biden’s administration in Washington D.C. promised to send out to India. Apart from discussing the Covid-19 situation in India and the US and bilateral cooperation in combatting the pandemic, Foreign Secretary and the Chargé D’Affaires of the American Embassy in New Delhi also discussed “regional issues”, Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, posted on Twitter. “Pleased to meet with FS Shringla today to discuss opportunities for closer #USIndia cooperation on combating the pandemic, and further expanding the close ties between the American and Indian people,” tweeted Smith after his meeting with Foreign Secretary. The Biden Administration on June 3 last announced the allocation of the total 25 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccines, which the US would send out as the first tranche of the total 80 million doses it pledged to donate to other countries. India is the only country, which would receive vaccines from both the two components of the first tranche of the US donations – directly as well as through the Covax, an initiative of the World Health Organization, Gavi The Vaccine Alliance and the others to ensure equitable access to Covid-19 jabs around the world. But, in terms of the number of doses, India is still unlikely to get much out of the first tranche of the vaccines donated by the US. A senior White House official had on June 4 stated that the Biden Administration would discuss with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi before deciding on the exact number of Covid-19 vaccines India would get out of the doses the United States would donate to other countries from its own stockpile. China’s belligerence along its Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India in eastern Ladakh and the imminent withdrawal of the United States from Afghanistan are among the regional issues discussed during the meeting, a source in New Delhi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-discuss-supply-of-covid-19-vaccines-995678.html
09-06-2021||National||SJM joins calls to probe China's role in Covid-19 spread||RSS affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch on Wednesday joined the chorus for probing China's role in Covid-19 spread and called upon the global scientific community to make concerted efforts to reach the root of the issue of Covid-19 origin and fix the responsibility of people or countries involved. National co-convenor of the Manch Ashwani Mahajan also asked to pave way for compensation of losses and ensure such a situation never arises again. Underlining the need to fast track inquiry into the origin of the virus, the SJM said that it has been in discussion almost since the beginning that the coronavirus was produced in a laboratory in Wuhan (China), and had come out either by design or accident. The then US President Donald Trump also repeatedly called it a 'Chinese virus'. "Recently, many new research findings have revealed that the virus had actually originated from the laboratory of Wuhan Institute of Virology. World Health Organization has been studying the origin of coronavirus but only symbolically. WHO has not accepted that the virus was released from the laboratory and in its report published in March 2021 stated that it was a virus emanating from China's animal market. The report said that the virus had emerged from bats and entered humans through another animal. However, the report also did not rule out its origin from Wuhan's laboratory.   "Since the World Health Organization is under immense pressure from China, it has not been able to clearly link the virus's origin to the Wuhan laboratory. But this apprehension cannot be completely ruled out," the SJM said. The RSS affiliate noted that in recent months, many studies and research papers are being published, which clearly indicate the intentional or accidental leaking of the virus from the Wuhan laboratory. "Most experts around the world have rejected the World Health Organization’s report out rightly. They maintain that the World Health Organization did not investigate the issues which it was supposed to do," the SJM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sjm-joins-calls-to-probe-chinas-role-in-covid-19-spread-995708.html
09-06-2021||National||Bharat Biotech to release results of Covaxin third phase trial in July||Covaxin manufacturer Bharat Biotech on Wednesday said it would release the results of long-awaited third phase clinical trial of the home-grown vaccine in July as investigators were analysing more than 70 lakh data points. The phase-3 data will first be submitted to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, followed by publication in a peer-reviewed journal within three months. But as a pre-print, the phase 3 trial data will come out to the public next month, the company said. The indigenous vaccine is yet to be recognised by the World Health Organization (WHO) in the absence of phase-3 clinical trial data. As a consequence, those travelling abroad are advised to take the Covishield jab to get a Covid-19 vaccination certificate. While the government is in talks with the WHO for Covaxin’s recognition, absence of the third phase trial data has turned out to be a stumbling block. Describing the phase-3 evaluation as the “largest efficacy trial conducted in the developing world” with a sample size of 25,800, Raches Ella, who leads the Covid-19 projects at Bharat Biotech, said since the last volunteer received the second dose of the vaccine and there was a mandatory two-month follow up period, the entire data were available for analysis only in mid-May.    Since each participant filled 30 separate forms and there were 25,800 participants, a team of researchers are now analysing 70 lakh data points. The statistical analysis is being carried out by researchers from another company because, being a blinded trial, neither Bharat Biotech nor ICMR has access to the final data set. “After submitting efficacy and 2-months of safety to the CDSCO in July, it is expected to instantly reach a pre-print server. Peer review would take another 2-4 months,” tweeted Ella. “Our nine publications on Covaxin are a testament to Bharat Biotech and ICMR's scientific prowess. The efficacy paper will be our tenth. If you are looking for Covid vaccine data generated in India, rest assured you will only find Covaxin,” he said, taking a potshot at Covishield – the AstraZeneca-Oxford University vaccine, which is being manufactured in India by Serum Institute.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-to-release-results-of-covaxin-third-phase-trial-in-july-995710.html
09-06-2021||National Politics||Congress leader Jitin Prasada joins BJP||Ahead of the Uttar Pradesh elections next year, sulking Congress leader and former Union Minister Jitin Prasada on Wednesday joined the BJP, heralding a new chapter in his political innings. Prasada, 47, a two-term Lok Sabha member from Uttar Pradesh, is expected to boost the BJP’s efforts in wooing the influential Brahmin community in the state which has been feeling alienated in Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath tenure where the Thakur community appears to be calling the shots in power. Prasada, one of the G-23 letter writers in the Congress, joined the BJP in the presence of Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and Rajya Sabha member Anil Baluni and after a meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah. Prasada later called on BJP President J P Nadda. “Three generations of my family have been associated with the Congress. I begin a new chapter in my life today with the BJP,” he told reporters at the BJP headquarters here flanked by Goyal and Rajya Sabha member Anil Baluni. Prasada, who took the political plunge after the death of his father Jitendra Prasada, said he was unable to do justice to his supporters while being in Congress. “This war of principles, I am sad Mr Prasada has taken a complete somersault,” Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said. Prasada’s contemporary in the UPA government Milind Deora wished the Congress leadership “empowered and optimally utilised” the “strong bench” within the party. After he put his signature to the letter last year demanding a “more visible” leadership in the Congress, Prasada was made the AICC in-charge of West Bengal. Under his stewardship, the Congress failed to open its account in the West Bengal assembly where it was the largest opposition party with 44 MLAs. “What is the use of being in a political party where you cannot take care of the interests of your supporters. I was unable to do so in the Congress,” he said. Once identified with the youth brigade of Rahul Gandhi, Prasada had found himself sidelined in the Congress after Priyanka Gandhi Vadra took to reins of party affairs in Uttar Pradesh. Last year, Prasada had launched the Brahman Chetna Parishad, to give voice to the demands and aspirations of the influential community that forms 13% of the voters in Uttar Pradesh. Ahead of the 2017 assembly elections, Prasada has reached out to the Brahmin community in the state through a series of conferences but had failed to make an impact as BJP swept the polls. Brahmins constitute about 13% of the total voters in Uttar Pradesh and are considered to wield influence electorally in the state. Last year, Prasada had claimed that Tripathi, under the Yogi Adityanath government Brahmins were not getting their due and were instead being targeted. “There is a bias against the community across all platforms and there is absolutely no help from the government. Even ruling party MLAs and MPs are feeling suffocated,” Prasada had said last year. On Wednesday, Prasada was all praise of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said that he looked forward to making a small contribution in the BJP’s efforts to build a “new India.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leader-jitin-prasada-joins-bjp-995490.html
09-06-2021||National Politics||BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari meets PM Modi||BJP MLA and Leader of Opposition in the West Bengal Assembly Suvendu Adhikari on Wednesday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi here and discussed with him several political issues relating to the state. Adhikari met Modi at his residence a day after meeting the BJP's top brass, including its president JP Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. This was the first meeting of Adhikari with the top leaders of the BJP after becoming the leader of opposition in the West Bengal Assembly. Adhikari had defeated Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in a closely contested election in the Nandigram assembly segment. The prime minister also tweeted about the meeting, while tagging a picture of the meeting and said, "Met the Leader of the Opposition in the West Bengal Assembly, Shri Suvendu Adhikari." After his meeting with the prime minister, Adhikari tweeted, "Blessed to meet the Honourable PM Shri @narendramodi  Ji. I thank him for his precious time spared for me. Detailed discussion took place for almost 45 minutes regarding Bengal and several other political issues. Sought his support and guidance for the development of West Bengal." Adhikari also tweeted about his meeting with Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and said it was a pleasure to meet him and they "discussed the rampant corruption prevalent in the execution of MGNREGA in Bengal." "He (Tomar) has assured me that my grievances will be taken care of," the West Bengal leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-leader-suvendu-adhikari-meets-pm-modi-995502.html
09-06-2021||National Politics||Big jolt for Congress as Jitin Prasada quits party ahead of Uttar Pradesh polls||Amid continued infighting in its Punjab and Rajasthan units, the Congress suffered a major jolt on Wednesday as it lost Jitin Prasada, a prominent young face from Uttar Pradesh, to the BJP. Walking in the footsteps of his father Jitender Prasada, who contested against Sonia Gandhi for the post of Congress President in 1999, Jitin raised a banner of revolt against his party, quitting ahead of the crucial 2022 Uttar Pradesh elections. Jitin was part of the group of 23 leaders that had written to party chief Sonia Gandhi last October seeking organisational overhaul and elections at all levels. Reports of the 47-year-old Jitin planning to quit the Congress and joining the BJP first came to light in March 2019 ahead of Lok Sabha elections when top party leaders including Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra talked him out of defection and held him back. Prasada was made party in-charge for West Bengal, where the Congress drew a blank in the recent elections. Under Jitin, the party failed to open its account having fought in alliance with the Left parties. A third generation Congressman, Jitin also failed to win Lok Sabha election from his traditional seat Dhaurahra in 2014 and 2019 and also lost the MLA election in the 2017 assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. He was Minister of State for Steel, Petroleum and Natural Gas, Road Transport and Education in the UPA since 2008 and was always considered close to Rahul Gandhi. Prasada's decision to join the BJP could trigger a wave of fresh defections from the Congress with several disgruntled young leaders likely to switch sides. Some of the leaders said to be frustrated in the Congress are former Rajasthan deputy CM Sachin Pilot, former MP Milind Deora among others. Prasada said he was joining the BJP to serve the society as he could not fulfil this responsibility while being part of the Congress party. He thanked the saffron party for welcoming him and said the BJP today was truly a national party and Prime Minister Narendra Modi a true national leader. Prasada's move to switch sides will compound the troubles of the Congress leadership, which continues to battle internal factionalism in Punjab and Rajasthan and trouble even in Chhattisgarh and Karnataka. While in Punjab, former minister Navjot Sidhu has been publicly attacking Chief minister Amarinder Singh, in Rajasthan former deputy CM Pilot has been voicing his disappointment over the AICC functioning and continues to be at loggerheads with CM Ashok Gehlot. In Karnataka, the tussle between D K Sivakumar and Siddharamaiah is brewing, and in Chhattisgarh senior leader and Health Minister TS Singh Deo is silently waiting in the wings to get a chance to become the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/big-jolt-for-congress-as-jitin-prasada-quits-party-ahead-of-uttar-pradesh-polls-995529.html
09-06-2021||National Politics||Mamata Banerjee meets Rakesh Tikait, assures support for farmers’ agitation||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said that the Trinamool Congress (TMC) will extend full support to the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s new farm laws. During a meeting at the State Secretariat with farmer leaders Rakesh Tikait and Yudhvir Singh, the Chief Minister also accused the Centre of acting against the federal structure of the country. Speaking to reporters after the meeting the Chief Minister said, “We will definitely support the farmers...Why is it so difficult ( for the Centre) to speak to the farmers?” She also said that the country was eagerly waiting for policies regarding fighting the pandemic and aiding farmers. “India is eagerly waiting for policies regarding fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, assisting farmers and the industry,” said Mamata. She further alleged that the BJP’s rule resulted in setbacks for all sectors, be it healthcare or agriculture. “India is suffering. We are fighting against both natural and political disasters. The farmers’ movement is not confined to Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. It is for the country,” said Mamata. She also said that states should come together for a discussion on policy issues and put up a united fight against injustice. The TMC’s supremo’s announcement of supporting the farmers' agitation comes days after the TMC announced that it wants to spread its organization in other States also and make it more relevant in national politics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-banerjee-meets-rakesh-tikait-assures-support-for-farmers-agitation-995586.html
09-06-2021||National Politics||BJP to use Jitin Prasada to 'douse' Brahmin 'anger' in Uttar Pradesh||Former Congress leader Jitin Prasada, who joined the saffron party on Wednesday, could come in handy for the BJP to douse anger in the electorally-influential Brahmin community against the party in Uttar Pradesh, where Assembly polls are scheduled to be held nine months later. Prasada, who had formed an outfit 'Brahmin Chetna Parishad' to launch a campaign for justice for the community, however, may find the going tough, given the 'pro-thakur' image of chief minister Yogi Adityanath and also as the campaign was against the current dispensation. In fact the Congress had, in a bid to promote 'Brahmin' leaders from UP, made Prasada a special invitee to the CWC. He had also undertaken a 'yatra' in different parts of the state to highlight 'atrocities' on the Brahmins and 'expose' the BJP. He had also visited the 'Brahmin' families, whose members had been murdered in the past few months. Prasada had also taken up the issue of arrest of Khushi Dubey, the wife of slain gangster Vikas Dubey's brother, and had lashed out at the Adityanath government demanding her immediate release. He had also sought to link the encounter of Vikas Dubey with the killings of the members of the community since the formation of the BJP government in the state in March 2017. BJP was pushed on the defensive after its own leaders had voiced concern over 'persecution' of the Brahmins under the current dispensation. A BJP legislator from Lambhua assembly seat in Sultanpur district, about 150 kilometres from here, Deomani Dwivedi, who hailed from the 'Brahmin' community, had sought to know from the state government about its future plan to ensure the community's security. The legislator also wanted to know about the number of 'Brahmin' murdered in the state since the BJP came to power in UP and in how many cases the police were able to arrest the culprits. 'Brahmins' who formed around ten per cent of the electorate in the state, were a deciding factor on around a dozen Lok Sabha and over 50 assembly seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-to-use-jitin-prasada-to-douse-brahmin-anger-in-uttar-pradesh-995597.html
09-06-2021||National Politics||Aiming to dethrone Modi govt: Mamata promises to rally opposition-ruled states behind agitating farmers||In a move that may take her political battle against the BJP into the Hindi heartland, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday promised to rally opposition-ruled states in support of the agitating farmers, and said she aims to "remove the Narendra Modi government from power". At a meeting with farmer leaders led by Rakesh Tikait and Yudhvir Singh here during the day, the TMC chief said that there should be a platform where states could converse on policy issues. "Bulldozing states is not good for the federal structure," she said. The farmer leaders had come to elicit her support for their agitation against the farm laws passed by the BJP-led central government and in favour of a nationwide law bringing in a guaranteed Minimum Support Price for agricultural crops. Banerjee's support for the north India-based farmers' unions comes within days of the Trinamool Congress announcing that the party would spread its footprints outside West Bengal's geographical boundaries. The Bhartiya Kisan Union led by Tikait and Singh had supported the 'No vote for BJP' campaign ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections and have plans to extend that in other upcoming state elections as well, including in Uttar Pradesh which the saffron party rules in alliance with smaller parties. Banerjee announced after the meeting that her "support for the farmers' movement will be there" and added in an obvious jibe at the Centre that "India is hungrily waiting for policies which help in fighting Covid-19, assist farmers and industry." The chief minister rhetorically asked, "...why is it so difficult to talk to the farmers?" She was referring to the breakdown in communication between the Centre and the farmers who have been camping at Delhi's borders for over six months against three farm laws passed by the Parliament. The agitators feel the new laws will commercialise agriculture without adequate protection to small farmers from exploitation by large retail chains and industry. "The BJP rule has been disastrous for all sectors from healthcare to farmers to industry. India is suffering...we are facing both natural and political disasters," said Banerjee, who has been reaching out to other opposition-led states in trying to forge a united front against her perceived grievances against the Centre. The chief minister said that the agriculturist leaders have requested her to talk to other state leaders on the farmers' issue and organise a dialogue with farmers' unions. "The farmers' movement is not just for Punjab, Haryana or Uttar Pradesh. It is for the whole country," she said. TMC vice president and former Union finance minister Yashwant Singh, who was also present at the meeting, said, "It is necessary to stop the trend towards commercialisation of farming. We are with the farmers...we want the three laws to be withdrawn and a new law on MSP brought in." Banerjee's support for the agitation which has drawn on the farming community in rural north India, is being viewed as a potential boost for the stir which has been flagging in recent weeks. Yudhvir Singh, general secretary of the BKU, told PTI ahead of the meeting, "We want to congratulate Mamata Banerjee for her electoral victory and to elicit her support for the move to give farmers a fair MSP for their crops." Singh said he wants states to come up MSP for fruits, vegetables and milk products. The lack of a specified MSP and glut in produce often leads to farmers suffering from extremely low prices which results in huge losses, often leading to farmer suicides in many parts of the country. Banerjee has a long history of being involved with farmers' stirs. She had earlier built up her challenge against the Left Front government in West Bengal leading agitations in Nandigram and Singur against moves by the then state administration to compulsorily acquire land from farmers for a chemical hub and a car factory respectively. Analysts speculated that the TMC, which wants to spread to other parts of the country, may be hoping to gain a political foothold in the Hindi heartland by handholding the farmers' movement and taking advantage of the opposition vacuum in the country. Banerjee's statement that she will remove Modi from power had earlier been made during her election campaign for the West Bengal assembly elections held in March-April this year, where she had promised that she would take the political battle to Delhi. Since her landslide victory, there have also been talks of her becoming the opposition face for the 2024 general elections, a question to which she has not given any answers yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aiming-to-dethrone-modi-govt-mamata-promises-to-rally-opposition-ruled-states-behind-agitating-farmers-995620.html
09-06-2021||National Politics||Jitin Prasada's exit: Congress cannot afford to remain out of power for long||While joining BJP, Jitin Prasada customarily hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi as "Yashaswi" and Home Minister Amit Shah as "Karmayogi", and he also voiced his desperation at "not being able to do anything for his people" while remaining in Congress with which he had a "three-generation association". Unlike many of his peers, he chose not to hit out at the Nehru-Gandhi family or Congress work culture. In Jitin's resignation, the writing on the wall was clear for Congress. It cannot afford to remain out of power for long. While at the Centre, Congress is out of power for only seven years this time, Uttar Pradesh has remained unbound for the party since 1989 after the surge of Mandal-Mandir politics. "I felt that what is the relevance of staying in a party if you can't protect the interests of your people or work for them. I felt I was unable to do that at Congress. I thank people in Congress who blessed me all these years but now  I will work as a dedicated BJP worker," Prasada said. Earlier when Congress spokesperson Priyanka Chaturvedi, who had quit the party after being "let down" by it had also explained her rationale behind joining the Shiv Sena saying since she hailed from Mumbai, her “karmabhoomi”, she always felt connected to the Sena and that she wanted to come back to her roots. "When I thought of coming back, I did not find any organisation better than this and no other better platform than this,” she said. That was April 2019 when Sena was a BJP ally and Congress in the state appeared in a shambles That is a real problem. As young Congress leaders find the party getting nowhere in the states, they are looking for options.  Prasada, the 47-year-old leader from Brahmin community (which has kept changing its voting preferences from Congress to BJP to BSP and is now reportedly veering towards SP), tried to revive this caste vote bank back to Congress by launching Brahmin Chetna Parishad in 2020 but it did not cut much ice. Earlier Prasada himself lost Lok Sabha elections twice in 2014 and 2019, besides Assembly Polls in 2017. Congress has lost polls in Arunachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Haryana, and Bihar. In Jharkhand and Tamil Nadu, it owes its victory to its ally while in Maharashtra, it is a junior partner in a seemingly unstable ruling coalition. Many in Congress believe that at Centre Narendra Modi's led BJP's biggest advantage is TINA (There Is No Alternative) factor. UP now seems repeating a similar story with two Opposition alliances SP-Congress in 2017 Assembly polls and BSP-SP in 2019 Lok Sabha polls failing to stop the Modi juggernaut. Pandemic fallout, however, can make a difference if a strong opposition coalition is in place. Then there are others, who expected a bigger role for themselves in the party for their contribution and could not get it due to old guard- new generation rivalry. Ashok Tanwar, a pick of Rahul Gandhi, who served as Haryana Congress chief for five years but was forced to make way for former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda before the 2019 Assembly polls. He quit the party. Jyotiraditya Scindia, who quit Congress in March 2020 wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi thanking her for giving him a platform but said he felt he cannot serve people by being in the party. This was 15 months after he, joining hands with Digvijay Singh and Kamal Nath, had brought Congress back to power in Madhya Pradesh after a 15 years gap. The party did not make him either Chief Ministers of the PCC Chief in MP where it was in power. Soon after Prasada quit the party to join the BJP, Deora though asserted that Congress still has a strong bench which, if empowered and optimally utilised, can deliver but wished that several of his friends, peers and valued colleagues hadn't left the party. Another Congress leader, Kuldeep Bishnoi tweeted "First @JM_Scindia now @JitinPrasada - huge blows for @incindia as we lose leaders who gave & still had much to give to the Party. Agreed, they shouldn’t have abandoned INC esp during troubled waters. But Congress needs to identify & empower mass leaders to win back states." Some others, who recently quit are Khushbu Sundar while Sachin Pilot and Milind Deora, the two key members of Rahul's team once, are reportedly unhappy. The dilemma before the central leadership is that while the young generation is leaving in absence of positions, it is the older generation leaders, which are really performing--be it Hooda in Haryana, Virbhadra Singh in Himachal Pradesh or Ashok Gehlot in Rajasthan or past Tarun Gogoi with three consecutive terms as CM in Assam. The question is how long the old guards will carry the party on their shoulders. In Himachal Pradesh, it now seems a dead-end for the party as Virbadhra Singh is 87 and the party is without an effective second rung of leadership there. In Assam, once the number two of Congress Himanta Himanta Biswa Sarma is now Chief Minister from BJP while Tarun Gogoi is no more.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jitin-prasadas-exit-congress-cannot-afford-to-remain-out-of-power-for-long-995642.html
09-06-2021||North and Central||Punjab to administer Covishield 2nd dose after 28 days to those travelling abroad: Minister||The second dose of Covishield vaccine will now be administered after 28 days to people who have to travel abroad for specific purposes, Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said on Tuesday. He said a competent authority designated by the district administration shall check before giving permission for administration of the second dose before the stipulated period of 84 days. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has issued recommendations to provide vaccines to such people who have completed 28 days of their first dose, said Sidhu. Students who have to undertake foreign travel for the purpose of education, persons who have to take up jobs in foreign countries, athletes, sportspersons and accompanying staff of Indian contingent attending the Olympic games to be held in Tokyo will be considered as eligible beneficiaries. In a statement, Sidhu said these instructions have been issued to all the Deputy Commissioners for further action so that the maximum number of eligible beneficiaries are vaccinated. The minister said that the Punjab government had taken up the issue of reducing the prescribed time for the second dose of Covishield vaccine with the Centre several times to help international travellers, especially students who are not covered in priority groups. Sidhu said that it was unfortunate that because of being unable to get full coverage of vaccination, students could not go abroad for their studies even after paying hefty fees. The students and their parents have repeatedly urged the Punjab government to reduce the gap for the second dose of Covishield from 84 days.  On the supply of vaccine doses for the 18-44 age group, Sidhu said the Centre will deliver 1,56,720 Covishield doses on June 11; 1,30,160 on June 17; 1,56,720 on June 19; and 1,32,150 doses on July 1. The state will receive 25,000 doses of Covaxin on June 20; 12,000 doses on June 23; and 19,370 doses on June 28. He said that 50,000 doses of Covaxin were received from the Centre on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-to-administer-covishield-2nd-dose-after-28-days-to-those-travelling-abroad-minister-995361.html
09-06-2021||North and Central||PM Modi condoles loss of lives in Kanpur road accident||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday expressed grief at the loss of lives in a road accident in Kanpur and announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund for the next of kin the deceased. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said Rs 50,000 each would be provided to those injured in the accident. Modi expressed his condolences to the families of the deceased and wished a speedy recovery to the injured. At least 16 people were killed and six injured after a speeding bus hit a loader in Kanpur's Sachendi area late on Tuesday evening. While the loader fell on the other side of the highway, the bus overturned and fell into a ditch, police said. Two among the injured are said to be critical, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-condoles-loss-of-lives-in-kanpur-road-accident-995368.html
09-06-2021||North and Central||Covaxin stock for 45-plus age group almost over: Atishi||No Delhi government hospital and vaccination centre would administer Covaxin to people aged 45 years and above from Wednesday as the vaccine stock for the age group got "almost over" on Tuesday, said senior AAP leader and legislator Atishi. Out of Delhi's total 5.50 lakh vaccine stock on Tuesday available for people above 45 years, 5.44 lakh were Covishield and 8,000 Covaxin, the MLA from Kalkaji said. "The 8,000 doses of Covaxin have almost ended today. In such a situation, the vaccination of those above 45 years of age will be closed in government hospitals and centers from tomorrow. We are waiting for the central government to send another shipment of vaccines for this category," said Atishi during the city's daily vaccination bulletin. "The Covishield stock is available in Delhi for 45 plus category and people can come and get themselves vaccinated with the first dose," she added. It is totally opposite for the 18-44 age group which has "27,000 Covaxin doses" available, but not Covishield, she added. "We had 27,000 doses of Covaxin available till this morning. Young people eligible for the second dose will be given Covaxin for the next one to two days. But Covishield stock is not available with us at present," Atishi said. Delhi had received a fresh stock of 40,000 Covaxin doses on Sunday evening for the 18-44 age group. This consignment was received after the city government had to stop the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group for almost two weeks due to the unavailability of vaccines. "Earlier, we had zero supply of Covaxin, people were anxious. Now that we have sufficient doses, many youngsters are getting themselves the second dose of Covaxin," said Atishi, who appealed to the Centre to provide Delhi with Covishiled doses as well for the group. The vaccination drive of people above 45 years, which according to Atishi has somewhat "plateaued" after covering about 50 percent of the population in the group, would gain speed following the Delhi government's new campaign "Jahan Vote, Wahin Vaccine". The campaign, started in 70 wards across the city, would see booth level officers (BLOs) going door to door for allocating slots to eligible persons in the 45-plus category to get the jabs closer to home at designated polling centres. "During this, people are asked whether there is any person in a particular family, above 45 years of age in their house who has not got the vaccine. If there is such a person, then they are immediately given a slot for vaccine. Accordingly, the vaccine can be administered in the next three days. Vaccination above 45 years of age will intensify after this campaign," Atishi said. On Monday, 66,082 people were vaccinated in the city, out of which 33,696 got their first shot and 32,386 their second. So far, 57,33,418 people have been given vaccine doses, including 13 lakh people fully vaccinated with both doses, in the city, as per official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covaxin-stock-for-45-plus-age-group-almost-over-atishi-995388.html
09-06-2021||North and Central||Amarinder moots research facility to deal with Covid-like pandemic, other diseases||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday mooted a research facility under the guidance of national and global healthcare experts to combat a Covid-like pandemic and other serious diseases, according to an official statement. Chairing a virtual meeting of healthcare experts, Singh extended his government's "continued and unequivocal support" to the medical fraternity in battling the "unprecedented crisis" of Covid-19 till it is completely eliminated, the statement said. The state government is only the second line of defence in the fight against the pandemic, he said. The chief minister urged people not to self-medicate and consult doctors as soon as they notice the first signs of coronavirus. Singh exuded confidence that Punjab will soon win the fight against Covid-19. The state, he said, is gearing up for a possible third wave of the pandemic. Despite cases showing a declining trend, Punjab is not letting down its guard. More than 250 experts from Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh, besides four foreign doctors, participated in the meeting. Punjab's Covid-19 tally surged to 5,82,081 on Tuesday with 1,273 fresh cases while the death toll climbed to 15,219 as 60 more people succumbed to the disease, according to a medical bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amarinder-moots-research-facility-to-deal-with-covid-like-pandemic-other-diseases-995399.html
09-06-2021||North and Central||No bad intention in circular against Malayalam, says Delhi hospital||The nursing superintendent of GB Pant Hospital here has apologised for issuing a controversial circular that barred nursing staff from speaking in Malayalam on duty, saying he had "no intention to disrespect any Indian language, region, or religion". The hospital had withdrawn the circular, which asked the nursing staff to converse only in Hindi and English, on Sunday, saying it was issued “without any instruction or knowledge of the hospital administration and the Delhi government”. In a letter to the medical director of the hospital on Monday, the nursing superintendent explained the reasons behind issuing the circular and said it was issued in "a positive sense and there was no bad intention against Malayalam-speaking staff". "In fact, the circular was misinterpreted and I didn't even get a chance to explain the same," he said. The official said he had acted on the basis of complaints received on May 31, June 1 and June 2. "The gist of the complaint was that most of the staff communicates in regional language due to which other staff members as well as attendants of the patients feel helpless. It was requested to sort out the matter… Complainant clearly mentioned Malayalam language,” the letter by the nursing superintendent read. Earlier, too, patients and attendants had complained verbally to seniors about some staff members using their regional language, he said. The patients would assume they had some serious health issues and that's why languages are changed to hide their condition. Hence, the circular was issued to “avoid any confusion due to language barrier”, the nursing superintendent said. "Even then, if feelings of any staff were hurt, I regret and offer an apology for the same," he said. On Monday, the Delhi Health Department had issued a memo to Govind Ballabh Pant Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education & Research (GIPMER) in connection with the controversial circular. A source said the health department had asked the hospital to "explain why such an order was issued". An official of the G B Pant nurses' association said there are around 850 nurses working at the hospital and of them, around 400 are Malayali.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-bad-intention-in-circular-against-malayalam-says-delhi-hospital-995468.html
09-06-2021||North and Central||Centre should procure as many vaccines as possible to keep children safe: Sisodia||The Centre should move proactively to procure Covid-19 vaccines for children as many countries have started working on it, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Wednesday. The ruling AAP dispensation led by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has voiced concern over safety of children while citing opinion of experts that children may be affected in a possible third wave of Covid-19. Currently, people aged 18 years and above are being vaccinated in India. The screening of children in the age group of 2-18 for trial of Covaxin vaccine has started at AIIMS Patna and New Delhi to see if the vaccine is suitable for them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-should-procure-as-many-vaccines-as-possible-to-keep-children-safe-sisodia-995496.html
09-06-2021||North and Central||Three held for duping people over oxygen cylinders||Three members of a gang have been arrested from Bihar for allegedly duping several people on the pretext of providing them oxygen cylinders for coronavirus-affected patients, police said on Wednesday. With the arrest of Gopal Kumar (20), Rohit Kumar (21) and Sanjeet Chaudhary (22) on Monday, the police claimed to have worked out 11 such cases registered at different police stations across the city. All the three accused operated from their native place in Bihar's Nalanda district. They took money on the pretext of supplying oxygen cylinders but never delivered them. According to the police, the amount used to be transferred to the bank accounts of people belonging to the economically weaker section of the society. The accused had paid them Rs 500 each for documents of their bank accounts. A probe was initiated in the matter on the basis of several complaints reported at Greater Kailash and other police stations across Delhi. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said, "To unearth the conspiracy and bust the syndicate committing the offence, a dedicated team was constituted and sent to Nalanda in Bihar. The whereabouts of alleged men was taken for technical surveillance and based on it, the three men were arrested." An ATM card, bank passbooks and visiting cards of a gas agency were recovered from the possession of the accused, he said. During interrogation, the accused disclosed their involvement in 11 such cases, the police said, adding that they have been sent to judicial custody. The police said they are investigating the exact amount duped by the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-held-for-duping-people-over-oxygen-cylinders-995503.html
09-06-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh govt refuses to share information on compulsory retirement of Amitabh Thakur||The Uttar Pradesh government has refused to share information with former IPS officer Amitabh Thakur regarding his compulsory retirement, saying the documents are "highly confidential". Thakur called this denial "improper and suspicious", saying initially he was given compulsory retirement in an "arbitrary manner" and now he was being denied information related to his livelihood. UP cadre IPS officer Thakur was given compulsory retirement on March 23 following a decision taken by the Union Home Ministry. He had sought documents related to the decision through a letter on May 26. "Amitabh sought a copy of note sheet, correspondence, minutes, etc. of the file related to his compulsory retirement. These documents cannot be provided because they are highly confidential documents related to the discussion and approval at the highest level," stated an order issued by Special Secretary of the Home Department Kumar Prashant on June 3. Previously, the Ministry of Home Affairs had also denied sharing the information under the RTI Act. Thakur was compulsorily retired with immediate effect in "public interest" on March 23, 2021. Thakur was "not found fit to be retained for the remaining tenure of his service", an order from the Union Home Ministry had said. "In the public interest, Amitabh Thakur is being given premature retirement before completion of his service with immediate effect," it stated. In 2017, Thakur had urged the Centre to dispose of his request for change of cadre to any state other than UP, saying the 'bias' against him did not exist anymore after the then ruling Samajwadi Party was routed in the assembly polls. The officer was suspended on July 13, 2015, days after he accused SP patron Mulayam Singh of threatening him. A vigilance enquiry was also initiated against him. However, the Lucknow Bench of Central Administrative Tribunal stayed his suspension in April 2016 and ordered his reinstatement with full salary with effect from October 11, 2015.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-govt-refuses-to-share-information-on-compulsory-retirement-of-amitabh-thakur-995532.html
09-06-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand CM lauds state for 4th place rank in Niti Aayog's Sustainable Development Goals Index||Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Wednesday congratulated teachers and education department officials in Uttarakhand for the state being ranked fourth in Niti Aayog's SDG India Index 2020-21 Rawat said rise to the fourth position carries a message for teachers and officials of the state education department to continue their efforts with the same dedication and catapult the state to the top position in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) list in the coming years. "Uttarakhand is lucky to have been ranked fourth by Niti Ayog in the list of SDGs prepared on the basis of its performance on 17 parameters. It had ranked 19th in the list in 2015-16 and now it has climbed to the fourth position," he said. A total of 500 teachers from across the state joined the programme virtually, an official release here said.   The chief minister also launched a website of 'Atal Utkrisht Vidyalaya' on the occasion. Rawat said all steps are being taken by the state government to provide quality education to children.  A total of 190 schools are being set up in the state under the Atal Utkrisht Vidyalaya scheme, two in each block to make quality education available to all, he said.  Virtual class facility is available in 500 schools and it will be made available in 600 more very soon, Rawat said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-cm-lauds-state-for-4th-place-rank-in-niti-aayogs-sustainable-development-goals-index-995551.html
09-06-2021||North and Central||JNU figured in top 1,000 institutes as it strengthened courses, introduced new programmes: VC||With the JNU finding a spot in the top 1,000 of the coveted QS World University Rankings, its vice-chancellor on Wednesday said the varsity strengthened it's existing courses and introduced several new programmes which led to the success. Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) Vice Chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar said it is for the first time the varsity has appeared as a comprehensive university within the 550-600 range in the global rankings. While expressing his gratitude to all students, staff, faculty members and the alumni who have contributed to this recognition, he said the varsity will continue to work towards improving educational standards and enhancing innovation and research. "Our collective efforts during the last five years in strengthening the existing programs in Science, Humanities and Social Sciences disciplines and the introduction of several new academic programs, particularly the undergraduate engineering programm and the establishment of Atal Bihari Vajpayee School of Management and Entrepreneurship, have largely contributed to this recognition," he said. Kumar stressed that Indian institutes should focus on finding solutions to issues the country is facing. India will benefit immensely with more Indian educational institutions becoming part of the global group of highly recognized universities, he added. "At the same time, I also would like to emphasize that our universities should focus on finding solutions to many challenges in climate, energy, education, health and national security to build a self-reliant India and a sustainable world. Recognition and good university rankings will automatically follow these sustained efforts," he said. In the overall rankings, three Indian institutions have figured in the top 200 universities of the world list. According to the 18th edition of the rankings, the India Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay, is India's top ranked institution for the fourth consecutive year at the QS World University Rankings 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jnu-figured-in-top-1000-institutes-as-it-strengthened-courses-introduced-new-programmes-vc-995565.html
09-06-2021||North and Central||Delimitation Commission asks J&K to share data pertaining to electorates, topography||The Delimitation Commission set up by the Central government to redraw parliamentary and assembly constituencies of Jammu and Kashmir has asked the union territory administration to share data pertaining to electorates, topography and other composition at the earliest. The Commission, headed by Justice (Retired) Ranjana Prakash Desai, on Tuesday sent letters to all 20 deputy commissioners of J&K seeking details of their districts as well as the assembly constituencies within their jurisdiction at present. Though the panel had obtained data pertaining to total electorates in the UT for analysis last year also, the fresh details could provide it further insight for delimitation of the Assembly constituencies, sources said. The panel members haven’t visited J&K even once since it was constituted on 6 March 2020 for a period of one year initially. However, its term was extended by another year as it couldn’t complete the process apparently due to Covid-19 pandemic. The Commission is operating from its New Delhi office. On February 18 the Commission held its first meeting with the associate members in New Delhi which was attended by two BJP MPs, but boycotted by three National Conference Parliamentarians on the ground that the party had challenged J&K Reorganisation Act-2019 in the Supreme Court under which the Commission was set up. “The Commission is likely to call a second meeting of the associate members in New Delhi and most likely NC MPs will be part of it,” sources said. The term of the Commission is till March 2022 but there is no bar on the panel submitting a report in advance if it is ready. The panel has to invite claims and objections from the people by putting the report in the public domain before the final report is issued. The elections in J&K have been due since the PDP-BJP alliance fell apart in June 2018, after which the erstwhile state was brought under governor’s rule. While it was expected that polls in J&K could be held simultaneously with the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the Election Commission ruled that out, citing security reasons. Just a few months after the Lok Sabha polls, J&K Reorganisation Act, 2019 was brought in, mandating delimitation in the newly-carved out UT before polls could be conducted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delimitation-commission-asks-jk-to-share-data-pertaining-to-electorates-topography-995584.html
09-06-2021||North and Central||'Delhi Master Plan 2041' calls for night-time economy, affordable housing, healthy environment||From creating a '24-hour city' with night-time economy, extensive transport infrastructure, affordable housing for all and healthy environment to checking unauthorised colonies and pollution - these are part of the guiding principles the DDA has laid out for the 'Master Plan of Delhi 2041'. The draft of MPD-2041, which was put in the public domain on Wednesday for suggestions and objections, largely covers the policies of environment, economy, mobility, heritage, culture and public spaces among others. The plan calls for affordable rental housing and residential areas with complete facilities and small format housing in the national capital over the next 20 years. It also proposes that there should not be further growth of unauthorised colonies, adding that there should be development of urban villages within two years of the notification of the MPD 2041. According to the draft plan by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), Delhi's population is estimated to go up to 3.9 crores against the 1.67 crores in the 2011 Census. Given the rising concerns regarding pollution, a shift towards cleaner economies such as information technology (IT), IT-enabled services, knowledge-based and hi-tech industries, entrepreneurial activities, realty market, tourism, hospitality, tertiary healthcare and higher education is envisaged, stated the voluminous draft. The concept of a '24-hour city' is being promoted through the Model Shops and Establishments (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 2015 as well as the night-time economy (NTE) policy, it said. The night-time economy is gaining prominence in many countries. Creating jobs and attracting tourists are some of the benefits. However, management policies and infrastructure support are needed for it. The MPD 2041 advocates for identifying nodes and circuits in the city for continuing work, cultural activity and entertainment at night to attract tourists and locals. This will improve economic yield by extending the utilisation of workspaces, and safety in the city by promoting a vibrant nightlife, the draft plan proposes. Delhi's areas such as Connaught Place and its extension, commercial areas in the Walled City and Karol Bagh have historically played the role of the central business district and continue to have a high concentration of commerce, offices, businesses and socio-cultural facilities. "An area-based improvement approach will be adopted for revitalising the commercial core of the city," it says. Connaught Place and its extension are iconic hubs characterised by heritage and landmark buildings and a diverse mix of office, hospitality, entertainment, retail and business activities. The proposed Master Plan Delhi -2041 also suggests identifying specific locations for permitting agriculture on the flood plains. It suggests a special initiative for the rejuvenation of Yamuna, including creating “greenways” along the embankments of the Yamuna for public access with a provision of cycling and walking trails. The DDA said that the location of all heritage assets that are maintained by respective agencies will be integrated with the GIS-based Delhi Spatial Information System. The list of the heritage assets shall be updated every five years to assess their condition and take the necessary steps towards conservation. Laying down the roadmap for housing supply in the national capital, the draft says that future housing supply will be met through large-scale development of sectors in Delhi's greenfield areas using the land pooling model. Identified land pooling areas have the potential to develop 17-20 lakh dwelling units. It cites how metropolitan cities across the world maintain a diversified rental housing stock providing residents and migrants tenure flexibility, geographical mobility and affordability. "Given the high cost of land in developed parts of the city, this also ensures availability of housing for a variety of income groups closer to their workplaces, thereby minimising trip distances," it states. A paradigm shift is envisaged in the supply scenario, with the private sector leading the development or redevelopment of housing over the plan period, it added. It also calls for strategic corridors for boosting high-speed connectivity and redevelopment of the historic ring rail network. The draft delineates that the public transport system of Delhi needs further integration at the institutional level, spatial-level and systems-level; to provide a seamless travel experience to the commuters. "Institutional integration could be enabled by a larger mandate, efforts towards achieving spatial integration (land use and transport integration, multi-modal integration, last-mile connectivity, among others) and systems integration (bus route rationalisation, intelligent transport systems, including unified ticketing, command and control center for better traffic management), have been initiated, but need to be reinforced," it said. It added that there should be periodic safety audits for structural safety and forming state-of-the-art Delhi Disaster Response Force (DDRF). In the next 20 years, the infrastructure in Delhi will face an "unprecedented pressure", and therefore, has to be both responsive to emerging needs and resilient to "shocks and stresses", reads the draft plan, noting that the "focus is to create a sustainable and resource-efficient environment by enabling the provision of robust and resilient infrastructure services". The Master Plan for Delhi is one of the key instruments that facilitates Delhi's development by assessing the present condition and guiding how to achieve the desired development and meet future challenges. The anchor agency for the master plan is the DDA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-master-plan-2041-calls-for-night-time-economy-affordable-housing-healthy-environment-995702.html
09-06-2021||Oasis||In praise of moderation||At no time has the value of moderation been more important than during the current pandemic. As we wait in hope and despair for the waves of the pandemic to abate, it is necessary to keep both mental and physical wellbeing intact. In the course of doing so, one must also exercise a great deal of caution. Meditation to calm the mind, physical fitness for the body and feeling positive to keep the spirits up are the most commonly recommended methods. Meditation, in the best of time, is an introspective activity. In a lockdown, when everything around is quiet and there is an atmosphere of gloom all around, any introverted activity may tend to become depressive. For the courage to fight difficult times what one needs is faith, enthusiasm and the spirit to overcome. Traditionally all war music derives from 'veer ras', the sounds that stimulate valour. In dark moments the need is perhaps for chants that enthuse and release the enzymes that make one happy. The emphasis is not so much on the method or strict adherence to rules of posture and diet but simply attempting to empty the mind of thoughts of doom. A certain level of noise, even if it comes from the television makes things more bearable. The walkers, the joggers, and the old and young who have turned to cycling on the empty roads provide an ode to fitness. The sudden urge to tone up an unwilling body must be tempered. It is like the Herculean task of opening a jammed window. Any use of force can cause irreparable damage. To push the body beyond endurance is deemed an act of the tamas or dark nature. Turning both the body and mind to ordinary day-to-day chores can give one the added satisfaction and joy which at this juncture is more valuable than any achievement. Remaining positive even as people around gasp for breath is not easy. Turning to a false sense of bravado and becoming reckless becomes a dangerous form of denial. All group activities, whatever the feel-good factor, must be set aside till the danger of the virus abates. Small steps and each one putting their mind to what is sustainable for them would help. Count your blessings, be prepared for the unpleasant, and when one can help, give generously. In a crisis, one cannot stand alone. Both greed and fear make one negative and are destructive. Nothing is forever and humanity shall overcome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/in-praise-of-moderation-995714.html
09-06-2021||Opinion||But for infighting, 2022 could be better for Congress||Seven states have had Assembly polls in 2020 and 2021. Except for Tamil Nadu, where it was a minor constituent of the winning alliance, the Congress party and its allies lost in the rest of the six states. However, 2022 could be better for the Congress party in the seven Assembly elections slated during the following year. Barring Uttar Pradesh, where it is a fringe player, the Congress is one of the two principal players in the arena in the rest six and could win all of them. Similarly, the Congress party has a good chance of either winning or retaining most of the nine states scheduled for elections in 2023. A good performance in the 16 Assembly polls in 2022 and 2023 will be the wind that the Congress would need under its wings to put up a stiffer challenge against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. This where the current spate of infighting in several of the Congress party's state units, including the poll-bound states in 2022-23, is intriguing. The emergence of a putative federal front is good news for a more consultative democracy. Still, the 2019 Lok Sabha results are proof that any such coalition cannot on its own unseat the BJP unless the Congress party beats it in most of the Hindi heartland and states like Karnataka. Here is why the Congress performance in these states is key to the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. The Congress party bagged 52-seats in 2019. Of these, as many as 39 were where the BJP was not even the runner up. Thirty-one of its seats came from three states – Kerala (15), Punjab and Tamil Nadu (eight each) – all of which are where the BJP was not its principal opponent. To put it simply, the BJP could secure 282-seats in 2014 and 303-seats in 2019 because it blanked out the Congress party in the 150-odd seats where the two are principal rivals. The seven poll-bound states in 2022 are Uttar Pradesh, Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand and Punjab in February-March of that year, and Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat in November-December. According to party sources, Congress president Sonia Gandhi has asked state units heading for polls to bury their internal differences. In Punjab, a three-member panel is already in place to resolve the impasse between the rebels and Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. In Uttarakhand, the ruling BJP is in disarray after the change in leadership. The Congress is confident of winning next year's election. Former CM Harish Rawat is keen he is declared the chief ministerial candidate of the party soonest. The central leadership has requested party factions, led by Rawat and Indira Hridayesh, to bury the hatchet. Uttarakhand's neighbouring hill state of Himachal Pradesh goes to the polls a few months later. Here again, public anger is simmering against the ruling BJP. Congress leader, former CM, Virbhadra Singh, is ailing. His loyalists, including Asha Kumari, Mukesh Agnihotri and Sudhir Sharma, have held meetings to ensure the party projects someone from their camp as the chief ministerial candidate. Himachal Pradesh will also have by-polls to three Assembly and one Lok Sabha seat, and the results could indicate the public mood. Himachal Pradesh has not returned an incumbent government since 1985. Uttarakhand has not sent back an incumbent government since its creation in 2000. The Congress is confident of winning Goa and Manipur, two states where it had emerged as the single largest party in 2017 polls as well, but the BJP beat it in government formation thanks to backroom manoeuvres. As for Uttar Pradesh, some believe the party should pursue its West Bengal and Delhi strategy. The Congress party had followed this in 2019 as well. It had put up a fight only on a handful of the seats lest it harmed the prospects of the Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party alliance to defeat the BJP. There is already disquiet among Congress party's supporters in UP at Urdu poet Imran Pratapgarhi's appointment as the Congress minority cell chief. Some Muslim community leaders have publicly complained that the party is not serious about the UP Assembly polls as it has picked someone with no political experience. The Congress party also needs to set its house in order in Gujarat. It will soon announce the in-charge for Gujarat, who will prepare the state unit for the crucial 2022 Assembly polls. As it mulls the Gujarat appointment, the Sachin Pilot camp in Rajasthan has said it is unhappy. It has said Chier Minister Ashok Gehlot had not heeded its demands. Incidentally, Gehlot was the election in charge of the Congress for the 2017 Gujarat Assembly polls. In Chhattisgarh, as Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel completes two and a half years, there are murmurs that he should quit as part of the deal agreed upon when the Congress won the Assembly polls in December 2018, and TS Singh Deo should replace him. However, Baghel has consolidated his position within the party. Several appointments and sackings are in the works in the Congress party as party chief Sonia Gandhi hopes to quit the post on a winning note, party sources say.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/but-for-infighting-2022-could-be-better-for-congress-995467.html
09-06-2021||Opinion||Congress' woes in Kerala could worsen with Sudhakaran as PCC chief||After its defeat in the Assembly polls, the Congress party in Kerala is undergoing a 'generational change' in its leadership. Rarely in recent history has the national leadership of the Congress acted this swiftly and assertively by ignoring the powers that be in the Congress state unit. Appointing K Sudhakaran, the combative leader from north Kerala, as the party's state unit chief, is the latest of the two major changes the All India Congress Committee (AICC) made in Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) leadership. The other being the appointment of VD Satheeshan as the parliamentary party leader. The change hardly qualifies as 'generational' given the respective ages of the two newly appointed leaders – Sudhakaran is 73-years-old, and Satheeshan is 57 – but we cannot miss the political significance of these appointments. The central leadership has ignored the traditional power centres in the PCC. These are - the 'A' group, or the Antony faction now being led by former chief minister Oommen Chandy, and the 'I' faction, more a loose confederation of disparate leaders than a tight-knit group managed by former PCC president Remesh Chennithala. The rank and file which thinks that factional politics has wreaked havoc with the party's electoral performance is euphoric. It believes this bold move will rejuvenate the Congress in the Left bastion. But will these surgical strikes give stimulus to a party hamstrung by ideological and organisational incoherence? Popular perception aside, the Congress in Kerala faces a bigger challenge from the BJP in the long term than the Communist Party of India (Marxist). Despite its rhetoric as a centrist force, Congress politics in Kerala has trodden a path with right-wing underpinnings. From the days of vimochanasamaram, or the liberation struggle, which saw the first communist government led by EMS Namboodiripad dismissed by the Union government in 1959, Congress has associated itself with all caste, religious, and other conservative organisations. Its raison d'etre had always been anti-Leftism. But the BJP is in the ascendant, and the Left has embraced a pragmatic approach towards religious and caste organisations, leading to a steady shrinking of the Congress party's appeal among these power groups. But the Congress blinded by its anti-Left ideological prejudice believes that it can regain its foothold by pandering to conservative groups in the state. The Congress party displayed this when it unleashed a virulent campaign against the Supreme Court verdict allowing women of menstruating ages to visit Sabarimala Temple. It played second fiddle to the Hindu communal organisations during that protest. Now the Congress party can neither muster the full confidence of the caste and religious organisations nor occupy the centrist position thanks to the changes in the Kerala polity. When Kerala politics was polarised between two fronts led respectively by the Congress and the CPI(M), taking a rightist, anti-left position made electoral sense. But with the BJP gaining foothold, dancing to the tune of conservative and right-wing elements and continuing its anti-Left diatribe alone won't get votes. Some Congress leaders, like Satheeshan, seem to be aware of this challenge. His muted stand on the Sabarimala issue, and his indifferent attitude towards organisations like the Nair Service Society (NSS), bears testimony to this. These leaders are nudging the Congress party to occupy the centrist position in Kerala politics. It is here the appointment of Sudhakaran as the PCC chief is problematic. Sudhakaran is known for his socially conservative views. He anchors his politics precisely on anti-leftism and is inconsistent with the Nehruvian line adopted by some of the youth leaders in the party. However, Sudhakaran is perhaps the most popular leader among Congress workers and his ability to enthuse cadres is indisputable. But beyond diehard party workers, his image is that of a firebrand conservative leader. Sudhakaran has grabbed news headlines several times for the wrong reasons. During the Assembly election campaign, his disparaging statements against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan evoked a sharp response from civil society and his party colleagues. But he browbeat party leaders who publicly denounced him for his casteist remarks against the chief minister, forcing them to toe to his line. Sudhakaran allegedly has close links with the BJP leaders and has openly said that Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh leaders had approached him, and if he wishes, he could join the BJP. He has used this as a bargaining tool to offset the pressure mounted by senior leaders against his elevation as the KPCC chief. The challenge for Sudhakaran would be to be able to work cohesively with Satheeshan, who is known for his liberal approach. All earlier attempts by the AICC leadership to rid the party of factionalism had failed. Against the wishes of the two major groups, VM Sudheeran was appointed as the PCC chief in 2014 but relinquished the office for want of cooperation from senior leaders. The outgoing PCC chief Mullappally Ramachandran has revealed that he could not function properly due to impediments placed by faction leaders. Now it is Sudhakaran's turn. Will he able to tame group leaders? The blitzkrieg style of Sudhakaran has no resemblance to that of his predecessors. But aggressive style bereft of innovative politics is not going to change the political fortune of the grand old party in Kerala. That is for sure. (NK Bhoopesh is a Kochi-based independent journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/congress-woes-in-kerala-could-worsen-with-sudhakaran-as-pcc-chief-995613.html
09-06-2021||Panorama||Kerala's model of urban employment guarantee scheme worth looking at||The Covid-19 outbreak along with the pandemic-induced lockdown has crippled the economy of India. The economic activities came to a standstill and fuelled unemployment, especially in the urban informal sector. Meanwhile, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) came as a blessing to rural India in terms of addressing unemployment to an extent. It has set an example to mitigate the unemployment crisis and this has made economists and policymakers think about developing an urban employment guarantee scheme.   Economists have felt that a demand-driven wage employment scheme in urban areas will work as a fallback employment option to people. For instance, Jean Dreze has come up with a proposal to create an urban employment guarantee scheme called Decentralised Urban Employment and Training (DUET). The present situation in the country in terms of unemployment has given a new lease of life to the idea of an urban employment guarantee scheme.  It is a known fact that in urban India, the wages for casual work remain abysmally low. Due to the absence of social protection, a substantial increase in the wage rate is needed.  To make this possible a national urban employment guarantee scheme is required. While urban India does not have an equivalent of MGNREGS, the country has had urban employment schemes including an urban wage employment programme under Swarna Jayanti Shahari Rozgar Yojana (SJSRY). Then there was National Urban Livelihoods Mission (NULM). However, these schemes laid more emphasis on self-employment and entrepreneurship rather than wage employment. At a time when discussions are about introducing an urban guarantee scheme to solve the unemployment crisis, it is better to take into consideration the performance of wage unemployment programmes as in the case of Ayyankali Urban Employment Guarantee Scheme (AUEGS), which was launched 11 years ago in Kerala. Urban local governments in the state are entrusted with the charge of implementing the scheme. The AUEGS is on par with the MGNREGS. AUEGS aims at enhancing the livelihood security of the people in the urban areas by guaranteeing 100 days of wage employment in a year to an urban household whose adult members volunteer to do unskilled manual work. As MGNREGS is implemented only in the rural sector, Kerala has long been demanding the extension of the MGNREGS in urban areas as well. The state has one of the highest unemployment rates in the country, especially in urban parts of the state.  It was in the financial Year 2010–11; Left Democratic Front (LDF) led by the Communist Party of India (Marxist) launched an urban employment guarantee scheme called AUEGS, the first of its kind in India. An amount of Rs 20 crore was earmarked for the scheme during this period. In the case of AUEGS, the budget crunch has not been an issue as the fund allocation has been increasing over the years. In the latest Kerala Budget (2020–21), the total outlay for the scheme was Rs 200 crore. To address the educated employment in the state, an internship programme has been proposed in the latest budget to include especially skilled educated youth under AUEGS. Under this, if skilled educated youths are employed as apprentices in private enterprises, the employment guarantee wages will be given to the entrepreneurs as a subsidy. The fixed-wage should be paid to the employees by the employers through banks. The opportunity for employment as an apprentice or intern will be for a specified period. In 2018–19, AUEGS was converged with Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) (PMAY (U)) and Livelihood Inclusion and Financial Empowerment (LIFE), a flagship scheme of the ruling LDF government. The concept of convergence is envisaged in such a way that all the beneficiaries will get 90 person-days (Rs 275-per day for 90 days) as wages towards participation in house construction. Till 2019, the total sanctioned houses under PMAY (U) –LIFE is 86,848. A total of 68,873 households availed job cards and out of those 46,360 households availed 90 person-days. The convergence of AUEGS with PMAY (U)–LIFE has been a success as it has led to an increase in the budget allocation and generation of more person-days. Though AUEGS is widely viewed as a last resort to the poorest of the poor, following the convergence with PMAY (U) and LIFE that scenario has changed. It was noticed that due to the convergence, even those urban unemployed who are otherwise reluctant to engage under AUEGS felt motivated to be a part of the scheme. The poorest of the poor, who are actively engaged in the unskilled work offered under AUEGS have also reaped the benefits due to this workable convergence model. Due to the convergence from 2018–19 onwards, the budget provision for the scheme, actual allocation to urban local governments and number of person-days have spiked. The biggest jump was observed in 2019–20 with 26 lakh person-days being generated under the scheme. Nearly 42% of the person-days were generated for the construction of houses and 34% expenditure was incurred towards the same. While discussions and debates regarding the introduction of urban employment guarantee schemes are doing the rounds, what our country needs is a workable convergence model that can address the needs of unskilled unemployed and educated unemployed in urban areas. (The writer is a former professor Sri Ramakrishna Hegde Chair on Decentralization, ISEC, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/keralas-model-of-urban-employment-guarantee-scheme-worth-looking-at-995413.html
09-06-2021||Panorama||Greed, the fat demon||Janwillem van de Wetering, a Dutch novelist and Zen scholar, describes greed as a fat demon with a small mouth and says whatever you feed it is never enough. In my middle school years, moral science was part of the curriculum, and a story narrated by our teacher about the evil of greed is fresh in my memory even after six decades. A wealthy farmer in a village was known for his unquenchable thirst for acquiring material things and not for lending a helping hand to the poor.  A few elders of the village, with the intention to reform him, offered him a deal that he would be given the length of the land he could walk in a day as long as he came back to the point where he started before sunset. The elders’ plan was that the farmer’s greed would take him far away and he won’t be able to get back in time and that would open his eyes to philanthropic deeds.  The farmer accepted the deal. He woke up early the next morning, started walking, continued through the afternoon braving the blazing Sun and went on to cover an impressive distance. Almost near the evening, he realised that the condition to get the land was to get back to the starting point before Sunset. As predicted, his greed had taken him far away from where he started and so he immediately began his return journey keeping an eye on the Sun. The closer it came to sunset, the faster he ran. He was exhausted and out of breath, but he continued pushing himself beyond the point of endurance. When he finally reached the starting point as the sun was setting, he collapsed and died. All that the farmer now needed was only a small plot of land in which he would be buried. Although the village elders did not wish him to die, the farmer became the victim of the fat demon called greed.  Mahatma Gandhi’s famous words: “Earth provides enough to satisfy every man’s needs but not every man’s greed,” echoes the same sentiment. The pandemic is high time to push aside our greed and work with compassion to alleviate the sufferings of fellow humans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/greed-the-fat-demon-995414.html
09-06-2021||Panorama||'Nature is showing us who is boss'||In business, when the workers stop, the company incurs losses and eventually shuts down. However, if nature stops working, the world itself shuts down. At least from now on, after experiencing the intense suffering of this pandemic, man should set aside his egoism, stop harming mother nature and recognise that she is the ultimate master. We have to develop the attitude that we are nothing but nature’s servants. We should practise humility, servitude and respect and beg her to forgive all of our crimes against her. With the pandemic, she has finally shown us that she will no longer constantly forbear, suffer and forgive all the indignities we heap upon her. The air we breathe, the water we drink, the food we eat, the home in which we sleep, the sun that gives us energy—we are indebted to nature for all of these. Our life on this earth is possible only because of the combined effort of all its creatures. The rivers, trees, bees, butterflies and worms all play their part. If they did not exist, we would not. There would be no life. If we were to visualise nature as one tree, then all the creatures would be its roots, branches, leaves, flowers and fruits. The tree becomes whole only as a totality of its various parts. If one part is destroyed, the rest will also perish soon. Without nature, humankind would not exist. We carry the memory of a time when we recognised this truth and lived in tune with nature, loving and serving her. In those days, villagers, who could not read or write, would maintain a pond and a small shrine on their property. They protected migratory birds and took care not to harm a single creature. But as our selfishness and greed increased, our bond with nature deteriorated. Forest dwellers may have hunted, but they only took what was necessary to survive. Just as a cow eats only enough to satisfy its hunger, as a bird drinks just enough to quench its thirst, they hunted to fulfil the day’s need— not to amass and hoard. But today people kill elephants for ivory, hunt animals for their fur and chop down entire forests to make money. In my childhood, when a tree was about to be cut down, it was like a wedding being solemnized. Before cutting it down, they would first worship the tree and pray for forgiveness: “I am doing this because I have no other means to survive. Please, forgive me.” Trees were never viewed as inert.  We used to protect species from extinction; now we drive them to it. We have to understand that in destroying nature, we are destroying ourselves—that each tree we cut down is like a coffin we are making for ourselves. May it never come to be that humankind has to perish in order for the planet to survive. In fact, it is the selfish things man has done to nature that come back to us in the form of epidemics. We put so much effort into educating our children to become engineers and doctors, etc, because we want to secure a happy future for them. But without clean air, soil and water, they won’t be able to survive at all, much less be happy. Thus, if we want to protect our children’s future, we should protect the life-giving air, earth and water.  In truth, we have already gone too far astray to return in this lifetime. Regardless, let us try. Let us walk back as much as possible. By “walking back,” I don't mean you have to give up all the comforts of the modern-day world and live like a monk— merely, that the current generation must imbibe spiritual values and instil them in its children. Currently, it is as if mother nature has stage 3 cancer. Our care alone will determine how long she can be sustained. Our efforts can keep away pandemics, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods and global warming to a great extent. If we are united in our efforts, we can walk back at least 10% of the way. But we also need the factor of grace. For that, we need effort, humility and to treat nature with respectful and prayerful attitude. I am not trying to scare people or make them afraid. But usually, the truth is not very sweet. Moving forward, we must be very alert and cautious. We should give spiritual thoughts and selfless actions the same importance we currently give to those aimed at material ends. That is the need of the age. This is nature’s message to us. Let us stand united as one and work together with love, compassion and patience. Let us pray intensely, with a melting heart. (The writer is a renowned humanitarian and spiritual leader)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/nature-is-showing-us-who-is-boss-995418.html
09-06-2021||Panorama||The wages of waste ||Life has been difficult for Saraswathi after her mother, Susheelamma, passed away early last month. For Saraswathi and her young physically challenged daughter, Susheelamma’s job as a Pourakarmika put food on the table. With no form of subsistence, she is forced to return to her sister’s house in Tamil Nadu where she awaits the Rs 30 lakh compensation that was promised by the state government. For now, she is not even able to collect her mother’s salary as the bank refuses to allow access even after producing a death certificate.  Saraswathi wants to be appointed as a Pourakarmika so she can support her daughter. This has meant making several visits to the BBMP office. “There is a lockdown here, and I have to travel to Bengaluru. I don’t know what to do,” she says. Faced with Susheelamma’s example, a co-worker in the same ward and friend, Narayanamma is forced to come to terms with her fears. “If I have the virus, who will take care of my family? Will they get their compensation?” she asks. As the sole breadwinner in a family of five, she fears that her household will collapse without her.  Maitreyi Krishnan, an advocate who works for the rights of waste management workers, emphasises that there is an immediate need to expedite the process of processing applications of compensation and employment. “In many cases, these are the sole breadwinners, families will suffer if there isn’t a one-stop solution,” she adds. Including Narayanamma, many from her ward have not been vaccinated, “At the time there was a lot of confusion and we did not want to get vaccinated,” she said. Vaccine hesitancy among frontline workers was high when vaccination drive was conducted. Lekha Adavi, an advocate, says, “there is no concerted effort to organise awareness campaigns and counsel workers to get the vaccination.” As a result, many waste management workers work in perilous condition without adequate protection. The Covid-19 risk allowance of Rs 10,000 which is available to healthcare workers, has not been extended to Pourakarmikas. Randeep D, Special Commissioner of Solid Waste Management, assures that supervisors and junior health inspectors were explaining the benefits of vaccinations on a daily basis to the workers and that the BBMP had produced two washable cloth masks and gloves. Even then the hazardous working conditions haven’t changed. Gangamma (name changed), a waste collector, doesn’t know which houses in her ward are under home quarantine. She says, “Last year there was a special system of waste collection for houses that were under isolation. This year, there is nothing.”  According to the guidelines issued by the Central Pollution Control Board, homes under isolation should dispose of their waste in yellow, non-chlorinated bags as it should be treated as biomedical waste. “In many cases, homes aren’t aware and waste management workers are forced to handle it,” says Maitreyi adding that helpers and drivers of garbage tippers, who seldom have protection often handle the waste as well.  A helper for a garbage tipper who did not want to be named said they were only given a mask and gloves last month after a gap of nearly six months. Garbage tipper drivers and helpers often do not receive the scarce resources or work benefits that are available to Pourakrmikas and waste collectors though they are equally vulnerable. Their salaries do not come under the direct pay scheme and are handled by contractors. In a ward in Mahadevpura, a 28-year-old  tipper-driver claims he hasn’t been paid in seven months. “The contractor has even retained our passbooks and ATM cards,” he said.  Neglect by policymakers and municipal authorities is characteristic of the treatment meted out to Pourakarmikas and waste workers according to Appanna, AICCTU, Karnataka secretary. “Pourakarmikas have ESI health insurance coverage, but many have not been issued their health cards. They are made to run from one place to another for some document requirement. Sometimes, they are not even aware of the procedure,” he said. “Only when there is a hue and cry do those in power pay attention, otherwise waste management workers are left to fend for themselves,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-wages-of-waste-995715.html
09-06-2021||Right in the Middle||Sartorial quirkiness||I had once noticed an old lady struggling to remove the shirt of her grandson before entering a temple. The temple stipulated that male devotees remove their shirts before entering it. The grandmother did not notice the press button on the child’s shirt and tried to pull it off. The shirt was stuck at the neck of the child. Onlookers stepped forward and unbuttoned the shirt to the relief of the child and the old lady. What harm a kid wearing a shirt would cause to the purity of the temple was a million dollar question. Dress code in temples of Kerala is a puzzling experience. Most temples stipulate that men wear a Dhoti, but upper garments are forbidden. In some temples, one can see men removing the shirt from their right sleeve and entering the temple with half the shirt dangling from their left shoulder. At Sabarimala, devotees are allowed to wear black dhotis and black shirts.  What ladies can wear in some temples of Kerala is known only to gods.  Recently, we went to Guruvayur. My wife wore a saree and entered the main temple and noticed that many ladies were wearing salwar kameez. Next day, she put on Kurti, because it was more comfortable to wade through the stampeding crowd.  After darshan at the main temple, we went to two more temples in the same town. At one temple, security personnel stopped my wife saying women in kurtis are prohibited from entering the temple. She waited outside as her shirtless husband went in. At yet another temple, the wife was asked to wear a coloured dhoti on top of the Kurti before entering.  The coloured dhotis were made available at the entrance for a fee. There was no explanation for the different dress codes followed in different temples in one town. Sometime ago, some men were denied admission to a club in Chennai, because they were attired in Dhotis. ‘No Dhoti on the dance floor’, said a Delhi club dress code. Educational institutions and uniformed services have their own dress codes. It is unthinkable to imagine a policeman without his uniform to command respect from anybody, leave alone fear from criminals.  Two of my mischievous friends went to a discotheque clad in Dhotis.  A bouncer refused them entry. The impish men went out, removed their Dhotis and kept them in their vehicle. They re-entered in their striped knee-length underwear. This time the ushers mistook the attire for bermudas or boxers and let them in. The two had a hearty laugh later, narrating the incident to their pals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/sartorial-quirkiness-995426.html
09-06-2021||Right in the Middle||Emergence of the new 'Don'||As a nation, we’ve gone through a lot of changes in the last year. Priorities have been reshuffled, new jokes are being circulated on social media and new words like 'covidiots' have been coined. News focuses on strict lockdowns, shortages and the courage of our tireless healthcare workers. Across compound walls when neighbours chat it is about those in hospitals or home quarantine. We’ve forgotten about new shades of lipstick as masks cover half the face. Dress designers are saving on cloth as they stitch matching masks instead of the 2.5 m dupattas. In the midst of all this has emerged a new power hub— the 'Dons' at the vaccination centres.  Determined to get my second jab, I trotted off to nearby hospitals only to be told that the vaccine is out of stock. I made my way to the PHC and was told that the vials received in the morning were over and they were unsure if any would be available in the afternoon. Uncertain as to what to do next I just hung around. It was then that he walked in with a swagger. He looked disdainfully at the crowd and informed us that only 30 vials might be sent to the centre after two hours. Of course, all of us wanted to be on the super 30 list. Pleading and trying to use influence fell on deaf ears. He said that although he’s under tremendous pressure and gets calls from the higher-ups continuously, he will not relent. Then he asked us to form an informal queue and sit in the shade (small mercies). We requested him to give us tokens so that we could step out for a while. He said if we step out we’ll lose our place in the queue. Those who had the time and patience waited. Each time I saw a group leaving I heaved a sigh of relief because it meant that my chance of being on the list improved. Every half hour or so 'Don' would walk past, mentally assess the number and then say, “Why are all of you waiting, didn’t I tell you that only 30 will be vaccinated?”  Finally, tokens were distributed and 'Don' took our mug shots on his mobile camera. The process would get interrupted when he received a call. After it was done he went and sat in a car listening to music and we were left wondering when we would be called. Each time we saw 'Don' we looked up beseechingly. Then he grandly announced that those who have not had lunch will not be vaccinated. But how could we go out for lunch? A good samaritan asked us to hold his place while he went out and got snacks and juice for all. My turn came soon as I was lucky to be in the first five. I looked around to say goodbye to 'Don', but he was busy on another call and waved perfunctorily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/emergence-of-the-new-don-995716.html
09-06-2021||Second Edit||Withdraw the gag order||An amendment to the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, effected by the government last week, has imposed a ban on all retired officials in Intelligence and security-related organisations from publishing any material “which falls within the domain of the organisation”, without clearing it with the head of the organisation concerned. The order covers books, articles in newspapers or other publications, interviews and talks. The ban may also be applicable to views expressed by a retired officer in a discussion on a current topic or reference to a past event or an experience during the discussion. The ban is a violation of the right to speech and expression of the officials and goes against the Right to Know of citizens. Such restrictions are wrong and out of place in a democracy. It is yet another sign of the government’s discomfort with and unwillingness to allow different and critical views to be aired on any subject, and security might only be a pretext. It may also be a ploy to allow only one view – that approved by the government — to prevail, by denying permission for expression of other views. As many as 18 departments, including the IB, R&AW, the CRPF and the BSF, are covered by the order. Retired officers in these organisations would certainly have the sense of responsibility and discrimination to decide what should be made public and what should not be. There is already the Official Secrets Act which applies to their conduct. Existing laws require them to handle sensitive information with responsibility and do not allow them to do anything that may imperil the “sovereignty and integrity of India” and “the security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the State”. Though this is enough to secure the interests of the State, the new rules go beyond them. There is the risk of their being used to intimidate retired officials into compliance. The amendment of pension rules is a threat. Many would find it hard if their pension is suspended or withdrawn. It is debatable if pension rules can be amended to the disadvantage of the pensioners without consultation with them. India’s security set-up is opaque and bound by unnecessary and unreasonable rules of secrecy. There has always been an obdurate refusal to declassify files even after they have become most harmless. All this has resulted in inefficiency and lack of accountability. Disclosure of legitimate and relevant information and debates in the public realm can only make the establishments healthier and stronger. It should be noted that former army chief Gen. VP Malik and former IB and R&AW chief AS Dulat have opposed the amendment. There are many others who would agree with them. The government should withdraw this gag order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/withdraw-the-gag-order-995428.html
09-06-2021||South||Opposition urges LDF govt in Kerala to forgo additional tax on fuel; walks out of Kerala Assembly||With the fuel price touching new heights every day, the UDF-led Opposition on Wednesday urged the Left government in Kerala to forgo the additional tax revenue generated on its sales, but the latter rejected the demand, saying it would adversely impact the economy of the cash-strapped state. The previous UDF government, under then Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, had waived the additional tax revenue on petrol sales at least 7 times to give some relief to the common man from the spiralling fuel price, the Opposition pointed out in the state Assembly. They charged that both the BJP-NDA government at the Centre and their CPI(M)-led LDF counterpart in the state were using the fuel price hike to loot the people. The Congress-led Opposition members also staged a walkout during the zero hour protesting the government's reluctance to discuss the matter in the House. Seeking a notice for the adjournment motion, N Shamsudeen (IUML) said both the union and state governments were viewing the frequent hike of fuel price as the best method to fill the exchequer. "The Chandy government had forgone the additional tax revenue seven times to help common people. Why the Pinarayi Vijayan government is not adopting the model? The additional tax should be waived at least in this Covid-19 period," he said. Leader of Opposition, V D Satheesan asked the government to give at least fuel subsidy to the fishing boats and public transport vehicles like KSRTC buses, auto-rickshaws and taxis considering the plight of grassroot level people due to the pandemic-induced situation. "The price has increased 21 times in 37 days. This relentless hike in the fuel price is nothing but tax loot. The tax has increased from 40-50 per cent in the state. If the tax is not reduced, at least some subsidy should be given to needy people," he said. The Congress leader also sought to know what was the issue in bringing petrol and diesel under the GST regime. Finance Minister K N Balagopal, however, criticised the Opposition for levelling charges against the LDF government and said it was the Centre and not the state government that was responsible for the fuel price hike. "The situation is grim due to the frequent hike of fuel price. But, the state is not responsible for it. Compared to many other states, the tax is less in Kerala," he said. The UDF Opposition, which was critical of the state, did not say anything in its notice against the union government, the minister said adding that Congress was silent on the fuel price hike during the first tenure of the Modi government. In the present circumstance, sales tax collection from petrol and diesel and revenue from liquor was the only source of income for the state government and so it was difficult to do away with it as it would adversely affect the state finance, Balagopal further pointed out. Speaker M B Rajesh refused to leave for the motion based on the minister's reply, prompting the Opposition to stage a walkout in the House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/opposition-urges-ldf-govt-in-kerala-to-forgo-additional-tax-on-fuel-walks-out-of-kerala-assembly-995530.html
09-06-2021||South||Kerala HC refuses to stay probe into illegal axing of rosewood trees||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday refused to stay the investigation into the alleged illegal felling and smuggling of rosewood trees worth crores of rupees from a tribal village in Wayanad district. A plea, seeking to quash the FIRs registered by the Forest Department in connection with various cases of illegal harvest of trees in Muttil village, was filed by Rojo Augustine and Anto Augustine, key accused in the case. Opposing the plea, the State government said the investigation was in a preliminary stage and the role of the highly influential persons was suspected. The director general of the prosecution submitted that government officials, including village officers, were facing investigation and whatever came out so far is only the tip of an iceberg. The trees were looted by misinterpreting a government order, he submitted. Considering the government's stand, the court refused to stay the investigation. Meanwhile, considering another plea challenging the government's decision to seize the trees, the High Court sought to know what action has been taken against the officials who gave permission to axe the trees. The court observed that a vigilance probe has to be issued against the officials responsible for it. The Opposition Congress-led UDF raised the issue in the Kerala Assembly on Tuesday. Raising the issue, the Opposition has accused the LDF government of shielding the culprits in the mass felling and smuggling of centuries-old rosewood trees from Muttil. Admitting that the government order was misused for felling the trees illegally, Kerala Forest Minister A K Saseendran has said a total of 101 rosewood trees, worth around Rs 10 crore in the market, were found missing from the village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-refuses-to-stay-probe-into-illegal-axing-of-rosewood-trees-995560.html
09-06-2021||South||51-year-old braindead man gives life to eight people||A 51-year-old braindead man has given a new lease of life to eight people after his organs were implanted on them in a private hospital here. R Chenthamarai, a tailor by profession and a resident of Singanallur in the city, met with an accident on June 6 and was declared braindead at KMCH here on June 8, a press release from the KMCH said on Wednesday. The family of the deceased came forward and donated his organs. The liver and one kidney were transplanted on a person at KMCH while the other kidney was sent to a private hospital in Vellore and the heart to a private hospital in Chennai, the release said. His eyes, skin and bone were sent to a private hospital here, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/51-year-old-braindead-man-gives-life-to-eight-people-995566.html
09-06-2021||South||Will K Sudhakaran make Congress in Kerala more aggressive?||As 73-year-old K Sudhakaran takes charge as Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president, the state is keen to see whether the firebrand leader will change his style of functioning or make the party more aggressive. Known for his tit-for-tat approach and swaggering body language, Sudhakaran began his political career with the Kerala Students' Union and a stint in the Janata Party from 1978 to 1984. He  climbed the political ladder by putting up a tough fight to CPM in its citadel Kannur district and also overcoming resistance from within the party. With Sudhakaran at the helm of Congress affairs in Kerala, Kannur district has now emerged as the power centre of Kerala politics; Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is also from Kannur. A two-time sitting MP of Kannur, former Kerala forest minister and three-time MLA, Sudhakaran's entry to parliamentary politics was eventful. In 1991, he lost to CPM's O Bharathan by a thin majority of 219 votes in Left stronghold Edakkad in Kannur. But Sudhakaran moved court, alleging bogus votes, and won the case to enter the Kerala Assembly. In the next three consecutive Assembly elections, he won from Kannur. A post-graduate and LLB holder, Sudhakaran became Kannur District Congress Committee president in 1992 by overcoming stiff resistance from prominent groups within Congress. Though Sudhakaran's tit-for-tat style has not gone down well with many Congress leaders, his confidantes say he became a popular leader in a Left citadel because of that approach. When his gunman was accused of killing a CPM worker at Kannur in 1993, Sudhakaran had stated that the gunman was appointed to protect him, not shoot crows. His fierce political speeches often triggered controversies -- the latest being that Pinarayi Vijayan, who hailed from a toddy tapper family, now preferred to travel by helicopter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-k-sudhakaran-make-congress-in-kerala-more-aggressive-995581.html
09-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu's Covid-19 vaccine story: From 'hesitancy to shortage'||Just when the state was overcoming vaccine hesitancy among its populace, Tamil Nadu is now facing an acute shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses though those between the age of 18-44 are ready to get inoculated. The state as of June 8 received 1.01 crore Covishield and Covaxin doses from the Union Government and other channels and has utilized nearly 98 lakh doses. Government sources told DH that only 12,520 doses were not utilised as of June 9 morning. The remaining, it is understood, accounts for wastage, though the percentage has come down quite remarkably with people coming forward to get vaccinated. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said 34 of the 38 districts in the state have run out of doses, and the vaccination drive can restart only if Tamil Nadu gets supplies from Serum Institute of India (SII), and Bharat Biotech Limited through the Union Government. The Centre has promised over 40 lakh doses in June. “Vaccination drive has come to a standstill. We don’t have vaccine doses in 95 per cent of the centres, and we are being forced to turn away people who come to get their jabs,” a senior government official told DH. According to data available with DH, the state received 84.81 lakh doses of Covishield, and 16.82 lakh doses of Covaxin. Though the vaccination drive was a bit slow in the initial months due to “vaccine hesitancy”, it did improve in May after the state government allowed the age group of 18-44 to get their jabs. In May, more than 30 lakh doses were administered to people, and the state was hoping to keep up the momentum, but the shortage has almost stopped the vaccination drive. While 4.57 lakh doses were used in January and February, the figure rose to 25 lakh in March, and 28 lakh in April. The state also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan seeking vaccines in proportion to its population and caseload. Subramanian has been pointing out that many states which have a lesser population than Tamil Nadu received more vaccine doses. A public health expert said vaccine hesitancy is a thing of the past in Tamil Nadu, and with the Centre promising to provide vaccines for all ages, response to the drive will depend on the supplies that the state gets. “What we now have is a vaccine shortage at a time when we were vaccinating youngsters at a good rate. This will certainly act as a setback to the state’s efforts in containing the Covid-19 spread. The state continues to report over 18,000 cases a day, and the death rate is still one of the highest in the country. Vaccination is the key in reducing the spread,” he told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadus-covid-19-vaccine-story-from-hesitancy-to-shortage-995616.html
09-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu temple documents now at the click of a mouse||Ownership documents of lands belonging to temples under the control of Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR & CE) are now available for public viewing at the click of a mouse. The new DMK Government on Wednesday published the land records on the official website of the HR & CE department, weeks after promising to go transparent on the issue of assets belonging to temples under its control. Scanned documents of lands owned by several temples across the state, including the famous Kapaleeshwarar Temple, and Parthasarathy Temple in Chennai, can now be accessed on the web. Land documents and details of 72 per cent of the total properties held by temples under government control have been digitized and uploaded on Wednesday. Over 3.43 lakh acres of land documents of the total 4.78 lakh acres have been uploaded. “The job of uploading the documents of the remaining land pockets will be done quickly,” a senior official told DH, adding that the motive is to be transparent and to prevent any further tampering of the documents. The process of digitising the land records and other documents related to temples that come under the department has been on for the past few years based on directions from the High Court and on orders from officials who were in charge earlier. The move comes amidst a debate in Tamil Nadu on whether temples should be freed from government control. Spiritual leader Jaggi Vasudev had in February this year launched a campaign #FreeTNTemples before the state went to polls. However, he welcomed the government’s move to go transparent on temple records in mid-May.  As many as 44,121 temples in Tamil Nadu come under the HR&CE department which manages and controls them. Since it took over on May 7, the DMK government has focussed a lot on the HR & CE Department as it feels being transparent on the lands belonging to temples will blunt the free temples campaign that is also supported by the BJP, which dubs the DMK as “anti-Hindu.” The department had also recently recovered land worth Rs 250 crore belonging to the Murugan Temple in Vadapalani in Chennai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-temple-documents-now-at-the-click-of-a-mouse-995625.html
09-06-2021||South||Kerala man gives up decades-long drinking habit, thanks Covid-induced lockdown for the push||While scores of tipplers in Kerala are struggling as liquor shops remain shut for more than a month now due to lockdown, a 75-year old man is motivating them by putting a stop to his decades-long drinking habit. Following the prolonging lockdown, scores of tipplers turned up at hospitals with withdrawal. Black marketing of liquor and sales of spurious liquor also shot up in the state. It was in this scenario that Devassy Kutty, a native of Naduvarambu near Irinjalakuda on the suburbs of Thrissur, decided to stop drinking. Kutty, involved in automobile business in Mumbai for several decades, said that he consumed liquor on a limited basis over the years, which came to an abrupt halt due to the lockdown. He had also developed a heart ailment a few years ago, which prompted him to give up the vice. As a gesture of thanks to the government for keeping the liquor outlets shut, which helped him quit drinking, he also contributed Rs 11,111 to Kerala Chief Minister's Distress Relief Fund. He was also praised by friends and family. Local panchayat President Jose J Chittillapally said that since Kutty made the announcement and made the contribution to local MLA and Education Minister R Bindu, locals would keep an eye on him to ensure that his announcement was not just for publicity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-man-gives-up-decades-long-drinking-habit-thanks-covid-induced-lockdown-for-the-push-995631.html
09-06-2021||South||Legislature party office-bearers’ election: AIADMK MLAs to meet on June 14||Newly-elected legislators of principal Opposition, AIADMK, will meet for the third time in over a month on June 14 during which deputy leader and whip of the Legislature Party are likely to be elected. The meeting assumes significance as it comes amidst differences between joint heads of the party, Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam and open assertions by ousted interim general secretary V K Sasikala on “setting things right” in the AIADMK. The two leaders are said to be sparring over crucial posts in the Legislature Party. Despite 10-year anti-incumbency, the AIADMK put up an impressive show in the April 6 assembly elections by winning 66 seats, its best performance in a losing election since the party’s inception in 1972. However, the party’s fault lines were exposed in the first meeting of the Legislature Party when the two leaders had a row. Palaniswami was elected as the Leader of the Opposition on May 10 despite stiff resistance from Panneerselvam, who had stood by J Jayalalithaa twice when she had to quit as Chief Minister due to court cases. Since Panneerselvam left the venue in a hurry on May 10, deputy leader and whip of the AIADMK Legislature Party were not elected. The meeting on June 14 is expected to be stormy much like the previous ones with Panneerselvam asking for the post of the whip to be given to one of his supporters. However, it is believed Palaniswami is not willing to part with the crucial post to the opposite camp. “EPS offered the post of deputy leader of Opposition to OPS during the meeting on May 10. The offer stands, and from our interactions with the former CM, it looks like he will not offer the post of the whip to OPS supporters,” a senior AIADMK leader told DH. The post of the whip is considered crucial as legislators are bound to go by the party whip, sources said, adding that EPS will not give away the post to the OPS camp, as he wants to consolidate his position in the party further. What could worry EPS is the fact that OPS is already in touch with the family of Sasikala, who is now talking to cadres over the phone and promising them that she would “certainly take over the AIADMK”. The meeting is also expected to discuss Sasikala’s telephonic conversations, though Palaniswami and other leaders maintain that the close aide of Jayalalithaa is no longer with the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/legislature-party-office-bearers-election-aiadmk-mlas-to-meet-on-june-14-995633.html
09-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly session to begin on June 21||The first session of the 16th Tamil Nadu Assembly will commence on June 21 with the customary address by Governor Banwarilal Purohit. Assembly Speaker M Appavu said the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) will meet on June 21 after the Governor’s address to decide the duration of the session. The announcement by the Speaker about the convening of the Assembly came after Chief Minister M K Stalin with Purohit at the Raj Bhavan here. This is the first session of the new Tamil Nadu assembly. In May, the newly-elected legislators were sworn in and elections for Speaker and Deputy Speaker’s posts were held. Since this is the first address by Purohit after the change of regime, the speech is expected to outline the policies of the DMK dispensation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-session-to-begin-on-june-21-995636.html
09-06-2021||South||Kerala takes steps to provide e-learning facility in tribal hamlets||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has directed officials to take immediate steps to ensure that all students in the state, especially those in tribal areas, are getting access to online classes. Vijayan convened a high-level meeting in the wake of reports that many students are unable to get online education due to unavailability of internet and gadgets like computers and mobile phones. DH had previously reported that students of around 400 of the 6,000 tribal hamlets in Kerala were being denied online education due to this reason. Vijayan directed officials to take steps to provide at least one digital learning centre in all tribal hamlets. Support of voluntary organisations, corporate companies and NRIs would be sought to contribute gadgets to the needy. Internet service providers would be urged to provide free connectivity for online learning. A secretary-level committee would be formed to address the issues pertaining to online education, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-takes-steps-to-provide-e-learning-facility-in-tribal-hamlets-995647.html
09-06-2021||South||Covid-19 vaccine production facility to be set up in Kerala||As part of its plans to set up a Covid-19 vaccine production facility in Kerala, the state cabinet on Wednesday formed a working group comprising experts and top government officials. According to the government statement, the working group will hold discussions with major vaccine producing firms and initiate steps for vaccine production at the earliest.  IAS officer S Chithra was appointed as project director. The unit is proposed at Life Science Park in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-vaccine-production-facility-to-be-set-up-in-kerala-995673.html
09-06-2021||South||Campaign against CPM government in Kerala over cow dung-based medicine triggers row||Oushadhi, an ayurvedic medicine production unit under Kerala government, has slammed a campaign over a cow dung-based medicine. The row is over 'Panchagavya Ghrutham', a product made with cow dung, urine, milk, curd and ghee as main ingredients. A campaign is being run that claims while the CPM cadres ridicule the Sangh Parivar activists for cow worship, an agency under the CPM government in Kerala is making profit out of a medicine made using cow dung. However, Oushadhi authorities responded to the online campaign saying that 'Panchagavya Ghrutham' is a medicine that is produced not only by Oushadhi but many other ayurvedic medicine manufacturers. Cow dung and other products from cow are general ingredients of the medicine only, they said. Oushadhi managing director K V Uthaman told DH that the campaign is being run with vested interest only. "Oushadhi has been bringing out over 450 medicines over the last several decades. Cow dung and other produce from cow is used not only for 'Panchagavya Ghrutham' but for some other medicines as well that too after proper processing," he said. Sangh Parivar supporters were widely circulating the details of 'Panchagavya Ghrutham' given by Oushadhi on its website to ridicule the CPM. According to Oushadhi website, the medicine is generally prescribed for mental diseases, improving memory power and concentration, jaundice, fever and epilepsy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/campaign-against-cpm-government-in-kerala-over-cow-dung-based-medicine-triggers-row-995682.html
09-06-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh to vaccinate mothers of 0-5 years old children||The Andhra Pradesh government has decided to vaccinate all the women with 0-5 years old kids, in preparation of the possible Covid-19 third wave that is assumed to affect the children more. Officials said the number of such mothers in the state would be about 20 lakh, who would be now vaccinated along with the 45 and above years age group. “The decision was taken as kids of such age admitted to hospitals need their mothers beside them.” A state government panel has estimated that children and adolescents could form 25 percent of the about 18 lakh positive cases expected to be registered during the possible third wave of the pandemic. About 45,000 patients under 18 years of age could require hospital admission, the AP Paediatric Covid-19 Task Force Committee said in its report. To equip the health infrastructure for such a scenario, the Jaganmohan Reddy government has decided to set up pediatric wards in all the teaching hospitals of the state. A decision was also taken to establish three multi-specialty children care hospitals at Visakhapatnam, Guntur/Vijayawada and Tirupati with Rs 180 crore allocated for construction of each facility.    Meanwhile, the daily new Covid-19 cases in the state have remained below the nine thousand-mark for the last few days. 8,766 positive cases were reported on Wednesday morning, out of the 93,511 samples tested. Active cases stand at 1.03 lakh. Principal secretary (health) A K Singhal said that AP has conducted over two crore Covid-19 tests since the beginning of the pandemic in March last year. “While 2.67 lakh tests were conducted per million population at the national level, the same in AP is 3.75 lakh,” Singhal said. 17,79,773 positive cases were registered in AP till now. The Covid-19 death toll stands at 11,696. Singhal also said that the 12th phase of fever survey has been initiated in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-to-vaccinate-mothers-of-0-5-years-old-children-995707.html
09-06-2021||State||Every primary health centre should do a minimum of 5-10 RT-PCR tests per day: TAC||Every primary health centre (PHC) and community health centre (CHC) should do a minimum of five to ten RT-PCR tests per day, recommended the State Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) here on Monday. It recommended that all the cases of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection will have to be tested (irrespective of hospitalization) and all the cases of Influenza-like Illnesses will have to be tested (through active case search or house-to-house visits) in all the districts.  All individuals (other than ILI and SARI) who fulfil the suspect Covid-19 case definition have to be tested (Fatigue, loss of smell, loss of taste, diarrhoea, body ache, skin rashes etc.) All symptomatic contacts of laboratory-confirmed cases, all symptomatic health care workers, and asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case should be tested once between day 0 and day 7 of coming in his/her contact. TAC strongly recommended to compulsorily test all symptomatic persons by using RAT. However, symptomatic RAT negative should be followed up by RT-PCR as per ICMR guidelines. It also recommended RAT for cases with high severity/ mortality, and all international travellers without RT-PCR result in the last 72 hours. Sentinel Surveillance is essential to identify early surge in cases and initiating containment measures, TAC observed, in its recommendations to the Government. A minimum of five to 10 RT PCR tests per day per CHC/PHC should be done. All persons with symptoms in the outpatient department (OPD), all persons with any symptoms suggestive of Covid-19 and not vaccinated must be tested, and a fixed proportion (5-10 samples/per day/CHC) of all the OPD patients in hospitals to be tested. The technical committee recommended random testing in congregation sites: 15 samples/per day/PHC or CHC. Collect samples from workplaces, bus stands, railway stations and the results shall be uploaded to the ICMR database. Schools and colleges when open: (10 samples per week). Check posts and entry points into the State: (five samples per day) random testing must be made mandatory. In the case of strong clinical suspicion of Covid-19, the technical panel recommended that a repeat RT-PCR should be done after 24 hours in case of negative test results. If the second RT-PCR is also negative, the chest X-ray/high-resolution CT scan is recommended. Five per cent of all the samples from high positivity districts (test positivity rate more than 2%) are to be sent for genomic surveillance, TAC said. It asked for sequencing of samples if cases are from super spreader events or proven cases of re-infections. It also recommended sequencing of samples from clusters of cases in children, infection after vaccination (breakthrough infections) and cases from international travellers. It also recommended door-to-door testing by ASHAs in high positivity districts (with more than 5%).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/every-primary-health-centre-should-do-a-minimum-of-5-10-rt-pcr-tests-per-day-tac-995539.html
09-06-2021||State||From the Newsroom: Karnataka government considering easing of curbs in four to five different phases||In your evening news brief, Karnataka government considering easing of curbs in four to five different phases; Congress leader and former Union Minister Jitin Prasada joins BJP and NIV scientist isolate two samples of the B.1.1.28.2 variant of cornavirus.  Ahead of the Uttar Pradesh elections next year, sulking Congress leader and former Union Minister Jitin Prasada on Wednesday joined the BJP, heralding a new chapter in his political innings Prasada, 47, a two-term Lok Sabha member from Uttar Pradesh, is expected to boost the BJP’s efforts in wooing the influential Brahmin community in the state which has been feeling alienated in Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath tenure where the Thakur community appears to be calling the shots in power. Prasada, who was one of the G-23 letter writers in the Congress, joined the BJP in the presence of Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and after a meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah. Hinting at the possiblity of an unlocking process in Karnataka from next week, Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Wednesday said that the state government is considering initiating the easing of curbs in four to five different phases. To begin with, the government is considering the extension of existing shopping hours to 12 noon. Besides, it is also considering allowing people to visit parks for exercising. Scientists at Pune’s National Institute of Virology have isolated and characterised a coronavirus variant from two travellers — one who returned from the UK and the other from Brazil — that exhibits increased disease severity in hamsters but doesn’t pose a public health problem at the moment. The two samples of the B.1.1.28.2 variant are the only ones of its kind isolated by Indian labs so far. The variant was isolated from nasal/throat swabs from a traveller who returned to India from the UK in December 2020, and another who came back from Brazil in 2021. Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/from-the-newsroom-karnataka-government-considering-easing-of-curbs-in-four-to-five-different-phases-995576.html
09-06-2021||State||Electricity tariff hiked by average 30 paise in Karnataka||Electricity consumers in Bengaluru and the rest of Karnataka will have to shell out more as the Karnataka Electricity Regularity Commission (KERC) on Wednesday approved a hike in the tariff by an average of 30 paise per unit. While the approved tariff is less than the average hike of Rs 1.35/unit sought by the five electricity distribution companies (Escoms), the higher tariff is set to add to the economic hardship to the poor who use less than 30 units per month while those using 30 to 100 units will see the bill remaining same or reduce slightly. The 30 paise/unit average consists of a hike of Rs 15 in the fixed charge and 10 paise per unit hike. The revised tariff will come into effect starting from April 1, which means Escoms will collect the arrears in the bills of the coming months. Bescom said it will recover the two months' arrears in October and November, respectively. Essentially, domestic consumers in BBMP limits will see their fixed charge going up by Rs 15 each for the first KW and the additional KW. In addition to this, Bescom will collect consumption charge of Rs 4.10/unit instead of Rs 4/unit earlier. Escoms have four slabs of tariffs where the per-unit price of electricity goes up as a household consumes more electricity. In BBMP limits, with the addition of 10 paise per unit, the price of electricity is Rs 4.10/unit for up to 50 units, Rs 5.55/unit for 50 to 100 units; Rs 7.10 for 100 to 200 units and Rs 8.15 for over 200 units. Bescom officials said the commission's move to extend the first slab from 30 to 50 units, giving Bengaluru consumers an additional 20 units for Rs 4.10 and not at Rs 5.55 as per the previous slab structure, will benefit a majority of the households. However, poor households that use less than 30 units per month will pay at least Rs 30 more due to the hike in fixed charges alone. For consumers who use 30 to 100 units, the reduced price for 31 to 50 units will offset the 10 paise increase in tariff. Mescom, Cescom, Hescom and Gescom have different rates per unit for each slabs. Nevertheless, the uniform hike of 10 paise/unit applies to all. The rate of hike in fixed charges is same as that of Bescom.     Price for which our people have to pay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/electricity-tariff-hiked-by-average-30-paise-in-karnataka-995605.html
09-06-2021||State||KSRTC to implement AI in buses for passenger safety: Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi||A major project of using Artificial Intelligence in state transport corporation buses for passengers' safety and to avoid accidents will be implemented, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi said here on Wednesday. Savadi, who holds the transport portfolio, said the Collegian Warning System (CWS) and Driver Drowsiness System (DDS) are the two types of technologies that would be put in place. While the CWS would give forward-looking collision warning, lane departure warning and virtual bumper and other alerts, the DDS would prevent drivers from sleeping. In addition, these technologies can transmit information to the control room, keeping the driver alert and avoiding accidents and disasters, Savadi said in a statement. He said the plans are to introduce this technology in 1,044 KSTRC buses over the next few days and increase it progressively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ksrtc-to-implement-ai-in-buses-for-passenger-safety-deputy-chief-minister-laxman-savadi-995612.html
09-06-2021||State||Karnataka reports 10,959 new Covid-19 cases, 192 deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday logged 10,959 new cases of Covid-19 and 192 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 27,28,248 and the death toll to 32,291. The day also saw 20,246 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases. Of 10,959 new cases reported today, 2,395 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 6,185 discharges and 50 deaths. As of June 9 evening, cumulatively 27,28,248 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 32,291 deaths and 24,80,411 discharges, the Health Department said in its bulletin. The total number of active cases in the state is at 2,15,525. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 6.68 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.75 per cent. Mysuru recorded 22 deaths, Haveri (12), Ballari (11), Dharwad and Shivamogga (9), followed by others. Mysuru accounted for 1,163 deaths, Hassan 745, Tumakuru 662, Dakshina Kannada 594, Shivamogga 562, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district has now a total of 11,89,541 positive cases, followed by Mysuru 1,54,235 and Tumakuru 1,09,916. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 10,76,247, followed by Mysuru 1,38,304 and Tumakuru 98,977. Cumulatively a total of 3,10,26,189 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,63,962 were tested on Wednesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-10959-new-covid-19-cases-192-deaths-995630.html
09-06-2021||State||Fuel price: Karnataka Congress to protest at petrol bunks||The Karnataka Congress will take up a five-day ‘100 Not Out’ campaign in which all party leaders will stage protests at petrol bunks across the state against the rising fuel prices. The campaign will start on June 11, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar said.“Petrol price has breached the Rs 100 mark. This is nothing but pick-pocketing the common man,” Shivakumar told reporters. On June 11, the ‘100 Not Out’ campaign will be launched in district headquarters, then in taluk centres, Zilla panchayat and hobli centres, gram panchayats and lastly at prominent petrol bunks. “Between June 11 and 15, protests will be held at 5,000 petrol bunks across the state,” Shivakumar said. Addressing a separate news conference, former minister Krishna Byre Gowda said the Centre’s tax on diesel was Rs 3.46 per litre in 2014 before the BJP came to power. “Now, it is Rs 31.80. That’s an increase of 920%! Similarly, the tax on petrol was Rs 9.20 per litre in 2014. Now, it is Rs 32.90 - a 357% increase,” Gowda, who once represented Karnataka in the GST Council, said.“If international crude oil prices are the reason for the price rise, then will the Modi government care to explain why petrol prices are so much lower in our neighbouring countries,” Gowda asked. Another former minister Priyank Kharge said the Youth Congress would send a bicycle to Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa. “In 2010, Yediyurappa and other BJP leaders took out a cycle rally protesting the fuel prices then. We’d like them to take out another rally to fight for the interests of citizens,” he said. Power tariff hike disastrous: SiddaramaiahLeader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Wednesday termed as "disastrous for everyone" the power tariff hike and attacked Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa for this. The Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission on Wednesday allowed a marginal tariff hike of 30 paise per unit, resulting in an average 3.84% increase in power bills for consumers. "The decision of the CM to increase electricity tariff is disastrous for everyone. Common man to industries, all are suffering due to pandemic and the increase will kill everyone," he said. "Karnataka has surplus power and yet BJP continues to purchase power from the central grid, Adani and others at a higher cost, the price of which our people have to pay. It's unfortunate that the CM cannot keep his head high in front of PM Modi and Adani," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/fuel-price-karnataka-congress-to-protest-at-petrol-bunks-995666.html
09-06-2021||State||Bengaluru doctor awarded MBE in United Kingdom||Dr Ananda Giri Shankar, a public health doctor hailing from Bengaluru and working in the United Kingdom, has been awarded an honorary Membership of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (MBE). The award will be handed over to him by the Queen of England in recognition of his work in fighting Covid as the Incident Director of Public Health Wales. Dr Shankar moved to the UK in 2005, after completing his MBBS and MD at the KIMS, Bengaluru. He completed his training in public health and went on to become the Interim Deputy Director of Health Protection for Public Health before joining Public Health Wales in 2016. His areas of medical expertise include control of communicable diseases, vaccine-preventable diseases, research and development, among many others. Speaking to DH, Dr Shankar said he has a strong connection with the city. “I spent the first 30 years of my life in Bengaluru, which I visit every year.” “The award is a great privilege. For the past 14 months, I have been responsible for keeping an overview of the progression of the pandemic. I have also been in touch with the Welsh ministers and governments constantly.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bengaluru-doctor-awarded-mbe-in-united-kingdom-995706.html
09-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Advisory Committee in favour of graded unlock||The State Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended a gradual unlocking of activities across Karnataka, as the Covid-battered state gets ready to take small steps towards normalcy after June 14, when the lockdown is scheduled to end. The committee — which submitted its recommendations to the government on the unlock process on Monday — suggested the chief minister allow shops, malls, hotels to open for four hours initially. But it recommended against opening up places of worship, swimming pools and others till the end of June. Members also suggested restricting movement of people from high-risk districts to low-risk ones and a ban on elections that involve organising rallies for the entire year. Cautioning against allowing all activities at once, the committee recommended opening up activities on a weekly or fortnightly basis. The chief minister is expected to discuss these recommendations with his Cabinet colleagues in a day or two. According to the committee’s report, a copy of which has been accessed by DH, “Markets shall initially be open for four hours and gradually increased to 10 hours per day.” The same recommendation has been made for neighbourhood shops, malls and shopping streets. The committee listed activities within a closed environment as a high-risk category and recommended only 50 per cent occupancy in places like pubs, bars and restaurants and closed market areas. Referring to public gatherings like marriage and functions, the TAC said, “The ceremonies will have only 100 to 200 people maximum with passes till December 2021. A distance of 3.25 sq mtrs has to be maintained between two persons.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-advisory-committee-in-favour-of-graded-unlock-995366.html
09-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||DH Toon | Unseating BSY tough battle for dissidents||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said that he would continue to head the state government as long as the party High Command had trust in him. He was responding to media queries on repeated complaints by ministers and MLAs against the CM. "I will not react to such activities. As long as the high command has trust in me, I will continue as CM. The day they ask me to step down, I will resign and work day and night for the development of the state," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dh-toon-unseating-bsy-tough-battle-for-dissidents-995402.html
09-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka mulls unlocking in 5 phases||Hinting at the possiblity of an unlocking process in Karnataka fron next week, Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Wednesday said that the state government is considering initiating the easing of curbs in four to five different phases. To begin with, the government is considering the extension of existing shopping hours to 12 noon. Besides, it is also considering allowing people to visit parks for exercising. Speaking to media persons on the sidelines of inaugurating a workshop organised by the BBMP for paediatricians at the Nimhans Convention Centre, Revenue minister R Ashoka said, "The government is considering unlock in 4 to 5 phases keeping in mind the daily caseload. But everything will not be thrown open at one go as it may further shoot up the Covid caseload. CM Yediyurappa will decide on this graded and phased unlock process." Pointing at Bengaluru's Covid-19 figures, Ashoka further said, "Bengaluru is currently reporting about 2,000 cases. If we want to have a normal life, the caseload must come down to 500 per day. We will also be analysing what will be the positivity rate once unlock process sets in." When asked about the relaxations that the state government is considering, R Ashoka said, "Initially we are thinking of extending the existing shopping hours which is currently from 6:00 am to 10:00 am. This may be extended up to 12 noon. Similarly, people may be allowed to visit parks for the morning, evening walk or jogging." The minister clarified that no new industries (other than those that are currently allowed to function) will be allowed to resume operations for the time being.   Karnataka had extended its Covid-19 lockdown till June 14 and speculations are that steps will be taken for a graded unlocking, as was also suggested by the state's technical advisory committee. The state, which until a few days ago was reporting a high number of daily infections and deaths, has seen a decline over the past few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-mulls-unlocking-in-5-phases-995478.html
09-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||VHP opposes Karnataka govt's move to pay allowance to Imams||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) has come out against the Karnataka governments move to pay allowances to Imams of 41 Mosques and Madrasas in Dakshina Kannada district as Covid lockdown compensation from the funds of Hindu religious endowment department. In a memorandum submitted to state Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary, the VHP said the money received from Hindu temples and 'daivsthanas' should be utilised for the temples and the welfare of Hindu community. "We condemn the decision of the state BJP government to use it for mosques and madrasas," it said. The VHP, however, welcomed the decision of the government to provide compensation to the priests of temples who are affected by the Covid lockdown. The minister, who received the memorandum, assured VHP leaders that the decision will be withdrawn, a VHP statement claimed. VHP divisional secretary Sharan Pumpwell, district president Gopal Kuthar and secretary Shivananda Mendon were among those who presented the memorandum to the minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vhp-opposes-karnataka-govts-move-to-pay-allowance-to-imams-995587.html
09-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP top brass tries to douse fire in Karnataka, asks leaders to rein in talks of leadership change||After Yediyurappa's recent statement reiterating commitment to Karnataka created ripples, BJP top brass has tried to douse the situation and asked the CM and other leaders to refrain from making public statements on the leadership change issue. Noting recent political developments in the state, BJP National General Secretary (incharge Karnataka) Arun Singh was learnt to have spoken to the CM, state unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel, National General Secretary C T Ravi and other leaders, asking to rein in leaders who issue media statements on party affairs. Singh also told the CM and Kateel to stop MLAs from starting a signature campaign, asking them to follow party discipline and warned action if such activity continued. Singh, who took details from the CM and others leaders about the state political developments, is likely to visit Bengaluru next week. He will be in the state for 3 days and will meet all important leaders and resolve the issue, sources in the BJP told DH. However, sources also clarified that a string of meetings in New Delhi held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP National President J P Nadda and other top leaders and RSS leaders were related to the pandemic and party affairs in Uttar Pradesh, sources said. Upset with a series of campaigns by a section of leaders to unseat him, the CM met RSS leaders at Bengaluru earlier this week and expressed his displeasure over party state leaders.  The CM also told them he will quit unless the party reins in dissident activities, sources said. Yediyurappa also pointed out that state leadership failed to reprimand Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar, Hubballi-Dharwad (West) MLA Arvind Bellad and former union minister Basanagoud Patil Yatnal who have been attempting to unseat him. Complaining against Kateel, the CM reportedly said that the state leadership kept mum for the past months despite Yatnal making serious allegations against him and his family members. Instead of facing humiliation, it is better to quit, Yediyurappa is learnt to have told Sangh leaders, sources in the party said.  The RSS leaders assured the CM that they will advise leaders not to rake up the issue. They also advised the CM that the government must focus on Covid-19. Following this, several leaders including Kateel, C T Ravi, Union Coal and Parliamentary Minister Pralhad Joshi were forced to issue statement reposing faith in Yediyurappa leadership. The party top brass is of the view that Yediyurappa made a media statement deliberately earlier this week when he said he will be in the post as long as the party high command have faith in him. His intent was to send a message so that the senior leadership can take action against his detractors, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-top-brass-tries-to-douse-fire-in-karnataka-asks-leaders-to-rein-in-talks-of-leadership-change-995677.html
09-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||In ‘U’ turn, teachers told to hold online exams for I PU||The department of pre-university education, which had declared all I PU students as passed without conducting the examinations, has done a ‘U’ turn by asking teachers to conduct online exams. In a communication, the department asked all faculties to conduct online examination using the model question paper uploaded on the department website, evaluate the same and upload the marks on the Students Achievement Tracking System (SATS) portal.  The teachers and students are shocked by this decision of the department. The teachers said, “it is not an easy job to make students write the exams on online platform or gadget as those in rural areas have no access to smartphones and internet.”  “As the department cancelled the examination recently and announced I PU students as passed, they stopped preparing for the exams. Now, how can we ask the students to write the exams?” the teachers said.   The circular issued by the department had asked the students to download the two model question papers on the department website, solve the question papers and send them to the teachers concerned via WhatsApp, email or post. The teachers have to evaluate the same and upload marks on the SATS portal. The Karnataka State Pre-university College Teachers Association has submitted a representation to the department, urging it to withdraw the circular. “This is irrelevant and unscientific to conduct examinations after declaring students as promoted to next class. We demand that the authorities reconsider the decision as it is impossible to conduct examinations at this stage,” said Prof Ninge Gowda, president of the association. The department has asked the faculties and students to complete the process by July 20. The students have to complete the first assignment and submit it to teachers by June 20 and teachers have to complete the evaluation by June 25.  The schedule for students to complete the second assignment is between June 26 to July 5. Lecturers have to complete the evaluation by July 10. The marks should be uploaded on SATS portal by July 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/in-u-turn-teachers-told-to-hold-online-exams-for-i-pu-995685.html
09-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Vaccination drive for sportspersons from today||The Karnataka government will launch a free vaccination drive from Thursday that will cover 10,000 sportspersons in Karnataka, Youth Empowerment and Sports Minister KC Narayana Gowda said. Gowda will flag off the drive at the Kanteerava Stadium on June 10.  “The government has included sportspersons into the priority group for the vaccination of those aged above 18 years. On June 10 and 11, vaccination will be provided to 2,200 sportspersons who have registered,” Gowda said.  Sportspersons who have not registered can contact the assistant director of the youth empowerment & sports department at the Kanteerava Stadium or through the local sports associations.  On June 10, sportspersons engaged in basketball, fencing, swimming, hockey, tennikoit, badminton, rowing and netball will be vaccinated. On June 11, those associated with wushu, shooting, handball, football, athletics, table tennis, volleyball and roller skating will be inoculated, Gowda said.  “Vaccination will be provided to more than 10,000 sportspersons across the state,” Gowda said. “The vaccination drive will continue till all sportspersons are covered.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vaccination-drive-for-sportspersons-from-today-995691.html
09-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sindhuri names JD(S) MLA, MUDA chief in land scams||IAS officer Rohini Sindhuri said on Wednesday that she stood by her earlier statement that her action against land grabbing by a few politicians and others had led to her transfer from Mysuru, where she served as DC.  “I am appealing to the government to hold an inquiry into the land scams in Mysuru, especially by Sa Ra Mahesh (JD-S legislator representing KR Nagar) and his associates. Earlier, I had not named anybody. But now that they are exposing themselves by attacking me, I am naming them,” she told DH. Sindhuri said the nexus between former commissioner of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Shilpa Nag and the vested interests should be probed. “Shilpa Nag has colluded with politicians and did a resignation drama, just to get me out and serve their purpose. This, she has admitted herself. Once the transfer was done, she said the mission was accomplished and withdrew the so-called resignation,” she said. The IAS officer said the list of irregularities and illegalities by Mahesh and his associates in Mysuru and its neighbourhood was long. “Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) chairman H V Rajeev is his partner in a few illegal projects, like the one on the Lingambudhi lake. Mahesh’s SaRa choultry is also on the rajakaluve, near Datagalli Ring Road,” Rohini said. Sindhuri said, “Mahesh’s illegal projects include the one on the grazing lands (gomala) on Survey No. 123 in Datagalli under Kasba hobli, Mysuru taluk. These are based on false documents. There are plans to start a resort on two acres of land on Lingambudhi lake”. “Mahesh also had a stake in the private Covid care centres (CCC) in Mysuru. When a few of them were shut, as they did not comply with Covid protocols and guidelines, he convened a press meet on the CCCs. Shilpa Nag was hand in glove with the vested interests and thus, she did not open government CCCs as per my directions. Her inaction was to help such private CCCs,” Rohini said. “The irregularities by Rajeev should also be probed. Since he took charge on August 28, 2020, over 500 resolutions have been passed in each MUDA meeting. Each of the resolutions should be probed,” Rohini said. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah had said on Tuesday that a land scam was behind the feud between the two women IAS officers in Mysuru. On Tuesday, Sa Ra Mahesh continued his tirade against Rohini. He has been holding a press conference almost every day after the transfer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sindhuri-names-jds-mla-muda-chief-in-land-scams-995699.html
09-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||PU colleges told not to start admissions until department releases calendar||Private Pre-University Colleges in the state, which have begun admissions to PU first year courses even before the conduct of class 10 examinations, are in trouble! The department of Pre-University Education has announced such admissions as illegal and has warned of initiating stringent action against such colleges, which includes disaffiliation. In a circular issued the department of Pre-University Education has strictly warned the private Pre-University Colleges not to complete admission process and start online classes until the department releases the calendar of admissions for 2021-22. “The colleges are instructed to conduct admissions only after the release of the calendar. In case, if any college starts admissions or online classes for PU first year, then stringent action will be initiated against such colleges which will lead to disaffiliation,” reads the circular. If parents/public come across any colleges having completed or started admissions for PU first year courses, they can file complaints before the department or with the deputy directors at the district-levels. The colleges have to wait till the results of SSLC examinations are announced to start admissions for PU first year.  The department has also asked the deputy directors at the district-levels to circulate the same to the principals of all Pre-University Colleges.  However, most of the private Pre-University Colleges in cities like Bengaluru, Mysore, Mangalore have completed the admissions, specially for the science streams with integrated coaching, and have even started online classes. The admissions have been made based on online screening tests and marks secured in the mid-term examinations. “To initiate action against such colleges we need to receive written complaints from parents,” said an official from the department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pu-colleges-told-not-to-start-admissions-until-department-releases-calendar-995701.html
09-06-2021||West||Sanitisers may have added fuel to fire at Pune chemical plant; owner arrested||A day after 17 workers, most of them women, were killed in a fire at a chemical plant in Pune district, an inquiry committee said on Tuesday that a large stock of sanitisers stored with inflammable materials may have aggravated the fire. The police, meanwhile, registered a case of culpable homicide against one of the owners of the firm, alleging "gross negligence", and arrested him late at night. A case was registered against Nikunj Shah, one of the owners of SVS Aqua Technologies, under IPC section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) at Paud police station, said Abhinav Deshmukh, Superintendent of Police, Pune rural. Shah was questioned and later put under arrest. The case was registered following an inquiry report submitted by a committee headed by Sub-divisional Magistrate (SDM) Sandesh Shirke, the SP said. The preliminary probe showed that the company had not followed fire safety norms and building permission rules, he said. There were no emergency exit doors and open space (where people can take refuge in case of fire), Deshmukh alleged. According to some of the workers, the doors of the section where the fire started got locked, and local people had to use JCB machines to break down the walls and rescue those inside. "In a nutshell, the company officials did not take necessary precautions despite knowing that the materials they were using were combustible," SP Deshmukh said. Asked about the cause of the fire, he said the material used in the manufacturing of chlorine dioxide (used for water purification) is combustible, and heat due to friction or a spark might have acted as trigger. "But at this juncture, gross negligence on the part of the firm is being seen, and on that basis, an offence has been registered," he added. Asked if the company manufactured sanitisers, Deshmukh said it did not seem so. A small quantity of sanitisers was found but it could be for use by the employees, he said. Some locals had alleged that the company was also making sanitisers -- which are inflammable -- without license. However, another official later said that sanitisers seemed to have played a role in the tragedy. The firm apparently used to source sanitiser liquid from outside, re- package it, and sell it, he said. "We have found around 20,000 to 30,000 bottles of sanitisers in the inventory. Similar half-burnt bottles were found at the fire-ravaged spot," said Abhay Chavam, tehsildar, Mulshi. Sanitisers were not produced at the plant as no raw material and machinery needed for that was found, he added. There was also a possibility that the raw material used for making chlorine dioxide came in contact with sanitisers, stored in the same place, and led to explosions, he said. "In the first five minutes, two big explosions took place and later the fire spread rapidly everywhere and it is possible only after some highly inflammable material came in contact with the fire," he said. Another district official, requesting anonymity, said that the inquiry committee report pointed out that sanitiser aggravated the fire while the dark smoke caused by sodium chloride made it difficult for the victims to find a way out. The inflammable raw material was stored in the same place where the actual work took place, he said. The report also noted that the firm did not have the necessary NOC from the fire department and there was no fire- fighting mechanism or equipment at the plant SP Deshmukh, meanwhile, said the death toll was 17. SDM Shirke had earlier put the death toll at 18. As per the company officials too there were 17 workers inside the section when the fire started around 3.30 pm on Monday. As the bodies were charred beyond recognition, blood samples of relatives have been taken for DNA matching to identify the deceased, Deshmukh said. To speed up the procedure, samples are being sent to an Aurangabad laboratory besides the Pune one, the SP said. The identification process was expected to be completed in four days, the SP added. The plant is located in the Pirangut industrial area of Mulshi tehsil, near Urawade village, 40 km from Pune city. Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar had said an inquiry would be conducted and a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each will be given to the next of the kin of the deceased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sanitisers-may-have-added-fuel-to-fire-at-pune-chemical-plant-owner-arrested-995365.html
09-06-2021||West||Maharashtra RTOs to let people take learner's licence test from home||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday issued two directives to the state's 50 RTOs, one of which allows people to obtain a learner's licence by sitting for a test from home using an Aadhaar-based authentication mechanism, a senior official said. The other change is that dealers can register non-transport vehicles without taking them physically to Regional Transport Offices, Maharashtra Transport Commissioner Avinash Dhakane told PTI. Officials said Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to inaugurate these facilities in the next two to three days. These facilities will bring huge socio-economic benefits, reduce footfalls at RTOs, weed out illegal agents and reduce corruption, while decreasing the burden on staff and saving time and money of citizens, Dhakane said. Another official said the Centre's notification on using Aadhaar-based authentication for 18 different services, like procurement of learning licence, issuing of registration certificate to fully built vehicles etc, was issued in March this year. "Annually, Maharashtra's transport department issues around 20 lakh learner's licences and and equal number of cars and bikes in non-transport category are registered in the state. Necessary changes were made by National Informatics Centre (NIC) in Vahan 4.0 and Sarathi 4.0 systems used for vehicle registration and driving licence issuance across the country," an official said.  As per the state government directive issued on Tuesday, those requiring a learner's licence will need to provide their Aadhar card number before giving an online test sitting at home. "After watching a few online videos on road safety, one can apply for a learner's licence test, in which he or she must answer rightly at least 60 per cent of questions. Those who clear the test can then print a learner's licence on their own," an official said. He said the NIC had also developed a system through which doctors can upload the medical certificate of the applicant in a prescribed format, and for this, doctors will have to apply online to RTOs to obtain user ID and password. "Those who don't prefer the Aadhaar authentication facility can follow the existing process to get a learner's licence," the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-rtos-to-let-people-take-learners-licence-test-from-home-995386.html
09-06-2021||West||BJP calls meeting of Gujarat MLAs over third Covid-19 wave||The ruling BJP has called a meeting of its MLAs in Gujarat on June 15 to brainstorm on measures to deal with a possible third wave of Covid-19, a state party spokesperson said on Tuesday. BJP general secretary in-charge of Gujarat Bhupendra Yadav is also likely to visit the state in the coming days. "A meeting of the BJP Legislative Party has been called on June 15. All MLAs have been called for the meeting by the party," state BJP spokesperson Yagnesh Dave said. "State BJP president C R Paatil and chief minister Vijay Rupani will guide MLAs on what to do if a third wave of Covid-19 strikes Gujarat," he said. He said Yadav is likely to visit the state, but his programme is not yet finalised. After being hit by a devastating second wave of coronavirus, Gujarat has been witnessing a steady drop in new cases. On Tuesday, the state reported 695 new Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths, the health department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-calls-meeting-of-gujarat-mlas-over-third-covid-19-wave-995387.html
09-06-2021||West||Eyeing to host Olympics, Ahmedabad body issues tender for infrastructure proposals||In a bid to "engage with the IOC (International Olympic Committee) for potentially hosting a future edition of the Summer Olympics in India," the Ahmedabad urban development authority has issued a tender notice, inviting proposals from consultants for assessing sports and non-sports venues in the city. Officials said that they have the 2036 Olympics in their target to host in Ahmedabad. The notice issued by Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (AUDA) has invited proposals for "technically sound and experienced consulting engineering firms for Appointment of Technical Assistance (TA) Consultant/Agency for the Assessment of Sports & non Sports venues & City infrastructure for Hosting the Olympic Games..." The notice was published in newspapers on Tuesday. In the E-Bid Document Request for Proposal (RFP), running into 55 pages, the AUDA has stated that the IOC "initiated the Olympic Agenda 2020 reform programme in 2014 with an objective to safeguard the Olympics values and strengthen the role of sports in society. Over the course of the next six years, all Olympic Movement stakeholders actively contributed to realise the recommendations of the Olympic Agenda 2020. The Olympic Games up to 2028 have been allotted and the process for allotment of 2032 is under progress with Brisbane being the frontrunner." In the introduction of the RFP, the AUDA has mentioned some key points required "to engage with the IOC for potentially hosting a future edition of the Summer Olympics in India." These key points are "Reviewing long-term regional development plans of Ahmedabad Region to host Olympics in partnership with key stakeholders and its alignment to a potential Olympic candidature, assess the potential for hosting a future edition of the Summer Olympics with regards to the sports venues (competition and training); non-sports venues (games village, hotels, international broadcast compound, media and press centre, accreditation centre) and city infrastructure (transport, power, sanitation etc.), collate preliminary high-level budgets for hosting the games and provide overall Project Management Support related to early planning and documentation." The development comes barely three months after inauguration of refurbished Narendra Modi Cricket Stadium, earlier known as Motera Cricket Stadium, by president Ram Nath Kovind and union home minister Amit Shah. At the event, they had also laid the foundation stone of Sardar Patel Sports Enclave, which was hailed to be the largest multi-sports facility in the country. On the occasion, Shah had said that this facility would turn Ahmedabad into a "sports city" and help it to host international sporting events such as Olympics, Commonwealth Games and Asian Games. The construction of the enclave would cost Rs 4,600 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/eyeing-to-host-olympics-ahmedabad-body-issues-tender-for-infrastructure-proposals-995455.html
09-06-2021||West||How Mumbai beat the odds, and the coronavirus||When Covid-19 arrived in India, few places looked as vulnerable as Mumbai. But a year on, South Asia's most crowded city has surprised many by tackling a vicious second wave with considerable success. Gaurav Awasthi even travelled hundreds of kilometres from his home on the outskirts of Delhi to get his ailing wife a hospital bed there, paying an ambulance more than Rs 73,000 to drive 24 hours straight. "I cannot ever repay my debt to this city," the 29-year-old told AFP, recounting an ordeal that saw him spend five days fruitlessly searching for a bed across several cities, including Delhi. "I don't know if my wife would be alive today if it weren't for Mumbai's health facilities." The bodies began turning up early in India's financial capital during the first wave of infections last year — a man collapsing on a busy road, a rickshaw driver slumped over the wheel, a corpse lying in the street — in a grim echo of the 1918 flu pandemic. By May 2020, Abhignya Patra was working 18-hour days at the massive Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital, better known as Sion. "It was non-stop," the 27-year-old anaesthesiologist told AFP. Patients' relatives described distressing scenes inside packed wards, with one man telling AFP he had to change his sick mother's diapers himself because staff were too overworked. A video shot inside Sion and widely shared on social media showed corpses wrapped in black plastic left on beds in a ward where patients were being treated. Every night, the city helpline fielded thousands of calls from desperate citizens, many with no chance of getting admitted to a publicly-funded hospital: Mumbai had just 80 ambulances and 425 intensive care units for a population of 2 crore. Something had to change fast, said Iqbal Chahal, a no-nonsense bureaucrat who took over as Mumbai's municipal commissioner last May. New field hospitals added thousands of beds, private facilities handed over their Covid-19 wards to the government and 800 vehicles were turned into ambulances. But these efforts could not combat the swift rise in infections. "We needed to chase the virus," Chahal told AFP. A proactive approach focused on 55 slums including India's largest, Dharavi, where a strict lockdown was accompanied by aggressive sanitisation of public toilets, mass coronavirus screening and a huge volunteer effort to ensure that nobody went hungry. All positive test reports in Mumbai were routed through "war rooms" manned by doctors who would triage cases and decide where to send the patient, irrespective of "whether he is a minister, a big shot or a slum dweller", Chahal said. As 2020 wore on, it looked like India might have miraculously beaten the pandemic and lockdown restrictions were eased. But in Mumbai, authorities didn't dismantle a single bed in the now-deserted field hospitals. This meant that when cases surged in March, the metropolis was much better prepared than many other Indian cities, where the health care system came close to collapse. In the capital Delhi and elsewhere, patients died outside hospitals and crematoriums were overwhelmed. But not in Mumbai. Despite having a much higher population density than many other cities, Mumbai has seen significantly lower mortality rates. The city still suffered close calls, Chahal said, recalling one night in April when six hospitals faced dire oxygen shortages, putting 168 patients at serious risk unless they were shifted to other facilities. Everyone survived. "We always expected a second wave," Chahal said. Patra recalls getting calls from colleagues in Delhi desperately searching for medical equipment. "As doctors, there is very little we can do in the absence of infrastructure," she said. Ruben Mascarenhas, co-founder of Mumbai-based non-profit Khaana Chahiye, said he would get dozens of messages every morning from people begging for oxygen and drugs — but as the pandemic wore on, the requests mostly came from outside the city. He was, he says, "pleasantly surprised", but is "very cautious about celebrating yet." He is not the only one. An experienced marathon-runner, Chahal is already preparing for a third wave — expected to hit children hard — by stockpiling oxygen, building paediatric field hospitals and expanding capacity at public hospitals. "This has been a wake-up call for us," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/how-mumbai-beat-the-odds-and-the-coronavirus-995469.html
09-06-2021||West||Mumbai greeted by monsoon in full swing, local train services hit||India’s financial capital Mumbai faced large-scale disruption as the southwest monsoon marked its entry in the entire coastal Konkan region of Maharashtra on Wednesday. Mumbai recorded an average 165-plus mm rainfall during the day which resulted in inundation in several chronic spots like Sion, Chunabhatti, Hindmata, Dadar, Kings Circle, Govandi, Chembur, Andheri, Dahisar, Kurla and Malad. The suburban train services of Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) were badly affected for the day as rainwater coupled with hightide compounded the situation. Because of waterlogging on the road, BEST bus services too were badly affected. The departures/arrivals at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport, were, however, normal. Serpentine queues were witnessed at the taxi and autorickshaw stands, bus stops and crowd in suburban stations – leading to Covid-19 protocols going for a toss. At the time of going to Press, the Mithi River was flowing over the danger mark – and people along the hutments on the edge has been moved to safety. Besides the twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban the neighbouring Mumbai Metropolitan Region districts of Palghar, Thane and Raigad too received heavy overnight rainfall. As the water level rose, in several places four-wheelers and two-wheelers broke down. In Mumbai-MMR, traffic moved at snail’s place at Western Express Highway, Eastern Express Highway, Ghodbunder Road, Linking Road, Swami Vivekananda Road. After reviewing the Konkan situation, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray visited the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation’s disaster management control room.“Thackeray directed the administration to ensure that the accumulated rainwater is drained out at the earliest and transport is resumed,” the CMO said. CR spokesperson Shivaji Sutar said that due to waterlogging near Chunabhatti station all services on the Harbour Line between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus and Vashi in Navi Mumbai were suspended. Similarly, due to flooded tracks near Kurla, the mainline services between Thane-CSMT were suspended, though the CR operated shuttles between Thane-Karjat, Thane-Kasara and Vashi-Panvel sectors. WR spokesperson Sumit Thakur said that due to waterlogging at Wadala station, all Harbour Line trains on the Andheri-CSMT routes were suspended till further notice, and water pumps were deployed to drain out the excess water from the railway tracks. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar blamed railways for the train disruption. “The BMC is not getting support from the railways on cleaning the tracks before monsoon,” she said. “Railways is committed to working in close coordination with the BMC for running train services for our esteemed passengers. And hence, we refute the statement given Mayor,” the CR said in a tweet. The IMD has issued a heavy rainfall forecast. “Extremely severe weather warnings issued by IMD for Konkan, Madhya Maharashtra especially for Mumbai Thane Palghar Raigad for today. Mumbai already received  220.6mm rainfall at 5.30 pm since morning. Flooding at few places in the city. Mumbai 11-13 June possibility of 200mm+ rainfall predicted by IMD,” said KS Hosalikar, Head, Climate Research and Services, Pune.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-greeted-by-monsoon-in-full-swing-local-train-services-hit-995472.html
09-06-2021||West||Carry out 'surgical strike' on coronavirus, Bombay HC tells Centre||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday said the Centre's approach against coronavirus, which is the society's biggest enemy at present, should be "like a surgical strike" instead of standing at the borders waiting for the virus to come out. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni said the Union government's new "near to home" vaccination programme was like waiting for the virus carrier to come to the Centre. "Coronavirus is our biggest enemy. We need to strike it down. The enemy is residing in certain areas and in some people who are unable to come out. Your (government) approach should be like a surgical strike. You are standing at the borders waiting for the virus carrier to come to you. You are not entering the enemy territory,” Chief Justice Datta said. The bench said the government was taking decisions for the welfare of the public at large, but they were delayed which has resulted in the loss of several lives. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by two advocates - Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari - seeking a direction to the government to start a door-to-door vaccination programme for senior citizens above the age of 75, specially-abled persons and those who are wheelchair-bound or bed-ridden. The Union government on Tuesday told the court that door-to-door vaccination was currently not possible, but it has decided to start "near to home" vaccination centres. On Wednesday, the HC pointed out examples of the door-to-door vaccination programmes started by Kerala, Jammu and Kashmir, Bihar and Odisha and also a few municipal corporations like Vasai-Virar in Maharashtra. “Why should the same not be encouraged in other states across the country? The central government cannot clip the wings of those state governments and civic bodies who wish to do it (door-to-door vaccination) but are waiting for the Centre's nod,” the court said. It further asked why only Maharashtra and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) were waiting for the Centre's nod to start door-to-door vaccination when other states in the north, south and east have started it already without any nod. “Why is only the west waiting?” Chief Justice Datta asked. The bench noted that even the BMC had failed to live up to the court's expectations by saying it was willing to start door-to-door vaccination only if the Union government permits. “We always praise the BMC and have been saying it is a model for other states,” the court said. The HC also questioned the BMC as to how at the beginning of the vaccination drive a senior politician got his dose at his residence in Mumbai. “My question to you (BMC) is at the very inception of the drive, we found that a very senior politician got the jab at his home in Mumbai. Who did it? The BMC or the state government? Somebody has to take the responsibility,” the court said. The bench directed BMC's counsel Anil Sakhare and additional government pleader Geeta Shashtri, appearing for the state, to find out which authority administered the vaccine to the politician at his residence. The court also directed Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the Centre, to consider the issue once again. “We trust the government will come up with a sound policy taking into consideration what is happening in the country. The Centre should recognise the sentiments of not only the senior citizens and those who are unable to go to the vaccination centres, but also their family members,” the court said. The bench posted the matter for further hearing on June 11.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/carry-out-surgical-strike-on-coronavirus-bombay-hc-tells-centre-995510.html
09-06-2021||West||Gujarat Assembly opposes plea for live telecast of its proceedings||The Gujarat Legislative Assembly has opposed a PIL seeking live telecast of its proceedings and sharing of other documents online, saying it is its discretion to determine what information it deems fit to be published. During a hearing on Tuesday in the Gujarat High Court, the Assembly secretariat told a division bench of Justices RM Chhaya and Nirzar S Desai that there is no legal duty on its part to comply with obligations under the RTI Act to disclose and regularly update its proceedings and other documents, as sought in a PIL filed by one Neeta Hardikar. The PIL has sought the court's direction to the Assembly secretariat to disclose and regularly update in Gujarati and English, on its home website, information on live and old telecast and transcripts of its proceedings. It also asked to disclose details of papers to be laid in the House, private members' resolutions, zero hour proceedings, list of questions and their answers, texts of debates, legislations, information on House committees, rules, regulations, instructions, and other documents. The Assembly secretariat in an affidavit submitted to the court said, "The respondent has the privilege to control and regulate the publication of its proceedings and document and the source of the same is found in the second part of Article 194 (3) of Constitution...Public authority is not legally obliged to provide any information that is covered by exemptions under section 8 of the Right to Information Act." "It is the discretion of the Gujarat Legislative Assembly to determine what information it deems fit to be published," the affidavit said. It noted that Article 194(2) of the Constitution confers unfettered absolute immunity to members for anything said in the legislature and to any person publishing any report, paper, proceedings under the authority of any House of the Legislature. Article 194(3) is particularly relevant in the present case as it provides for ancillary privileges, it said. At the same time, it said certain information is being provided on the new website, which is in development stage. In the 'notice board' section of the website, there are several categories under which vital documents have been uploaded in both English and Gujarati. Speeches of the governor and budget speech of the finance minister are telecast live on a regular basis, it said. "The respondent has made sincere efforts to publish relevant information on its website and telecasts significant events on Gujarati channels. It continues to make further additions to the list of documents that have been uploaded on the website," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-assembly-opposes-plea-for-live-telecast-of-its-proceedings-995511.html
09-06-2021||West||Goa CM makes a U-turn on use of ivermectin for Covid-19 prophylaxis treatment||Nearly a month after the Goa government announced free distribution of ivermectin tablets as a part of a new Covid-19 prophylaxis treatment protocol, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday claimed that the Health Ministry had not purchased a single tablet of the anti-parasitic drug so far. Sawant also dismissed allegations made by the Opposition of an alleged Rs 20.50 crore scam in the purchase of ivermectin tablets, which had reportedly sparked a turf war between Sawant and Health Minister Vishwajit Rane, which eventually had to be 'settled' by Union Home Minister Amit Shah. "We had not bought ivermectin for prophylaxis treatment. Not a single (tablet). This figure of Rs 22 crore being bandied about is an attempt to create a misunderstanding among people," Sawant told reporters on Wednesday. The CM's disclosure comes two days after the Director General of Central Health Services struck off ivermectin from its list of drugs recommended for Covid-19 management. "We had bought ivermectin, when it was approved by the ICMR (Indian Council for Medical Research) for home isolation kits. The home isolation kit is recommended by them (ICMR) in other states too. It contained doxycycline, ivermectin, Vitamin C with zinc tablets. We had bought them then," Sawant said. Sawant also said the government had now formally dropped the proposal for purchasing more ivermectin tablets. On May 10, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane had said his ministry had adopted ivermectin in its Covid prevention protocol, claiming that the drug helped tone down the severe symptoms, which eventually leads to loss of life. According to Rane, a course of five ivermectin tablets would be made available at all government health centres for free distribution across the state to all adults. Sawant also denied any rift between him and Rane. "There are no differences between me and the Health Minister. There is no misunderstanding. We may have different views on issues, but when it comes to the Cabinet, when it comes to the government, when it comes to the state, we are one," the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-cm-makes-a-u-turn-on-use-of-ivermectin-for-covid-19-prophylaxis-treatment-995547.html
