10-06-2021||Comment||PM Modi, listen to CMs’ ‘mann ki baat’||The Constitution of India provides a federal government system with a division of powers between the Centre and the states. The Supreme Court is the guardian of the Constitution that adjudicates the disputes between the Centre and the states. The Centre has some powers to override the states in some situations. The states are not fully autonomous. The Centre can change the names and boundaries of the states and can also dismiss state governments if they fail to govern as per constitutional provisions. The President, constitutional head of the Union government, appoints the Governor, who plays a significant role as a link between the Centre and the states, on the Prime Minister’s advice. Yet, although the states have limited autonomy under the constitutional scheme, the Centre is not the master of the states. The states get support from the people and are competent to exercise their powers within the constitutional boundaries. The Covid pandemic has demonstrated some of the dominating features of our federal system. Surprisingly, during the first wave of the pandemic, the Union government centralised all powers in its hands and treated the states as though they were municipalities or subordinate bodies. The Centre made all important decisions relating to the lockdown/unlocking under the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Control Act, and the states were left with no option but to act as per the directions of the Centre. Interestingly, the Prime Minister played the ‘Chief Commander’ in the war against the pandemic during the first wave. He addressed the people directly on TV several times and announced the lockdown himself without making proper plans or consulting with the states. As a result of this Tughlaqi firman, millions of migrant workers lost livelihoods, thousands lost lives. However, during the second wave of the corona pandemic, the Centre ‘decentralised’ the powers to manage the Covid crisis and asked the states to make necessary decisions about the lockdown/unlocking areas, etc., to contain the spread of the coronavirus. More than a dozen states imposed various kinds of lockdowns or curfews to contain the virus. The lockdowns are being eased as the second wave subsides, but some restrictions are expected to be in force at least for a few more weeks. Sadly, lakhs of people died during the second wave of the pandemic because of the shortage of oxygen, hospital beds, and essential drugs. Was it a well-planned tactic of the Centre to shift the burden to the states once things got out of control, after the Union government and the Prime Minister himself had claimed victory over the virus? There are also some issues like the availability of essential drugs and vaccines that became a bone of contention between the central and state governments. It is widely believed that the Centre abandoned the states and left them at the mercy of God. This problem was noticed in the states that are governed by non-BJP governments like in Delhi, West Bengal, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, etc., which have political differences with the Modi government. Better coordination was the need of the hour. It was not the time to play politics. The Centre has a big responsibility to provide sufficient vaccines and drugs to the states to fight against the Covid pandemic, rising above party-level differences and ideologies at a time of grave public health crisis. This is the time when all governments should fight collectively against the invisible enemy that has ruined the lives of millions in the country. Recently, Prime Minister Modi had called a meeting of District Magistrates as well as Chief Ministers to discuss the Covid situation in their states and areas. After the meeting, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee criticised the Prime Minister for bypassing the state governments and taking Chief Ministers for granted and interacting directly and only with the DMs instead. She charged that PM Modi did not allow the Chief Ministers to speak in the meetings, and so she felt humiliated. A fortnight earlier, Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren had also said that the Prime Minister does not listen to the states and always conducts one-way communication. He said that PM Modi should also listen to the states to solve their problems. These developments reflect poorly on the working of the federal government. There is a great need for better coordination between the Centre and the states to save people’s lives and livelihoods during this difficult time. The Prime Minister and other Union ministers have the full right to get feedback/suggestions from the state officers but only by taking the elected state governments into confidence. They should involve the Chief Ministers in such deliberations to avoid any misunderstanding. Notably, there is nothing wrong if the Prime Minister talks to the District Magistrates or other state officers, but he should always take the elected governments into confidence. It would also be helpful to have a broader understanding of things. Admittedly, the District Magistrates are mostly drawn from the Indian Administrative Service, effectively controlled by the central government, but when these officers work in their respective cadres, they cannot ignore the directions/instructions of the state government, led by the Chief Minister. And no Chief Minister will appreciate it if central ministers or even the Prime Minister talks to the officers directly without engaging the Chief Minister or his/her representatives in such conversations. The situation becomes worse in the case of states governed by opposition political parties that have political differences with the ruling party at the Centre. In such a situation, both sides have to act harmoniously by maintaining constitutional propriety, official protocol and a civil discourse. Chief Ministers are elected constitutional functionaries whose voice matters a great deal. The Centre cannot take them for granted. They should be treated with respect, dignity and constitutional propriety and courtesy. Constitutional morality demands it. (The writer is a Supreme Court advocate)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/pm-modi-listen-to-cms-mann-ki-baat-996130.html
10-06-2021||First Edit||Changing criteria, faulty measurement||Niti Aayog’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) India Index for 2020-21 presents a mixed picture, with a minor improvement in the overall national score but a slide in certain important areas and a widening gap among states. There was a change in methodology in measuring performance on some SDGs. It has also been noted that the index is at variance with the State of India’s Environment Report 2021, which also assessed the country’s performance on SDGs. The Niti Aayog Index has seen the overall SDG score move from 60 in 2019 to 66 in 2021, mainly on the strength of achievements related to clean energy, urban development and health. The programmes to reach electricity and cooking fuel to households may have made those gains possible. But there is a major decline in performance in important areas like economic growth, work, infrastructure and industry. This may be partly because of the Covid impact. Some gains of last year have been lost.  The index shows major differences among states in their achievements. Kerala has topped the index, with Himachal Pradesh and Tamil Nadu taking the second position and Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Goa and Uttarakhand coming third. Bihar and Jharkhand are at the bottom. There are big gaps in performance between the states in the south and the west on the one hand and those in the north and the east on the other. But there are complaints from states about how their performance has been assessed. Odisha, which has dropped in rankings and is among the laggards, has said that Niti Aayog used only central schemes for its assessment and ignored the state’s schemes. There is criticism in Bihar, too. The important message is that the disparities between the states should not be allowed to widen further, and backward states need to improve their performance.  But some questions that have been raised about the index need answers. The index showed an improvement in inequality from 2019, which is highly improbable because it could only have got worse in the Covid-hit year. This happened because the Niti Aayog index dropped important economic parameters like the Gini coefficient, which measures the distribution of income, and the growth rate for per capita household expenditure among 40% of rural and urban populations. They were replaced with social indicators like representation of women and weaker sections in legislatures, crimes against SC/ST communities, etc. This may have distorted the inequality value. As against the Niti Aayog’s finding that the performance on SDGs has improved, the State of India’s Environment report showed that the country slipped two places to rank 117 among 193 countries. So, there are two views on the country’s performance now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/changing-criteria-faulty-measurement-995722.html
10-06-2021||First Edit||Mysuru affair must be probed||There seems to be more to the Mysuru saga than meets the eye, where two IAS officers were unceremoniously shunted out by the government after they indulged in a public spat. The controversy began when Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) Commissioner Shilpa Nag alleged harassment by Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri and announced in a press conference that she was resigning from civil service unable to bear that harassment. Sindhuri, in turn, hurled serious allegations against Nag over the utilisation of CSR funds, charges that the latter has denied. It now transpires that the genesis of the problem rests elsewhere, with Sindhuri indicating that a land mafia, backed by powerful local politicians against whom she had waged a war, was behind the spat and had used it as an opportunity to oust her from Mysuru. Sindhuri has gone on record that the government has set a wrong precedent by transferring her and that no officer will dare to take on land-grabbers in future. Controversy has followed Sindhuri often, but that should not be a reason to brush her charges under the carpet as they are of a serious nature. According to Sindhuri, the Karnataka High Court had some time ago ruled that some 1,500 acres of land at the foothills of Chamundi Hills, including the famed Lalitha Mahal Palace, belonged to private parties. The officer had taken it upon herself to recover this land, worth hundreds of crores of rupees, for the government by engaging the services of senior counsel Harish Salve to appear in the Supreme Court on behalf of the state. Sindhuri, who has named a former JD(S) minister in the land-grab case, has also accused city MLAs of opposing her for her efforts to stop encroachment of several lake beds. Unfortunately, instead of ordering an inquiry into the charges, Chief Minister Yediyurappa has chosen to transfer Sindhuri and Nag out of their postings in Mysuru. That will effectively bury the whole affair. Sometime ago, when two police officers sparred over the alleged corruption in the Bengaluru safe city project, they too were transferred, and no inquiry was launched. The government is wrong to have adopted the same strategy again in the Mysuru case. The fact that almost all local politicians, save a few, had ganged up against Sindhuri raises suspicion. Unless the government orders an impartial inquiry and gets to the bottom of the issue, the public may be forced to conclude that the government does not want the whole truth to come out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/mysuru-affair-must-be-probed-996132.html
10-06-2021||In Perspective||Is cultural appropriation a crime?||Would you be offended if an American wore a saree to the Oscars? Or if yoga became the UK’s preferred fitness regimen? Well, if you are a part of the bandwagon that brandishes two words – cultural appropriation (CA) – every time a foreigner borrows from Indian culture, take a deep breath and think of… Gobi ‘Manchuri’, Dosa Pizza, churidar tights and, yes, Anu Malik. When Prime Minister Narendra Modi sold the idea of an International Yoga Day to the UN, it was considered an example of India’s soft power, a bit of muscle-flexing on the international stage. So, what are we wailing about now? And what’s with this “calling out” business every 30 seconds? The CA cops have lashed out at Gucci for selling an Indian-inspired kaftan, Kim Kardashian for a maang tikka headpiece, Selena Gomez for wearing a bindi, Kendall Jenner for sporting a nose ring…the list, really, is quite long. Is CA – the adoption of elements by one culture from another -- a bad thing? Well, it depends on the context, whether one is stealing from a culture or adding to it. In a riveting essay titled, The Ethics of Cultural Appropriation, in the Dalhousie Review (2000), James O Young identifies several types of CA. The most obvious is material appropriation, when someone from a dominant culture makes off with some object/material from a subordinate culture. Our Kohinoor sitting prettily in London comes to mind. Is this bad? Of course, it’s bad, and we still want it back. But what about that tourist who buys a Warli art painting and takes it home? Well, he paid for it, and it usually is a fair bargain for both sides. Now, what if the tourist imitates the art and makes different versions of it? This is where it starts getting complicated. Much of the CA that is in the news today has to do with non-material reproductions. The appropriation could be in stylistic terms, like the White American artiste Eminem using rap music that is traditionally associated with Black artistes. It could be a motif like the paisley pattern, or even an idea or an element. Music composer A R Rahman, for instance, freely amalgamates elements from different traditions – Carnatic, Western, Hindustani and Qawwali – to create his unique music. Such amalgamation, or appropriation, is a double edge-sword. When Paul Simon of the Simon-Garfunkel duo used the music of South Africa's townships to create the album Graceland in the 1980s, it opened up the world for South African musicians, helping the original move into the mainstream. This happened because Simon duly acknowledged his sources and his inspiration. And paid them handsomely for their efforts. CA, unfortunately, may not always have a happy ending. Sometimes, it can be downright disrespectful, as it was in the case of Goddess Lakshmi depicted on skimpy swimsuits from Byron Bay label Lisa Blue. It can be criminal when it robs people of their livelihoods and leads to a community, especially a marginalised one, losing its individuality and becoming part of the cultural melting pot. This is what Galarrwuy Yunupingu, a leader in the Aboriginal Australian community, was speaking about when he wrote in The Black/White Conflict: “Every week, we find that other non-Aboriginal people are stealing our designs and paintings for decorating T-shirts, dress fabrics, restaurant menus and so on. They are using the same old tactics of assimilation, except this time, they are trying to assimilate our culture into their world because it is fashionable in their eyes and will make money.” A similar argument surfaced recently when Mexico’s Ministry of Culture pulled up fashion labels Zara, Anthropologie and Patowl for using patterns from indigenous Mexican groups without giving back to the creative communities. While copyright laws protect individual rights, they rarely protect traditional forms of art and culture. And this is what big labels should be mindful about.  It’s important to acknowledge where the inspiration is coming from and to make life better for these often-struggling communities. As Paul Simon did. If the deplorable kind of CA described above is not set right, it could lead to “a sort of cultural apartheid, where each artist is confined to an aesthetic homeland,” says James Young. There would be no cultural exchange among nations, no intertextuality in literature, no fusion in music, no assimilation in art and fashion, no 'Gobi Manchuri'. And that would be a very sad world indeed. (The writer teaches journalism at Mount Carmel College)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/is-cultural-appropriation-a-crime-995728.html
10-06-2021||In Perspective||It's time to change the SOP of how India builds||In India, we are grappling with authoritarian measures to build the Central Vista project in Delhi, and now the redevelopment plans for the Lakshadweep Islands. Both projects are facing opposition for the manner in which they are being facilitated. However, the reality is that projects as large as these have always been facilitated this way. In Karnataka, too, there is little to no questioning of how we do things. The current structural framework allows and almost enables projects to be undertaken with little or no engagement with local stakeholders and no public participation at all. The Lakshadweep redevelopment plan has been cropping up every now and then for the last two decades. As the country grows richer, infrastructure projects of this scale are planned across the country. That is not a bad thing. However, all of these projects occur within a very limited and opaque framework, with token environmental and social safeguards; and with a few companies, of a certain size, winning the tenders. Much of this process is defined by standard operating procedures (SOP) in place. Contemporary urban planning dynamics are theoretically based on negotiation and contractual relations. It should be about the active involvement and empowerment of the community. A truly consultative process would start well in advance of the redevelopment process, elicit discussions from all stakeholders, facilitate design competitions, conduct stakeholder meetings, create an open and level playing field for all firms to engage in the competition, shortlist and chose a firm based on the competition and make it mandatory that the winning firm facilitate a public participatory and consultative process throughout the redevelopment process so that the process is open and the design and development truly reflective of stakeholders. There are technical frameworks for meaningful consultative processes that can be used. These processes take time and effort but are well worth the engagement. It is gratifying that people (more than the usual environmental and social activists) are questioning these projects today. Perhaps it needed a pandemic to bring the issue to the fore. It is important to contest the Central Vista and the Lakshadweep projects, but it is critically important to question the standards and procedures in place for (re)development projects across the country. Infrastructure development is boring, no doubt, but neglecting it as the problem of the State is exactly why we are in the situation we are in today. Currently, large urban infrastructure projects follow a standard process. Due to the lack of ‘capacity’ within government, project statements are written by private parties close to political parties in power. The mission/vision usually has to be ratified by the state legislature. This is not complicated when the legislature is dominated by a ruling party. Also, legislators understand that these projects mean large amounts of monies in contracts further down the line. Invariably, infrastructure projects face little resistance in Parliament and pass with little debate. Once passed, the path of the project is smooth. Monies are allocated and the tendering process is facilitated. Contractors known to the agencies involved in the ‘design/development’ of the project are shortlisted. Firms that bid have to have a minimum financial size and have to have undertaken similar projects over the last few years. Typically, in India, most firms are too small to bid for projects of this size and have little experience in large (re)development projects and so they join hands with large international firms. With changes in laws (i.e., the land acquisition law of 2013 and the 74th Constitutional Amendment), public consultation has been written into the ‘development’ process. Unfortunately, this is still an academic exercise in most cases. People are usually the last to know, typically once construction has started (e.g., Smart City construction in Bengaluru). The process ‘informs’ the public of the project, states how the project is in the interest of the public, and provides the contact details of the local contractor, in case of grievances. In reality, the contractor has little power in resolving grievances and often out of frustration people give up complaining and accept the inevitable. The current top-down structure devalues the participatory process and creates an atmosphere for more (re)development projects such as the Central Vista project — projects that are lacking in true public participation and environmental mitigation. If we want a truly participatory process, the central, state and local governments need to wake up and redesign the SOPs used in infrastructure development. Devolution of powers and finance to the local level, as mandated by the 74th Amendment is also critical. Only once power is devolved to the local urban government/ward level will decisions about urban (re)development be truly driven by the community. (The writer is a Bengaluru-based urban planner)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/its-time-to-change-the-sop-of-how-india-builds-996126.html
10-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Srikanteshwara temple gets total rights on tonsured hair||A 25-year-old dispute between Nayanaja Kshatriya community and the Srikanteshwara temple about control over the tonsured hair offered by devotees has been resolved. The Civil Court in T Narasipur has issued a verdict in favour of the temple. According to a press release from temple Executive Officer Ravindra, Srikanteshwara temple will have total rights on tonsured hair offered to the temple by devotees. Members of Nayanaja Kshatriya community were tonsuring hair at 'Mudikatte' near the temple. Claiming that they are serving for several decades, the community members took control of the hair offered and earned a profit. This resulted in a loss of lakhs of rupees to the temple, leading to this suit. People of the community people approached the civil court in T Narasipur, 25 years ago. After several trials, the court finally gave its verdict on June 3. Accordingly, the temple management has total authority on the hair but the community can continue its service of tonsuring, the press release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/srikanteshwara-temple-gets-total-rights-on-tonsured-hair-995730.html
10-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Op to capture rogue elephants in Malnad from June 10||The Forest department has made all preparations to capture the rogue elephants 'Gunda' and 'Mountain', which have turned into a nightmare for the people of the Malnad region. The department had submitted a proposal to capture five elephants but permission has been given to capture two elephants. All preparations have been made to capture the pachyderms with the help of five camp elephants Krishna, Abhimanyu and Arjuna and others from Mathigodu camp, from June 10. A temporary camp has been set up at Vadduru in Sakleshpur taluk. There are plans to relocate Gunda to Male Mahadeshwara Wildlife Sanctuary and Mountain to Cauvery sanctuary, after fixing them with radio collars.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/op-to-capture-rogue-elephants-in-malnad-from-june-10-995790.html
10-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man dons coronavirus-like dress to create awareness||Rocky Somli, an assistant film director, sought to spread awareness among people about Covid-appropriate behaviour by donning a dress resembling Coronavirus. The man with a dress made up of foam sheets arrived in crowded places at 6:30 am in the city. Some people were frightened after noticing it, while some others took selfies with him.  Later, he went to the APMC market, Chamarajpete, MG road and Belludi areas and appealed to people to wear face masks and maintain social distancing. "If not I will contract you," he said.  He also visited many homes in Shekharappanagar in the city and asked people to follow guidelines of the government to break the chain. He said he decided to educate people in a unique manner as he saw people ignoring the rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-dons-coronavirus-like-dress-to-create-awareness-995791.html
10-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka govt to withdraw 'tasthik' allowance to 764 non-Hindu shrines||Following an outcry against the release of 'tasthik' (honorary) allowance to maulvis of 41 mosques and madrasas in Dakshina Kannada district, the Endowment Department has decided to withdraw the honorarium released to 764 non-Hindu shrines on Wednesday. "The tasthik amount is paid to 27,000 Hindu temples across the state. An amount of Rs 133 crore is set aside every year for this purpose by the government. About 764 shrines of other faiths were also receiving tasthiks. On the direction of the Minister, steps will be taken to withdraw the amount being released to 764 shrines of other faiths," the Chairman of Hindu Religious Institutions and Charitable Endowment Department stated in a press release. Earlier in the day, Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) opposed the decision of the Karnataka Hindu Religious Institutions and Charitable Endowment Department to provide financial assistance or tasthik to maulvis of masjids in Dakshina Kannada district. "The decision should be withdrawn immediately," VHP Divisional Secretary Sharan Pumpwell had declared in a memorandum submitted to Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary in Mangaluru. VHP welcomed the government’s decision on paying tasthik allowance to temple priests due to the Covid-19 lockdown. "But the decision to release an annual tasthik of Rs 48,000 to maulvis of 41 masjids and madrasas in Dakshina Kannada through the department is not correct. Money collected in temples and daivasthana should be utilised for the welfare of temples and Hindus," Sharan stressed.   Order withdrawn Following an outcry from Hindu religious leaders and other organisations, Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said that he had ordered stalling the release of funds from Karnataka Hindu Religious Institutions and Charitable Endowment Department to shrines of different faiths. "I have been informed that the tasthik amount is being used for places of worship of other religions. The shrines of other faiths should seek help from departments concerned," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-govt-to-withdraw-tasthik-allowance-to-764-non-hindu-shrines-995895.html
10-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karjol recommends one-week lockdown extension in Belagavi||Deputy Chief Minister and District In-charge Minister Govind Karjol urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to extend the lockdown to prevent spread of Covid-19 by one week in Belagavi district as it shares borders with Maharashtra and Goa. Participating in a video conference organised by Yediyurappa on Thursday, Karjol said that positivity rate in Belagavi district was 9% and hence lockdown needs to be extended by a week with relaxation for some sectors for employment generation. Time limit for shops selling construction materials and paints will likely be extended with construction activity being permitted. Agricultural activities for the Kharif season have commenced in the district. Children's hospitals too have been readied for the third wave of Covid-19, which is feared to severely affect children, he said. "A total of 135 teams of Health Department are conducting Rapid Antigen Tests and RT-PCR tests in 1,300 villages. Test positivity rate is 9%. The district shares borders with Maharashtra and Goa, hence to bring down infections, lockdown should be extended for a week," Karjol urged. Deputy Commissioner M G Hiremath said that positivity rate in five taluks was 5% and it was 10% in rest of the district. A lockdown, if extended for a week, will help to bring the rate of positivity below 5%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karjol-recommends-one-week-lockdown-extension-in-belagavi-995946.html
10-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka forest department staff capture two wild elephants on single day in Sakleshpur||The Forest department officials rescued two wild elephants which had killed humans and had destroyed crops in Sakleshpur taluk in Hassan district on Thursday. Mountain and Gunda were rescued in a coffee plantation at Halekere. According to the officials, the elephants had killed five people over the past few months and the State government had ordered their relocation. They were rescued with the help of Dasara elephants Arjuna, Abhimanyu, Bheema, Ganesh and Mahindra. While Mountain was captured around 9 am, Gunda was captured at 3.30 pm. Deputy Conservator of Forests (DCF) K N Basavaraj said that it was the first time the department had captured two elephants on a single day. Chief Conservator of Forests Shankar said that the elephants were radio collared and they would be released into the forest soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-forest-department-staff-capture-two-wild-elephants-on-single-day-in-sakleshpur-996006.html
10-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru Police chief suspends five cops in answer script scam||City Police Commissioner Chandragupta has suspended five police personnel, including an inspector, for their alleged involvement in the answer script replacing scam and has also ordered a probe. The commissioner has suspended Mandi police inspector Narayanaswamy and four others. On April 21, a few students and a few staff of the University of Mysore (UoM), were reproducing the answer scripts of BSc Chemistry examination which was held on April 17 at the Blue Diamond Lodge on Bengaluru-Nilgiri Road. They had planned to replace the answer scripts with original scripts. On a tip off, the police raided the lodge. But they left the accused without registering any case. K S Somasunda of Karnataka Rashtra Samiti had lodged a complaint against the Police personnel, with the Commissioner, who ordered to file a case against the police and also ordered an inquiry. Chandragupta said the inspector is kept under suspension to conduct a thorough probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-police-chief-suspends-five-cops-in-answer-script-scam-996065.html
10-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka HC asks government to place Mysuru DC's report on Vijayendra's visit to Nanjangud temple||The High Court on Thursday directed the state government to produce the report of Deputy Commissioner (DC) of Mysuru on the visit of B Y Vijayendra and his family to a temple in Nanjangud in violation of Covid-19 guidelines. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, passed this order after the memo filed by the state government conceded that Vijayendra visited the temple on the morning of May 18 when priests were performing the morning puja. The government said that the DC had noticed Vijayendra on May 27 seeking an explanation. Advocate General (AG) Prabhuling K Navadgi submitted that he had replied to the notice on May 29. The AG further said Vijayendra was in Nanjangud on a Covid-19 related work. The court noted there was a clear violation of the guidelines and said it would pass appropriate orders after receiving the report of Mysuru DC. It also orally observed that such incidents send wrong signals when no other citizens are allowed to visit the temples.  The application was filed by advocate G R Mohan. The bench directed the DC to hold an inquiry as the AG submitted that the photo given with the application of Vijayendra performing puja at a temple was from 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-hc-asks-government-to-place-mysuru-dcs-report-on-vijayendras-visit-to-nanjangud-temple-996071.html
10-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 measures in place at Bandipur, Nagarahole; no test as of now for elephants||Even as the authorities of Madumalai Forest, adjoining Bandipur and Nagarahole Tiger Reserve Forests, have tested elephants for Covid-19, Karnataka Forest Department officials are yet to decide on conducting tests for captive elephants. However, the department has taken all measures to ensure the safety of animals in the forest camps and it is also prepared to conduct tests if needed. The officials would conduct the tests if the higher-ups issue an advisory in this regard. Nagarahole and Bandipur forests share their borders with the Madumalai Forests of Tamil Nadu. As many as 28 elephants were subject to Covid tests, after reports of infection among wild animals, causing death. One lion died of Covid at Arignar Anna Zoological Park in Tamil Nadu and several others tested positive for Covid. The elephant corridor begins at Mudumalai in Tamil Nadu and covers Sathyamangala, B R Hills and Bandipur Tiger Reserve and extends up to Brahmagiri Forests in Kodagu district. The Bandipur and Nagarahole forests are the optimal habitats for Asiatic elephants. One tiger, two elephants and a leopard exist per 7 sq km. Due to the availability of drinking water, the two ecological units, with different vegetation, grasslands and ‘hodlu' or 'gadde’ could be described as near ‘optimal habitats’. Bandipur and Nagarahole have all the features, creating a good atmosphere for elephants, said an officer. Nagarahole Tiger Reserve director D Mahesh Kumar said, "As of now, we are not conducting tests on elephants. But, all measures are in place since the first wave of Covid in 2020. All the staff are vaccinated and organic repellents have been distributed to kaavadis and mahouts," he said. Besides, extra care is given to maintain cleanliness at the camps. "Cats have reported Covid. Not elephants. We have not received any advisory from the higher-ups. But, we are directed to restrict the movement of people," he said. There are 30 elephants in three elephant camps - Kaveri Elephant Camp in Periyapatna taluk, Balle in H D Kote taluk and Mattigodu in Virajpet taluk of Kodagu district. Bandipur Tiger Project director S R Natesh said, "All precautionary measures are in place. But there is no direction to conduct a Covid test on animals. We are not allowing any outsider to the camps. Kaavadis, mahouts and watchers are given vaccination."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-measures-in-place-at-bandipur-nagarahole-no-test-as-of-now-for-elephants-996077.html
10-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Chikkaballapur gelatin blast: CID files chargesheet against 13||The special investigation team of CID has framed criminal charges against 13 people, including quarry owners and managers in connection with Hirenagavalli gelatin blast case. As many as six workers were killed when the gelatin sticks exploded at the Hirenagavalli quarry in Gudibande taluk on February 23. In the 200-page chargesheet submitted to Chikkaballapur court, the SIT has named the six deceased workers, quarry owner G S Nagaraj, partners Raghavendra Reddy, Venkatshiv Reddy, Madhusudhan Reddy, manager Praveen Kumar and Imtiyaz of Devanahalli. Driver of the Tata Ace vehicle, in which the explosives were transported, has been made an eyewitness in the case. DySP Ravishankar told DH, "The CID-SIT team has submitted a 200-page chargesheet in the Hirenagavalli quarry blast case to the court. The SIT has obtained permission for further probe. The owner/partners of the quarry have been made key accused in the case."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chikkaballapur-gelatin-blast-cid-files-chargesheet-against-13-996078.html
10-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Pakistan woman held for illegal stay in Bhatkal||A Pakistani woman was arrested on Wednesday after she was found staying illegally at a house in Bhatkal for the past six years. Khatheeja Meharin had managed to get an Aadhaar card, PAN card, ration card, birth certificate, and even a voter ID, by furnishing fake records to the local civic agencies. Superintendent of Police Shivaprakash Devaraju said, "Khatheeja had married Javid Mohiuddi, a resident of Navayat Colony in Bhatkal, in Dubai eight years back. She, along with her husband visited Bhatkal for three months on a travel Visa, in 2014. The couple had returned to Dubai the same year. In 2015, she sneaked into India through an unauthorised route. Since then, she has been staying at her in-laws house. The couple have three children." After the local police received information about Pakistani woman's illegal stay, they got it probed from various agencies. The Bhatkal police arrested her on Wednesday and produced before the court, which remanded her in judicial custody. The woman has been booked for violations under the provisions of the Foreigners Act and the IPC, the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pakistan-woman-held-for-illegal-stay-in-bhatkal-996080.html
10-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga DC wants Covid-19 lockdown to be extended by a week||Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar has appealed to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to extend lockdown in the district for one more week to reduce the positivity rate further.  He was speaking at a video conference meeting with the chief minister, here on Thursday. He said the Covid-19 positivity rate came down to 9 per cent on June 9 but it was high in April and the number of cases increased from May 6 to May 22. In order to reduce the cases, a strict lockdown was enforced in urban and rural areas. So, the cases came down again. Hence, in order to further reduce the positivity rate, lockdown must be extended for one more week, he said.  Shivakumar added that active cases have not come down in the district. He also made it clear that there was no dearth of oxygen and other medical facilities in the district. There are 19 Covid Care Centres in the district and all Covid-19 positive patients are being sent to centres without fail. More than 400 containment zones have been notified and the situation under control, he explained. He said earlier, cases were more in urban areas in the district and later cases rose in rural areas. Now, both have 50 per cent cases in the district. More than 61 per cent of people aged above 45 years are vaccinated against Covid-19 in the district. Around 84 per cent of front-line workers have been vaccinated and 90 per cent health workers are vaccinated against the virus so far, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-dc-wants-covid-19-lockdown-to-be-extended-by-a-week-996141.html
10-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||No plan to change Karnataka CM Yediyurappa, BJP state president Kateel, says Arun Singh||Amidst attempts by some BJP leaders to unseat B S Yediyurappa, the party's National General Secretary (Karnataka in-charge) Arun Singh on Thursday said there is no proposal before the BJP top brass to change Chief Minister. Dismissing that these are rumours, Singh told reporters, "Yediyurappa is the CM, he is doing good work. He will continue to be the CM. He, along with all ministers, did good work in handling the Covid-19 pandemic." There is no proposal before the BJP top brass to remove Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and State unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel, senior leader Arun Singh said on Thursday. He dismissed talk of the removal of incumbent state unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel "Such rumours shouldn't be spread. Under the party's present state chief, organisation work is going on well. We're doing good work on the ground. There's no change, it is an imagination," he said. Both CM and state unit president will continue in their respective posts, he insisted. To a question on some of the leaders making statements on changing the CM, he said the party would not tolerate leaders making public statements on party affairs. "I will ask them why they make such statements, he said. "The party will also not tolerate some leaders initiating a signature campaign. I will be visiting Bengaluru next week and meet all leaders. I will hear their grievances," he said. After meeting all the leaders, a decision will be taken whether to ask the CM to convene a legislative party meeting. To a question on why Yediyurappa gave a statement that he would continue as the CM as long the party high command wants, Singh said  " There is nothing wrong in his statement. The CM reposed faith in party top leaders. Every party leaders and Chief Ministers have such faith in our top leaders."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-plan-to-change-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-bjp-state-president-kateel-says-arun-singh-995860.html
10-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||BS Yediyurappa's son Vijayendra holds talks with seers||A series of meetings that BJP vice-president and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's son B Y Vijayendra held with prominent Lingayat seers has raised eyebrows in political circles. The meetings were held with seers from prominent mutts at Suttur, Siddaganga, Hiriyur, Challakere and Chitradurga. Sources close to Vijayendra maintain that the meetings were personal in nature. However, Vijayendra's visit to mutts is being interpreted as being linked to the present political undercurrents, especially the talk that Yediyurappa will not continue in the top post and attempts underway to unseat him. Yediyurappa is arguably the tallest Lingayat leader of the BJP. And, the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community is traditionally seen as the BJP's core support base. However, sources said that except Shivamurthy Swamy, others were non-committal on the request. Sources added that BJP leaders had already petitioned several seers to remain neutral about political developments. Among the seers present during Vijayendra's meet at Chitradurga were Purushotthamananda seer of Valmiki Peeta, Mallikarjun seer of Rudradevara Mutt, Shanthalinga seer of Hosamutt, Siddarama seer of Bhovi mutt among others. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bs-yediyurappas-son-vijayendra-holds-talks-with-seers-996064.html
10-06-2021||Main Article||What governments should worry about||The Chinese government has recently announced moving to a three-child policy from its current two-child regime which had earlier replaced its single-child policy that was in force since the 1980s.  This is a reflection of a worldwide phenomenon known as ‘demographic decline’, with very significant consequences. Demographers predict that the global population may go on a path of sustained decline by the second half of this century, if not earlier. The 20th century saw the greatest rate of growth of population in recorded human history. World population increased from 1.6 billion in 1900 to about 6 billion in 2000, due to huge improvements in medical and sanitation facilities, leading to lower death rate, especially among infants.  Population, instead of growing (as was the norm in the 20th century), has started to decline in many countries in Europe, North America, Australia and in some countries in Asia, like Japan and South Korea. In addition, it is showing signs of decline in the near future in many more countries, including some of the most populous ones. Unlike China, India does not have a coercive State-guided population policy (except for a short period under Emergency). Yet, the overall birth-rate in India as measured by TFR or Total Fertility Rate (average number of children per woman of child-bearing age) is steadily declining towards the replacement rate of 2.1. Incidentally, in 2019, TFR was 2.2 for India, 1.7 for China, 2.0 for Bangladesh, 3.5 for Pakistan, 2.3 for Indonesia, 2.1 for Iran, 2.0 for Malaysia, 2.1 for Mexico, 1.7 for Brazil, 1.5 for Russia, and 4.6 for Sub-Saharan Africa. A number of factors are contributing to this global trend. Better education, greater prosperity and more employment opportunities for women have induced young couples to opt for small families consisting of one child or two children at most. The break-up of joint families has forced parents to rely on child-care centres, instead of stay-at-home grandparents, to take care of kids. This has raised the cost and worries of child-rearing while the benefits of having more children have gone down as children can no longer be relied upon to look after their parents in old age. High cost of living -- specially skyrocketing housing costs in big cities and costs of college education -- and job insecurity in a world of rapid technological progress are additional factors contributing to young people choosing to stay single, marry late or delay pregnancy. This trend has consequences — both positive and negative. On the positive side, a falling population means greater availability of resources per head, slowing down of the destructive impact of climate change, less pressure of household duties and more job opportunities for women and hence greater gender equality. On the other hand, the inversion of the population pyramid, with a rising fraction of retired people and falling proportion of working-age population, implies a rise in the ‘dependency ratio’. This has already caused the pension systems of many countries to run out of money and rising fiscal burden to meet pension commitments. As retirees live longer, they need to save more in their working life to fend for themselves after retirement. Consequently, it is becoming increasingly difficult to sustain consumption demand to support the growth rate of economies. Japan (with TFR 1.36 in 2019), caught in recessionary conditions for decades, is considered a typical example of this problem. In South Korea, the country with the lowest TFR, 0.92 in 2019, lower-tier universities are not finding students and are being forced to merge to survive. In India, the falling overall birth rate is also associated with a decline in the quality of population. Birth rate is declining particularly in the more educated and affluent families who can afford to give better education and quality of life to their children. As a result, an increasing fraction of the working-age population is becoming less educated, turning our so-called ‘demographic dividend’ into a curse rather than a blessing. This falling quality of population, rather than the decline in the number of people, should be a matter of big policy concern in India, which underlines the urgent need to devote more resources to improving the quality and affordability of education and health infrastructure. A similar problem is arising for the global economy as a whole. In 2019, TFR was 4.5 for the Low Income Countries (World Bank classification), 2.7 for Lower Middle Income Countries, 1.9 for Upper Middle Income Countries and 1.6 for High Income Countries. So, population is going down in countries that can afford to give better quality of life to their children, whereas it is rising in countries (like Sub-Saharan African countries) least able to provide quality life to their offspring. That way, it would further widen the inequality between countries with widely divergent per capita incomes. How are countries adapting to these demographic changes? Several countries are providing incentives to people to have more children, in the form of liberal child-care allowances, tax concessions, free child-care facilities, paid parental leave for both parents for a longer period, and more subsidies for school and college education, including more scholarships, free laptops and iPhones. Some countries (like the US and Germany) are going for more immigration of workers and raising the retirement age to cope with the shortage of manpower. To take care of the needs of ageing populations, more resources are being diverted to old-age homes and geriatric care, including conversion of empty schools into old-age facilities. However, so far, these policy initiatives have not met with much success in reversing the trend of declining populations in the developed countries. So, it seems that the world is entering a phase of declining population in the more developed parts and a rising population, along with worsening quality of the workforce, in the least developed regions. (The writer is a former professor of economics at IIM Calcutta and Cornell University, USA)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/what-governments-should-worry-about-995729.html
10-06-2021||Mysuru||Karnataka State Open University's assistant registrar dies by suicide||The assistant Registrar of Karnataka State Open University (KSOU), Manjunath Prasad, died by suicide at his residence in Chamundipuram, Mysuru. He was 55. According to the police, he took the extreme step on Wednesday noon when his wife and children were not at home. The police have recovered a suicide note. A police officer said Prasad had purchased a site at Jayalakshmi Puram from two men, Riyaz and Javed, who cheated him by providing fake documents. Later, the duo sold the same site to another person. The police are investigating the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/karnataka-state-open-universitys-assistant-registrar-dies-by-suicide-995847.html
10-06-2021||National||Man named in Choksi's 'abduction' denies any link to case||Gurjit Bhandal, one of the persons reportedly named in the "abduction" of Mehul Choksi from Antigua and Barbuda on May 23, has denied any link to the case and claimed that he had left the Caribbean island on May 23 morning on a yacht, according to local media reports. In his complaint to the Antigua police, Choksi has claimed that he was abducted on May 23 evening when he had gone to a place where his "friend" Barbara Jabarica, also a suspect in the case, was staying.  He has named Gurmit Singh, Narendar Singh, Jabarica and other unidentified persons for his alleged abduction. Bhandal, who is into property business in Midlands, United Kingdom, has claimed that he had gone sailing in the Caribbeans with his friend Gurmit Singh in April-May, website Writeups24.com reported. Denying any association with the alleged abduction of Choksi, Bhandal, an Indian-origin person, said he would "co-operate and help the police" in the investigation, but the Antigua police has not approached him so far. Bhandal told the website in a telephonic interview that on May 23, he and Singh were at English Harbour in Antigua and after clearing immigration late morning, they left for Dominica. He claimed that he reached Dominica at night but cleared the customs the next day. "We reached Dominica on May 23, Sunday night. On the same day, we started from Antigua and cleared the customs the next day on May 24," he told the website. Choksi, in his complaint, has alleged that he was picked up from Antigua on May 23 evening and taken on a yacht, which took him to the waters of Dominica the next day around 10 am, where he was handed over to the Coast Guard of Dominica on boat. Their plan was to go to St Lucia from Dominica but Bhandal, who claimed to be a regular sailing aficionado, said he got "sea sick" en route and dropped any further sailing plan after reaching Dominica. Bhandal said he and Singh "often go sailing together" in the Mediterranean Sea, but this time, they decided to do it in the Caribbeans. "We took a charter from there (Dominica) to Barbados," the website quoted him as saying. Asked about Jabarica, Choksi's friend who is allegedly involved in the abduction plot, Bhandal said he does not know her but keeps meeting hundreds of people while taking flights in the Caribbeans. "There were 21 flights to the Caribbeans, but during Covid, there are only two flights in a week now, so this increases the possibility that we bump into the same people again and again," he said. In the telephonic interview to the website, Bhandal claimed that he has been sailing with Singh in the region since April, when he had stayed for four days in Antigua, a day in Dominica and four days in St Lucia. In May, they were on a second yachting trip in the region, but could not book the boat that they used on their first trip, so they booked the Calliope of Arne yacht online. Choksi, wanted in a Rs 13,500-crore bank fraud case in India, had mysteriously gone missing on May 23 from Antigua and Barbuda, where he has been staying as a citizen since 2018. He was detained in the neighbouring island country of Dominica for illegal entry, after a possible romantic escapade with his rumoured girlfriend. Choksi's lawyers alleged that he was abducted from Jolly Harbour in Antigua by policemen looking like Antiguan and Indian, and brought to Dominica on a boat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-named-in-choksis-abduction-denies-any-link-to-case-995784.html
10-06-2021||National||DH Toon | Jitin Prasada joins 'Yashaswi' PM's party||Ahead of the Uttar Pradesh elections next year, sulking Congress leader and former Union Minister Jitin Prasada on Wednesday joined the BJP, heralding a new chapter in his political innings. Prasada, who had formed an outfit 'Brahmin Chetna Parishad' to launch a campaign for justice for the community, however, may find the going tough, given the 'pro-thakur' image of chief minister Yogi Adityanath and also as the campaign was against the current dispensation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-jitin-prasada-joins-yashaswi-pms-party-995793.html
10-06-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on June 10||India reported less than one lakh new Covid-19 cases for the third straight day on Thursday, bringing in sight the receding of the second wave of the virus.  However, with 6,148 deaths recorded over the past 24 hours, India has the highest single-day toll in the world. This is largely attributed to Bihar's revision of its official Covid-19 death toll late on Wednesday night. The state added nearly 4,000 deaths to its official toll.  Coronavirus in India Total number of positive cases (including deaths):   29,183,121 as of June 10, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  3,59,676 as of June 10, 2021 Total Vaccination: 24,27,26,693 No. of people discharged: 2,76,55,493 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tracker-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-june-10-995795.html
10-06-2021||National||India reports biggest jump with 6,148 Covid deaths after Bihar revises toll, 94,052 new cases||Bihar revising its figures and putting the total number of fatalities caused by Covid-19 at 9,429, India reported its highest single-day spike of 6,148 deaths, pushing the toll to 3,59,676, while 94,052 new cases took the tally to 2,91,83,121, according to the Union health ministry's data updated on Thursday. The active cases have reduced to 11,67,952 comprising 4 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 94.77 per cent, it said. A net decline of 63,463 cases has been recorded in the total number of Covid-19 cases in a span of  24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.  Also, 20,04,690 tests were conducted on Wednesday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 37,21,98,253, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 4.69 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for 17 consecutive days, the ministry said. Weekly positivity rate was recorded at 5.43 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 28th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,76,55,493, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.23 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 24,27,26,693 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive in the country. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4. The 6,148 new fatalities include 3,971 from Bihar, 661 from Maharashtra, 405 from Tamil Nadu,  192  from Karnataka and 156 from Kerala. Covid-19 death toll in Bihar was on Wednesday revised drastically upwards by the state health department, which put the total number of fatalities caused by the pandemic at 9,429. A total of 3,59,676 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,01,833 from Maharashtra, 32,291 from Karnataka, 28,170 from Tamil Nadu, 24,704 from Delhi, 21,516 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,555 from West Bengal, 15,293 from Punjab and 13,271 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-biggest-jump-with-6148-covid-deaths-after-bihar-revises-toll-94052-new-cases-995815.html
10-06-2021||National||External Affairs Minister Jaishankar arrives in Kuwait on bilateral visit||External Affairs Minister of India S Jaishankar arrived in Kuwait on a bilateral visit early on Thursday. According to diplomatic sources, the aim of the visit is to deepen India's ties with the oil-rich Gulf nation. It comes nearly three months after the two countries decided to establish a joint ministerial commission to formulate a framework to strengthen ties in sectors like energy, trade, investment, manpower and labour and information technology. Kuwaiti Foreign Minister Sheikh Ahmed Nasser Al-Mohammad Al-Sabah visited India in March during which both sides decided to set up the joint commission. "Hon'ble External Affairs Minister of India His Excellency Dr S Jaishankar arrives in Kuwait on a bilateral visit and was received by the Ambassador," the Indian Embassy there tweeted on Thursday with the hashtag 'India Kuwait Friendship'. Kuwait has been supporting India in dealing with the coronavirus pandemic by supplying relief material as well as medical oxygen. Indian Navy ships have brought a large quantity of medical oxygen from Kuwait in the last few weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/external-affairs-minister-jaishankar-arrives-in-kuwait-on-bilateral-visit-995819.html
10-06-2021||National||Madhya Pradesh cops’ vaccine push: Honoured with badges, shamed by posters||The Covid-19 vaccination campaign in Madhya Pradesh’s Niwari district has received a helping hand from its police force, who have worked out a novel way to encourage citizens to take the jab through a carrot-and-stick initiative. Police personnel in the district have been seen in a video, tweeted by news agency ANI, pinning badges of commendation that read “I'm a patriot as I'm vaccinated” on motorists who have taken the vaccine. Those that hadn’t got a shot yet, on the other hand, received a poster with a skull printed on it that said: “Stay away from me, I have not taken my Covid shot yet”. “We’re felicitating those who have got the vaccine and asking those who haven’t yet to get one,” police personnel can be heard telling a commuter in the video. "Tell people I have been vaccinated, which is why I have been felicitated." A policeman in the video can also be heard telling another man that he should be somewhat “ashamed” for not getting a shot yet. Several people on the Twitter thread pointed out that the tactic may not be appropriate, given that much of the country still faces a vaccine crunch. Some highlighted missteps in the state government’s vaccination policy, while others pointed out that the lack of vaccines disproportionately affected the poor and underprivileged and such acts only served to “humiliate” people. When Vaccines are not available in large no. People are waiting for their turn, it's more humiliation than social message.   They should make a poster "The state is unable to provide me with vaccine"   Madhya Pradesh currently sits at seventh spot in terms of total doses administered, having handed out 1.35 crore single doses. However, of the state’s 52 districts, urban centres of Bhopal, Indore and Gwalior account for almost a quarter of all doses administered so far. Meanwhile, only 2.6 per cent of the state’s population has received a second dose, which lags the country’s second-dose cover of 3.5 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-cops-vaccine-push-honoured-with-badges-shamed-by-posters-995831.html
10-06-2021||National||Delhi HC rejects plea by Sushant Singh Rajput's father to stay 'fictional' movie||The Delhi High Court on Thursday declined to stay the release of movie, 'Nyay: The Justice,' purportedly based on the life of late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. A bench of Justice Sanjeev Narula said the right to present fictional stories cannot be curbed purely on an unsubstantiated hypothesis, and no gag order can be issued against production and release of the film. "The artistic freedom to create fictional works cannot be controlled, limited, or confined within set boundaries. An artist’s inspiration can come from any source, and the court cannot filter real-life events," the bench said. The court dismissed an application filed by Krishna Kishore Singh, Sushant’s father, against movie and other ventures using his son's name or likeness in the form of a biopic or story. The movie producers, for their part, claimed it to be work of fiction, neither a biopic nor based on true events. Under the Copyright Act, 1957, facts which are historical, biographical, or news of the day cannot be copyrighted. Anyone is entitled to make movies on events which have actually occurred, it said. In his suit, Singh sought a restraining order against some of the upcoming or proposed movie projects 'Nyay: The Justice,' 'Suicide or Murder; a star was lost', 'Shashank' and an unnamed crowd-funded film, claiming those took advantage of the situation for commercial gains. The court also noted the right to privacy has been invoked of the deceased and his family, but the submissions on this aspect are "unspecific and vague" without any definite instance. "If information of events which have occurred is already in the public domain, one cannot plead any violation of right to privacy in case a movie is inspired from such events," the court said. Several news reports, articles, write-ups, features, videos, etc. on the actor's demise were widely available in public domain with no objections from the plaintiff, it pointed out. The movie, produced by Sarla A Saraogi and Rahul Sharma, and directed by Dilip Gulati, is scheduled for release on Friday. The father of the actor, who died on June 14, 2020 under mysterious circumstances, contended the movie would also affect the right to fair trial as the CBI probe was still on. The court, however, found no ground to demonstrate as to how the film would impair the fairness in investigation or trial. It termed the arguments as "unreasonable apprehension with vague possibilities".   "In fact, the accused persons, named in the FIR have not come forward claiming prejudice. The right to fair trial is a valuable right, however, it must be remembered that the investigative agencies and judicial system do not rely on cinematographic films for the purpose of investigation or judicial pronouncements," the court said. It also prima facie found merit in the contention of movie makers that the posthumous privacy right is not permissible. With specific disclaimer, the court prima facie does not find any element to hold that the film would lead the public to believe that it is a true story or a biopic that has been authorised or endorsed by the plaintiff, the bench added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-rejects-plea-by-sushant-singh-rajputs-father-to-stay-fictional-movie-995836.html
10-06-2021||National||I know the situation in UP: Jitin Prasada on BJP shift||A day after moving to the BJP from Congress, disgruntled leader Jitin Prasada has said the decision was not easy considering his "three-generation long connection with the party." "I have a three-generation long connection with Congress. So, this was not an easy decision. With a lot of thinking, conversations with people and listening to the voice of my conscience, I did this," he told news agency ANI. On senior Congress leader Kharge's comment that he was given respect and not ignored, Prasada said only he knew the situation in UP and the diminishing connect between the Congress party and people. "What can I say? He is such a senior leader but I know the situation in UP and the connection between people and Congress. I decided this after thinking everything," he said. He maintained that in the current times, BJP and PM Modi's leadership is the most capable. "For the future generation too, this party will prove to be useful," he said. The senior leader's change of tack is yet another blow to Congress.  Earlier, Prasada had said staying in the party was of no relevance if he was not able to protect the interests of the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-know-the-situation-in-up-jitin-prasada-on-bjp-shift-995861.html
10-06-2021||National||Congress has to undergo a major surgery to be competitive: Moily after Jitin's exit||A day after Jitin Prasada switched to the BJP, senior Congress leader M Veerappa Moily on Thursday said the Congress needs to undergo a "major surgery" and not depend just on legacy, asserting that the top leadership must give primacy to ideological commitment while giving responsibility to leaders. Alleging that Prasada had placed "personal ambition" over everything else, Moily said the Uttar Pradesh leader's ideological commitment was suspect from the beginning and the party winning zero seats in West Bengal under his charge showed that he was incompetent. In an interview with PTI, Moily also said the top leadership should make a proper assessment of leaders in the party, asserting that "one cannot make people leaders when they do not deserve it". The Congress has to rethink and re-strategise some of these things and then only the party can come up, the former Union minister said. "Properly reorganise the party with proper people in positions and not put incompetent people (in positions of responsibility) who cannot deliver. This is a lesson, the Congress needs to make an introspection in the face of the developments," Moily said, making suggestions for the party's high command. Asked if Prasada's exit from the Congress has a message for the party top brass, he said they must give importance to leaders' antecedents, ideology and their approach to the common people, while appointing them to positions of importance. Moily, who had suggested after the 2019 polls debacle that the Congress has to undergo a major surgery to be competitive, said the party had long delayed that major surgery and it was "needed right now, there is no tomorrow". "Next year we are facing assembly elections in seven states and then immediately parliamentary polls will be there after that (in 2024). If we don't perform well in the seven elections we will have more difficulty in the general elections," Moily told PTI. "The Congress should not just hinge upon legacy, but we need to readjust ourselves and prepare ourselves for competitive politics played by (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi. It is not that Modi is undefeatable, he can be defeated by putting our party back on track. Major surgery is needed right now, there is no tomorrow," he asserted. Moily was among the group of 23 leaders along with Prasada who had written to interim President Sonia Gandhi in August last year urging an organisational overhaul of the party. However, he had distanced himself from the Jammu meet of the G-23 and has backed the leadership of the Gandhi family. Asked if the question mark over the leadership issue in the party with Sonia Gandhi being the interim chief since August 2019 was posing problems for the party, Moily said that with Sonia Gandhi at the helm, she can inspire and take decisions. "We have a leader, so that is not an issue. With Sonia ji at the helm, there is no vacancy. She has to step up and perform the major surgery on the party. She has the determination, capacity and she can inspire the cadres," Moily said. He asserted that while youngsters need to be promoted in the party, ideological orientation should be looked at in giving responsibilities. "Their (the leaders') history will have to be seen, their commitment will have to be seen, their dynamism, approach and experience needs to be given weightage," Moily asserted. Youngsters need to be encouraged but their ambition should be within the confines of the ideology of the party, he added. Moily stressed that leadership should not be given to opportunists who can betray the party and are not capable of delivering. Talking specifically about Prasada's switch to the BJP, he said it was only a question of personal ambition in Prasada's case. "He (Prasada) could not make a mark in UP even though the Congress had picked him up as a young leader. He did not come up to the expectations," Moily said. On Prasada being made the AICC in-charge of West Bengal last year, Moily said if a person with no ability is selected, "ultimately the result will be zero". "Sometimes we also make a mistake and select wrong leaders who are not capable of delivering. Just because they speak in good English we think they are good leaders. We want mass leaders who can speak the language of the masses, which some of the leaders like Jitin Prasada were not speaking," he said. "By choosing such people as state in-charges, that is how the party suffers. It was a totally wrong choice (to name Prasada as West Bengal in-charge). I knew that in such a big state like West Bengal with the Congress in a bad shape, a man without any experience and mass base, without a proper approach, who cannot articulate the Congress ideology, if given the charge, there would be failure," Moily said. The saga of defections in the Congress, which began ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, continues unabated with Prasada jumping ship on Wednesday, triggering speculation of further exits. Prasada followed in the footsteps of his former Congress colleague Jyotiraditya Scindia who quit the party to join the BJP in March last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-has-to-undergo-a-major-surgery-to-be-competitive-moily-after-jitins-exit-995863.html
10-06-2021||National||Bihar's revised Covid-19 death toll again raises doubts on official figures||Bihar’s decision to increase its Covid death toll by 72 per cent within 24 hours has put the spotlight once again on India’s Covid-19 death data, which has been under suspicion for a long time. The eastern state reported a total of 5,424 deaths on June 8, but the figures rose sharply to 9,375 a day later after the state administration incorporated an additional toll of 3,951, revealed by a Covid-19 death audit initiated by the state government at the behest of the Patna High Court. The maximum increase, more than 80 per cent, has been seen in Patna, which on June 9 registered a toll of 2,293 as against 1,223 recorded a day before. Other districts that witnessed a significant rise in their Covid toll include Muzaffarpur (from 294 to 608), Madhubani (from 154 to 316), Begusarai (from 138 to 454), East Champaran (from 131 to 422) and Nalanda (from 240 to 462). “Following the Bihar experience, Covid-19 death numbers in all states must be audited properly and revised as needed. Such auditing should be carried out not just in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh but in most other states including Kerala,” health economist Rijo John, a visiting professor at Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode who has been raising red flags on Bihar’s Covid statistics for a long time, told DH. The scrutiny of the Covid-19 toll began after an order from the Patna High Court that found discrepancies in the figures cited by the state administration. In one specific example from Buxer district, the Court noted that in one cremation ground (Muktidham Charitarban), as many as 789 bodies were cremated over 10 days between May 5 and May 14. But the Chief Secretary informed the court that only six deaths have happened in the same district since March 1. "We will not comment anything further on these affidavits. Make sure that all facts first must be verified from all sources and then only placed before us, else it will amount to filing of false or incomplete affidavit," the High Court ruled. Bihar is not the only state with such suspicious toll data. There are similar reports from other states including Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. “Based on available estimates, underreporting of death is somewhere between 2-10 times, depending on the state,” said epidemiologist Giridhar Babu from the Public Health Foundation of India. A recent modelling study by the University of Michigan concluded that India may be reporting 4.5 times less number of Covid-19 deaths. The Union Health Ministry, however, does not agree with such studies on Covid underreporting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihars-revised-covid-19-death-toll-again-raises-doubts-on-official-figures-995865.html
10-06-2021||National||UP CM Yogi Adityanath to meet PM Narendra Modi on June 11||Amid the ongoing buzz of a power tussle in Uttar Pradesh, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath huddled in a one and half hour-long meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday and will be meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP chief J P Nadda on Friday. The two-day visit of the UP Chief Minister to Delhi to meet the BJP top brass comes after back to back stock-taking meetings on political scenario in Uttar Pradesh by the senior functionaries from RSS and BJP in the wake of criticism around the handling of Corona pandemic by Yogi government in the state, which goes to poll in nine months. The Chief Minister's meetings with the central party leaders have begun a day after BJP-inducted erstwhile Congress leader and former Union Minister Jitin Prasada, a Brahmin face, whom the party would like to put to good use in countering the rumblings among the community, which for last many years has backed the BJP solidly in the state. A Cabinet reshuffle is imminent in UP in which the role of Gujarat IAS officer turned UP MLC Arvind Sharma, a close confidante of Modi, is to be finalised.  UP has been agog with the buzz that the Chief Minister had put his foot down against appointing Sharma as Deputy Chief Minister replacing one of the two incumbents.  Yogi's revised Cabinet could give a signal of the community outreach of the BJP. The state is central to BJP's Lok Sabha fortunes. Apart from having 80 Lok Sabha seats, the state also has PM Modi's Lok Sabha constituency, Varanasi, and three holy Hindu sites —Ayodhya, Mathura and Kanshi. The party has made it clear to Yogi dissenters that there would be no change in leadership amid a growing realisation that to ensure victory, both Modi and Yogi will need to be harnessed together and any division could be counter productive. The first high level deliberations on UP's apparent mismanagement of Covid-19 crisis in the state casting its shadow on BJP's electoral show, took place on May 24 in Delhi when Modi had a brainstorming with senior BJP and RSS leaders----Shah, Nadda, BJP general secretary for Uttar Pradesh Sunil Bansal and RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale. Later, Hosabale made a three-day visit to UP, while BJP general secretary (organisation) B L Santosh held an interaction with MLAs in Lucknow and reviewed how the Covid situation could lead to a possible political fallout for the BJP. From June 3 to June 5, top RSS leaders brainstormed in the national capital with the Sangh head Mohan Bhagwat on "emerging socio-political scenario" with special emphasis on UP. On June 5 and 6, BJP chief J P Nadda held deliberations with party general secretaries, including those in charge of the poll-bound states - UP, Uttarakhand and Punjab. With no end to rumours of a rift between the Prime Minister and the Chief Minister, BJP National Vice President and in-charge for UP Radha Mohan Singh on June 6 came out on record to dismiss the hearsay and made it clear that the BJP will stick to the leadership of Yogi in 2022 Assembly polls .||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-to-meet-pm-narendra-modi-on-june-11-995868.html
10-06-2021||National||Right to life also for those without internet, provide walk-in Covid vaccines for all: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday demanded that every person walking into a Covid-19 vaccination centre should get the jab, saying those who do not have access to internet also have the right to life. The Congress has been batting for vaccines for the poor, especially those living in far-flung and rural areas, who do not have digital access or smart phones. The opposition party has also been demanding that COWIN registration should not be mandatory for getting the Covid vaccine. "Online registration is not enough for the vaccine. Every person walking in at a vaccination centre should get the vaccine. Those who do not have access to internet also have the right to life," he said in a tweet in Hindi.  The Congress has been critical of the government's vaccination policy and its handling of the Covid situation in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/right-to-life-also-for-those-without-internet-provide-walk-in-covid-vaccines-for-all-rahul-gandhi-995870.html
10-06-2021||National||Anand Mahindra's viral tweet shares how he will react when the Covid-19 pandemic is 'done and dusted'||Like all of us across the globe, Mahindra Group chairman Anand Mahindra also cannot wait for the Covid-19 pandemic to get over. He has recently shared a tweet, saying how he would react when the pandemic is finally “done and dusted”. The 66-year-old has shared a video of a dog and its owner watching an exciting sports match on TV. The video shows the dog trying to jump in joy but slipping off the couch while the commentary of an eventful match is going on in the background. Mahindra said he could relate to the excitement of the dog and tweets, “I guess they’re watching a soccer match. But I’m going to be just like that pooch when someone finally announces on TV that the pandemic is done and dusted…” Here's how social media reacted to Mahindra's tweet: Story of my life too.absolute joy watching this   Really...I wish too ...when that moment come n we all jump🤞🏻👆🏻🙏🏻🤪🤭🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣   True Sir, I guess that’ll be the kind of reaction from most of us!||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anand-mahindras-viral-tweet-shares-how-he-will-react-when-the-covid-19-pandemic-is-done-and-dusted-995885.html
10-06-2021||National||Advice to states to obtain nod before sharing vaccine stock data intended to prevent misuse: Centre||The government on Thursday said its advice to states and union territories to obtain permission before sharing eVIN data on vaccine stocks and temperature of storage is to prevent any misuse of this information by various agencies for commercial purposes. The Health Ministry clarification comes in the wake of media reports about the Centre writing to the states and UTs, advising them not to share the data of the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) system on vaccine stocks and the temperature of vaccine storage at public forums without prior consent, and stating that it is a "sensitive information and to be used only for programme improvement". "The crucial information related to specific vaccine usage trends for multiple vaccines used in Universal Immunization Programme (UIP), and temperature related data in respect to each such vaccine, can be used to manipulate the market as well as associated research with respect to various vaccines and cold chain equipments. "It is important to note that the Union Health Ministry is using the eVIN electronic platform for all vaccines used under UIP for more than six years now. Sharing of sensitive E-VIN data on stocks and storage, temperature requires the Health Ministry's prior consent," the ministry said in its statement. The data on Covid-19 vaccine stocks, their consumption and balance is reflected on the CoWIN platform, and it is also regularly shared by the Union Health Ministry through weekly press conferences and daily press releases. "The Health Ministry's letter to the states and UTs in focus was intended to prevent use of such sensitive data for unauthorised commercial purposes," the ministry said. The government of India is committed to transparency in the Covid-19 vaccination programme, and that is the reason it came up with a real-time IT-based tracking of vaccine logistics through CoWIN, it said. The aim is to share the information with the general public on a regular basis, the statement said. The government of India has been supporting the efforts of states and UTs for an effective vaccination drive under the “Whole of Government” approach since January 16 this year. Several measures are being taken for timely availability of Covid-19 vaccines across the country. Streamlining its supply chain, including storage, is also given equal priority, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/advice-to-states-to-obtain-nod-before-sharing-vaccine-stock-data-intended-to-prevent-misuse-centre-995902.html
10-06-2021||National||Jharkhand tops in Covid vaccine wastage, Kerala, Bengal report negative wastage||Kerala and West Bengal recorded negative wastage of Covid-19 vaccines in May, saving 1.10 lakh and 1.61 lakh doses respectively, while Jharkhand reported maximum wastage of 33.95 per cent, according to government data. While Kerala reported -6.37 per cent vaccine wastage, West Bengal recorded -5.48 per cent. Chhattisgarh reported 15.79 per cent vaccine wastage while Madhya Pradesh reported 7.35 per cent. States like Punjab, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra reported 7.08 per cent, 3.95 per cent, 3.91 per cent, 3.78 and 3.63 per cent and 3.59 per cent respectively. The data showed that a total of 790.6 lakh vaccines were supplied to states and UTs in May out of which total vaccinations were 610.6 lakh while 658.6 lakh shots were utilised and the closing balance was 212.7 lakh. The vaccination in May was less as compared to April in which a total of 898.7 lakh vaccinations were done, 902.2 lakh vaccines were utilised and the closing balance was 80.8 lakh. India's first dose coverage of the 45-plus population till June 7 was pegged at 38 per cent with Tripura's coverage being 92 per cent, Rajasthan and Chattisgarh 65 per cent each, Gujarat 53 per cent, Kerala 51 per cent and Delhi 49 per cent. Tamil Nadu's first dose coverage of the 45-plus population is at a low of 19 per cent, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh at 24 per cent each and Bihar at 25 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhand-tops-in-covid-vaccine-wastage-kerala-bengal-report-negative-wastage-995904.html
10-06-2021||National||India's total Covid tests surpass US population, says K Sudhakar||The total number of Covid-19 tests conducted in India have surpassed the entire population of the United States of America, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Thursday. "Did anyone notice that India's Covid testing numbers have surpassed the entire population of the USA?" he asked in a tweet. "A total of 37 crore tests have been carried out till now, of which 13 crore are in the last 3 months alone!" Sudhakar said. According to Union Health Ministry data, the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country touched 37,21,98,253. Did anyone notice that 🇮🇳 India's Covid testing numbers have surpassed the entire population of 🇺🇸 USA!?||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-total-covid-tests-surpass-us-population-says-k-sudhakar-995906.html
10-06-2021||National||India close to giving indemnity to foreign Covid-19 vaccine makers like Pfizer||"Indemnity will be granted," said one of the sources. "If one company gets it then all of them get it." India invited Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson in April to sell their vaccines after infections rocketed. However, no deal has been signed. Pfizer has not sold to any country without obtaining indemnity against legal action over any adverse effects of their product. The government has already met one of Pfizer's other key demands by dropping a requirement that foreign vaccines undergo local trials. Another government official said he expected Pfizer vaccines to be delivered in August. He said initial recipients of foreign shots could be monitored, before a mass roll-out "once we are sure of its efficacy on Indians." Neither the foreign or health ministries responded to a request for comment. Pfizer declined to comment on its discussions with the Indian government but said it sought indemnity wherever it supplied its vaccine. "We seek the same kind of indemnity and liability protections in all of the countries that have asked to purchase our vaccine, consistent with the local applicable laws to create the appropriate risk protection for all involved," a Pfizer spokeswoman said in an email to Reuters. One of the sources said India was negotiating prices of $10-$12 per dose for foreign shots. The European Union is paying 15.5 euros ($18.86) per dose for the Pfizer vaccine developed with Germany's BioNTech. The Pfizer spokeswoman said the company had offered doses to many countries at a not-for-profit price. India has administered more than 239 million vaccine doses - mainly a licensed version of the AstraZeneca drug produced locally - the most in the world after China and the United States. But with a population of 1.35 billion people, India's vaccination rate is much lower than many countries. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-close-to-giving-indemnity-to-foreign-covid-19-vaccine-makers-like-pfizer-995920.html
10-06-2021||National||FSSAI makes mandatory for food businesses to mention licence number on invoice/bills from October 1||Food safety regulator FSSAI has mandated food business operators to mention FSSAI licence or registration number on cash receipts or purchase invoice with effect from October 1 this year. The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has issued a latest order in this regard. Since complaints remain unresolved due to lack of specific information, this move will help consumers who can lodge an online complaint against a particular food business using the FSSAI number, it said. "Licensing and registration authorities are directed to widely publicise the policy and shall ensure its implementation mandatorily with effect from October 2, 2021," the FSSAI order said. Mentioning of FSSAI number shall also improve the overall awareness, the regulator said if not mentioned, it will indicate non-compliance or non registration/licensing by the food business. Stating that the food business ecosystem is large, the regulator said 14-digit FSSAI number of any food business operator is not "easily visible and available on consumer/service recipient." If the FSSAI number is not available to consumers, expecting him to complain with complete coordinates is an uphill task. Even regulators find it difficult to trace the origin of complaint and attend to it promptly, it said. No database can be created without a unique locator code, which in case of food safety is the FSSAI number, it added. Presently, FSSAI number is compulsory to be displayed on packaged food labels but the issue lies especially in case of establishments such as restaurants, mithai shops, caterers, even retail stores. Further, the regulator said that it is amending the Food Safety and Standards (FSS) Licensing and Registration of Food Businesses Regulations to mandate display of 'food safety display boards' at all times at prominent places in case of restaurants. However, there remains a deficit of mechanism for consumer to know the FSSAI number of the service/product provider, it noted. It also mentioned that even in case of pre-packaged food where the manufacturer's FSSAI number is printed on the pack, there exist a deficit of tract and trace mechanism whereby the path of the package from a manufacturer to consumer can be traced. The invoice helps establishing this trail. With mentioning of the FSSAI number will help in improving traceability for food products, the regulator added. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fssai-makes-mandatory-for-food-businesses-to-mention-licence-number-on-invoice/bills-from-october-1-995941.html
10-06-2021||National||PM Modi condoles loss of lives in Mumbai building collapse||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday expressed grief at the loss of lives in a building collapse in Mumbai and announced Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia each for the next of kin of the deceased from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund. Eight children and three adults were killed and seven other injured after two floors of a three-storey building collapsed on an adjoining single-storey house in Malwani area of Mumbai, officials said on Thursday.  In a condolence message from the prime minister, his office tweeted, "Pained by the loss of lives due to the collapse of a structure in Malad West, Mumbai. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. I pray that the injured recover at the earliest." A sum of Rs 50,000 would be provided to each of the injured, Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-condoles-loss-of-lives-in-mumbai-building-collapse-995944.html
10-06-2021||National||Plea filed in SC against Delhi HC's refusal to halt construction on Central Vista Redevelopment project||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court, challenging the Delhi High Court's judgement which refused to halt the Central Vista Redevelopment project during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic with Rs one lakh cost. Petitioners Anya Malhotra, a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary filmmaker, sought stay of the May 31 judgement, which, they claimed, dismissed their plea on the face value without any inquiry. They maintained that the plea was a purely public health and safety issue during the zenith of Covid’s catastrophic second wave as it ravaged the city of Delhi and exposed its crumbling health infrastructure. But the High Court treated it as an attack on the Central Vista Redevelopment project. The HC had said the work on the project of national importance has to be completed within time-bound schedule by November, 2021. It also said public is widely interested in the project, which envisaged new triangular Parliament building, with seating capacity for 900 to 1,200 MPs. The ongoing construction has been repeatedly criticised by main Opposition Congress party leaders. The petition filed by advocate Nitin Saluja said, "The High Court erroneously and without any justification or basis held the petition to be ill-intended, motivated and lacking bonafides. The judgement, apart from misconstruing the bonafide intention of the petitioners, cast them in a negative light without cause and at the cost of their right to reputation." They also pointed out the High Court concluded that they specifically chose only one project without considering that they had in fact prayed that suo motu cognizance should be taken if other projects violated Covid protocols or Delhi Disaster Management Authority orders. Further, "the order gauges the public importance of the project without there being any averment by the Centre and others, except that the project needs to comply with a contractual deadline," their plea contended. It also claimed the High Court's order considered the importance and significance of conducting "sovereign functions of Parliament" but ignored the sovereign duty of the State to protect the health and lives of its citizens which is integral to Article 21 of the Constitution. The High Court not only failed to exercise its extraordinary Constitutional powers under Article 226 to address the urgency and gravity of the imminent health concerns but castigated the well-intended public concern of the petitioners as "motivated" without any basis or justification, it maintained. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-sc-against-delhi-hcs-refusal-to-halt-construction-on-central-vista-redevelopment-project-995947.html
10-06-2021||National||Gift of the jab: What is the Covid-19 vaccine e-voucher? How do you buy it?||The Centre is planning to launch non-transferable electronic vouchers (e-vouchers), so anyone can help people from the economically weaker sections get vaccinated at private hospitals. The move, in the spirit of 'Lok Kalyan', would enable people to financially support the vaccination of those who may not be able to afford it themselves. Here's everything we know so far about the e-voucher: What is the e-voucher? The electronic voucher, or e-voucher, has been introduced by the government to provide an option for citizens to gift a vaccination appointment for the economically weaker sections. Using this scheme, one can book a Covid-19 vaccination slot as well as pay for it at a private hospital for another person. How do you buy and use the e-voucher? So far, all details about the e-voucher have not been released, but an arrangement is likely to be made to download the voucher on a mobile phone and scan it at the vaccination centre to pay for the shot. The government has not given any specific date for the availability of the e-voucher scheme. How much does the e-voucher cost? As one will be booking and paying for a vaccine shot, the e-voucher is expected to cost the same as the price of a vaccine. Covishield will cost Rs 780 per dose, Covaxin Rs 1,410, and Sputnik V Rs 1,145 at private hospitals. Vaccines are available for free at government hospitals. Is the e-voucher transferable? No. The e-vouchers are non-transferable. It can only be redeemed at private hospitals to get the paid-for vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gift-of-the-jab-what-is-the-covid-19-vaccine-e-voucher-how-do-you-buy-it-995948.html
10-06-2021||National||Dalit man killed for objecting to removal of Ambedkar’s poster in Rajasthan||A Dalit man was allegedly beaten to death by a group of youths after a tiff over a poster with BR Ambedkar’s photograph put up outside his house in Rajasthan’s Hanumangarh district, police said on Wednesday. On May 24, Anil Sihag and Rakesh Sihag tore the poster put up outside the house of Vinod Bamnia, 22, a Bhim Army member, they said. After Bamnia and his family raised objections, locals intervened and the family members of the accused tendered an apology on their behalf on the same day, they added. On June 5, the accused sought revenge for this by assaulting Bamnia with the help of four others. After the attack, the victim was admitted at a private hospital in Sri Ganganagar in a critical condition. He succumbed to injuries on June 7, police said. The accused Anil Sihag and Rakesh Sihag were arrested along with their friends – Saksham and Haidar Ali. Two others, involved in the attack, were absconding, police said, adding efforts were on to nab them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dalit-man-killed-for-objecting-to-removal-of-ambedkar-s-poster-in-rajasthan-995950.html
10-06-2021||National||Harsh Vardhan addresses first meeting of WHO high-level coalition on health, energy||Vardhan made the remarks while addressing the first meeting of the World Health Organization High-Level Coalition on Health and Energy Platform of Action on Wednesday night through video-conference, a Health Ministry statement said. The meeting was attended by several dignitaries and national heads, and representatives of various stakeholders like World Bank, UNDP, UNHRC, the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) etc. "The pandemic, as well as the enormous efforts to manage it, have reiterated the massive interdependence amongst various sectors. It has also underlined the need to ensure that inter-connectedness across sectors needs to be reflected in our policies to ensure effective and sustainable service delivery," he said in his address, according to the statement. "An expert body called the National Action Plan on Climate Change and Human Health was constituted by our government with the multiple objectives of creating awareness amongst the general population, healthcare providers and policymakers regarding impact of climate change on human health," Vardhan said. This National Expert Group submitted its report recently in April 2021 with inclusion of Subject-Specific Health Action Plans on identified Climate Sensitive Diseases and 'One Health', he added. In the context of “Green and Climate Resilient Healthcare Facilities”, India became a signatory to the Malé Declaration in 2017 and agreed to promote climate-resilient healthcare facilities to be able to withstand any climatic event. "India is today in a unique position to pioneer a new model of economic development of low carbon emission and inclusive development where the attainment of universal health coverage is also one the major determinant factors. "We believe that it is the need of the hour to exhibit firm political and financial commitment to mobilise resources for strengthening the capacity of the health and energy sectors. As nations prepare for the Covid-19 aftermath, there is a tremendous opportunity for a global reset. Ambitious green stimulus plans will help countries restore their economies while deepening their energy transition. I am confident that the collaboration and collective action of this coalition group will help to achieve a greener and healthier planet," Vardhan said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harsh-vardhan-addresses-first-meeting-of-who-high-level-coalition-on-health-energy-995951.html
10-06-2021||National||7-year-old girl's initiative: Tell stories of nature, get published||A seven-year-old girl has come up with an initiative that encourages children to research about the environment and gives them an opportunity to get published this summer. Parnika's "Stars of Mother Nature" initiative has been curated in partnership with parenting blog The Happy Moms Cafe and HeyCloudy, a screen-free audio listening and learning app for children. "Mother earth is beautiful and so are her many treasures. We need to learn about them. And what better way to do this than through storytelling. Because, we kids love to tell stories," Parnika says about "Stars of Mother Nature". Designed and curated for children aged 6 to 14 years, this campaign will encourage them to learn about nature, inclusivity, recycling and more. Around eight stories will be selected to be published as an audio series on the HeyCloudy app. "Summer breaks offer time and space for more learning and creativity. We thought this would be a fabulous idea for parents to engage their kids in a meaningful manner," says Preeti Chaturvedi, founder of The Happy Moms Cafe. "The campaign is not a contest. The entries selected will be purely representative in nature. We want to encourage kids to be more conscious about the environment," she says. "Telling little children the right stories is our way to change the future world. This campaign goes a step further and enables them to tell the right stories - which we feel is even more powerful," says Chitman Kaur, founder of HeyCloudy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/7-year-old-girls-initiative-tell-stories-of-nature-get-published-995955.html
10-06-2021||National||Centre allows three out of eight domestic oxygen makers to supply to industries||Three oxygen manufacturers out of eight based in the State are now allowed to supply heightened quantities of oxygen to industries as per a recent circular from the Central government. The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, in a circular issued on June 8, allowed three domestic manufacturers in the State: Universal Air, Bhuruka Gases and Inox Bellary to supply to industries. Universal Air is now allowed to supply 10 MT to industries, Bhuruka Gases 11.7 MT and Inox Bellary 8MT. While the oxygen consumption in the State on June 8 was 549.79 MT, the supply was 613.62MT. The remaining 63.83 MT went to the State's buffer stock. On June 6, as against a supply of 638.54 MT, 593.20 MT was consumed leaving a much smaller buffer refill of 45.34 MT. Asked if resuming industrial supply will shrink the State's oxygen buffer stock, the State's nodal officer for oxygen distribution Munish Moudgi told DH, 'only time will tell' and that orders are being issued to prevent 'reduction of reserves'. Satish Chandra Kesari, Executive Director, Bhuruka Gases told DH, "From April 16 to April 30, our average supply per day was 72 MT per day as opposed to our capacity of 65 MT. We have ramped up capacity by procuring liquid medical oxygen from other States. From May 1, the demand has gone down and the levels in our storage tanks have gone up. From May 1, we went back to producing only 65MT." "However, as and when there is a requirement of LMO, we have to go back to producing it. Today (June 9), we have allocated 11.7 MT to industries but are yet to supply. This is 18% of our production. Apart from this we have a buffer stock of 120 MT lying unused in our plant. If this surplus LMO is not consumed, plants will have to be shut. We used to fill 165 dura cylinders which has dropped to 54 cylinders. The demand has come down for these cylinders. Except Inox Bellary, no other manufacturers in Ballari are allowed industrial supply," he said. KSN Shastri, Assistant General Manager, Universal Air Products, told DH, "We have not yet resumed industrial supply. It may take one or two days for us to have a surplus of 10 MT. We are still using up all our production for our 175 hospital clients. Our industrial clients are more than 500 in number." Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-allows-three-out-of-eight-domestic-oxygen-makers-to-supply-to-industries-995956.html
10-06-2021||National||Modi is top leader of country and BJP, says Sanjay Raut||Days after the one-on-one meeting between Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday said Modi is the top leader of the country and the BJP. He made the statement in response to a question on whether he felt that Modi's popularity is on a downslide as media reports suggested that RSS is contemplating to project state leaders as the face in the state elections. "I don't want to comment on this...I don't go by the media reports. There is no official statement about this... The BJP owes its success to Narendra Modi in the last seven years and currently, he is the top leader of the country and his party," Raut said. The Sena's Rajya Sabha member, who is currently on a tour of north Maharashtra, was speaking to reporters in Jalgaon. The Shiv Sena’s stand has always been that a prime minister belongs to the entire country and not a particular party, he said, adding, "Hence, the PM shouldn't get involved in election campaigning as it puts pressure on the official machinery.”  To a question on Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil's remarks that his party would make friendship with tiger (Shiv Sena’s symbol) if Modi wished, Raut said, “No one can make friendship with a tiger. It is the tiger that decides whom he wants to be friends with." When asked about his tour of north Maharashtra, he said it was part of the Shiv Sena’s efforts to strengthen the organisation. "All Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) allies have a right to expand their base and strengthen the parties. It is also the need of the hour. We are also holding meetings on strengthening our coordination among each other," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-is-top-leader-of-country-and-bjp-says-sanjay-raut-995976.html
10-06-2021||National||Meril receives nod from ICMR for its indigenous Covid-19 self-test kit||The company's indigenous home-use rapid antigen test kits 'CoviFind' will expand access to Covid-19 testing, while also helping the nation meet the demand for increased and frequent screening to curb the spread of the pandemic, Meril said in a statement. The test delivers results swiftly, providing accurate results in 15 minutes, it added. "By making reliable rapid antigen testing available to all through a convenient format, Meril's CoviFind test will facilitate early detection, isolation, treatment and contact tracing," Meril Senior Vice-President (Corporate Strategy) Sanjeev Bhatt said. The test kit is equipped with testing materials including a test device, one sterile nasal swab and a pre-filled buffer tube with a cap and is priced at Rs 250 as an affordable single-pack, the company said. The test kits will be available in two weeks at retail pharmacies, e-pharmacies and through e-commerce platforms including Amazon and Flipkart, it added. Meril said it has also supplied a large number of tests across its Covid-19 diagnostics offerings across India, which include a multiplex RT-PCR test, Kavach antibody tests in partnership with ICMR. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meril-receives-nod-from-icmr-for-its-indigenous-covid-19-self-test-kit-995977.html
10-06-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Is India's death toll much higher than reported?||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-is-indias-death-toll-much-higher-than-reported-995981.html
10-06-2021||National||Centre's allocation of 'black fungus' drug irrational, supply to Maharashtra inadequate: Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said the Union government's allocation of Amphotericin-B, a key drug used in the treatment of mucormycosis or 'black fungus', appeared to be irrational, and the supply to Maharashtra was not adequate considering the number of cases in the state. Flagging the same issue during the hearing of a different Public Interest Litigation, another bench of the court said the Centre must take steps to increase the supply. After the state government informed that 82 people died of mucormycosis in Maharashtra in the last three days, a division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni at Mumbai asked Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni to find out if delay in the administration of necessary drugs led to these fatalities. It also directed the Maharashtra government to maintain real-time record of mucormycosis cases and the available stock of drugs and convey this information to the Union government so as to procure the medicines in time. Kumbhakoni told the court earlier that while the state had witnessed 512 deaths due to mucormycosis till June 7, the figure climbed to 600 by June 10. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, the Union government's lawyer, said it had allocated an average of 4,060 vials of Amphotericin-B, a key drug used in the treatment of the fungal infection, per day to Maharashtra between May 11 and June 9. The bench, however, noted that Maharashtra accounted for 25 percent of the total 23,254 cases in the country, and the drug allocation was inadequate and not proportional to the number of active cases in the state. Daman and Diu had no active mucormycosis case but the Union Territory received 500 vials, Tripura had one case but did not receive any vial while Manipur and Nagaland with one active case each received 50 vials of the medicine apiece, the court said, citing the Centre's own affidavit. "This allocation doesn't seem rational. Are the medicines really reaching where they are required? What is the distribution criteria?" the HC asked.   "The quantity (of Amphotericin-B) allocated to Maharashtra is very short. Allocation has to be dynamic and need-based pan-India. No patient should suffer for want of medicine," the court added. If the domestic production was inadequate, the government must think about importing the drug, the court said. The court was hearing a bunch of PILs on Covid-19 management in Maharashtra. AG Kumbhakoni also told the bench that Maharashtra had started vaccination against coronavirus in prisons to inoculate staff and inmates. While most of the staff was vaccinated, 27,000 inmates were yet to be fully vaccinated, he said. RT-PCR tests were also being conducted frequently in jails, he said, adding that in Taloja prison near Mumbai, which is highly congested, there were only five active cases of Covid-19. The court said the state must not become complacent because of the decline in cases, and must keep adequate stocks of Tocilizumab and other necessary drugs. It directed the state to file a fresh affidavit on all issues by June 15, adjourning the hearing to June 16. Besides the principal bench at Mumbai, the Aurangabad bench also raised the issue of shortage of mucormycosis drug. Hearing a PIL, a division bench of Justices R V Ghuge and B U Debadwar said the shortage was worrisome, and unless urgent steps were taken by the Union government for improving the supply, the death rate would not come down. It expected the Union government to make a statement on June 16 about increase in the supply of the drug, the court said, while asking the chief public prosecutor -- the state's lawyer -- to furnish details of recovered and active patients as well as deaths due to mucormycosis till June 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-allocation-of-black-fungus-drug-irrational-supply-to-maharashtra-inadequate-bombay-hc-996001.html
10-06-2021||National||Group of students broke into central library, clashed with staff; FIR registered: JNU||The Jawaharlal Nehru University administration on Thursday alleged that a group of students broke into the central library and clashed with the staff there following which an FIR has been registered with the police. The varsity alleged that the students have been occupying the library for the last two days. The police said based on the complaint by the varsity, a case has been registered. According to the police, the incident took place on June 8 and based on a complaint from the varsity's chief security officer, a case was registered on Wednesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said "Based on the complaint, a case was registered under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, Delhi Disaster Management Act and prevention of damage to public property." No arrests have been made in the case so far, police said, adding that a meeting between the students and chief librarian of the varsity was also held in this regard. In a statement, the varsity said, "This (incident) has caused health risk for the library staff and even other students residing in the hostels, since these unruly students return to hostel for lunch/dinner or other purposes." The varsity said "a group of students scuffled with the security staff, broke open the side glass door of the B R Ambedkar Library, entered the main reading room of the building on June 8 and have occupied the space since then". It added that the students did not vacate the library building even during the night. "When no amount of persuasion by the librarian and the security personnel convinced these students against violating the law and Covid-19 guidelines, the JNU Security Office lodged a police complaint in view of the seriousness of the issue. It has been found that these students do not even use mask or follow other Covid-19 related guidelines," the varsity statement said. The curfew imposed by the Delhi Government is still in place and no new guidelines have yet been announced regarding resuming normal academic activities, it said. "The chief proctor office in the mean time has been tasked with taking necessary disciplinary action against these students as per the university rules," it said. The students occupying the space are not permitting the library staff to sanitise the library for making it safer for students who will use the library after restoration of normalcy, it said. "All these students are hereby instructed to vacate the library immediately," it said. A varsity student, requesting anonymity, said, "The library has not opened for a long time which has left PhD students frustrated. Students have their submissions due and have not been able to access the library. The students entered the library but there was no violence."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/group-of-students-broke-into-central-library-clashed-with-staff-fir-registered-jnu-996007.html
10-06-2021||National||India, Australia to expand cyber security cooperation||India and Australia on Thursday agreed to broad-base cooperation in the spheres of the digital economy and cyber-enabled critical technologies, noting the need to strengthen the security of critical information infrastructure such as 5G telecom networks. The two sides discussed a range of issues relating to emerging technologies in the cyber domain at the first meeting of the India-Australia Joint Working Group (JWG) on cyber security cooperation, according to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). The JWG is a mechanism established under a framework arrangement on the cyber and cyber-enabled critical technology cooperation between the two countries to implement a five-year (2020-25) plan of action. "Noting the need to strengthen security of critical information infrastructure as well as 5G technology and IoT (internet of things) devices, India and Australia agreed to enhance cooperation with private sector and academia and to work together in skill and knowledge development," the MEA said in a statement. It said both sides also agreed to strengthen cooperation in the multilateral fora. There have been growing global security concerns relating to Chinese telecom giant Huawei's 5G networks. Several countries have already banned Huawei, the world leader in telecom equipment, over such concerns. The virtual meeting of the JWG took place a year after the two countries elevated their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership during an online summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison. The MEA said both sides reaffirmed their commitment to work together in the areas of the digital economy, cyber security and critical and emerging technologies as identified by the framework arrangement on cyber and cyber-enabled critical technology cooperation. "India and Australia shared cyber security threat assessments as well as information on legislation and national cyber strategies," it said. The MEA said both sides look forward to the next bilateral cyber policy dialogue and an early convening of the inaugural JWG meeting on information and communication technologies. The Indian delegation at the meeting was led by Paulomi Tripathi, Director (Oceania) in the MEA, while the Australian side was headed by Rachel James, Special Advisor, Cyber Affairs and Critical Technology at Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-australia-to-expand-cyber-security-cooperation-996015.html
10-06-2021||National||External Affairs Minister Jaishankar calls on Kuwait Prime Minister||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar called on Kuwait Prime Minister Sheikh Sabah Khaled Al-Hamad Al-Sabah on Thursday and appreciated his commitment to taking the partnership between two countries to higher levels. Jaishankar, who arrived in Kuwait on his first bilateral visit to the oil-rich Gulf nation early on Thursday, is also carrying a personal letter from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Kuwait’s Emir Sheikh Nawaf al-Ahmad al-Jaber al-Sabah. "Called on PM HH Sheikh Sabah Khaled Al-Hamad Al-Sabah. Conveyed our felicitations on the 60th anniversary of diplomatic relations. Appreciated his commitment to taking our partnership to higher levels. Our historical ties have been reinforced through our joint fight against COVID19," Jaishankar tweeted. Welcomed the openness to address the issues of Indian community in Kuwait. Witnessed signing of a MoU that will give our workers greater legal protection. Jaishankar is visiting Kuwait at the invitation of Sheikh Ahmed Nasser Al-Mohammad Al-Sabah, Foreign Minister and Minister of State for Cabinet Affairs. Upon his arrival at the airport here, Jaishankar was received by Acting Assistant Foreign Minister Abdul Razzaq Al-Khleefa and Ambassador Jassim Al-Najjem. Indian Ambassador Sibi George and senior Indian officials in Kuwait were also present at the airport. His visit comes nearly three months after the two countries decided to establish a joint ministerial commission to formulate a framework to strengthen ties in sectors like energy, trade, investment, manpower and labour and information technology. Kuwaiti Foreign Minister Sheikh Ahmed visited India in March during which both sides decided to set up the joint commission. During the visit, Jaishankar will hold high-level meetings and also address the Indian community in Kuwait, the Ministry of External Affairs said in New Delhi ahead of the visit. There are over 10 lakhs Indians residing in Kuwait. India is amongst the largest trading partners of Kuwait and Kuwait is a major supplier of oil for India. The year 2021-22 marks the 60th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between India and Kuwait. Kuwait has been supporting India in dealing with the coronavirus pandemic by supplying relief material as well as medical oxygen. Indian Navy ships have brought a large quantity of medical oxygen from Kuwait in the last few weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/external-affairs-minister-jaishankar-calls-on-kuwait-prime-minister-996029.html
10-06-2021||National||Doctors are God’s envoy on earth: Ramdev somersaults, says will take Covid-19 vaccine||Yoga guru Ramdev, who had said he does not need the Covid-19 vaccine as he has the protection of yoga and Ayurveda, on Thursday did a somersault, saying he will soon get the jab and described doctors as "God’s envoys on earth". Ramdev had earlier stirred a controversy with his comments on the efficacy of allopathic drugs against Covid-19, drawing the ire of the medical fraternity. Now, welcoming Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement about free vaccine to all from June 21, Ramdev described it as a "historic" step and appealed to all to get themselves vaccinated. "Get both doses of the vaccine and the double protection of yoga and ayurveda. They will combine to give you such a robust shield of protection that not a single person will die from Covid," he told reporters in Haridwar. Asked when he will get the vaccine shot, the yoga guru said, "Very soon." Ramdev also heaped praise on good allopathic doctors, describing them as "God's envoys on earth". On the ongoing confrontation with the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Ramdev said he cannot have any animosity with any organisation. All he was against the exploitation of people in the name of medicines, he said. Ramdev said Pradhan Mantri Jan Aushadhi Kendras had to be opened because of the tendency among many doctors to prescribe expensive medicines in place of generic drugs, which are much cheaper. "I am not against any organisation. Good doctors are a real boon. They are God's envoys on earth. But individual doctors can do wrong things," he said. He also said for emergency treatment and surgery, allopathy is the best. "When it comes to emergency treatment and surgery, allopathy is the best. There cannot be two opinions about it," said the yoga guru who had caused so much anger among doctors by his recent remarks against allopathy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-are-god-s-envoy-on-earth-ramdev-somersaults-says-will-take-covid-19-vaccine-996037.html
10-06-2021||National||China denies visa to Indians even after they took Sinovac, Sinopharm vaccines in third countries||New Delhi asked Beijing to restart allowing the citizens of India to visit China. A spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi reminded Beijing that the citizens of China were still being allowed to travel to India, in spite of the absence of direct air connectivity between the two nations. Nearly 300 Indian citizens wrote to President Xi Jinping’s government, requesting it to allow them to return to their places of study or work in China. Many of them in fact travelled to the United Arab Emirates, Malaysia, Maldives, Sri Lanka and other countries and got inoculated with Made-in-China vaccines over the past few weeks – in order to be eligible to return to the communist country. Beijing, however, continued to deny visas to them, thus triggering calls from New Delhi for reciprocity on the issue. The citizens of India have not been able to travel to China since November 2020. Citing the resurgence of SARS-CoV-2 infection in some countries, Beijing on March 15 this year made it mandatory for citizens of India and 19 other nations to get inoculated with Made-in-China vaccines in order to get visas to travel to the communist country. No Made-in-China Covid-19 vaccine was approved to be administered in India. So Indian citizens travelled to other countries to get inoculated with the vaccines developed and manufactured by China National Pharmaceutical Group Corporation (Sinopharm) and Sinovac Biotech Limited and thus meet the requirement to get visas and be able to return to their place of study or work. But they still did not get visas from China’s embassy in New Delhi and its consulates in Mumbai and Kolkata. “It is understood that several Indian nationals have applied for Chinese visas after getting vaccinated in that manner but are yet to be issued visas,” Arindam Bagchi, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, told journalists on Thursday, adding: “Since these Indian nationals have apparently met the requirements laid down by the Chinese side, we hope that the Chinese Embassy would be able to issue them visas soon”. He noted that persons from China, including citizens of China, were being able to travel to India currently, despite the absence of direct connectivity. “We have been in touch with the Chinese side in order to seek an early resumption of travel by Indian citizens to China, especially for those who work or study there,” said the MEA spokesperson. He said that New Delhi recognized the need to ensure safety and strictly follow Covid-19 related protocols, but essential two-way travel between India and China should be facilitated, especially keeping in view the fact that China’s citizens were being able to travel to India. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-denies-visa-to-indians-even-after-they-took-sinovac-sinopharm-vaccines-in-third-countries-996045.html
10-06-2021||National||Over 49,000 pending rape, POCSO cases disposed of amid Covid-19 pandemic: Govt||Listing the work done towards the welfare of women and children in the last seven years, MyGovIndia, the Centre's citizen engagement platform, said 1,023 fast track special courts, including 389 exclusive POCSO courts, have been set up for time-bound completion of trials in sexual offence cases. In a tweet, MyGovIndia said 641 fast track special courts already operational include 341 exclusive Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act courts. "More than 49,000 pending cases of Rape & POCSO Act disposed of even amidst the pandemic," it said. Taking to Twitter, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani shared details about POSHAN Tracker, an app to track nutrition delivery services. According to the data shared by her, over 1.02 crore hot cooked meals and more than 2.16 crore take-home ration packages have been tracked through POSHAN Tracker since its launch in March. POSHAN (PM's Overarching Scheme for Holistic Nourishment) Tracker aims to provide a 360-degree view and tracking of anganwadi centres, nutrition service deliveries and complete beneficiary management for pregnant women, lactating mothers and children. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-49000-pending-rape-pocso-cases-disposed-of-amid-covid-19-pandemic-govt-996050.html
10-06-2021||National||CCMB-led consortium to sequence genome of 40,000 Covid-19 samples over 1 year||The association led by CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CSIR-CCMB), Hyderabad includes various partners in the three other cities- National Centre for Biological Sciences-Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, InStem-DBT and NIMHANS in Bengaluru; CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in New Delhi and Pune Knowledge Cluster, IISER-Pune and CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory in Pune. The initiative is supported and seed-funded by the Rockefeller Foundation. “We aim to analyze the genome of about 40,000 Covid-19 virus samples under the project, over a period of one year. These samples would be mainly from the four cities,” Dr Rakesh Mishra, advisor, CSIR-CCMB told DH. According to Dr Mishra, INSACOG has carried out the genome analysis of about 20,000 samples till now. Genome sequencing, which helps understand the modifications undergone by the virus, is an expensive process costing about Rs 4,000-5,000 per sample. CSIR-CCMB, IGIB, DBT-InSTEM and NIMHANS are already part of INSACOG, constituted by the government of India to monitor the SARS-CoV-2 mutations on a regular basis. INSACOG was formed against the backdrop of the emergence of multiple variants. The emergence of more infectious strains like B.1.617.2 aka Delta, the variant stated as primarily responsible for the Covid-19 second wave in the country, has become a serious concern in controlling the pandemic. “Our aim is to develop strategies and capabilities to identify Variants of Concern before they spread widely and cause outbreaks. This will also help correlate with clinical symptoms and disease severity, potentially associated with emerging variants,” said Dr Mishra, who will lead the consortium efforts along with Prof Satyajit Mayor, NCBS, Prof LS Shashidhara, Pune Knowledge Cluster and Dr Anurag Agrawal, CSIR-IGIB. The consortium would work closely with the local governments, hospitals and clinicians. In collaboration with INSACOG, the consortium aims to eventually make this a national effort by expanding to other strategic locations in India, CCMB said in a statement. “The consortium aims to develop targeted sampling strategies based on granular epidemiological and clinical data. Coupled with intense environmental surveillance and advanced computational techniques, the consortium would also focus on building capabilities for real-time surveillance and epidemiology.” Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ccmb-led-consortium-to-sequence-genome-of-40000-covid-19-samples-over-1-year-996054.html
10-06-2021||National||Mehul Choksi's legal team in London approaches Metropolitan Police||The legal team of fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi in London has approached the Metropolitan Police under the "universal jurisdiction" provision to investigate his alleged kidnapping from Antigua and Barbuda to neighbouring Dominica, lawyer Michael Polak said.  Polak said Choksi was removed from Antigua and Barbuda, where as a citizen he enjoys rights to approach the British Privy Council as last resort in cases on his citizenship and extradition, to Dominica where these rights are not available to him.  He said English courts and British Police have "universal jurisdiction" to probe such cases wherever they take place. In a media interaction through video conferencing, Polak who is part of Choksi's defence team said Metropolitan Police has a unit to investigate torture, war crimes and genocide wherever they take place. Polak said Metropolitan police has said that they would send an investigator to see what has happened.  "The process is with Metropolitan police and we will let them carry out their investigations. We say in this case there is evidence of torture," he said.  Polak, who seems to have done a thorough research on the circumstances in which Choksi was abducted, strongly indicated but stopped short of saying it was an handiwork of Indian agencies. "I think the motive really speaks for itself. It is very important thing to look at. India obviously wants to try to remove Choksi to India. Had he signed a piece of paper that said he has already been there? The fact that there was an Indian plane in Dominica soon after shows what was going on here," he said.  Polak has alleged that people involved in the kidnapping had conducted a dry run in April.  Giving details of the abduction attempt, Polak said Barabara Jabarica, who lured Choksi to her AirBNB accommodation on May 23, had specifically asked the owner if there is a place for docking a small boat in the backyard.  Showing chats between Jabarica and owner of the properties, Polak said she had discussed taking two adjoining properties after getting confirmation about docking place for boats.  Polak alleged that one property was used by people with her who were part of kidnapping team. The lawyer claimed that soon after the kidnapping, Jabarica left Antigua and Barbuda in a private plane to Dominica at 7.26 PM as she felt safe from investigation.  In the complaint, Polak has reportedly named Gurdip Bath, Gurjit Singh Bhandal and Gurmit Singh besides Jabarica. Bath and Bhandal are citizens of St Kitts and the UK respectively while Singh is an Indian national residing in the UK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mehul-choksis-legal-team-in-london-approaches-metropolitan-police-996060.html
10-06-2021||National||India pushes for complete disengagement at remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh||India on Thursday once again called for completion of the disengagement process at the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh to pave the way for both the Indian and Chinese troops to consider de-escalation and ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity in border areas. At a media briefing, External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi, referring to the last rounds of military and diplomatic talks, said both sides agreed on the need to resolve the outstanding issues in an expeditious manner in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols. "We have repeatedly stressed that completion of disengagement in other areas would pave the way for the two sides to consider de-escalation of forces and ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity and enable progress in bilateral relations," he said. Bagchi was replying to a question on the status of the talks between the two sides on the border standoff. The 11th round of Corps Commander-level talks was held on April 9 while the last edition of diplomatic negotiations under the framework of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs took place on March 12. "During these meetings, both sides agreed on the need to resolve the outstanding issues in an expeditious manner in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols," Bagchi said. India and China are locked in a military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year. However, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. There was no visible forward movement in disengagement of troops at the remaining friction points as the Chinese side did not show flexibility in their approach towards this end at the 11th round of military talks. Last month, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane said there can be no de-escalation without complete disengagement at all friction points in eastern Ladakh and that the Indian Army is prepared for all contingencies in the region. Gen Naravane also said that India is dealing with China in a "firm" and "non-escalatory" manner to ensure the sanctity of its claims in eastern Ladakh, and that it was even open to initiating confidence-building measures. India has been insisting on complete disengagement at the remaining friction points to de-escalate the situation in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pushes-for-complete-disengagement-at-remaining-friction-points-in-eastern-ladakh-996062.html
10-06-2021||National||Centre urges citizens to recommend names for Padma awards, last date September 15||The Centre Thursday said it was committed to transform the Padma awards into "People's Padma" and urged all citizens to make nominations and recommendations, including self-nomination, for the prestigious civilian honours. The Union Home Ministry said online nominations or recommendations for the awards, to be announced on the eve of Republic Day, 2022, are open, with the last date being September 15, 2021. The ministry said in a statement that such nominations and recommendations will be received online only on https://padmaawards.gov.in. The Padma awards, namely, Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri, are amongst the highest civilian awards of the country. The government is committed to transform the Padma awards into "People's Padma" and all citizens are therefore requested to make nominations, recommendations including self-nomination, the statement said. The nominations and recommendations should contain all relevant details specified in the format available on the portal, including a citation in narrative form (maximum 800 words), clearly bringing out the distinguished and exceptional achievements, and the services the person rendered in her or his respective field or discipline, it said. The Central government has already asked all states to set up a special search committee to find out prospective awardees who have so far been left out of consideration despite their exceptional services. Since 2014, the Modi government has been conferring the Padma awards on many "unsung heroes" who have contributed to the society in different ways. The home ministry has requested all central ministries, departments, states and UT governments, Bharat Ratna and Padma Vibhushan awardees and institutes of excellence that concerted efforts may be made to identify talented persons from amongst women, weaker sections of the society, SCs, STs, 'divyang' persons who are doing selfless service to society and whose excellence and achievements really deserve to be recognised, the statement said. Often many such people may get overlooked primarily for the reason that they may not seek publicity or attention in the public domain, the home ministry had said in a letter sent recently to states. "It is, therefore, requested to make concerted efforts in identifying such persons whose excellence and achievements deserve to be recognised and make suitable nominations in their favour. It goes without saying that recognition of such deserving persons will only add to the prestige of these awards. "In the above background, I request you to kindly send suitable nominations for the Padma awards to be announced on the occasion of Republic Day, 2022. In this regard, it is suggested that you may constitute a Special Search Committee for identifying, considering and finalising your recommendations or nominations," the letter written by home ministry Joint Secretary R K Singh had said. The states were told that while finalising recommendations, they should keep in mind that the persons recommended are pre-eminently worthy of the awards, looking at their life-time achievements. The criteria for selection should invariably be 'excellence plus' and the highest standards should be applied while recommending persons for these awards. The existence of an element of public service in the achievements of the person recommended for the award would be a desirable factor, the letter said. Through the Padma awards, the government seeks to recognise 'work of distinction'. They are given for distinguished and exceptional achievements or service in all fields or disciplines, such as, Art, Literature and Education, Sports, Medicine, Social Work, Science and Engineering, Public Affairs, Civil Service, Trade and Industry etc. All persons without distinction of race, occupation, position or sex are eligible for these awards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-urges-citizens-to-recommend-names-for-padma-awards-last-date-september-15-996063.html
10-06-2021||National||‘Vasundhra missing’ posters surface in Rajasthan's Jhalawar||The walls of Jhalawar and Jhalrapatan cities, the home turfs of BJP MLA Vasundhra Raje and her son and MP Dushyant Singh near here, on Thursday morning appeared plastered overnight with posters proclaiming that the two people's representatives have gone “missing”. Rajasthan’s former Chief Minister Raje is an MLA from the Jhalrapatan assembly segment in Rajasthan while her son Dushyant Singh is a BJP MP from the Jhalawar-Baran Lok Sabha constituency of the state. The posters captioned ‘Search for Missing’ carried pictures of the two BJP leaders and read, “Where have both of you gone, leaving residents of entire Jhalawar district alone in these critical corona times?” “Don't be afraid, come back home,” they read and go on to say mockingly, “What’s there of the people? They will forget it in a day or two.” The posters went on to promise “attractive rewards” to anyone apprising people of the whereabouts of the two people's representatives. The sudden surfacing of the “damning” posters left the BJP workers in two constituencies in a tizzy with several of them began pulling them off from the walls jointly with the help of local police and municipal workers. Reacting to the surfacing of the posters, BJP president of Jhalawar district unit, Sanjay Jain, termed the episode as a “new low of politics” and asserted that the two leaders have been in consistent touch with the officials and people of their areas and working for them throughout these difficult times. Jain said after the pandemic outbreak, the two leaders have been having interactions with different officially digitally and arranging for the peoples’ various needs due to which no Covid deaths for the want of medicines and oxygen have been reported in the district. Local Congress leader Pramod Sharma, who had contested the parliamentary election against Dushyant Singh, extended his support to the poster campaign against the two Scindia scions, terming it as a “public awareness campaign” by local workers as well as those from his party. He said Raje has not visited her constituency for the last two years. “She came here only twice -- once immediately after winning the assembly elections and once with her son at the time of filing his nomination papers for the Lok Sabha polls. Dushyant Singh too came to his constituency only once but he preferred not to interact with the people,” he claimed. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vasundhra-missing-posters-surface-in-rajasthans-jhalawar-996074.html
10-06-2021||National||Over 24.58 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered so far, says Union Health Ministry||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 24.58 crore, the Union health ministry said on Thursday. It said 18,64,234 and 77,136 beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group received their first and second dose of Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday. Cumulatively, 3,58,49,328 people in the 18-44 age group across states and union territories have received their first dose and 4,84,740 beneficiaries have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive on May 1. Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to more than 10 lakh beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group, the ministry said. According to provisional data, the total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered across the country stands at 24,58,47,212, it said. The beneficiaries include 1,00,24,046 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 69,28,432 HCWs who have taken the second dose; 1,65,46,785 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 87,80,509 FLWs who have taken the second dose; and 3,58,49,328 and 4,84,740 individuals in the 18-44 age group who have taken the first and second dose respectively. Besides, 7,39,73,962 and 1,17,26,702 beneficiaries in the 45-60 age group have been administered the first and second dose respectively while 6,18,98,773 and 1,96,33,935 beneficiaries above 60 years have taken the first and second dose respectively. As many as 30,32,675 vaccine doses were administered on Thursday, the 146th day of the vaccination drive. According to a provisional report till 7 pm, 27,33,087 beneficiaries were administered the first dose and 2,99,588 were given the second dose, the ministry said, adding that final reports for the day would be completed by late night. The vaccination exercise, as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19, continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-2458-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-so-far-says-union-health-ministry-996075.html
10-06-2021||National||Centres asks states to expedite Covid-19 vaccine second-dose coverage among healthcare workers||Even after five months, only 56 per cent healthcare workers and 47 per cent frontline staff received the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, the Union government pointed out to the states on Thursday. Karnataka is among the 19 states that have reported a second dose coverage much less than the national average, which itself is poor. For front line workers, the national average of first dose coverage is 85 per cent but the second dose coverage is only 47 per cent. Other poorly performing states in this category include Bihar, Haryana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Puducherry, Telangana and Punjab. For the healthcare workers, the national average for the first dose administration is 82 per cent but the figure drops to 56 per cent for the second dose. As many as 18 states Punjab, Maharashtra, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Assam have coverage below the national average, the Union Health Ministry said in a statement. Terming the low vaccination coverage among healthcare workers and frontline workers, especially for the second dose as a cause of serious concern, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said full protection to these two groups is crucial to fight the pandemic. Also, timely completion of the vaccination schedule was important for conferring full protection to beneficiaries, he reminded the state officials. States have been asked to sharpen their focus and prepare effective plans for expediting the second dose administration for the healthcare and frontline workers using dedicated time slots or sessions.    Bhushan also flagged inadequate private sector participation in the Covid-19 vaccination drive, even though the private sector can procure 25 per cent of the vaccine stock as per the revised guideline. Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal and Assam are the worst sufferers due to limited presence of private hospitals and their unequal spread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-asks-states-to-expedite-covid-19-vaccine-second-dose-coverage-among-healthcare-workers-996084.html
10-06-2021||National||Medical debts bankrupt Indians already ravaged by coronavirus||By Bibhudatta Pradhan and Vrishti Beniwal In the shadows of the Taj Mahal, shoemaker Shyambabu Nigam worked for years to save enough money to buy his wife Anju a small house with a view of the iconic 17th-century mausoleum. Yet in just a matter of months, they were forced to give it up. After Anju fell seriously ill with Covid-19 last year, the couple turned to a mix of subsidised government hospitals and more expensive private clinics to treat the illness and pay for two open-heart surgeries that followed. The total costs amounted to more than Rs 6,00,000 — roughly six times Nigam’s annual income. While the sale of his modest two-bedroom house covered most of that amount, he was also forced to borrow money from friends and sell one of his three leather sewing machines. “First we fought to save her life and now we are fighting to survive with a huge financial burden,” said Nigam, 42, from the room he now rents in a low-income village of Kachhpura near Agra in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh. “Please give us any work. My two sons and I will work day and night to get out of this crisis.” Nigam is among roughly two-thirds of Indians that don’t have any health insurance, compounding the problems facing India’s economy as it tries to recover from the shock of a rare contraction last year. Overcrowded government hospitals with long lines and poor facilities prompt people to spend out of pocket for better treatment in the private sector. While the virus has affected the poor across the globe, the impact can be exponentially greater in countries like India where public spending on health care is among the lowest in the world. The signs of pain are everywhere: Loans against gold and debt defaults are rising while savings, vehicle sales, company profits and government revenues are falling. There has also been a clear shift in consumer spending from clothes, shoes and personal care goods toward pharmaceuticals, as medication shortages and panic prompted many Indians to sell motorcycles, gold and even their farm animals to pay for life-saving treatment on the black market. The soaring expenses included vials of the antiviral drug Remdesivir as well as private ambulances that ferried desperate families scouring for hospital beds and oxygen cylinders. “This time what we see is the double whammy of health expenses plus loss of livelihood and related food insecurity,” said Dipa Sinha, a professor of economics at Ambedkar University in Delhi. “If people are selling assets that give them livelihood then it impacts future incomes as well.” Making matters worse, until recently government-approved treatment guidelines included some medicine not recommended by the World Health Organisation. Until early June, India Health Ministry’s approved treatment protocol listed Remdesivir even though the global health body discouraged the use of the drug for Covid-19 in late 2020 after a large international clinical trial showed that it offered negligible protection against death in hospitalised patients. The government had also recommended other untested therapies such as the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine and Ivermectin, an anti-parasitic treatment. Convalescent plasma therapy remained on the list despite the Indian Council of Medical Research’s own studies finding little benefit. Officials from the National Health Authority, responsible for implementing the country’s flagship public health insurance program, did not respond to multiple requests for comment, nor did a spokesperson for the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. In rural areas, “people are either left to die or go bankrupt trying to find that life-saver drug or other solution,” said Ajay Mahal, a professor in health economics and global health systems research and deputy director of the Nossal Institute for Global Health at the University of Melbourne. “The state should begin by offering people an option — a strong and affordable primary care sector — instead of leaving them to their devices to unqualified providers and running around getting drugs from pharmacists, fake or genuine,” he added. In 2018, Prime Minister Narendra Modi unveiled a flagship program dubbed the world’s largest health insurance plan offering financial risk protection against catastrophic health expenditure to roughly 10.7 crore poor and vulnerable families — or close to 40 per cent of the population. Yet the new policy hasn’t “effectively improved” access to health care, according to a working paper by Duke University researchers. Even government-run hospitals can be costly for the poor: Nigam said he paid a subsidised rate of Rs 2,00,000 for one of his wife’s bypass surgeries. “I don’t have government health insurance because I didn’t know I was eligible,” he said. “Now I am trying, but there is a long backlog.” The rising medical debt poses a risk for Modi ahead of key state elections next year, including one in Uttar Pradesh — the country’s most populous state — where Nigam lives. His government’s approval ratings have fallen to 51 per cent this year from 75 per cent in 2019, according to a survey released May 29 by LocalCircles, an India-based polling company. Modi’s personal approval rating dipped to 66 per cent on June 8, down from a high of 76 per cent a year earlier, Morning Consult’s Global Leader Rating Tracker found. Even before the pandemic struck, India’s out-of-pocket expenses on health care were among the highest in the world, accounting for about 60 per cent of total health expenditure. Public health spending — including both the federal and state governments — hovered well below 2 per cent of gross domestic product, a number that rises to 3.5 per cent when including the private sector. That compares with 5.4 per cent of GDP in China and a global average of nearly 10 per cent, according to World Bank data. While there’s no data on how many Indians have been pushed to financial ruin by medical debt, researchers at Azim Premji University found that the virus erased decades of gains by pushing an additional 23 crore — more than the entire population of Pakistan — into poverty last year. More than 90 per cent of people borrowed a median amount of 15,000 rupees during the pandemic, they said, adding that the impact is expected to persist. Loans taken to meet out-of-pocket expenses on health can be more damaging than other household debt because the illness “limits one’s ability to work, leading to depletion of household savings and unanticipated economic shocks,” said Sunil Kumar Sinha, an economist with India Ratings and Research. A study in April and May among a poor community in the eastern state of Jharkhand found 58 per cent had already borrowed money and 11 per cent had sold assets during the pandemic, according to John Paul, director of the Centre for Rural Development at The/Nudge Foundation. “With no fallback options like savings or insurance, even basic necessities like food have become a challenge to poor households,” he said. Deep in India’s hinterland, the crisis is even more dire, with villagers being forced to reduce their food intake in order to pay for treatment. In Jharkhand, 24-year-old Soni Devi borrowed Rs 10,000 and sold three of the family’s six pigs to pay for Covid treatment for her mother and three children. Now she’s struggling to feed her family. “There is not much rice left at home,” said Devi. “We will die if we don’t get work.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/medical-debts-bankrupt-indians-already-ravaged-by-coronavirus-996093.html
10-06-2021||National||Covid-19 deaths in Maharashtra jump by 1,915 after portal update||During the last 24 hours, the state reported 393 deaths and 12,207 fresh cases. Besides, the 1,522 deaths that have been reported in the state over a week’s time have been added to the Covid portal, according to the Public Health Department. This pushed the state’s toll from 1,01,833 on Wednesday to 1,03,748 on Thursday. Out of the 1522 deaths, 573 occurred in Thane, 244 in Pune, 86 in Nashik, 67 in Ahmednagar, 58 in Nanded, 57 in Beed, 57 in Yavatmal, 50 in Raigad, 42 in Nagpur, 40 in Jalna, 36 in Kolhapur, 33 in Buldhana, 32 in Sangli, 21 in Akola, 18 in Palghar, 18 in Satara, 15 in Chandrapur, 12 in Ratnagiri, 10 in Aurangabad, 10 in Gondia, 9 in Nandurbar, 8 in Parbhani, 8 in Solapur, 5 in Hingoli, 5 in Osmanabad, 2 in Gadchiroli, 2 in Latur, 1 in Amravati, 1 in Dhule, 1 in Sindhudurg and 1 in Wardha. The total number of active cases in the state now stands at 1,60,643. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-deaths-in-maharashtra-jump-by-1915-after-portal-update-996096.html
10-06-2021||National||India dismisses Pakistan's 'uranium trafficking' allegation||The government on Thursday dismissed Pakistan’s allegation about alleged illicit uranium possession and sales in India. After police recently arrested seven persons at Bokaro in Jharkhand for allegedly trying to sell six kilograms of uranium, Pakistan called for a probe into illicit trafficking of the radioactive material in India. New Delhi, however, hit back to Islamabad and slammed it for making attempts to malign India. Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs (MEA), said in New Delhi that the department of atomic energy of the Government of India had confirmed after due evaluation and laboratory analysis of the sample that the material seized in Jharkhand last week was not uranium and not radioactive. “The gratuitous remarks about India by Pakistan’s foreign ministry drawing upon a media report indicate their disposition to malign India without caring to check or verify facts,” Bagchi said, dismissing recent remarks by his counterpart in the Pakistan government, Zahid Hafeez Chaudhry. Chaudhry recently told journalists in Islamabad that United Nations Security Council Resolution 1540 and the IAEA Convention on the physical protection of nuclear material made it binding on nations to ensure stringent measures to prevent nuclear material from falling into the wrong hands. “It is equally important to ascertain the intent and ultimate user of the attempted uranium sale given its relevance to international peace and security as well as the sanctity of the global non-proliferation regime,” said the spokesperson of the ministry of foreign affairs of the Pakistan government. He cited another recent incident of alleged recovery of seven kilograms of natural uranium at Nagpur in Maharashtra. “Let me also reaffirm that India maintains a stringent law-based regulatory system for internationally controlled items which is reflected in our impeccable non-proliferation credentials recognised by the international community,” Bagchi said, responding to comments by Chaudhry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-dismisses-pakistans-uranium-trafficking-allegation-996104.html
10-06-2021||National||DH Toon | Petrol price to reach space before Bezos?||Petrol prices have soared to record highs all over India, crossing the Rs100-mark, something that was previously unthinkable. Diesel prices, in fact, are also nearing the Rs 100-mark in a few towns in Rajasthan. On Monday, Jeff Bezos announced that he would join the winner of the Blue Origin space flight auction, which is all set to lift off next month. The New Shepard aircraft will head for outer space on July 20, the same day Apollo 11 landed on the moon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-petrol-price-to-reach-space-before-bezos-996133.html
10-06-2021||National||India in touch with various stakeholders in Afghanistan, says MEA||India on Thursday said it is in touch with various stakeholders in Afghanistan in pursuance of its long-term commitment towards peace, development and reconstruction of that country. At a media briefing, External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said India has been engaging with Afghans across ethnicities and that it supports all peace initiatives in Afghanistan. "Our relations with Afghanistan are historical and multi-faceted. We have been engaging with Afghans across ethnicities. As a friendly neighbour, we are concerned about peace and security in Afghanistan and the region," Bagchi said. The spokesperson was asked about a media report that said India reached out to certain Taliban factions that are perceived to be outside the sphere of influence of Pakistan and Iran. Bagchi said he would not comment on the report.    "We support all peace initiatives and have been engaged with several stakeholders including regional countries," he said. There has been renewed push to expedite the Afghan peace process in the face of the drawdown of troops from Afghanistan by the US by September 11. "In the recent past, we have had visits by multiple Afghan leaders to India and we have also had official visits to Kabul. We are in touch with various stakeholders, as I said, in pursuance of our long term commitment towards development and reconstruction of Afghanistan," Bagchi said. The Taliban and the Afghan government are holding direct talks to end 19 years of war that has killed tens of thousands of people and ravaged various parts of the country. On September 12 last year, an Indian delegation attended the inaugural ceremony of the negotiations in Doha while External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar joined it through a video conference. "As you are aware, the external affairs minister participated in the inaugural ceremony of the intra-Afghan talks held in Doha last year. A senior official delegation attended the talks in Doha," Bagchi said. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested close to $3 billion aid and reconstruction activities in the country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process which is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. In March, Afghan foreign minister Mohammad Haneef Atmar visited India during which Jaishankar conveyed to him India's long-term commitment towards a peaceful, sovereign and stable Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-in-touch-with-various-stakeholders-in-afghanistan-says-mea-996138.html
10-06-2021||National||EU institutions split over Covid-19 vaccine patent waiver proposal by India, South Africa||The proposal mooted by India and South Africa at the WTO TRIPS council for temporarily waiving the Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) protection on the anti-Covid-19 vaccines and drugs has received support from the European Parliament, although the European Commission opposed it. The European Parliament on Thursday passed an amendment to a resolution – inserting in it a call for “support for proactive, constructive and text-based negotiations for a temporary waiver of the WTO TRIPS agreement, aiming to enhance global access to affordable Covid-19 related medical products and to address global production constraints and supply shortages. The amendment was passed by 355 votes in favour of it and 263 votes against it with 71 abstentions – just a day after the TRIPS Council of the WTO decided to start text-based negotiations on both the proposals – the one presented by India and South Africa as well as the one tabled by the European Union to block it. The European Parliament comprises 705 members directly elected by the citizens of the 27 member nations of the European Union. It is one of the legislative wings of the bloc, but it cannot make the European Commission – the executive wing of the EU – to change its stand on any issue. The European Commission has been opposing the proposal presented by India and South Africa on October 2, 2020 and revised on May 21 last. It also came up with a counter-proposal on June 4 last, calling upon governments to “facilitate the use of compulsory licensing” within the framework of the existing Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights Agreements, commonly known as TRIPS agreement. The proposal, initially moved by India and South Africa and now co-sponsored by at least 60 nations, however, suggested a temporary waiver from implementation, application and enforcement of the Sections 1 (copyrights and related rights), 4 (industrial design), 5 (patents) and 7 (protection of undisclosed information) of the Part II of the Agreement on Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights – commonly known as the TRIPS agreement – for prevention, containment and treatment of the Covid-19.     The waiver, according to its proponents, will allow any company anywhere in the world to produce cheaper versions of the equipment required to prevent the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus as well as the anti-Covid-19 drugs and vaccines, without the fear of being subjected to legal proceedings for violation of IPR protection. It will thus make it possible to scale up global production of the drugs and vaccines, instead of allowing only a small number of patent holding companies to manufacture and thus control global supply of the medical tools required to contain the pandemic.   The counter-proposal by the European Commission has been denounced not only by the proponents of the TRIPS waiver for anti-Covid-19 drugs and vaccines, but also by the international organizations, like the Medicines Sans Frontier.   “By focusing just on compulsory licensing, the EU is promoting a safeguard that can only bypass patents but not all IP barriers, thereby making it less effective than the proposed waiver,” Dimitri Eynikel, EU Policy Advisor for MSF's Access Campaign, said. “In this raging pandemic, countries need to have all options at their disposal to encourage the manufacturing of COVID-19 medical tools across the world. The EU and other nations opposing this waiver need to stop blocking other countries’ efforts to protect their populations in a public health emergency.”    The European Parliament’s support however sent out a political message in favour of the proposal mooted by India and South Africa for the IPR waiver on the anti-Covid-19 drugs and vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eu-institutions-split-over-covid-19-vaccine-patent-waiver-proposal-by-india-south-africa-996144.html
10-06-2021||National Politics||Speak Out: June 10, 2021||Ahead of the Uttar Pradesh elections next year, sulking Congress leader and former Union Minister Jitin Prasada on Wednesday joined the BJP, heralding a new chapter in his political innings. Prasada, 47, a two-term Lok Sabha member from Uttar Pradesh, is expected to boost the BJP’s efforts in wooing the influential Brahmin community in the state which has been feeling alienated in Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath tenure where the Thakur community appears to be calling the shots in power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/speak-out-june-10-2021-995792.html
10-06-2021||National Politics||Jitin Prasada's exit opens Pandora’s box for Congress, leadership scrambles to address Sachin Pilot's concerns||The Congress leadership has been quick to try and check any after-effects of Jitin Prasada’s switch to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), addressing party leader Sachin Pilot’s persistent demands that have put the Rajasthan government in hot water. The Congress sent out a message to Pilot hours after Prasada’s exit, with regard to the former deputy chief minister’s demands last year that are yet to be met. “There has to be a turnaround time. Sachin Pilot has to be patient," Congress spokesperson Supriya Srinate told the media, adding that the Congress had rewarded him by appointing him the country's youngest deputy chief minister. Sachin Pilot’s long wait How did it get to this? The Gandhi family intervened and Pilot returned to Jaipur after a committee was set up under general secretary Ajay Maken to redress the issues that Pilot and his camp had raised, ending a month-long standoff. Media reports on Pilot’s demands have varied, including a request to be declared the party’s chief ministerial candidate in the state before the 2022 state elections and that his supporters be awarded Cabinet berths or be made heads of corporations and other bodies. Sticky situation for Congress While the Congress leaders have repeatedly tried to assuage the Pilot camp, filling nine vacant Cabinet seats with Pilot loyalists would likely be a difficult task with Gehlot lobbying for Independents and former Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) legislators who saved his government during the floor test last August. The 10-month delay in meeting Pilot’s demands has been due to the death of senior leader Ahmed Patel, who was the crisis manager hammering out the details of Pilot’s return, a Congress leader told HT. The leader also said side-lining Gehlot was not an option for the party as he was a three-time chief minister and had got 10 per cent more votes in the bypolls than he had in 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jitin-prasadas-exit-opens-pandora-s-box-for-congress-leadership-scrambles-to-address-sachin-pilots-concerns-995855.html
10-06-2021||National Politics||Signs of discontent in Bengal BJP: Here's what we know so far||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is struggling to keep its troops together in West Bengal in the aftermath of the drubbing it received at the hands of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the assembly elections, with more and more voices criticising the top leadership. The meet comes at a time when several key TMC turncoats have either distanced themselves or spoken out against some of the BJP’s plans for the state. Banerjee, in a Facebook post headlined “There has been enough criticism”, said “to criticise a government which came to power with a massive public mandate and to oppose its Chief Minister, the repeated reference to Delhi (Centre) and Article 356 will not go down well with the people of Bengal”.  The BJP leadership has also come under fire for doing little for the safety of its workers amid post-poll violence in the state. Last week, BJP state president and Kharagpur MP Dilip Ghosh was publicly chastised by his own party workers, and met with protests and slogans at an organisational meeting of the party.  Former TMC general secretary and BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy also skipped a state BJP meeting on post-poll violence, saying he was not informed about it and had been preoccupied with personal problems as his wife is currently suffering from Covid. However, Dilip Ghosh said Roy had been informed and had said he would attend it if he had time. Moreover, Roy’s son, Subhrangshu, had recently posted on Facebook saying, “before criticising a government elected with people’s support, introspection is the need of the hour”. Heavyweights Rajib Banerjee and Shamik Bhattacharya also skipped the meet, adding more fuel to reports of discontent within the party. Recently-appointed TMC national general secretary, Abhishek Banerjee, has told the press that it wasn’t only turncoats but also some BJP MLAs who were seeking to switch to the TMC and that Mamata Banerjee would make the final call.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/signs-of-discontent-in-bengal-bjp-heres-what-we-know-so-far-995961.html
10-06-2021||National Politics||Jitin Prasada reveals why he left Congress||A day after switching over to the BJP, Jitin Prasada Thursday said he left the Congress not because of any individual or for any post, but due to its shrinking vote base and the "rising disconnect" between the party and the people of Uttar Pradesh. Prasada, whose family had been associated with the party for three generations and who himself had served as a Union minister in the Congress-led UPA government, joined the BJP Wednesday, terming it the "only true national party" in the country. Prasada didn't put blame on any individual within the Congress for his departure. "I left the Congress not due to any individual or for any post. The reason I left the Congress was because there is a rising disconnect between the party and the people. And that is the reason, its vote share is shrinking in Uttar Pradesh and there is no plan to revive the party," Prasada told PTI Thursday. He was among the group of 23 Congress leaders who had written to party president Sonia Gandhi last October seeking an organisational overhaul, triggering a storm within the party. Claiming that he could not protect his people's interests while being in the Congress, Prasada said, he will achieve this in the BJP, which he described as the only institutionalised national party in the country. "It (joining the BJP) was not a sudden decision," he said. "I have taken this decision after long discussions and deliberations. I want to serve people, work for them and in the BJP, under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, I would be able to do that." Talking about his future plans, Prasada said he will work to strengthen the BJP and for the welfare of his state. "Whatever I do, wherever I will be, I will work for my people, for my state Uttar Pradesh and for my country," he said. The 47-year-old former Union minister, who comes from a well-known Brahmin family of Uttar Pradesh, has refrained from attacking the Congress leadership. Jitin is son of Jitendra Prasada, a key Congress leader before his fortunes plunged following his decision to contest against Sonia Gandhi for the post of party president in 2000. His joining the BJP may help him politically at a time when the saffron party is working overtime to boost its ranks in preparation for the assembly polls. Once considered close to Rahul Gandhi, a bevy of young Congress leaders, including Sachin Pilot and Milind Deora, have been reportedly unhappy with the state of affairs in their party, with some of them joining the BJP. Tamil Nadu leader Khushbu Sundar had also quit the Congress for the saffron party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jitin-prasada-reveals-why-he-left-congress-995970.html
10-06-2021||National Politics||Over my dead body: Kapil Sibal says he can never think of joining BJP, slams Jitin Prasada||Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Thursday said Jitin Prasada's crossing over to the BJP represented politics of "prasada" or personal gains and asserted that for him a switch to the saffron party could only happen over his dead body. Sibal, along with Jitin Prasada, was among the Congress' group of 23 leaders who wrote to party chief Sonia Gandhi seeking an organisational overhaul last year. The veteran Congress leader said hypothetically if his party thinks of him as "deadwood" or of no utility, he may think of leaving, but would never join the BJP, asserting that such a switch could only happen "over my dead body". In an interview with PTI, Sibal said if Jitin Prasada would have left the party unhappy over the response of the leadership on the concerns raised by the letter writers that would have been his personal choice and he was entitled to leave, but wondered why he decided to join the BJP. "What is the rational basis for that except for 'prasada (personal gain) politics...We see this happening around the country," Sibal asserted. Asked about the reforms not being implemented which he along with 22 other leaders had sought in the party, Sibal said that is for the top political leaders to decide and that he has no comments to offer at this stage. "As long as we are in the Congress and we continue to embrace its ideology, I think all 22 of us, now that we are 22, and many more who were not part of the signed document will continue to raise our issues to strengthen the Congress and where we want the party to go and be the grand old party it was," he said. "And if they tell me at any point in time that they don't need me, I will decide what to do, but as I said I will not join the BJP...over my dead body," the senior Congress leader asserted. In a tweet earlier, Sibal had said the question is will Jitin Prasada get "prasada" from the BJP, or is he just a 'catch' for UP elections. In such deals if 'ideology' doesn't matter changeover is easy, he tweeted. Slamming Jitin Prasada's switch to the BJP and his hailing the saffron party, Sibal told PTI that the norm in politics now is "Prasada will go for prasada". "From 'Aaya Ram Gaya Ram' we are into 'prasada (personal gain) politics. We saw this happening recently in West Bengal where en-masse people left TMC and joined the BJP with hopes of contesting on a BJP ticket and win because Amit Shah was claiming 200-plus seats for the BJP. When they faced defeat, they all want to go back to the TMC," Sibal said. 'Aaya Ram Gaya Ram' was an expression used widely in politics in the 1990s referring to the frequent floor-crossing and switching of parties. Hitting out at switchovers by leaders to the BJP in various states, Sibal said all this shows that there is no concept of principled politics in this country as witnessed in West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, among other places. "It is all about prasada. How much prasada you are going to get, no regard for ideology. My criticism of what he (Jitin) has done is not that he has left the party; I cannot criticise him for that, that is his personal decision... but how does he justify to himself joining the BJP," he said. "This is a party he (Jitin) abused for decades. He himself said that his association with the Congress and its ideology was for several decades. How then does he justify joining an ideology which he has opposed for three decades," Sibal asked. The former Union minister said what concerns him is the way ideology is being put aside across the country. He cited the example of Haryana and the absence of any rationale in the coalition of the Chautalas and the BJP. It is just lust for power, he alleged. Pressing his point, Sibal cited the example of the US and the UK, saying the Republicans may be in trouble at this moment but they are not joining the Democrats in America and the same was true of the Labour party and the Conservatives in the UK. "Members of Parliaments in Europe do not indulge in such acrobatic switches for personal gain. Those too are functional democracies. Democracy in this country has become dysfunctional because it is not based on ideology," Sibal said. The fight for power should be based on the clash of ideologies and not on personal "prasadas," he asserted. Asked if he could ever think of leaving the party he has been with for decades, Sibal said "If the party considers that I have no value for it I might think of leaving it, but I would never join the BJP. This is because I am wedded to a particular ideology". "Politics is not for personal gain, embracing ideologies which members of a party do not believe just for a Rajya Sabha seat or a position in the party or some other position. That is not my idea of politics," he asserted. Expressing concern over the increasing trend of leaders switching between diametrically opposite ideologies, Sibal said the other real problem is that when people look at politicians behaving in this fashion they believe that these politicians are untrustworthy, unprincipled and have no ideology. This has nothing to do with value-based politics. If workers see their leaders jettisoning value-based politics they too will do the same, Sibal argued. "That weakens the foundations of democracy, the trust of the people in democratic principles and if the foundations of democracy get weakened, the structure one day will collapse. My worry is that my worry is not Jitin Prasada moving away from the Congress," he said. Sibal also slammed the BJP for welcoming 'prasada politics'. Its actions are equally unprincipled, he added. Apart from Sibal, G-23 leaders Shashi Tharoor and M Veerappa Moily have also slammed Prasada for switching to the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/over-my-dead-body-kapil-sibal-says-he-can-never-think-of-joining-bjp-slams-jitin-prasada-996031.html
10-06-2021||National Politics||They were cleaning mirror when dirt was on their face: Yadav on Oppn criticism of vaccination drive||The BJP leader hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his "stellar leadership" in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic, saying he led the country from the front during the crisis while opposition parties and states ruled by them were busy washing their hands of the responsibility. The opposition is mandated to offer constructive criticism, and it is welcome, but it should be rational, Yadav said. Leaders of the opposition parties, including Rahul Gandhi, and their chief ministers were the ones who asked for decentralising the drive, he said. "They only demanded the right to directly approach vaccine producers, and when the government has done that, why are they crying foul," Yadav asked. Underlining that health is a state subject, the BJP leader claimed, "Many vaccination centres in opposition-ruled states were reporting that not enough people were turning up for the jabs. Rajasthan was caught burying vaccines in pits and throwing it away in garbage bins, while Punjab wanted to make a profit out of the vaccines by selling them to private hospitals." Rather than focussing on effective implementation of the vaccination drive, the opposition was flip-flopping on this sensitive issue, he said, adding that it was Prime Minister Modi who took the responsibility in his hand. "This entire fiasco of the opposition amid this pandemic reminds me of a few lines... Woh umar bhar yahi karta raha, dhool chehere pe thi aur aiyna saaf karta raha (They continued to commit this mistake the whole life, they cleaned the mirror while the dirt was on their face)," Yadav told PTI. Emphasising on the importance of inoculation, he said vaccines were a valuable resource and should not be wasted. "Each jab saved is a life saved. The state government and agencies concerned should act swiftly to take action against the people responsible and make sure this is not repeated. Our government at the Centre is making continuous efforts to make vaccines available for everyone," Yadav said. Targeting the opposition, the BJP leader said they tried to play politics by creating doubts in the minds of people around the vaccines. One leader even went on to call it a "BJP vaccine", while another questioned its efficiency through a press statement which led to vaccine hesitancy, Yadav said. "The misfortune, however, over the past seven years has been that the opposition has only indulged in negative politics because it is unnerved by the massive popularity of Prime Minister Modi and the huge ground support for the BJP," he said. Yadav asserted that the Centre's decisions to tackle the pandemic were taken after consulting scientists, virologists, subject experts and other stakeholders. Describing the pandemic as a "once-in-a century" crisis, the BJP leader said the opposition should stop politicising the issue and work together with the Centre in helping people. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/they-were-cleaning-mirror-when-dirt-was-on-their-face-yadav-on-oppn-criticism-of-vaccination-drive-996038.html
10-06-2021||National Politics||BJP received Rs 785 crore in contributions in 2019-20, Congress Rs 139 crore||According to the BJP's latest contribution report submitted to the Election Commission in February and put out in the public domain by the poll panel this week, the party received over Rs 785 crore in contributions. Major contributors for the BJP included electoral trusts, corporates and leaders of the party itself among others. Among the leaders who contributed to the party funds included Piyush Goyal, Pema Khandu, Kirron Kher and Raman Singh. ITC, Kalyan Jewellers, Rare Enterprises, Ambuja Cement, Lodha Developers and Motilal Oswal were some of the corporate houses which contributed to the BJP's kitty. New Democratic Electoral Trust, Prudent Electoral Trust, Jankalyan Electoral Trust and Triumph Electoral Trust also contributed to the BJP's funds. According to the contribution report of the Congress, it received Rs 139 crore as contributions. The Trinamool Congress received Rs 8 crore, while CPI got Rs 1.3 crore. The CPI (M) received Rs 19.7 crore as contributions. The contribution report only lists donations only above Rs 20,000. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, the EC has extended the deadline for submission of the annual audit reports for 2019-20 to June 30. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-received-rs-785-crore-in-contributions-in-2019-20-congress-rs-139-crore-996051.html
10-06-2021||National Politics||Be it young or old leaders, Congress faces a commitment crisis||Latching on to Rahul Gandhi's once close associate Jitin Prasada joining BJP, Congress veterans raised questions on the ideological commitments of the young deserters, but a close look at the list of leaders who left the party since 2014, does not paint a rosy picture of the seniors as well. Be it the young or the old leaders, Congress stares at a crisis of commitment with deserters including at least five chief ministers in the past. A day after Prasada quit Congress and joined BJP, former Union Minister Kapil Sibal on Thursday coined the term "Prasada Ram" to mock the likes of Jitin, who moved to the BJP in hope of some plum post, after having served in Congress. "Jitin Prasada Joins BJP. The question is will he get 'prasada' from BJP or is he just a ‘catch’ for UP elections? In such deals if ‘ideology’ doesn’t matter changeover is easy," Sibal tweeted. Talking to NDTV separately, he emphatically ruled out any such move for himself, declaring "it would be over my dead body" . Another old war horse of Congress M Veerappa Moily in an interview to PTI said that the top leadership must give primacy to ideological commitment while giving responsibility to leaders and called for a major "surgery" to be competitive now as "there is no tomorrow". Many Congress workers also took to social media to express outrage with photos of Jyotiraditya Scindia, who helped the BJP reclaim Madhya Pradesh by resigning from Congress in March 2020 and Sachin Pilot, whose run-ins with Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot continue to raise the possibility of another break up in Congress any time. But a close look at the desertions from Congress since 2014 (when Narendra Modi-led BJP came to power), shows that ideological commitment is an issue on which the seniors have also been found wanting. Congress spokesperson Tom Vadakkan, a close aide of Sonia Gandhi, resigned from Congress after serving the party for 20 years and immediately joined the BJP in March 2019. Congress has lost to BJP over a dozen leaders including former chief ministers and former Union ministers.  They include former Union ministers D Purandeswari, Krishna Tirath, former Uttarakhand CM Vijay Bahuguna, former Maharashtra Chief Minister (when he was in Shiv Sena) and senior Congress leader Narayan Rane, N Biren Singh, a Cabinet minister in previous Congress-led government of Manipur, who is now Chief Minister from BJP, Himanta Biswa Sarma, once the number two of Congress in Assam and now the state Chief Minister from BJP. The list includes former External Affairs Minister S M Krishna, who had also served as Chief Minister of Karnataka as well as veteran ND Tiwari (who died in October 2018 ), who was made Chief Minister of both Uttar Pradesh and then truncated Uttarakhand. Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Prema Khandhu, who extended his warmest welcome to Prasada for having joined the "right place that nurtures talent", had quit Congress in October 2016 with 43 MLAs and is currently Chief Minister from BJP. However, BJP is not the only beneficiary of the fire in the Congress backyard. Five-time Chief Minister of Meghalaya Donwa Dethwelson Lapang had resigned from Congress and joined NPP in 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/be-it-young-or-old-leaders-congress-faces-a-commitment-crisis-996052.html
10-06-2021||North and Central||Urban regeneration of old buildings in draft Delhi Master Plan 2041||Urban regeneration of modern buildings constructed over five decades ago or earlier are envisioned in the draft Master Plan of Delhi 2041, aiming to renew the ageing structures and improve the quality of life of the people of these areas. The draft MPD 2041 has been made available on the website of the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and public suggestions and objections have been invited, a senior DDA official said on Wednesday. "A large number of areas in Delhi were developed between 1940-1970, resulting in an old built stock. Many of these areas are in a dilapidated state, in need of regeneration and can be utilised more optimally. These areas have different characteristics, needs, potentials and constraints, highlighting the requirement for a nuanced strategy for regeneration across the city," the draft said. The strategy is to use regeneration as a planning and design tool for renewing the ageing and unsafe building stock and improving the quality of life of the people living and working in these areas, it added. "It will also facilitate provision of physical and social infrastructure, revitalisation of historically and culturally significant areas, enhancement of the public realm and strategic development in select areas by unlocking their latent potential," the draft said. The policy shall apply to all the existing developed areas, except areas under natural greens and water bodies, drains and buffers and any other areas identified for environmental protection, zone 'O', green development areas, land-pooling areas, TOD (transit-oriented development) nodes and monuments, prohibited areas and notified heritage sites or plots, among others. The Civil Lines bungalow area (according to the layout plan of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation and the DDA), the Lutyen's bungalow zone (according to the layout plans of the NDMC, L&DO) and embassies, diplomatic enclaves, foreign missions would also be excluded, the draft said. Regulations for regeneration shall be prepared and notified within six months of the notification of the plan, it added. The land-pooling policy and the green development area policy are also part of this vision document. The land-pooling policy is based on public-private partnership towards pro-actively increasing economic opportunities and housing supply in a time-bound manner, and harnessing private potential through the pooling of land parcels. Under the policy, agencies will develop infrastructure like roads, schools, hospitals, community centres and stadia on the pooled land and return a portion of the plot to farmers, who can later execute housing projects with the help of private builders. The land-pooling policy was notified by the DDA in September 2018. DDA's green development area policy seeks to boost green development and curb pollution in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/urban-regeneration-of-old-buildings-in-draft-delhi-master-plan-2041-995732.html
10-06-2021||North and Central||Congress protests against Aligarh hooch tragedy, calls for President's rule in UP||Congress party functionaries staged demonstrations at several places in Ghaziabad district on Wednesday as part of statewide protests against the recent Aligarh hooch tragedy. Nearly 50 people died of spurious liquor consumption in Aligarh recently on two different occasions, while officials estimate that the death toll could go up to 100 as autopsy reports of another 50 suspected hooch consumer victims are awaited. The protests were carried out on the directions of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi and the party's UP president Ajay Kumar Lallu. Addressing the gathering at Razapur block office, Congress district president Bijendra Yadav said more than 100 people had died at several places in the state after consuming illicit liquor. The state government has gone mute on this issue which shows that BJP leaders have close ties with the 'liquor mafia', he alleged. In the city area, sit-ins were staged at three different places with Mahanagar Congress chief Manoj Kaushik leading one such protest. He said President Ram Nath Kovind must dismiss the state government and impose President's rule. Police force was deployed at every protest spot to maintain law and order, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-protests-against-aligarh-hooch-tragedy-calls-for-presidents-rule-in-up-995737.html
10-06-2021||North and Central||23 lakh daily wagers in UP get Rs 230 cr in bank accounts||Aiming to provide relief to the poor suffering due to the economic slowdown caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday transferred Rs 230 crore into bank accounts of 23 lakh daily wagers, a UP government statement said. "Be it the dream of building a house, proper treatment for illness, cost of education or the need of financial help in any mishap, the state government is there with you at every step, Adityanath said on the occasion. Referring to the Covid-19 management in the state, Adityanath said in the past a year and a half, when the entire world was grappling with the pandemic, Uttar Pradesh has managed to bring the outrageous situation under control through collective efforts of the government and its people. “UP has a total population of about 25 crore and today states with half of our population are recording as many fresh Covid cases on a daily basis as we have in total, he claimed, adding that the state has the best recovery rate in the entire country. He appealed to people get themselves vaccinated and follow the Covid protocols.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/23-lakh-daily-wagers-in-up-get-rs-230-cr-in-bank-accounts-995739.html
10-06-2021||North and Central||Centre's move of capping Covid vaccine prices at hospitals came late: Punjab minister||Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Wednesday said the Centre’s decision of capping the price of Covid vaccines at private hospital came late and urged it to abolish the 25 per cent quota kept for private players. Two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the central government will provide free coronavirus vaccines to states and union territories for inoculation of all above 18 from June 21, Sidhu in a statement urged the Centre to refund all payments made by state governments for vaccines. The decision of capping the price was taken at a much later stage when private hospitals have already made huge profits while BJP leaders levelled false allegations that the Punjab government is making profit by supplying vaccines to them, the minister said. He said the state governments do not enjoy the unique position of the Centre, which has the advantage of being a monopolistic buyer and can negotiate an appropriate price. The Centre was getting the Covishield vaccine at Rs 150 per dose whereas the state government was getting it at Rs 315, he said. The minister also said the Centre should administer free vaccines to all sections of society as the BJP had announced in several assembly polls. Keeping this in view, the Centre should abolish the 25 per cent quota allocated to private players, he said. Lashing out at the Centre for blaming Punjab government for allegedly making profit by supplying vaccines to private hospitals, the minister said considering the vaccine policy of the Union government, they decided to prioritise the poor and most deserving sections. He said the private hospitals were expected to cater to those in the 18-44 age group who wanted to avail paid vaccination such as students and those who have to take up jobs in foreign countries and were not being covered in any of the priority groups. He said the month of May witnessed the peak of the second wave and many youngsters aged between 18-44 appealed to the Punjab government that there was no vaccination available in private hospitals in Punjab unlike other states. Sidhu stated the vaccines were given to the private hospitals at the rate they would have paid to the manufacturers as giving at a rate less than that would have given them undue profit. The sale price of vaccines supplied to private hospitals went into the state fund for the purchase of vaccines for the poor and the deserving, he said. The minister clarified that fixing the rate of any vaccine as well as medicine falls under the purview of the Centre and latest instructions regarding capping of vaccine prices at private hospitals have been issued to all deputy commissioners and civil surgeons to ensure the compliance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centres-move-of-capping-covid-vaccine-prices-at-hospitals-came-late-punjab-minister-995781.html
10-06-2021||North and Central||15 NDRF teams deployed in Maharashtra in view of heavy rain prediction||Fifteen National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams have been positioned in various parts of Maharashtra in view of the prediction of heavy rains in certain parts of the state, the force chief said on Thursday. Four teams have been based in Ratnagiri, two each in Mumbai, Sindhudurg, Palghar, Raigad, Thane and one in Kurla (east Mumbai suburb), NDRF Director General S N Pradhan said in a tweet. He said the teams are being pre-deployed or positioned at these locations on the request of the state government that acted in response to the prediction of heavy rains made by the India Metrological Department (IMD). An NDRF team usually has 47 personnel and they are equipped with inflatable boats, wood and pole cutters and basic first aid kits to rescue rains and floods affected victims and launch relief operations. Heavy rains lashed Mumbai and its suburbs on Wednesday, causing flooding on roads and rail tracks and disrupting train services as the south-west monsoon arrived in the city. The weather department also issued a 'red alert' for Mumbai, neighbouring Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts, warning of very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-ndrf-teams-deployed-in-maharashtra-in-view-of-heavy-rain-prediction-995841.html
10-06-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Woman, 5 daughters jump to death before speeding train||A woman and her five daughters allegedly committed suicide by jumping in front of a moving train apparently after a domestic dispute in Chhattisgarh's Mahasamund district, police said on Thursday. The incident took place on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday near a railway crossing between Mahasamund and Belsonda, around 55 km from the state capital, they said. As per preliminary information, Uma Sahu (45), a native of Bemcha village, had a quarrel with her husband. After the tiff, the woman along with her daughters - Annapurna (18), Yashoda (16), Bhumika (14), Kumkum (12) and Tulsi (10) - rushed to the railway tracks and took the extreme step, Mahasamund Additional Superintendent of Police Megha Tembhurkar Sahu told PTI. After being alerted in the morning, a police team went to the spot and sent the bodies for postmortem, she said. “Prima facie, it seems the woman had a fight with her husband following which she took the extreme step along with her daughters,” Sahu said. No suicide note has been found so far and an investigation into the case is underway, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-woman-5-daughters-jump-to-death-before-speeding-train-995846.html
10-06-2021||North and Central||5 out of 20 J&K districts have high Covid-19 positivity rate||Twenty-five per cent of Jammu and Kashmir’s 20 districts have a positivity rate that is much higher than the Union Territory (UT) average, a trend necessitating further tracing, testing and isolation. As per official figures, the overall positivity rate in J&K is 3.17 per cent, currently. However, between June 2 and 9, the positive percentage in the frontier district of Kupwara has been the highest in J&K. In this remote district,16.18 per cent of the samples tested were found positive. In the worst-affected district of Srinagar, 14.44 per cent of the samples were positive while in the adjoining Budgam district positive rate was 12.99 per cent. Similarly, in the Jammu division, Jammu and Reasi districts have a positive rate of nearly 13 per cent.  A senior health department official said high positivity rate is an indicator that a large number of those being tested in such scenarios are likely to be those showing symptoms or admitted to hospitals, “while the pre- or asymptomatic go undetected and thus carry the risk of spreading the infection,” he said. Numbers show the UT has been carrying out an average of 46,442 tests daily from June 1 to June 9. Out of a total of 4,17,979 samples taken in the first nine days of June, 13,284 tested positive. During the entire period of the pandemic, 3.38 out of every 100 people tested, were found positive, the data reveals. In districts with a high positivity rate, more RT-PCR tests have been done, while districts with low positivity rates have around 80 per cent of the samples being tested using Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) kits. RAT, as per experts, has lesser sensitivity than RT-PCR and the chances of a false negative result are high. J&K is among the highest Covid-19 case density areas in the country which is nearly 25,000 cases per million of the population. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 12.5 million. The national average per million population so far is nearly 21,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-out-of-20-jk-districts-have-high-covid-19-positivity-rate-995938.html
10-06-2021||North and Central||Girls should not be given mobile phones as it leads to rape, says UP Women's Commission member||Uttar Pradesh Women's Commission member Meena Kumari stoked a controversy after she said that girls should not be given mobile phones as "it leads to rapes". A video in which the Women's Panel member could be heard making the remarks went viral on social media platforms on Thursday. ''We must keep a watch on our daughters...we should know where they are going, with whom they spend time....It has been seen that girls befriend boys on mobiles and later they elope with them,'' Kumari is heard saying in the video. Kumari blamed the mothers of the victims for the rising incidents of rapes. ''I think mothers are responsible for this (rapes)....they don't monitor the activities of their daughters,'' she added. She appealed to the parents not to give mobile phones to their daughters. In response to a Question abt rising rape cases, Meena Kumari, Member, UP Women Commission said: “Girls should not be given mobile phones. They talk on phone & later elope for marriage" The opposition parties lashed out against the women's panel member over her remarks and demanded that she must tender an unconditional apology. ''It is really shameful that being a woman herself, Meena Kumari has made such a remark....to shift the blame for rapes on to the parents is ridiculous...what about anti-Romeo Squad?....what is its responsibility?'' senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Anurag Bhadauria said. UP Congress president Ajai Kumar Laloo demanded an apology from the member for her remarks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/girls-should-not-be-given-mobile-phones-as-it-leads-to-rape-says-up-womens-commission-member-995963.html
10-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi's first smog tower will be ready by August 15: Rai||Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Thursday said Delhi's first smog tower at Connaught Place will be ready by August 15. The Delhi cabinet had approved the project in October last year. The 25-metre-tall structure, being set up to improve air quality in a radius of around 1 km, was supposed to be ready by June 15. “The COVID-19 pandemic delayed the construction work of the smog tower, the first-of-its-kind in India, at Baba Kharak Singh Marg. The work is being expedited. The ambitious project will be ready by August 15,” Rai told reporters here. “China also has such smog towers, but this one works on different technology. The ones in China suck the polluted air from the bottom and release the clear air from the top, whereas this smog tower works in the opposite direction,” he said. The smog tower at Connaught Place will be able to purify 1000 cubic metres of air per second, the minister said. He also said many experts have different views about the efficacy of smog tower. “This is a pilot project. Experts will study its outcomes and thereafter, the government will take a call on building more such structures,” he said. Tata Projects Limited (TPL) is implementing the Rs 20-crore project on the ground with technical support from IIT-Bombay. The National Building Construction Corporation India Ltd. has been appointed as project management consultant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-first-smog-tower-will-be-ready-by-august-15-rai-995988.html
10-06-2021||North and Central||UP CM Adityanath calls on Amit Shah; likely to meet PM, Nadda||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath Thursday met senior BJP leader and Union minister Amit Shah here, and is also likely to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and party chief JP Nadda during his two-day visit, sources said. While Adityanath will meet PM Modi on Friday, his meeting with Nadda may take place Thursday itself or on Friday, the sources added. Adityanath is visiting Delhi a day after Congress leader Jitin Prasada, who comes from a well-known Brahmin family in Uttar Pradesh, switched over to the BJP. Adityanath's meeting with the central BJP leadership assumes significance as the politically crucial state of Uttar Pradesh is scheduled for assembly polls early next year. BJP's general secretary BL Santhosh had earlier this month visited the state to review the party's preparations for assembly elections. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-adityanath-calls-on-amit-shah-likely-to-meet-pm-nadda-995999.html
10-06-2021||North and Central||Two-storeyed shopping complex of Samajwadi Party leader razed in Uttar Pradesh's Etah||A two-storeyed shopping complex built "illegally" by a local Samajwadi Party leader was demolished by the district administration on Thursday, officials said. District Magistrate Ankit Aggarwal said SP leader Jugendra Singh Yadav had built the structure on the gram sabha land using his influence and without getting the building plan passed from the authorities. It was demolished after it was found illegal after a probe, he said. District officials along with police arrived in large numbers to demolish the structure worth about Rs 1 crore. The demolition work started after around 60 shops in the building were vacated. Describing the action as unjust, Jugendra Singh Yadav, a former president of the district panchayat, said his lawyer showed all documents to the officials but they did not listen to him. He said legal action will be taken against all those behind the demolition of the building.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-storeyed-shopping-complex-of-samajwadi-party-leader-razed-in-uttar-pradeshs-etah-996002.html
10-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi reports 305 new Covid-19 cases, 44 more fatalities||Delhi recorded 305 Covid-19 cases and 44 more fatalities on Thursday with a positivity rate of 0.41 per cent, according to the health bulletin released here. The national capital had recorded 337 new infections with a positivity rate of 0.46 per cent and 36 fatalities on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-305-new-covid-19-cases-44-more-fatalities-996023.html
10-06-2021||North and Central||'May get killed' if Asaram Bapu released on bail, rape survivor's father claims in SC||The father of the child rape survivor has moved the Supreme Court opposing the bail of self-styled godman Asaram Bapu in the case. The petitioner claimed he is apprehensive that his daughter and his family could be killed by the followers or henchmen of the "powerful" godman.   The plea filed through advocate Utsav Bains contended that Asaram is highly influential and politically connected and has a force of millions of blind followers around the country. The accused also hired Kartik Haldar who killed and attacked eyewitnesses and confessed to the police that it was at the instance of Asharam. The survivor’s father claimed during the course of the trial, he and his family members were threatened with dire consequences. “Recently also, the applicant herein has been threatened and shockingly the State of Uttar Pradesh has reduced security and they are again very vulnerable to murderous attacks," the plea claimed. “10 eyewitnesses have been attacked and 3 of them died and in all likelihood, the petitioner, if granted bail, will organise revenge killing of the child rape victim and her family and of the rape victim and eyewitnesses pending at Surat, Gujarat," it alleged. The plea contended that the state-sponsored impunity of Asaram is so grave that in spite of a hired killer Kartik Haldar confessing to the police that he shot dead key eyewitness Akhil Gupta on Asaram’s orders, the UP police is yet to question or arrest him or even make him an accused after registering an FIR. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/may-get-killed-if-asaram-bapu-released-on-bail-rape-survivors-father-claims-in-sc-996030.html
10-06-2021||North and Central||Jyotiraditya Scindia rubbishes talk of leadership change in Madhya Pradesh||BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia on Thursday dismissed the talk of change of guard in Madhya Pradesh, saying Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan was doing a good job. "Don't know from where this talk of change in Madhya Pradesh government sprang up. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is doing a good job amid the coronavirus pandemic for the last 16 months,” the Rajya Sabha member said. Scindia, who joined the BJP last year after quitting the Congress, started a three-day tour of Gwalior and Chambal region on Thursday. He met Chouhan and other party leaders in Bhopal over the Covid-19 situation the day before, he said. "Be it the chief minister, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar or me, we are working together.," Scindia said. On a question about the illegal sand mining in the Chambal river, he said he has always opposed illegal mining, and will ask the government to take stern action against the culprits. “But those who are paying mining royalty should get protection. If the miners paying royalty carry out illegal mining, they should also face action,” he added. The BJP government in the state handled the second wave of the pandemic well and preparations are on to combat a possible third wave, Scindia said, adding that vaccination should also take place alongside as "it is the most powerful weapon against the pandemic".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jyotiraditya-scindia-rubbishes-talk-of-leadership-change-in-madhya-pradesh-996040.html
10-06-2021||North and Central||Manohar Lal Khattar inaugurates, lays foundation stone of projects worth Rs 1,170 cr||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of developmental projects worth over Rs 1,170 crore and said the state government was committed to ensuring equitable development. Reiterating the commitment of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas', Khattar said the developmental projects were related to education, health, sports, strengthening road connectivity, water and power. During a state-level programme held through video conferencing, the chief minister inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of 98 projects in 16 districts including Karnal, Panchkula, Sirsa, Kurukshetra, Jind, Faridabad, Sonipat, Hisar and Rohtak. This includes the inauguration of various projects of over Rs 200 crore and laying of the foundation stone of other projects costing around Rs 900 crore, an official statement said here. Speaking at the event, Khattar said that in the past seven years, the BJP-led government has ensured equitable development of all the 90 assembly constituencies in the state while believing in the mantra of 'Haryana Ek, Haryanvi Ek'. "In the last seven years, the state government has been dedicatedly working towards swiftly taking the state forward on the development track," he said. He added that in the implementation of many schemes by the state government, Haryana has become a role model for other states. "The campaign to make the villages of the state free from 'Lal Dora' (land that is part of the village 'abadi' or habitation and is used for non-agriculture purposes only) that was launched by the Haryana government was later adopted by the Centre under the title of SVAMITVA yojana," he said. Khattar said realising the need for water conservation with water table going down in many parts, the Mera Pani Meri Virasat Yojana was launched last year to encourage farmers for crop diversification and to save ground water for future generations. Under this scheme, an appeal was made to the farmers of the state to adopt alternative crops in place of water-guzzling paddy, he added. Taking a dig at the opposition for alleging that the state government has discontinued tubewell connections to farmers, he said this was not true. Various steps are being taken to provide adequate water facilities for irrigation purposes to the peasants, he added. "Under these steps, micro-irrigation (drip irrigation system) is being encouraged in the areas where the water table is below 100 feets," he said. He said that for micro-irrigation, a subsidy of up to 85 per cent is being provided to the farmers. He said that the government would provide tubewell connections to the farmers in the areas where the groundwater level is less than 100 feets and a micro-irrigation system would be implemented in the areas with more depth. "A tubewell connection would be given for any farmer who has tube-well motor of below 15 BHP (brake horsepower). This decision has been taken to promote micro-irrigation," he said. Listing several schemes launched for the benefit of farmers, he said constant efforts have been made by the state government to further strengthen the 'mandi' system across Haryana. "An amount of around Rs 7,000 crore would be spent on establishing an international horticulture market in Ganaur," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/manohar-lal-khattar-inaugurates-lays-foundation-stone-of-projects-worth-rs-1170-cr-996049.html
10-06-2021||North and Central||Probe ordered into Jharkhand Shelter Home, after complaints of sexual assault, torture by minor girls||A probe has been ordered into alleged sexual assault and torture of minor girls at a state-registered NGO while 40 minor children from the home are being shifted to another home, a top official said on Thursday. The probe comes in the wake of a first information report lodged on complaints by two minor tribal girls from the shelter home alleging that they were being sexually assaulted and tortured for nearly four years. The home was run by a Mother Teresa Welfare Trust, which has no links with the Sisters of Charity, founded by Saint Teresa, known as Mother Teresa prior to her canonisation. "We have ordered a high-level enquiry into the incident. The 11-member enquiry team comprises officials from the police, administration, doctors and others. The committee has been asked to submit its report as early as possible," Deputy Commissioner, East Singhbhum, Suraj Kumar told PTI. Kumar said the Director, National Employment Programme (NEP) is heading the probe team. "We have also asked the District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO) to shift the children from the Centre to another shelter home," he said. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), East Singhbhum, Dr M Tamil Vanan said the FIR has been lodged under Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act and sections of the Indian Penal Code against the Director of MTWT, Harpal Singh Thapar, his wife Pushpa Rani Tirkey, Warden Gita Singh, her son Aditya Singh and one more person on June 6 on the complaint of two minors that they were being sexually assaulted and psychologically tortured for a long time. Tirkey, wife of Director, MTWT, is also chairperson of the East Singhbhum district child welfare committee (CWC). No arrests could be made so far in the case, the SSP said. Both the minor girls, aged about 17 years have levelled serious allegations of abuse and investigations are on as to how many children were abused, the SSP said, adding that the incident came to light after the Shelter Home In-charge had lodged a missing FIR about both the tribal girls with Telco Police Station on May 5. Both the girls were traced by lady police officers from the Telco station but were not willing to return to the Shelter home and related harrowing tales of torture and abuse which was brought to the attention of senior police officials, he said. The girls, aged 16 and 17, have given video-recorded statements in which they have reiterated all the charges made in their statements to the special Pocso court. The girls said they were physically and mentally tortured at the home and were subjected to sexual assault by Thapar, Vanan said. The girls said they were in the children's home for the past four years, but no action was taken despite repeated complaints to Tirkey, the CWC chief, the SSP said, adding that the police were looking at the involvement of some other suspects as well. He said the police is awaiting medical reports of the two girls. The shelter home located at Shamsher Tower in Kharangajhar had girls in two rooms on the second floor, while the warden lived in another room on the same floor with her daughter and son while boys who had also been given shelter in the home, lived on the ground floor. Vanan said police were also probing allegations that Thapar and Tirkey used to transfer government funds and private donations into their personal accounts. Police said that the girls had alleged that money and other gifts and donations were taken away from them and added that efforts were on to arrest all accused by raiding possible hide-outs. When contacted, DSWO Satya Thakur told PTI: "There are 40 children in the government registered Mother Teresa Welfare Trust including 24 girls and 16 boys. All of them are below 18 years barring a girl and a boy each of 20 years. We will be shifting them to BK Bal Kalyan Singh run shelter home at Patamda by Friday. Mother Teresa Welfare Trust was being run for the last 10 years, she said. A Delhi Court last year had convicted 19 persons, including main accused Brajesh Thakur, in connection with sexual and physical assault of girls at a shelter home in Bihar's Muzaffarpur district. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/probe-ordered-into-jharkhand-shelter-home-after-complaints-of-sexual-assault-torture-by-minor-girls-996059.html
10-06-2021||North and Central||Dera Sacha Sauda chief discharged from Gurgaon hospital, back to Rohtak jail||Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh was on Thursday discharged from a private hospital in Gurgaon and was brought back to a Rohtak district jail where he has been serving his 20-year-term in a twin rape case of his two disciples. The 53-year-old, Dera Sacha Sauda chief was taken to Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon for some medical tests on Sunday and was brought back to Sunaria jail in Rohtak district on Thursday, officials said. “Yes, he has been brought back from the hospital,” Sunaria Jail Superintendent Sunil Sangwan told PTI over the phone. Singh was brought back to the jail in Haryana's Rohtak district under heavy police escort. Last Thursday, Singh had undergone some tests at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, after he complained of abdominal pain and was taken to the Gurgaon hospital on Sunday. In May, he had been admitted to a government hospital in Rohtak on complaints of dizziness and blood pressure fluctuation. He was discharged after an overnight stay at the hospital. Last month, he had been given day-long parole to meet his ailing mother. Singh, the chief of the Sirsa-headquartered sect, is serving a 20-year jail term for raping two of his women disciples in his ‘ashram’. He was convicted in August 2017 by a special CBI court in Panchkula. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dera-sacha-sauda-chief-discharged-from-gurgaon-hospital-back-to-rohtak-jail-996099.html
10-06-2021||Opinion||Is Windows not a big deal anymore?||By Melissa Mathieson I was surprised to stumble on the news that Microsoft is releasing a new version of Windows in a few weeks. I had no idea, and knowing stuff like that is my job. Not so long ago, a fresh model of Windows software was a marquee tech moment. Now, a Windows debut is basically a nonevent. This shows technology has evolved from a succession of big-bang moments to something so meshed into our lives that we often don’t notice it. The bottom line is that a lot of technology has become no big deal. And that is a very big deal. The last version of Windows as we knew it was arguably released in 2012. I was a reporter at The Wall Street Journal at the time, and my professional life that year was dominated by the unveiling of Windows 8 — including the anticipation, the strategy around it and its eventual reception. But that was basically the end of an era. New releases of Windows since then have become progressively less major. A significant reason is that personal computers are no longer the center of our digital lives. A new iPhone model gets a lot of attention — although it shouldn’t get so much — but a refresher to Windows doesn’t. Still, the supremacy of smartphones is an insufficient explanation. Starting about 2015, Windows began to get regularly tweaked under the hood — just like Netflix, Facebook and every app on your smartphone, as well as the software that runs the phone. In other words, Windows just changes in dribs and drabs all of the time without most people noticing. Instead of waiting years to get a fresh computer, we’re effectively getting a new PC with every tweak. The new edition of Windows will remodel the look of the software and improve features such as reordering apps. But because Microsoft incrementally revises Windows, new versions of the software matter less to most people. This shift for Windows was part of a remarkable transformation at Microsoft. The company’s obsession with Windows threatened to relegate Microsoft to tech irrelevancy. Then Microsoft hired a new CEO in 2014, and suddenly Windows wasn’t the beating heart of the company anymore. That shows just how much institutions can change. But more than that, a Windows launch morphing from a big thing to something a professional tech writer didn’t see coming reflects what technology has become. It’s no longer strictly the shiny new object that comes out of a box every once in a while. Technology is all around us all the time, and it’s perfectly normal. My colleagues and I write a lot about the downsides of technology’s impact on our brains, our towns and the world, but I don’t want to forget about the wow, either. I remember the feeling of magic the first time I tapped the Uber app and a car appeared at my door. On my last big pre-pandemic vacation, I decided to change my travel plans on the spur of the moment and booked a room at a bed-and-breakfast while standing on the side of a hiking trail in northern England. Also, like many of you, I’ve worked from home since March 2020, and doing so would have been much more difficult at the time Windows 8 was released. We get a new version of Windows and Netflix all of the time. We take a lot of this stuff for granted — and understandably so. But it’s worth pausing at times to appreciate the wonder.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/is-windows-not-a-big-deal-anymore-995802.html
10-06-2021||Opinion||Why Kenya matters for India's foreign policy||When India was battling the devastating second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, about 40 countries worldwide sent some assistance. India needed medical help from any country that was willing to extend its helping hand. However, the news of Kenya, an East African nation that was once known in India for its cricket team, sending assistance of 12 tonnes in the form of tea, coffee and groundnut met with some surprise and disbelief. Many Indians did not expect an African country like Kenya could send assistance to a significant power like India.    Now, just days after the news of the Kenyan assistance, India's External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is going to visit Kenya. Jaishankar's visit, scheduled from 12th to 14th June, is significant because Kenya is a crucial player in the geopolitics of East Africa and the Western Indian Ocean. It connects land-locked central and east African countries to the Indian Ocean and is pivotal in the region. Like India, Kenya is also a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council for the two-year term (2021-22). Both countries have important stakes in working closely on issues of mutual interest such as climate change. Importance for India For India, Kenya is a maritime neighbour connected by the Indian Ocean. Both India and Kenya were part of the British Empire. English language, love for cricket and democratic political systems are some other commonalities between the two countries. India is a significant development partner for Kenya and has extended assistance in loans, scholarships to students and gifting advanced medical equipment. Moreover, to augment its Africa engagement, India and the United States are working together in Kenya.     Kenya's importance to India also stems from the fact that the East African country is a haven of stability despite having Somalia and South Sudan, both unstable countries plagued with violence and insecurity, in its neighbourhood. Before Covid-19, Kenya was one of the fastest-growing African economies. It has the potential to emerge as one of the success stories in Africa. According to the World Bank, Kenya enjoys a "growing youthful population, a dynamic private sector, skilled workforce" as well as "improved infrastructure".   Indian traders, especially from the western coastal states such as Gujarat, have been trading with Kenya for centuries. Bilateral trade between India and Kenya stood at $ 2.208 billion in 2018-19. India is the third-largest source of tourists for the Kenyan tourism industry. Better connectivity and the growing Indian middle class are likely to boost these ties even further. Geopolitics of the Western Indian Ocean In the evolving geopolitics of the Western Indian Ocean, countries like Kenya have become a focus of contest between major powers. India, the US, China and Middle Eastern powers such as the United Arab Emirates are interested in strengthening their ties with an economic powerhouse like Kenya. When the US decided to pull out its troops from Somalia earlier this year, they were re-deployed in Kenya as it has been a steadfast partner for the US for decades. In the recent past, Britain has been strengthening the defence cooperation with Kenya as it returns to the Indian Ocean. Kenya has benefitted from the ongoing strategic competition. China has built an important railway line in Kenya connecting the capital Nairobi with the port of Mombasa. The railway line has generated questions about the high costs and environmental impact. Yet, it has contributed to modernizing the Kenyan infrastructure. China is also building a port at Lamu in Kenya, which could be one of the largest ports in Africa when completed. There are doubts about the viability of such a large port and whether it can turn into another Hambantota-like situation. It will allow China to gain another foothold, after Djibouti, on the Eastern African seaboard. For India, the growing influence through these projects and Kenyan debt to China remains a major worrying factor.    The Indian Navy has been a regular visitor to the Kenyan ports. Officers of Kenyan defence forces are trained at Indian military academies, and defence cooperation between the two countries is robust. However, in the context of the Chinese challenge, there is a need to do more. Post-pandemic, India can deepen partnerships with countries like the US and Britain in this difficult fiscal and political scenario. It can augment trilateral co-operative efforts in limiting the growing Chinese penetration of the region. India's Africa policy and the Indian Ocean strategy meet at the East and Southern African seaboard, and therefore, countries like Kenya are assuming increasing geopolitical prominence. Consequently, it is necessary to appreciate the importance of relatively smaller yet strategically essential countries like Kenya. The upcoming visit by Jaishankar is a clear reflection of this point of view. (The writer is a Research Fellow with the Indian Council of World Affairs, New Delhi.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-kenya-matters-for-indias-foreign-policy-995874.html
10-06-2021||Opinion||The Modi-Yogi stalemate in Uttar Pradesh||Political cognoscenti are busy speculating the possible outcome of the differences between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the saffron-clad Yogi Adityanath, Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh. Although tensions between them have been playing out publicly, there may now be a stalemate. A series of meetings held in Delhi and Lucknow regarding the Bharatiya Janata Party’s prospects in the UP legislative assembly elections due early next year fuelled speculation about Yogi’s future. The BJP is worried about retaining UP. The party’s hold in North India is tenuous. It is out of power in Punjab, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh, and it relies on alliance partners in Bihar and Haryana. Madhya Pradesh did not give it a clear victory, and it formed a government only through defections. So it is imperative for the party to retain UP. A defeat in the state could signal a rout in the 2024 general election. The BJP may have concluded that anti-incumbency in UP is associated with Yogi’s persona and that public anger could be mollified by changing the chief minister. But removing Yogi was never going to be easy. The party has no obvious leader in the state to replace him. Moreover, experience with changing horses on poll-eve has not ensured a favourable outcome. The electoral fortunes of the BJP were not served when it removed Kalyan Singh as UP chief minister and replaced him first by a non-descript Ram Prakash Gupta and then by Rajnath Singh before the elections. Nor did it gain by replacing Sahib Singh Verma with Sushma Swaraj in Delhi, 52 days before the polls. Removing Yogi eight months before elections could, on the other hand, spur dissatisfaction and internal strife in the BJP state unit. However, the high profile meetings over the UP polls have managed to destabilise Yogi psychologically. This is evident from his paeans of praise for the Prime Minister on TV within hours of the U-turn in the Centre’s vaccine acquisition policy. There is no doubt that UP’s mismanagement of the pandemic has been glaring with an evident lack of planning for the second wave of infections. The huge number of riverbank burials are just one sad testimony to this. However, Yogi’s high-handed use of the police, a large number of ‘encounter’ deaths, seizure of property and community fines for public protest has also alienated people. So the BJP high command might well be thinking of a course correction at this late stage. The BJP’s anti-Yogi moves may have been spurred on by its rout in the panchayat elections last month. It suffered defeat across the state but more tellingly in key religious towns of Ayodhya, Varanasi, Mathura, Prayagraj and Gorakhpur. These are signs of simmering anti-incumbency, which could singe the party nationally if public anger persists till early next year. It would be a mistake to think that, as in Assam, the BJP could decide not to project Yogi as its chief ministerial candidate in 2022. Unlike the mild-mannered Sarbananda Sonowal, Yogi will not step aside obediently. If the party has not been able to remove BS Yediyurappa well past the 75 years use-by date set by Prime Minister Modi, Yogi is not going to be a walk-over. Like Yediyurappa in Karnataka, he is not a rootless leader. Moreover, the RSS is happy with Yogi’s feral Hindutva. Whereas earlier, he used to run a parallel Hindutva militia – the Hindu Yuva Vahini – he has over time surrendered to the RSS. It is likely to support him to lead the UP elections. Yogi’s problems are directly with the prime minister. The differences are neither political nor ideological. Nor is Yogi, contrary to speculation, vying for the PM’s position. The trouble surfaced with Prime Minister Modi sending his trusted civil servant, Arvind Kumar Sharma, to UP five months ago to ginger up the UP administration. Sharma resigned from the Civil Service while he still had a few years left and was overnight elected as a Member of the Legislative Council. The speculation was that Sharma would be made a minister, perhaps even a Deputy Chief Minister, with the charge of the Home and Personnel departments. This would mean Yogi was giving up control over the appointment of Class-I officers. Surrendering the Home portfolio would mean handing over the entire police machinery through which Yogi has built his reputation for furthering Hindutva’s ideological goals. Yogi quite naturally was reluctant to prepare for his own political hanging. He has, however, been able to force a stalemate. Sharma remains a mere MLC, and the prime minister has been unable to justify sending his protégé to UP. For the time being, clearly the PM has not been able to outmanoeuvre the UP CM. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-modi-yogi-stalemate-in-uttar-pradesh-995940.html
10-06-2021||Panorama||Problems at Serum Institute leave world short on vaccines||Around the world, from Bangladesh to Nepal to Rwanda, vulnerable hotspots have been grappling with stalled Covid-19 vaccination programmes as they run out of doses. Many of those shortages can be traced back to a single company: The Serum Institute of India. The world’s largest vaccine maker, Serum was last year named a top supplier of Covid shots to Covax, the World Health Organization-backed (WHO) initiative aimed at securing an equitable global roll-out. But the Indian company has been dogged by setbacks, from a ban on exports to a factory fire, that have hampered its ability to fill orders. Covax has pledged to send shots to some 92 countries but has so far received only 30 million of the minimum 200 million doses it ordered from Serum, which was to provide the bulk of its early supply. Serum’s travails have now become a key illustration of how the effort to inoculate against Covid has failed the developing world and a cautionary tale for becoming over-reliant on one manufacturer amid a global crisis. The shortages come as the WHO and public health experts warn that low levels of vaccination in poorer nations could fuel the emergence of dangerous variants and lengthen the global pandemic. Other manufacturers have also had trouble meeting targets or ramping up production of Covid shots, yet Serum’s shortfalls are particularly consequential because Covax and emerging countries were counting on it so heavily. The company has been unable to send any shots overseas since April when the Indian government banned Covid vaccine exports. But some of Serum’s problems began long before. Last year, Serum’s chief executive officer, Adar Poonawalla, pledged that his vaccine producing colossus would churn out 400 million doses of AstraZeneca Plc’s coronavirus shot for low and middle-income countries by the end of 2020. A month into 2021, he said it had manufactured only 70 million shots because the company had been uncertain about when it would receive a license from India and didn’t have enough warehouse space. A string of nations had also entered into direct contracts with Serum and are now racing to find new suppliers. In Nepal, the government says it’s received only half of the 2 million shots it ordered directly from Serum. The rest were supposed to arrive by March. The decision to choose Serum as a major Covax supplier “was based, largely, on the company’s massive production capacity, ability to deliver at low cost and the fact that its vaccine was one of the earliest to gain WHO emergency use listing,” said Seth Berkley, chief executive officer at Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, which has been facilitating Covax and helping fund its orders. Berkley says Serum’s manufacturing capacity is now expanding, which will help India. Still, Covax and many developing countries are scrambling to find new sources of vaccines after Serum said in recent weeks that exports are unlikely to resume until the end of 2021 given the needs of its overwhelmed homeland. It’s a void that could potentially be filled by Chinese vaccine makers, with shots from Sinovac Biotech Ltd. and Sinopharm Group Co. both recently approved for wider global use by the WHO. Bangladesh stopped giving out first vaccination doses after Serum’s supply shortages and then went on to halt its entire campaign. After the arrival of a limited supply of Chinese vaccines from Sinopharm, the South Asian country resumed inoculations for frontline and emergency workers but is yet to start a mass vaccination programme. Pakistan has also kept its vaccination drive going by securing the majority of its doses from China after Covax delayed deliveries. The nation has received 11.8 million doses so far, the government’s health adviser Faisal Sultan said at a briefing last week. The situation Serum now finds itself in is a turnaround from a year ago. Then, its owners, the billionaire Poonawalla family, were thrust into the global spotlight after agreeing to mass-produce AstraZeneca’s vaccine, which is called Covishield in India. Serum had long been a supplier of measles and polio inoculations to the developing world and Adar Poonawalla, who became CEO in 2011, revelled in its position at the centre of the historic Covid vaccine rollout. In late November, he talked about showing Prime Minister Narendra Modi a third factory at the company’s Pune headquarters which would soon allow the firm to crank out more than a billion Covid shots a year. Yet, as circumstances shifted, so did Poonawalla’s projections in public forums and to the media. In an interview in November, he said Serum was aiming to have 100 million doses ready in reserve by the end of December, just a quarter of the amount promised by the end of the year. In January, he lowered that even further to 70 million. Poonawalla told Bloomberg in early January that the shortfalls were due to a lack of warehouse space to store the vials after slower than anticipated regulatory approvals in India. The company filed their application for an emergency license there in early December. Over recent months Poonawalla has also cited US policies for some of his company’s problems, spearheading complaints against a de-facto American export ban imposed on some crucial vaccine raw materials. Meanwhile, in January, a fire broke out at one of Serum’s plants. The manufacturer at first downplayed its impact and Poonawalla tweeted that the blaze wouldn’t slow production. But it led to losses of equipment and delays in putting on additional manufacturing lines, curbing expansion, according to a person familiar with the matter who didn’t want to be named discussing internal company business. “Right now I think they are really, really stuck -- that’s a major blow to Covax,” said Cleo Kontoravdi, a member of Imperial College London’s Future Vaccine Manufacturing Research Hub and Vaccine Research Network. Serum didn’t respond to a list of questions from Bloomberg, and a spokesperson said that Poonawalla wasn’t available for an interview. Within the company, there is frustration over how production has been impacted, the person familiar with Serum’s operations said. One of the main reasons pledges weren’t fulfilled was because the global landscape for Covid vaccines kept changing, with shifts in India’s regulations, approvals and other government controls after each target was announced, the person said. The company’s hands were tied by India’s export ban and other government regulations, the person said. There have been shortages in India as well. Initially, Serum’s supply challenges weren’t apparent there because the immunization campaign got off to a slow start. Modi’s government was also unclear on how much it would eventually order from Serum, leaving the company with little foresight as to how much capacity was needed. India’s initial order sheet in January was parsimonious— just 11 million shots at first after Poonawalla attempted to publicly negotiate on pricing with the government. But as the second coronavirus wave swept across the country demand shot up, and supplies started to dwindle. With its two main suppliers currently stretched, India is relying on a second round of homegrown and imported vaccines to ease that strain. Shots from Biological E., Cadila Healthcare Ltd. and Novavax Inc. may lead to a near three-fold scale-up of the rollout to 271 million doses a month by October, according to estimates from Investec Plc. Serum isn’t the only vaccine maker that’s fallen short of its pledges. AstraZeneca was unable to meet promised targets to the European Union because of production issues. The other company supplying India’s rollout, Bharat Biotech International Ltd., has also only provided about 27 million of a promised 1 billion annual doses of its shot. Russia, which only started shipping batches of Sputnik V to India last month, had said it could begin delivering an order of 100 million doses by December last year. “All of them have overpromised and that trend continues,” Malini Aisola, the New Delhi-based co-convenor of public health watchdog All India Drug Action Network, said of the country’s vaccine makers. “The demand is so much greater than what the companies can manufacture.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/problems-at-serum-institute-leave-world-short-on-vaccines-995720.html
10-06-2021||Panorama||In Bundelkhand, it’s a battle to save forests against a diamond mining project||The Bunder diamond mine project, at a site billed as one of Asia’s richest diamond reserves, is facing stiff resistance from local residents and environmentalists nationwide as its execution entails the felling over two lakh trees in the thick Buxwaha forests in Chhatarpur district of the water-scarce Bundelkhand region of Madhya Pradesh, about 225 kilometres north-east of Bhopal. In 2019, Essel Mining & Industries Limited (EMIL), an Aditya Birla Group company, won the bid for the project that was tendered by the then Kamal Nath government. The Shivraj Singh Chouhan government has retained the project, though it is yet to get environment clearance from the central environment ministry. Local Congress and BJP leaders have also joined hands with the protesters. Sunil Agarwal, a top state forest department official, said that the mining proposal had been sent to the central government but is yet to be cleared. The EMIL plans to develop a fully mechanised opencast mine and state-of-the-art processing plant for recovery of diamonds with an investment of Rs 2,500 crore and wants to begin mining by the end of the financial year. It is estimated that the Bunder diamond block has about 34 million carats of rough diamonds, 15 times more than the world-famous diamond mines in neighbouring Panna district, which are estimated to have 22 lakh carats of rough diamonds. The National Mineral Development Corporation (NMDC) has a diamond mine about 175 km from Bunder. While the state government has identified 62.64 hectares of land for mining for 50 years, the company is demanding 383 hectares, where it would dump the debris from mining. The project will be spread across 364 hectares of the Buxwaha forests, more than a tenth of the 3,000-ha protected area. Local residents had mounted a massive resistance even before EMIL began initial prospecting. Besides, over 1.25 lakh people from across the country signed up to fight to save the 2.15 lakh trees that would be cut for the mine project. But the pandemic situation has ensured that the protest against the project is now largely confined to social media. “As soon as the corona infection is controlled, volunteers of the ‘Save Buxwaha’ campaign will reach the project site,” said Dharmendra Kumar, a leading activist in the campaign, suggesting something like the Chipko movement is on the cards. On May 9, over 50 institutions across the country got together through a webinar and chalked out a strategy to save the trees. A month earlier on April 9, Neha Singh, a Delhi-based activist, filed a PIL in the Supreme Court seeking stay on the project on the grounds that it will cause incalculable damage to Bundelkhand’s rich biodiversity, apart from snatching the livelihoods of thousands of poor tribals who subsist on minor forest produce. The PIL pointed out that the project site is already a water-stressed region.  According to the pre-feasibility report of the project, its water requirement is about 5.9 million cubic meters per day. “To meet this requirement, a seasonal nallah will be diverted by constructing a dam. The water storage in the reservoir is estimated at around 17 MCM (million cubic metre),” the report said. Admitting the petition on June 2, the apex court fixed July 1 to hear the matter. Karuna Raghuvanshi of Bhopal, who is associated with the Rashtriya Jungle Bachao Abhiyan, said that people from many states will intensify the ‘Save Buxwaha’ campaign as soon as the pandemic subsides. “The Forest clearance report shows that the project would cost over 200,000 trees and also use a lot of water. We are against the environmental destruction in our area, which is already water-distressed,” said Sankalp Jain, a local youth. Before EMIL was given the project, the then Shivraj Singh Chouhan government had in 2006 granted a prospecting licence to an Indian subsidiary of Rio Tinto, the Australian mining giant. But the project faced strong opposition over ecological concerns. Rio Tinto exited the project after submitting a prospecting report to the state government in 2017. Although Rio Tinto did not specify a clear reason for the exit, a team of researchers analysed the reasons in a study that was published in May 2021. “Rio might have left because the diamond business was declining around the world and is predicted to fall further as more diamonds are mined in African countries and in Russia. To them, the money invested so far is simply not worth the trouble bad press would bring,” said Kuntala Lahiri Dutt, one of the authors of the study and Professor in the Resource, Environment and Development (RE&D) programme at the Crawford School of Public Policy, Australian National University. In India, Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh are the three states that produce diamonds. Among them, Madhya Pradesh accounts for about 90% of the total diamond resource of the country. The production of diamonds in India was at 38,437 carats in 2018-19. The total world production of diamond was 149.8 million carats in 2018,” said a report by the Indian Bureau of Mines. The State-run NMDC has been trying to expand its operations to increase production. Aniket Dikshit, a resident of Kasera, one of the closest villages to the mining site, said: “We are dependent on minor forest produce and water for farming. The project involves the diversion of a nullah which is a lifeline for the area.” The tree species found in the area are khair, bel, dhawa, seja, ghont, reunjha, amaltas and sagon. The area also has a fairly good variety of fauna, including seven species listed in Schedule I of the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972. These are the Indian gazelle, chowsingha, sloth bear, leopard, monitor lizard, Indian white-rumped vulture and peacock. The Ken-Betwa river interlinking project in the Bundelkhand region already threatens 23 lakh trees, and another 1.9 lakh trees have already been cut down for the Bundelkhand Expressway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/in-bundelkhand-it-s-a-battle-to-save-forests-against-a-diamond-mining-project-995725.html
10-06-2021||Panorama||Greetings of peace||One afternoon, I was standing in front of an old Victorian ceramic sink, rinsing my lunch box. While my fingers were busy scrubbing off the food that was stuck inside the box, my mind was lost in thoughts about God. The only one who can afford to have so many names without a proper address, contact number and a photo ID, I thought.   If we want to communicate with God, the first number in his contact list is that of ‘Purity’. Well then, my mind wanted to understand this word. In the context of spirituality, it is often interpreted as 'Bramhacharya' or celibacy. Thinking of this word, the first thought that pops up is that, it is probably distancing oneself from physical intimacy with another person. However, if that’s all that was required for one to realise God or achieve salvation, then all the sadhus, spiritual masters and even the commoners who remain celibate by will or otherwise should have realised God effortlessly. However, we know that this is not the case.   If the physical proximity of others can be bothersome, what about thoughts on others, which are unseen? How can one allow thoughts of others or thought on others to enter the mind and not only touch but walk, sleep and dirty the whole place called the mind? In God’s words (words spoken by Shiva as I learnt at the Brahma Kumaris) and as I understand it, purity includes having benevolent thoughts for others. In order to clean the mind, one must know what dirt or impurity lies there. Simply put, anything that doesn’t enrich/enhance the soul, such as gossip, being judgemental, harbouring negative thoughts for others (the list is endless) would be considered impure. All these are equal to allowing others to ‘touch’ your soul. If you allow it to repeat then the dirt gets so strongly stuck to your soul that it becomes part of you.  One should try to achieve purity akin to God— that’s true godliness. Swachh Bharath Abhiyaan needn't stop at clearing dirt and debris but must permeate to clean our mind too. It rests on all of us to take this responsibility. Then Bharath again will be the land of Ram or Firdaus or Paradise— the land of righteous, divine beings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/greetings-of-peace-996091.html
10-06-2021||Panorama||How the Covid-19 pandemic has affected trans people||In the days before the pandemic, Shruthi M, a transwoman, made a living by blessing people at celebratory events. For the ensuing year and a half, such events have thinned out and so has her income. Since Shruthi is diabetic, with no income she has to think of the cost of essential medication.  A dose of insulin costs Rs 400 and this weekly cost is next to impossible to bear. “I just take the tablets even though the doctor has told me to not stop Insulin doses,” she says.  Trans people with comorbidities have no way to afford essential drugs.  While some NGOs are trying to help, they can’t reach all. “Many people will be left out, with no support,” she says. Added to this is the inability to pay her electricity bill, she lives in dread that her home, which houses five others from the trans community, will plunge into darkness.  Like Shruthi M, thousands of other people from the transgender community face a bleak future. Left without many avenues, trans people are often forced into begging, sex work or earn their living by blessing families on happy occasions explains Umi, the founder-director of Jeeva, an organisation that advocates for trans rights. “Very few of us have regular jobs. Stigma, early abandonment by families, discrimination, and harassment often lead us to take up these jobs,” she says. As people stay in, many trans people find themselves with no means to support themselves.  Nandanamma N, a trans woman from Davangere, explains that scrounging up money to buy even food grain and pulses has become difficult. “As of now, we depend on charitable people to donate money or food. If they stop this service, we don’t have another option,” she says. Last year, even though sparse, ration kits were distributed by some municipal corporations, this year even that seems absent, says Umi. Added to all these trials and tribulations are instances that break the spirit of the trans community says Manjamma Jogathi, the chairperson of the Karnataka Janapada Academy, in reference to an instance of a young trans woman assaulted brutally by a PSI in Kolar. “That affected me,” she says.  In a video that went viral and provoked much outrage, Smitha N, a 26-year-old trans woman, was beaten brutally, abused with derogatory words for stepping out to get medicines from the drugstore. “The PSI even said if I do this to you, it’ll make an example for the rest of your people,” says Smitha. “I was made to feel like I was not a human being,” she adds poignantly.   Inadequate relief measures  Under the Mythri scheme, the state government provides a monthly pension of Rs 600 to people from the transgender community. The Centre also announced a one-time subsistence allowance of Rs 1,500 to help meet the daily requirements of trans people because of Covid related distress. However, coverage under such schemes is poor. The Mythri scheme, for example, covers only 1,657 trans people in the state. But such schemes ask for some form of identification— Aadhar cards, voter IDs, ration cards or in some cases, gender certificates. “Many people are abandoned by their families, these documents are difficult to obtain. The gender certification does not respect our right for self-identification,” Umi says.  Even those who received support from the schemes say that it was in no way adequate to get them through these difficult times. “The schemes are not even sufficient to pay rent,” says Umi. Since most trans people do not have homes of their own and are abandoned by families, housing has been a longstanding issue. Manjamma Jogathi says that trans people who did not reside in villages face the brunt of the housing crisis. “Landlords often don’t want to rent to transgender people. In these circumstances, it is unclear if they will show any grace if tenants don’t pay rent,” she says. Both Shruthi and Nandanamma have been struggling to pay rent and fear that they will be homeless if things don’t improve.  Nandanamma, Shruthi and Umi all ask this question— ‘are we not human?’ If the government has announced relief measures for other sectors, why not for us too, asks Shruthi. “Do our lives not matter?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/how-the-covid-19-pandemic-has-affected-trans-people-996092.html
10-06-2021||Panorama||Not just curriculum, we need to rethink assessment too||Covid-19 has combined India’s multi-decade education challenges of justice with the learning loss of online delivery. Policy reformers had spent the first decade of the millennium on teacher salaries, teacher qualifications and small class sizes that gave no tangible outcomes. The recent shift in focus towards curriculum and teacher training is logical but will remain inadequate without reimagining assessments. Historians suggest catastrophes often trigger overdue changes; I make the case for shifting assessment thinking from purely assessment “of” learning to include assessment “for” and “as” learning. India’s big school exams have become the tail that wags the dog; we manage transitions via gateways in Grade 4, Grade 8, Grade 10 and Grade 12. Each has high dropout rates; only half our kids who start pre-school finish Grade 12 and about half of those go to college. NEP 2020 imagines deep and expansive learning with a bold curriculum and robust pedagogy, but board exams and post-school choices force teachers, schools and parents to focus entirely on grades. Grades — especially as we define them — are not only a lazy proxy for capacity, capability, or competence but a monoclonal grade focus has a viral backwash effect, distorting teaching, eroding learning diversity, infecting younger grades, and eventually leading to kindergarten children mindlessly drawing standing lines and sleeping lines. Our gateway exams blunt wonder, curiosity and desire because what gets assessed gets taught. Nobody grows taller by being measured. A linear industrial world needed the ability to recall information accurately and assessments that measured narrow content delivered one way, worked. Today’s rapidly changing post-industrial world needs constant iteration and reflection; a circular model where teaching and learning lead to assessments that identify strengths and challenges, leading to renewed goals and circling back with changes in teaching and learning. Assessments today must measure knowledge of content but also its understanding and the developing skills of learning. Profiling that paints a more holistic picture of a student’s strengths -- started to be mirrored by employers creating a balanced score-card of an employee’s attributes -- is built on age-based best practices that include brain development, social learning, identity, dispositions, self-esteem, impulse control, literacy competence, competition vs affiliation and skills like critical thinking, collaboration and communication. Assessment needs three categories; of, for and as learning. Assessment “of” learning, the oldest kind, is often equated with summatives and usually indicates relative placement, usually using marks or grades to control student outcomes. This includes exams (which can be criteria or norm referenced, graded or marked) and standardised tests (used for universal comparisons, stage readiness checks or placements). Assessment “for” learning— first identified by Caroline Gipp in the late 1980s — overlaps with ‘formatives’ and is a ‘forward-looking’ view that prepares students for a lifetime of learning by acknowledging that everyone learns differently but there are predictable patterns and pathways that learners can follow to meet goals. It demonstrates and develops learning, uses mistakes as feedback for learning, building confidence and capability of learners. ‘Formatives’ are mostly ungraded, and can be in-class tasks, conversations, skill observations, peer or self-assessments, and include feedback and reflection. These are simple but not easy and require rebuilding teacher capacity, and also building learners’ evaluation and reflection skills. Assessment “as” learning focuses on the learner making connections as they perform, needing longer term development of the methodology for research, communication, self-management, collaborative learning and critical thinking. Assessments today are largely “of” learning. Boards that involve continuous assessment, extended coursework and project submissions besides exams, not only ensure that their evaluations are robust, representative, and growth focussed, but create lifelong learners. NEP 2020 proposes shifting away from the 10+2 exams of 60 boards, to a new 5+3+3+4 framework. NEP’s ‘tight but light’ regulatory system will need data-based governance. Schools generate a lot of data around attendance, behaviour, homework delays, besides exam grades, but the data often exists in silos, does not transfer from one year to the next, and is not structured for analysis. Academic data has four purposes— monitoring, measuring, documenting and reporting— with the smallest purpose being reporting and the biggest, monitoring. This is currently reversed. Reimagining assessment needs establishing rigorous standards for student and teacher assessment and performance and restructuring assessments around the three purposes. This needs a new foundation in mark/grade restructuring, data management systems, teacher and examiner training, and student preparation. The NEP 2020 target of assessment change in 2022 was always going to be tough. It has been made tougher by Covid-related closures, fatalities and a shrunk economy. The Covid havoc with traditional board exam students is a passing shower that must be resolved thoughtfully, but it should not distract us from meeting the climate change of assessments. This requires answering complex questions: How do we define learning achievement? What do we assess? How do we look at the data? What do we report? What do we do with the rest? What do we review? How do we review it? Who reviews it? How often? We always knew that a great education creates more questions than answers. Let the questioning begin.  (The writer is Head of School, Neev Academy)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/not-just-curriculum-we-need-to-rethink-assessment-too-996095.html
10-06-2021||Right in the Middle||Happy living, vicariously||Vicariousness is defined as feeling what other people are experiencing through imagined participation. To enable it, we, as humans, have the powerful weapon of creativity in our arsenal. It has been found that the human mind is uniquely capable of quick, spontaneous responses allowing us to smoothly position ourselves in another’s place. While watching something, where we are completely absorbed by whatever we are consuming, and this is where we live most vicariously.  I remember how my neighbour used to “get into the character” of whomever she saw on the television, so much so that she once even developed chest pain while feeling intensely the sorrow of a show’s heroine. And if that weren’t bad enough, I remember finding her inconsolable at Draupadi’s predicament in the 'Vastraharan' episode of the Mahabharat show on DD, where she sobbed continuously in her husband’s arms the entire day. Mercifully, she cannot watch the gory and trigger-happy shows of today on OTT platforms or God knows what state we would find her in. Closer home, my husband turns into a batsman, bowler, fielder and umpire while watching cricket matches. He shouts irately “Not Out!” or “Six!” He criticises and lauds players as if he were there on the field in person and they could hear him when he shouts at them for bowling short or wide balls and allowing LBW’s and run-outs. Not surprisingly, I’m the only one privy to this expert game— carried out from our couch. Reading is no stranger to the ways of vicariousness. My cousin began to experience labour pains during two pregnancies while reading The Good Earth and Gone with the Wind, and we had to ban her from such books when she was in the family way. In a Bengali film Bateswarer Abodan, people from all walks of life plead with a writer to not let the beloved heroine of his story die. A surgeon even warns the author that a number of his patients would die from heartbreak if the story isn’t given a happy ending, so deeply involved are his readers. As it is usual with human beings, we should not give too much stress to the consequences of vicariousness, and in fact, make the most of a unique predisposition of living our fantasies. We are passing through troubling times and could instead spend time happily, in Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara’s Spain or Tamasha’s Corsica. When we are faced with the grim reality of the pandemic, I urge everyone to try living in happier times, even if vicariously, for though reality can disappoint, our vicariousness will never fail to get us exactly where we need to be.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/happy-living-vicariously-996137.html
10-06-2021||Second Edit||CET decision has the merit of clarity||The decision of the Karnataka government to go ahead with the Common Entrance Test (CET) in August and not to give any weightage to marks or grades obtained in the second pre-university course (PUC) while drawing up the merit list for admissions to professional courses may be the only practical way forward in the interest of objectivity. The system of giving equal weightage to second PUC exam marks in core subjects like physics, chemistry, mathematics and biology, and the scores obtained in CET has had to be done away with since the PUC board exams were cancelled. There were earlier indications that the grading of students would involve internal assessments by their colleges. This had led to apprehension among students. Internal assessments have an element of subjectivity and partiality and therefore lack credibility. Such fears have now been allayed as there will be no minimum eligibility criteria to appear for CET. That CET ranking should be the lone parameter for admission to professional courses was suggested by Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar and was accepted by Deputy Chief Minister Ashwath Narayan, who holds the higher education portfolio. However, the move to conduct a common entrance test for admission to BSc courses has led to some consternation among students, who point out that this is an avoidable exercise as many seats in pure sciences anyway remain vacant. While the government concedes this is true, the question is, what will be the benchmark for admission to BSc course in certain reputed colleges that face a huge demand for admissions. Besides, admissions without any consideration for merit will mean injustice to hardworking students who have burned the midnight oil to stay ahead in the race. At a time when CETs are being held for agricultural sciences, pharmacy, yoga and naturopathy courses, why should pure sciences be an exception? The government would do well to consult teachers, colleges and students before taking a decision on the issue. But the travails of the students may not entirely be over as they will have to also prepare for COMEDK, a separate entrance examination being conducted by private colleges for admission to seats under the management quota. Instead of subjecting students who are already stressed to additional trauma and risk, private colleges would do well to rely on the CET rankings for their admissions, too. Private college managements must realise that this is an exceptional year due to the pandemic and adopt a humane approach in the matter of admissions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/cet-decision-has-the-merit-of-clarity-995723.html
10-06-2021||Second Edit||MNCs must pay taxes where they operate||The decision of the Group of 7 (G-7) industrialised countries, taken at a meeting in London last week, on taxation of multinational companies, including Big Tech companies, will have important consequences. It was in principle decided at the meeting to fix a floor rate of 15% for corporate taxes across the world so that there will be a uniform tax rate which will help to avoid profit-shifting and tax avoidance to a great extent. Apart from setting a global tax rate, it was also decided that countries would have the power to tax companies based on the revenues that they earn in the countries where they operate. At present, the taxes are paid in the countries where they are headquartered or registered. Countries where multinationals generate revenue would be awarded new taxing rights on at least 20% of profit exceeding a 10% margin for the largest and most profitable firms. It is considered to be a landmark decision because it is for the first time that a unified tax rate is proposed across the world. The global tax regime will undergo a big change if it is accepted. At present, most countries do not benefit much by way of tax from the operations of multi-national companies in their jurisdictions. Their profits are mostly parked in tax havens, though the countries of their origin get some revenues through taxes. The idea of taxing them in individual countries has been discussed for long and the Covid distress has given a boost to the idea. The European Union (EU) countries had campaigned for it, but the Trump administration had rejected it. The Biden administration has accepted the proposal. The plan for a global rate can capture up to 8,000 companies and it is estimated that at least $81 billion can be raised in fresh taxes every year under the plan. There is a long way to go for the principle to become practice. It will now have to be discussed and decided by the Group of 20 (G-20) countries and later by 140 countries of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). India is expected to gain from the new plan as it is estimated to be losing up to $10 billion every year because of tax manipulations by MNCs. But it may also have to consider negatives, like a possible dilution of the sovereign right to tax and compromising on the freedom to give tax incentives to companies to attract investments. Even if the proposal moves forward, it will take a long time for it to be accepted and then to become a reality because creating a global tax system and its rules and regulations is an extremely difficult and complex task.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/mncs-must-pay-taxes-where-they-operate-996127.html
10-06-2021||South||How a Kerala man managed to hide his lover in his room for 10 years||Sajitha was 18 when she left her house to live with her lover Rahman, who was then 24. And for the next ten years, she lived inside Rahman's small room in his tiled house till recently. The bizarre incident took place at Ayilur, about 30 kilometres from Palakkad town in Kerala. Rahman and Sajitha, who were neighbours, fell in love. Since their families were from two different communities their wish to get married with the blessings of their families was in vain. Hence, Sajitha decided to leave her house. Rahman told the police that he took Sajitha to his house and hid her in his room with plans of moving to a rented premises without much delay. In the meantime, Sajitha's family filed a missing complaint. Though Rahman was under suspicion, he behaved normally and hence did not come under detailed probe.  As financial problems delayed Rahman's plans to rent a house, months and years passed. Rahman's parents and siblings were also staying in the house with just three rooms. But Rahman always kept his room locked and even behaved indifferently with family members. He started the habit of taking his food to his room and played television in his room loudly. Sajitha was provided an earphone to watch the TV when she is alone, he said. Since the room had no bathroom attached, the bars of a window of the room were removed in order to facilitate Sajitha to go out during the night to use the toilet outside the house. Rahman, who is an electrician, connected a battery-operated motor to the lock of his room to ensure that it always remained locked. A mild electric shock was also given to the lock to prevent someone from opening it. Even though he was behaving abnormally, the family members did not question him. A few months ago, Rahman went missing from his home and the family filed a missing person complaint. Recently, his brother spotted him in Nenmara, around five kilometres from their house, and alerted the local police over there. The police held Rahman and he revealed his story after interrogation. Rahman and Sajitha were produced before a local court but were released as both of them expressed their desire to stay together. Deputy Superintendent of Police C R Santosh, who is in charge of the locality, said that since the couple were of legal age, the police did not need to make further enquiries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/how-a-kerala-man-managed-to-hide-his-lover-in-his-room-for-10-years-995878.html
10-06-2021||South||Two lionesses of Tamil Nadu zoo test positive for Covid-19||Two lionesses of the Arignar Anna Zoological Park in Tamil Nadu have tested positive for Covid-19, while a lion was found to have contracted the distemper virus, the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) here said Thursday. Seven samples had been sent to the city-based institute from the zoo for testing. "Of the samples of seven animals (four tigers and three lions) from the Tamil Nadu zoo, one lioness tested positive for SARS CoV-2 and distemper virus, one lioness for SARS CoV-2, and one lion tested positive for distemper virus," IVRI Joint Director K P Singh said. All four tigers have tested negative for both the viruses, he said. A report is being sent to the zoo authorities in Tamil Nadu, Singh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-lionesses-of-tamil-nadu-zoo-test-positive-for-covid-19-995882.html
10-06-2021||South||AIADMK legislators to meet on June 14||The opposition AIADMK has convened a meeting of its legislators at the party headquarters here on June 14. With the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly set to commence on June 21 with the customary address by Governor Banwarilal Purohit at the Kalaivanar Arangam here, AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam and co-coordinator K Palaniswami have called upon their party lawmakers to attend the meet. "Since the meeting is meant for the AIADMKs legislators, office bearers and others in the party need not come to the party office due to the pandemic. Others will not be allowed," the leaders said in a joint release here on Thursday. The party MLAs should bring their identity cards, wear face masks and also follow the Covid safety norms stipulated by the government, when they come for the meeting at 12 noon, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-legislators-to-meet-on-june-14-995953.html
10-06-2021||South||Active Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh fall below 1-lakh mark||The active coronavirus cases fell below the one lakh mark to 99,057 in Andhra Pradesh as the state reported 8,110 fresh positives, 12,981 recoveries and 67 deaths in 24 hours ending 9 AM on Thursday. The cumulative cases went up to 17,87,883 and recoveries to 16,77,063 so far, the latest bulletin said. The Covid-19 toll in the state touched 11,763. The two main hotspots East Godavari and Chittoor districts reported 1,416 and 1,042 fresh cases respectively in 24 hours. The remaining 11 districts added less than 1,000 new cases each, according to the bulletin. Kadapa district stopped just seven short of the one- lakh Covid-19 cases mark, adding 508 in a day. Chittoor saw 11 fresh fatalities, West Godavari nine, Visakhapatnam seven, East Godavari, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram six each, Guntur and Kurnool five each, Anantapuramu and Krishna four each, Kadapa three and SPS Nellore one in 24 hours. Prakasam district did not report any fresh death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/active-covid-19-cases-in-andhra-pradesh-fall-below-1-lakh-mark-995973.html
10-06-2021||South||It's still 'tree-top' Internet for these two sisters from Kerala||Even a year after their plight got nationwide attention, sisters Treesa and Ansiya, hailing from Idukki district in Kerala, still continue to pull the rope tied to the top of a tree with their mobile phones on the other end to download online study material as the internet connectivity in their region remains feeble. Despite internet being considered as a fundamental right, economic unviability is the key reason being cited by service providers for lack of proper connectivity in many remote areas, especially the tribal hamlets and high ranges. Due to poor internet connectivity on the premises of their house at Mukkalam near Peerumedu, siblings Treesa and Ansiya click download on their mobile phones and keep the phone in a basket tied to the end of a rope which is attached to the tree top using a pulley. Then the children will pull the other end of the rope so that the basket reaches the treetop and the materials get downloaded. The plight of many children in the locality is not different. Treesa and Ansiya's father P K Varghese said after the plight of his daughters received attention last year, some telecom firms, including BSNL, visited the region. But no further steps were taken. As the hardships of the children in the area continue for the second year, parents have now submitted mass petitions to the government. A BSNL official said the region was quite remote and hence FTTH was the practical option. But it required cooperation of the local panchayat. Meanwhile, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan convened a meeting of mobile and internet service providers on Thursday and directed that internet access should be made available across to the state to enable e-learning for all. A committee headed by Kerala IT secretary was formed to prepare an action plan in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/its-still-tree-top-internet-for-these-two-sisters-from-kerala-995991.html
10-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu NEET panel will give its report in a month, says state govt||A high-level committee led by retired judge of the Madras High Court, A K Rajan to study the impact of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test on aspirants from the socially disadvantaged sections in medical admissions, would make its recommendations in a month, the state government said here on Thursday. Besides Justice Rajan, who heads the panel, there would be eight other members including Dr G R Ravindranath (Doctors Association for Social Equality), Jawahar Nesan (educationist) and six top government officials including Principal Secretary of Medical and Family Welfare Department. The panel would study the data related to medical admissions in the state and make necessary recommendations within a month to safeguard the interests of students from the backward sections and "the government will initiate the next course of action after considering the recommendations," an official release here said. On June 5, Stalin had said that Tamil Nadu always had the historic duty of upholding social justice and to fulfill that duty continuously, the government is determined to take all steps to address the consequences due to the NEET. Announcing the panel, the Chief Minister had said it would analyse if the national test had an adverse impact on students from backward classes and if it was so, the committee would recommend remedial measures (suggesting an alternative admission procedure that would benefit all) to the government. Almost all parties including the ruling DMK and main opposition AIADMK are on the same page as regards NEET and they have been demanding that the test be scrapped arguing that it went against social justice. Aspirants from rural regions, those who studied in government schools and students belonging to backward classes could not get admission in medical courses, parties had said time and again. The opposition to the test grew manifold in Tamil Nadu following the suicide of several aspirants including a Dalit girl. The previous AIADMK government had in October last year introduced 7.5 per cent reservation to government school students who clear NEET in medical admissions. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-neet-panel-will-give-its-report-in-a-month-says-state-govt-996008.html
10-06-2021||South||Carnatic singer T M Krishna moves Madras High Court against new IT rules||Eminent Carnatic singer and Magsaysay Award-winner T M Krishna has moved the Madras High Court challenging the Union Government’s new digital media rules, contending that they “offend my rights as an artist and cultural commentator.” The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy heard the plea on Thursday and gave the Union Government three weeks to respond to the plea while adjourning the matter for four weeks. This is not the first time that Krishna has opposed Centre's decisions. He had actively participated in the protests against the controversial Citizenship (Amendment) Act, and speaks on several issues that concern the public. In his petition, Krishna asked the court to declare the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code), Rules 2021 as unconstitutional. International organisations like Twitter and WhatsApp have taken objection to the new rules with many alleging that the new rules take away the privacy of those who use the apps. “I state that as an artist, cultural and political commentator, I cherish and attach particular value to my rights to free expression and privacy under the Constitution of India. For me, privacy, like the music itself, is an experience. When I think of privacy, I think of life, intimacy, experience, discovery, security, happiness, the lack of fear and the freedom to create,” Krishna said in his petition. He said the new rules offend his right as an artist and cultural commentator by imposing a “chilling effect on free speech, and by impinging on right to privacy.” Krishna added in his petition that the new rules which are “vague and indeterminate”, will thwart artists from raising difficult questions against existing aesthetic, gender, and caste hierarchies in Karnatic music, and will thwart dissenters who question prevailing cultural mores. “Beyond violating the rights to privacy and freedom of expression of producers of online content, the Impugned Rules, I am advised to submit, are also ultra vires the IT Act, 2000. The legislation simply does not contemplate regulation of digital news media and publishers of online curated content,” he said in his petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/carnatic-singer-t-m-krishna-moves-madras-high-court-against-new-it-rules-996024.html
10-06-2021||South||BJP's Kerala unit stages protests against LDF government||The BJP's Kerala unit on Thursday staged statewide protests against the ruling CPI(M) alleging that the state government was trying to tarnish the image of its leaders and their families by registering false cases. Addressing party workers virtually, BJP state chief K Surendran said only his party could fight against corruption in Kerala and that was the reason behind the cases and attacks against the saffron party as soon as the second Pinarayi Vijayan-led government came to power. The BJP claimed that the party workers protested at nearly 10,000 locations in the state. "Vijayan is competing with Mamata Banerjee in toppling democracy in the country.They think they can destroy the BJP by registering false cases," Surendran said. The BJP, which drew a blank in the April 6 Assembly polls, is facing a host of allegations including using hawala money for the elections to bribe a co-candidate for withdrawing nomination. Several BJP and RSS leaders have already been questioned in connection with the highway robbery of hawala money at Kodakara in Thrissur district, three days ahead of the elections. The ruling CPI(M) and the opposition Congress in the state have alleged that the BJP had used huge amounts of black money in the assembly polls. However, Surendran claimed it was the Congress, the CPI(M) and the Muslim League (IUML) which have used black money for election campaigns. Former Mizoram governor Kummanam Rajashekharan, former MLA O Rajagopal, and others participated in the protest at the secretariat here. BJP workers burned the effigy of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in front of the state secretariatas part of the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjps-kerala-unit-stages-protests-against-ldf-government-996032.html
10-06-2021||South||How did the Chennai civic body fight the Covid-19 second wave?||The TPR is below 5 per cent since June 7, and the active cases have also come down drastically to 14,678 at the last count on June 10 morning. The second wave was quite vociferous in the city with its robust health infrastructure coming under severe stress for about a month. Disaster mitigation expert taking over as GCC chief At the heart of this turnaround in just a month is the GCC team led by senior IAS officer Gagandeep Singh Bedi, considered a disaster mitigation expert for his splendid relief work post-2004 tsunami in one of the worst-affected districts of Cuddalore in Central Tamil Nadu. Though he is much senior for the post of GCC Commissioner, new Chief Minister M K Stalin hand-picked the seasoned bureaucrat due to his past track record. Hitting the ground immediately after taking charge on May 9, Bedi strengthened the fever surveillance system, the backbone of GCC’s fight against Covid since 2020, intensified the vaccination drive, and appointed 300 doctors to keep track of the health of patients quarantined at home through phone. “The city is divided into 15 zones and one IAS officer is in charge of each zone. 16 IAS officers, including me, analyse the data collected by 12,000 fever surveillance workers almost every day to ensure follow-up of people who experience Covid-like symptoms. The constant monitoring helps us in detecting the infection early, and reducing further spread,” Bedi told DH. Besides fever camps across the city, nearly 300 mobile teams criss-cross the city every day to get swabs from people at their doorsteps or in their neighbourhood. Ramping up and prioritising vaccination As cases rose exponentially in the city, the GCC had in April this year re-launched the triage centres that help in rational allotment of hospital beds, and patients getting appropriate treatment as per their condition. Bedi took it a step further by getting triaging done for Covid-positive patients under 45 years of age at their homes, to ease the pressure on triage centres and to ensure they don’t infect others. “A doctor with paramedical staff, in their PPEs, will visit the patient, assess their condition, and decide whether they need hospitalisation, admission at a Care Centre or can be quarantined at home. This helped us isolate the patient and prevent his loved ones from getting affected,” he explained. Car ambulances and monitoring of private labs Car ambulances to transport stable patients from their homes to Covid Care Centres (CCC) or hospitals is another idea conceptualised by Bedi and his team to reduce pressure on the 108 ambulances that have oxygen support. The ‘car ambulance’ model was appreciated by the Union Government. Another initiative that helped in promptly treating Covid-19 patients was asking private labs to share results of swab tests with the GCC every night before they are intimated to the patients. Also, standing instructions were given to diagnostics centres, and pharmacies to send daily reports to keep a tab on asymptomatic patients. “Many of these cases were not coming to our notice. Once the labs send the results to the GCC in the night, the first thing our staff did in the morning is to inform the patients that they have tested positive for Covid-19, and decide their treatment call by triaging at their doorstep or a centre. This helped us in beginning the treatment immediately,” Bedi said. By monitoring pharmacies and scan centres, Bedi said, GCC could identify those who had symptoms and get them tested immediately. “The worrying part of it was asymptomatic people moving around without knowing that they are positive. Through this outreach with scan centres and pharmacies, we could reach many asymptomatic patients and get them tested and treated,” he added. Monitoring home quarantined patients and the future To monitor those in the home quarantine, the GCC hired 300 doctors who called up positive patients every day and kept a tab on their health. If a person experienced fever for five days during his quarantine, the patient was shifted to a hospital or a Covid Care Centre for further monitoring.   Though the cases have gone down, Bedi said the GCC is not letting the guard down anytime soon. “Our testing remains the same, and we have not reduced the testing number. We continue to conduct 32,000 samples a day while emphasizing vaccination, and the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Besides our efforts, the state-wide lockdown did help us in containing the spread,” he added. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/how-did-the-chennai-civic-body-fight-the-covid-19-second-wave-996036.html
10-06-2021||South||Rosewood smuggling allegations turning into a political row in Kerala||The rosewood tree smuggling allegation in Kerala is snowballing into a political row with the Opposition party Congress accusing Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan of having links with the accused. Congress senior legislator P T Thomas on Thursday came out with a photograph of accused Rogi Augustine shaking hands with Vijayan at a function. Thomas said that the picture was taken during a function in 2017. Though Thomas earlier alleged a nexus between Vijayan and Roji, who was earlier involved in a scandal over Mango mobile phones project, Vijayan on Wednesday had denied it in the Assembly and sought apology from Thomas. It was in reaction to it that Thomas came out with the photograph. Meanwhile, sources in the CPM said that a connection of some senior Congress leaders with Roji would come out soon. His bother Anto Augustine, who is also an accused, was close with many BJP leaders also. Even an affidavit filed by the state government before the Kerala High Court on Wednesday said that things that have already come out was just the tip of the iceberg. The court also declined the plea of the accused to quash the cases against them.  Hundreds of rosewood and teak tress at many parts of Kerala were axed on the basis of a government order issued in October 2020 allowing farmers to axe all trees in land assigned to them, except sandal, even as the norms did not permit felling of around 10 varieties of trees including teak and rosewood. The order was withdrawn in February 2021, following widespread protest. By that time around 500 trees worth crores of rupees were already axed. Already rosewood trees worth Rs 15 crore was recovered from Wayanad. As the accused are maintaining that they axed the trees on the basis of the government order, a detailed probe into the circumstances in which such an order was issued by the government is likely to be launched. There were also reports that even as some revenue officials informed the government of the flaws in the order, the government did not swiftly rectify it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rosewood-smuggling-allegations-turning-into-a-political-row-in-kerala-996088.html
10-06-2021||South||Amid pandemic, Telangana adds over 46,000 IT jobs||Employment in the IT/ITeS sector has increased by about 8 per cent in Telangana to reach 6,28,615 in 2020-2021. 46,489 new jobs were added in the middle of the pandemic during the last financial year, a state government report said. “I am told this is significantly higher than the national average which is close to 2 per cent as per STPI number,” said IT and industries minister KT Rama Rao at the launch of the IT and Industries Department annual reports on Thursday. “When Telangana state was formed (in June 2014), there were 3,23,000 employees in the IT/ ITeS sector. Today, the total employment in the IT sector is 6,28,615. We have added over three lakh new IT/ ITeS jobs over the last seven years,” the minister claimed. According to Rao, in 2020-21, Telangana has developed 10 new industrial parks and allotted 810 acres of land to 453 industries with an expected investment of Rs 6,023 crore and a potential of 7,623 jobs. “Telangana has once again recorded a phenomenal growth in the IT/ITeS Sector with an increase of 12.98 per cent in exports over the previous year, recording a total of Rs 1,45,522 crore. Our state has seen more than double the estimated average national growth rate.” The growth is stated as substantial considering the Covid-19 pandemic's adverse impact on the economy. “Even by conservative estimates, Telangana’s IT/ ITES exports growth rate is poised to be over two times than that of the national average.” On expanding IT/ITeS to Tier-II cities, the annual report said that IT Tower/Incubation Centre with 1,400 seats capacity is made operational in Warangal. Karimnagar IT Tower opened in July last year, with a built up space of 80,000 sq. ft. and 556 seats, hosts 18 IT companies. 19 IT companies are operating from the Khammam IT Tower inaugurated in December with a built up space of 41,250 sq.ft and 430 seats. “Construction of Phase II Tower, with 570 additional seats, was started as 31 more companies showed interest in setting up shop.” Officials said that the construction of IT Towers at Nizamabad (50,000 sq. ft.), Mahabubnagar (60,000 sq. ft.) is nearing completion, while CM K Chandrashekar Rao has laid the foundation stone for another IT Tower at Siddipet (1,21,600 sq. ft.). “IT towers are contemplated at Nalgonda (1,500 seats), Ramagundam (200 seats), Wanaparthy (250 seats).”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amid-pandemic-telangana-adds-over-46000-it-jobs-996139.html
10-06-2021||State||Educationist M I Savadatti no more||Educationist and former vice-chancellor of Mangalore University Prof M I Savadatti (89) breathed his last in Dharwad on Wednesday. According to family sources, he died due to cardiac arrest at home at Navoday Nagar. He is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. His last rites were held at the Karnatak University graveyard. Recipient of several awards, including the Karnataka Rajyotsava Award and Sir M Visvesvaraya Lifetime Achievement Award, Prof Savadatti served as the vice-chancellor of Mangalore University for two terms. He was a member of the University Grants Commission (UGC), and the founder vice-chairman of Karnataka State Higher Education Council. He also served as a member of KLE Technological University (KLETU) board of governors. Born on January 8, 1932, at Aminbhavi in Dharwad taluk, Savadatti studied at Karnatak College and then at Karnatak University, and subsequently taught physics in the same university. He was instrumental in establishing an advanced laser laboratory at the KUD physics department. Prof Savadatti contributed a great deal towards the popularisation of science. He also established the Dr M I S Vidyavardhaka Samsthe in Dharwad. Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti, Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar and KLETU V-C Ashok Shettar among others expressed their condolences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/educationist-m-i-savadatti-no-more-995724.html
10-06-2021||State||Karnataka HC allows police to release vehicles seized during Covid-19 lockdown||The High Court on Tuesday permitted the state police to release the vehicles seized for violation of lockdown norms. Considering that it will be difficult to park and transport a large number of vehicles, more than 1.5 lakh, to the courts, the court said the vehicles can be returned to the owners after collecting the fine amount. A special division bench comprising Chief Justice A S Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar had passed an order in April 2020 during the national lockdown. Additional advocate general moved an application seeking identical relief in respect of vehicles seized during the present lockdown. The order passed on April 30, 2020, had permitted the police to return more than 38,000 vehicles seized within the BBMP limits during the first wave.   The application, along with an affidavit by the police, stated that more than 1.37 lakh two-wheelers, 7,432 four-wheelers and 7,122 other vehicles were seized in the entire state during the second wave lockdown. The court passed an identical order with certain modifications, including extending similar procedure across the state. It noted that it will be difficult for the police to park these vehicles and also that courts will be overburdened if the owners were to move applications separately. "We also make it clear... for similar breaches as set out in the order dated April 30, 2020, the custody of the vehicles can be handed over to the owners in the same circumstances," the bench said. The vehicle owners have to make an application to the police and the vehicles will be handed over after verification of the ownership. The owners of two-wheelers (Rs 500), four-wheelers (Rs 1,000) and goods vehicles, other than four-wheelers, have to deposit (Rs 2,000) fine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-allows-police-to-release-vehicles-seized-during-covid-19-lockdown-996069.html
10-06-2021||State||Karnataka HC directs State to place data on availability of beds for mucormycosis patients||The High Court on Thursday directed the government to place on record the data regarding the number of beds available in the entire state for treating patients with mucormycosis. A special division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar passed this order after going through the figures submitted by the government. The government said that as on June 9, there were 2,282 cases of mucormycosis. Of these, 1,947 patients are under treatment, while 157 have succumbed to the disease.  The government said so far 102 patients have been cured. In Bengaluru Urban, 787 cases have been reported. While 692 patients are under treatment, 55 patients succumbed to the disease.  The court has directed the government to ensure that updated guidelines on the disease, issued by Indian Council of Medical Research, are available at hospitals across the state. The court has also directed the union government to ensure that allocation of medicines of the requisite quantity is made to the state. The government has stated that the union government has allocated 22,050 Amphotericin injections to the state. Out of this, 19,950 have already been received. The state submitted that a mucormycosis patient requires 30 doses of injection that is administered over a period of 6-8 weeks. “We are informed that a committee of experts has been constituted. It will be appropriate if BBMP does not dismantle any of the existing facilities such as Covid centres till the recommendations are submitted by the experts and the government takes appropriate decision. We may record that after the first wave, some of the Covid centres were dismantled and BBMP had to set up Covid centres all over again,” the bench said. The court reminded the government of its previous order to place on record a vision document containing steps to be taken to achieve a state of preparedness to face a possible third wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-directs-state-to-place-data-on-availability-of-beds-for-mucormycosis-patients-996072.html
10-06-2021||State||Karnataka government mulls multidisciplinary learning at engineering colleges||The state government is mulling multidisciplinary learning at the engineering colleges in the state by including science subjects. Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan directed the authorities of Karnataka Higher Education Council to come out with a curriculum framework for the purpose by the month-end. As explained by the minister, there will be an option to learn science-based subjects in multidisciplinary learning along with engineering courses. At a meeting with officials of the department of higher education on Thursday, the minister said it will be on the lines of National Educational Policy (NEP) and implemented from the current academic year itself. "Of the 220 engineering colleges in the state, about 100-110 colleges have good infrastructure and multidisciplinary learning could be introduced in these colleges by including options to learn subjects such as Physics, Chemistry, Maths, Applied Maths," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-government-mulls-multidisciplinary-learning-at-engineering-colleges-996086.html
10-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt transfers 12 IPS officers||The government on Wednesday transferred 12 IPS officers.  Ravi D Channannavar, who was serving as SP, Bengaluru Rural district, has been transferred with immediate effect and posted as SP, criminal investigation department (CID), Bengaluru. R Chethan, SP, Coastal Security Police, Udupi district, is transferred as SP of Mysuru district. Karthik Reddy, SP of Kolar district, is transferred with immediate effect and posted as SP, wireless, Bengaluru. Rahul Kumar Shahapurwad, SP, CID, Bengaluru is transferred as SP, Tumakuru district.  Hanumantharaya, SP, Davangere district, is posted as SP, Haveri district. Dr A N Prakash Gowda, Deputy Commissioner of Police, law and order, Mysuru city is transferred as SP, ISD (internal security division), Bengaluru. K G Devaraju, SP, Haveri district is posted as SP, CID, Bengaluru. C B Ryshyanth, SP of Mysuru district, is posted as SP, Davangere district.  Dekka Kishore Babu, DCP, law and order, Kalaburagi city is posted as SP, Kolar district. Dr Kona Vamsi Krishna, SP, Tumakuru district, is transferred and posted as SP, Bengaluru district.  Pradeep Gunti, SP of ISD, Bengaluru, is posted as DCP, law and order, Mysuru city. Adduru Srinivasulu, SP, wireless, Bengaluru is posted as DCP, law and order,Kalaburagi city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-transfers-12-ips-officers-995726.html
10-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Army, Bengaluru cops bust suspected terror network||In April, Army officials were perturbed by a series of phone calls to their helplines in Siliguri, West Bengal, with unknown callers trying to inquire about army units and movements. Within weeks, the army had traced the suspicious calls to a location in Bengaluru. An investigation by Military Intelligence (Southern Command) in the city dredged up information that certain persons were exploiting the telecom system to carry out illegal activities. Sources say the suspects used telecom boxes and SIM cards to route calls from terrorist groups. In a joint raid by Military Intelligence (Southern Command) and the state's Anti-Terrorist Cell (ATC) on June 7, two people were arrested from BTM Layout. A third suspect, a hawala operator from Bhatkal, has also been arrested.  The two men have been identified as Gautam Viswanathan, 27, of Tiruppur district in Tamil Nadu and Ibrahim Mullatti, 36, of Malappuram district in Kerala.  Officially, according to city police Commissioner, Kamal Pant, they are being held in police custody on charges of defrauding the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India and the exchequer by illegally creating a telephone exchange. The men are also accused of “disrupting the country’s security,” as per a press note sent by Army Intelligence and law enforcement. According to Sandeep Patil, joint commissioner of police, Crime, and head of the Central Crime Branch (CCB), the men had set up 30 electronic devices to install 32 SIM cards across six locations in BTM Layout. Using more than 900 SIM cards which unauthorisedly converted ISD calls into local calls, they were enabling third-party callers to circumvent the telecom service. “It is a case of cheating. Beyond this, they and others were involved in more illegal things. Calls were coming in from the Middle East. For example, a member of the underworld sitting abroad doing an extortion call. They were camouflaging their number. More serious things may come to note.” Pant announced a reward of Rs 30,000 for information about the other suspects.  Police said Ibrahim was the owner of all the SIM boxes. The team was led by ATC unit officials ACP B R Venugopal and P I Bharat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/army-bengaluru-cops-bust-suspected-terror-network-995740.html
10-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Brace for third wave, focus on malnourished kids, CM tells anganwadi workers||Anganwadi workers must focus on children with malnutrition and those with other health issues. The workers must coordinate with the health department and give them updates from the grassroots level, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa told anganwadi workers on Wednesday. Since experts have warned that the third wave will affect children the most, special focus must be given to ensure their health, Yediyurappa said. He was interacting with anganwadi workers through a video conference. During the interaction, the workers shared the challenges they faced at the ground-level during the pandemic. Savithramma, an anganwadi worker from Kolar, pointed out that while people feared the pandemic during the first wave and followed the norms, it was not the case during the second wave. “This time, people had no fear even though the deaths went up. Not many follow the norms imposed by the government,” she said.  In areas where there are no Asha workers, the responsibility falls on the anganwadi worker to visit homes to collect swabs, trace Covid patients and admit them to Covid Care Centres, explained Leelavathi from Devanahalli. “There are no Asha workers in her area and she fulfills the duties of both Asha and anganwadi workers,” she said. In places where the number of beneficiaries are large, anganwadi workers find it challenging to distribute food grains to everyone, added Sumalatha, a worker from Udupi. The state government has given a compensation of Rs 30 lakh each to families of 20 anganwadi workers in the state who died due to Covid during the first wave. This time the government has announced a relief package where all anganwadi workers will get Rs 2,000, the chief minister said, appreciating the work of the anganwadi workers across Karnataka.   During the interaction, Yediyurappa even invited Manjula Sangamesh, an anganwadi worker from Belagavi to his home for a cup of coffee, as he was impressed by her work, according to an official release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/brace-for-third-wave-focus-on-malnourished-kids-cm-tells-anganwadi-workers-995752.html
10-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Anti-cow slaughter Act: No coercive action on transporters, state tells HC||The Karnataka government on Wednesday informed the High Court that no coercive action has been taken against the transportation of cattle under the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act 2020. Advocate General (AG) Prabhuling K Navadgi was responding to concerns raised by the counsel for the petitioners that coercive action was initiated in spite of the interim directions by the court in regard to the transportation of cattle. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was hearing a batch of petitions challenging the new Act and posted them to Monday for fixing the date for final hearing. During the hearing, AG submitted that 29 cases were registered under the provisions of the new Act. He said 18 cases were registered in relation to slaughtering under Section 6 and 11 cases registered for transportation of cattle under Section 5 of the Act. AG said that a majority of cases registered under Section 5 were due to non-communication of the directions issued. He said the circular will be issued again instructing authorities not even to register FIRs under Section 5. Meanwhile, the state government has defended the legislation by claiming that it is already covered by the 2005 judgment of the Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court. In its statement of objections, the state government quoted the 7-judge bench order that has rejected the challenge to the Gujarat Animal Preservation Act, 1954. It is also stated that in a recent case, filed challenging the Maharashtra Animal Preservation Act, 1976, and amendments, the judgment of the Bombay High Court in 2016 addressed the very grounds raised by the petitioners. Those grounds were rejected by the Bombay High Court and the constitutionality of the legislation was upheld. The state government has also quoted the Karnataka Economic Survey 2020-21. It said while agriculture contributes Rs 1,28,045 crore, cattle contribute 52,688 crores to the Gross State Domestic Product. “Given that approximately 80% farmers in Karnataka have less than two hectares of landholding, reliance on cattle rather than tractors for farming is significant,” the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/anti-cow-slaughter-act-no-coercive-action-on-transporters-state-tells-hc-995753.html
10-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sex CD case: Woman seeks fresh court-monitored probe||The High Court has ordered notice to the government and the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on a petition filed by the complainant in the CD case involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. The petitioner, who reportedly appears in the CD, has prayed for a court-monitored investigation. Justice S Vishwajith Shetty ordered notice to the respondents and adjourned the matter to June 23. The petitioner contended that the SIT was set up after Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai wrote a letter to the Bengaluru City Police Commissioner. The Home Minister has quoted a letter of complaint by Ramesh Jarkiholi. According to the petitioner, there was no FIR on the basis of the complaint letter by Jarkiholi. In the absence of the government order, as required in terms of the transaction of the business rule, the constitution of the SIT is without any authority of law and any investigation by the SIT is liable to be quashed, the petition said. The petitioner said her statement under Section 164 of CrPC was facilitated only because of the directions issued by the High Court. She alleged that the SIT officials leaked the contents of the statement to the media. “The petitioner who has enough and more reasons to believe that the SIT was not conducting a fair investigation and was, in fact, aiding the accused in connivance under the direct instruction of the State Government or the political executive of the State Government to help the accused get away,” the petition said. ‘SIT not working under its chief’ The petition has stated the investigation team has been functioning in the absence of the head of the SIT. The petition said that senior IPS officer Soumendhu Mukherjee, who headed the SIT, is on leave and is not expected to return to work till the completion of the investigation. The investigation, in the absence of the SIT chief, is an intentional act and done solely for the purpose of protecting the accused, the petition said. Besides seeking a mandamus to constitute a court-monitored investigation, the petition sought directions to quash the letter by the Home Minister to the City Commissioner dated March 10, 2021, and the order of the commissioner constituting the SIT on March 11.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sex-cd-case-woman-seeks-fresh-court-monitored-probe-995754.html
10-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka speeds up Covid-19 vaccination for differently-abled, 30% covered||The state government has vaccinated about 30% of the state's differently-abled citizens following directions from the Karnataka High Court to inoculate them against the Covid-19 infection on priority. According to officials in the Department of Empowerment of Differently-abled and Senior Citizens, the government started a special drive to vaccinate the differently-abled and have covered about 1.60 lakh people across the state. As per data, there are 8.62 lakh differently-able citizens in Karnataka, of which 2.5 lakh are in the age group of 45-60 while 2.96 lakh are between 18 and 44 years. The department has tied up with the NGOs and has deputed nodal officers at the taluk-level to coordinate the special drive. In several places, the volunteers are ferrying people to the nearest vaccination centres. In cases where the differently-abled cannot go to the vaccination centres, the vaccines are being given at home. Speaking to DH, V Muniraju, director, Department of Empowerment of Differently-Abled and Senior Citizens, said the department had set up helplines at the taluk-level. If a person cannot go to the vaccination centre, they call the helpline and arrangements will be made to vaccinate them at home. In an effort to ensure that no one is left out, the government is not insisting on any ID cards for the purpose of vaccination. "They do not even have to show the Unique Disability ID (UDID card)," he explained.The department has identified these citizens based on the database of differently-abled citizens' pensions. However, in each taluk, if someone is left out of the loop, they can reach out to the nodal officer and they too will be vaccinated. Nonetheless, convincing people still remains a challenge, according to the official. "Many people fear that vaccination leads to fatalities. We are conducting awareness programmes through village rehabilitation workers and urban rehabilitation workers," he added. Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Chitradurga and Chikkamagaluru are among the districts where much taboo around vaccination has been observed. On the other hand, districts such as Davangere (75% differently-abled vaccinated), Kolar (63%), Chikkaballapur (60%) have shown good results. Bengaluru Urban has seen 40% vaccinations, according to the data available with the department. While this is the first phase of the special drive, the government has planned a second phase where those left out now will also be covered, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-speeds-up-covid-19-vaccination-for-differently-abled-30-covered-995817.html
10-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Heavy rains forecast in coastal Karnataka||Heavy rains are likely to lash the coastal districts of Karnataka for one week starting from Thursday, the Indian meteorological department (IMD) said. A yellow alert has been sounded for Dakshina Kannada and Udupi on Thursday and Friday. In addition, orange and red alerts are announced for Saturday and Sunday when the region is expected to receive copious amounts of rain. The new alert is issued in the wake of the low pressure that has developed in Bay of Bengal. Scattered rains are also pouring over old Mysuru districts including the capital city Bengaluru. Cloudy weather is seen most of the day in these areas, the IMD forecast said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/heavy-rains-forecast-in-coastal-karnataka-995886.html
10-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka launches mobile app for direct benefit transfers||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday unveiled a mobile app for direct benefit transfers (DBT) to help beneficiaries check if their bank account is seeded with Aadhaar, and keep track of money they get from the government under various schemes. The app, which is available on the Android platform, will help the government push for more Aadhaar-based Payment System (ABPS) transactions. “The intention of the government to bring in transparency will be fulfilled only when citizens use this application. Hence, the citizens must make the best use of this application and keep themselves informed about the transfer of benefits,” Yediyurappa said in a statement. The app will help users know which bank account of theirs is seeded with Aadhaar and how much money they have received under different welfare schemes. In August 2018, the government made Aadhaar the basis for all beneficiary payments or direct benefit transfers. There are about 120 schemes under which approximately Rs 12,000 crore have been disbursed in the last two years, the statement said. All Covid-19 relief packages in the first and second waves of the pandemic have been disbursed through the DBT platform. Speaking to DH, Additional Chief Secretary (e-Governance) Rajeev Chawla said citizens were facing difficulties in knowing whether their bank account was seeded with Aadhaar. “Further, many of them are not even aware which bank account of theirs is seeded with Aadhaar. Thus, they were finding it difficult to know in which account money by the government has been credited,” Chawla said. Also, the app will be handy as Karnataka has gone on an auto-pilot with beneficiary payments. “We are moving towards entitlement-based payments instead of application-based. We have enough data to know who should get covered under which scheme. So, there’s no reason for the beneficiaries to apply for benefits,” Chawla said. At present, entitlement-based payments are being done for flower growers, fruits/vegetables farmers, construction workers, street vendors and maize farmers. “They were not even knowing when the money may come into their bank account,” Chawla said, adding that the mobile app would address all these issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-launches-mobile-app-for-direct-benefit-transfers-995915.html
10-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 lockdown likely to continue in eight Karnataka districts||Strict lockdown measures are likely to continue in eight districts of Karnataka where the Covid-19 positivity rate is still high. Deputy commissioners and ministers in charge of these eight districts told Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday that they wanted the lockdown to be extended. Yediyurappa chaired a review meeting of Belagavi, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Hassan, Mysuru, Tumakuru, Mandya and Shivamogga districts. Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol said he had recommended continuation of the lockdown in Belagavi, where he is the minister in charge. Excise Minister K Gopalaiah even declared that the lockdown will continue for a week after June 14 in Hassan, where he is in charge.  Yediyurappa is expected to make a decision on the districts with high positivity rate during his meeting with ministers, experts and officials later in the day. Of the total 2.15 lakh active Covid-19 cases, these eight districts are home to 65,000 infections. Bengaluru Urban has the highest caseload with around 98,000 cases. Yediyurappa directed the deputy commissioners of the eight districts to take strict measures and reduce the positivity rate to below 5 per cent. While positivity rate was on a decline in other parts of the state, it has not decreased as expected in the eight districts, Yediyurappa said.  The CM also expressed concern over higher caseloads in rural areas than in urban centres of seven of the eight districts, except Mysuru. Directions were also issued to increase the number of Covid Care Centres in rural areas due to the increased caseload. Chikkamagaluru had the highest positivity rate during the first week of June with 25.17 per cent, followed by Mysuru at 22 per cent. However, Chikkamagaluru had traced an average of only 6.1 contacts of an infected person, compared to higher figures in the remaining districts. Yediyurappa directed officials to take up stricter contact tracing measures in Chikmagalur. In districts such as Belagavi and Hassan, Yediyurappa asked officials to make sure 30 per cent of all Covid-19 tests be rapid antigen and the remaining 70 per cent to be RT-PCR. The rapid antigen tests should be conducted for only those people who show symptoms, Yediyurappa said. He also asked for RT-PCR test reports to be made available within 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-lockdown-likely-to-continue-in-eight-karnataka-districts-995917.html
10-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 vaccination: 30 kids aged 12-18 years get Covaxin trial jabs in Mysuru||As many as 30 children aged between 12-18 years were administered Covaxin on June 6 at Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) as part of Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical major Bharat Biotech's clinical trials. MMCRI is the only site selected in Karnataka for the company's paediatric trials, currently being conducted pan-India across multiple locations. On a positive note, when the vaccinated kids were followed up telephonically, mild pain at the injection site was observed in 10 subjects. No other complications were reported. In all, MMCRI had screened 53 subjects, of which 23 had to be rejected as they were ineligible for the trial, on account of either having antibodies or active infection. The kids hail from all kinds of socio-economic backgrounds: middle class, upper-middle class as well as those from lower-income groups. Their parents have academic, agricultural, scientific and business backgrounds. However, it may be early next year before the observation period for these children is complete as the kids will be monitored for 208 days, that is, till December this year or early January next year. During this period, they will pay five visits to the investigators of the clinical trial in the medical college. The levels of Covid IgG antibodies will be checked in their blood samples every visit. Dr C P Nanjaraj, dean, MMCRI, told DH, "We shall be screening 50 subjects in each group: 12 to 18 years, 6 to 12 years, and 2 to 6 years. During screening, we shall draw blood samples for Covid IgG antibodies and nasopharyngeal swabs for RT-PCR test." "If IgG antibodies and RT-PCR are negative, they (children) will be eligible to get into the study. The study subjects (children) will be given two doses of vaccine 28 days apart, and will be followed up for six months for safety analysis." The dean explained that the college did not have to mobilise children for the trial because, as soon as the news of the paediatric clinical trials was out, eager parents started calling up the college to enrol their children in the trial voluntarily. "Blood sampling will be done on each visit. During visit one, the first dose will be administered, visit two (second dose), visit three (28 days after second dose), visit four (117 days), and visit five (208 days). Screening for subjects in other age groups will start only after completion of recruitment of 175 subjects in all trial centres across India for the 12-18 age group," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-vaccination-30-kids-aged-12-18-years-get-covaxin-trial-jabs-in-mysuru-995930.html
10-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||From the Newsroom: Arun Singh dismisses speculation of change of leadership in Karnataka||In your evening news brief, Rahul Gandhi demands every person walking into a Covid-19 vaccination centre should get the jab; National Disaster Response Force prepares to face heavy rain in Maharashtra and BJP leader Arun Singh dismisses speculation of change of leadership in Karnataka.  Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday demanded that every person walking into a Covid-19 vaccination centre should get the jab, saying those who do not have access to internet also have the right to life.   The Congress has been batting for vaccines for the poor, especially those living in far-flung and rural areas, who do not have digital access or smart phones. Fifteen National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams have been positioned in various parts of Maharashtra in view of the prediction of heavy rains in certain parts of the state, the force chief said on Thursday. Four teams have been based in Ratnagiri, two each in Mumbai, Sindhudurg, Palghar, Raigad, Thane and one in Kurla (east Mumbai suburb), NDRF Director General S N Pradhan said in a tweet. Dismissing speculations of change in leadership, BJP National General Secretary (in-charge of Karnataka) Arun Singh said that these were mere rumours There is no proposal before the BJP top brass to remove Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and State unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel, senior leader Arun Singh said on Thursday. Dismissing these as rumours, Singh said both Chief Minister and State unit president are doing extremely good work. There is no proposal before the party to unseat them, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/from-the-newsroom-arun-singh-dismisses-speculation-of-change-of-leadership-in-karnataka-995968.html
10-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka relaxes Covid-19 curbs in 19 districts||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday unveiled an unlock plan that will kick in from June 14 in 19 districts where some relaxations have been given, but 11 districts with a high Covid-19 positivity rate will remain under lockdown sans concessions. The government has brought back night curfews everyday and during weekends to keep a check on the spread of the infection. The daily curfews will be in place from 7 pm till 5 am, whereas on weekends, it will start at 7 pm Friday till 5 am Monday. The curfews will be applicable in all the districts. Keeping in mind livelihoods and the economy, the government has allowed auto rickshaws and cabs to ply till 7 pm whereas, all industries have been allowed to resume operations with 50 per cent staff. Citizens can shop for essentials and alcohol from 6 am till 2 pm and this includes street vendors. There are no restrictions on inter-district travel, Yediyurappa specified.  Construction activities and related shops - cement and steel - will be permitted to function. Government offices will continue to function with a strength of 50 per cent, Yediyurappa added.  "This has been done based on the recommendations of the technical advisory committee," Yediyurappa said. "We will be able to provide more relaxation if the pandemic situation comes under more control." According to Revenue Minister R Ashoka, this unlock plan was designed to help auto/cab drivers and provide relief to industries. "This is a mini-lockdown," he said. However, 11 districts including Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga, Davanagere, Mysuru, Chamarjanagar, Hassan, Dakshina Kannada, Bengaluru Rural, Kodagu, Mandya and Belagavi will remain under a lockdown until June 21 with no relaxations. "The deputy commissioners and ministers in charge will have the liberty to take additional measures in these districts," Yediyurappa said. Earlier, the government said it will unlock only those districts where the positivity rate is below 5 per cent. However, this was not the sole criterion because districts that will unlock continue to have a positivity rate above 5 per cent. "We took an average of many factors - positivity rate, active cases, recoveries, the situation in the neighbouring districts and local factors," Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan, the Covid-19 Task Force chairperson, told DH. Earlier in the day, Yediyurappa reviewed eight districts with a high positivity rate. In Chikmagalur, for example, Yediyurappa found the rate to be 25 per cent with an average of only 6.1 contacts of an infected person traced. Yediyurappa also expressed concern over higher caseload in rural areas than in urban centres of seven of the eight districts, with Mysuru being an exception. Key highlights: * Essential shops and liquor shops open from 6 am to 2 pm. * Parks to be open from 5 am to 10 am. * Autos, taxis permitted with maximum 2 passengers till 7 pm. No buses. * Curfew between 7 pm and 5 am on weekdays. * Weekend curfew to start 7 pm on Friday until 5 am on Monday. * No prohibition on inter-district travel. * Industries will function with 50% strength, garment factories at 30%. * Construction activities can resume.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-relaxes-covid-19-curbs-in-19-districts-996028.html
10-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Unlock: What's allowed, what's not||Covid-19 lockdown will continue in 11 districts in Karnataka which have a high positivity rate till June 21. However, some relaxations have been allowed in the rest of the districts. The lockdown will continue with no new relaxation in Chikmagalur, Shivamogga, Davangere, Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Hassan, Dakshina Kannada, Bengaluru Rural, Mandya, Belagavi and Kodagu districts where the Covid-19 positivity rate is high.   Here's a list of activities that will be allowed from June 14 till June 21:  > All industries will be allowed to open with 50 per cent staff, however, garment industries will function with 30 per cent employees. The establishments are ordered to strictly adher to Covid-19 restrictions.  > Shops related to food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, meat and fish, dairy and milk booths, and animal fodder shall be allowed to function from 6 am to 2 pm. The same rules apply to PDS shops.  > Standalone liquor shops will be also allowed from 6 am to 2 pm. > Parks will be allowed to open from 5 am to 10 am for walking and jogging but group activities are prohibited and Covid-appropriate behavior is mandated.  > Street vendors can do business from 6 am to 2 pm.  > Skill training activities related to health sector are allowed.  > Optical shops are also allowed to function from 6 am to 2 pm.  > Auto rickshaws and cabs will be allowed to operate with maximum of two passengers only. > In addition to the already operating government offices, these offices are permitted with 50 per cent staff: Agriculture and allied offices, PWD, Housing, RTOs, Cooperation,     NABARD and offices of Department of Revenue, Government of India.  > Daily night curfew from 7 pm till 5 am will be in place. All movement of public is prohibited except for essential services and health emergencies. Movement of transport goods and vehicles is allowed. Travel for boarding train, plane or bus is allowed. Ecommerce activities are also allowed during the night curfew.  > Weekend curfew from 7 pm Friday till 5 am Monday will be in place. Only essential and emergency services are permitted during the weekends. Daily essentials, liquor shops are permitted between 6 am and 2 pm. 40 people allowed for Marriages which should be conducted at respective homes. Maximum of five people allowed for funerals.  > There will be no prohibition on inter-district travel > All construction activities and shops related to construction activities, particularly cement and steel, are permitted to function outside containment zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-unlock-whats-allowed-whats-not-996044.html
10-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Oxygen demand eases in Karnataka as government plans to create buffer stock||As Karnataka readies to unlock in different phases beginning next week, the state seems to have gotten some relief when it comes to the consumption of medical oxygen. For, the oxygen consumption per day has gradually decreased by about 200 MT over the last 20 days.  While Karnataka was consuming about 800 MT oxygen per day in mid-May, the same is averaging around 550 MT over the past week, government data shows. Officials foresee the consumption to further go down in the coming weeks, and with this, the state's focus now will be to create buffer stock and prepare for the third wave, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, who is in charge of oxygen supply management, said. According to data, the state's medical consumption was 828 MT on May 14. The level of consumption remained more or less the same, with about 813 MT on May 23. Post this, there has been a gradual decrease. On June 9, Karnataka used 529 MT of oxygen. While the number of active cases on May 14 was about 5.98 lakh, the same as on June 8 is 2.25 lakh. "In recent weeks, we have seen a significant decrease in patients in the oxygenated bed facilities across all hospitals. The government should definitely ramp up the infrastructure and be prepared for the next wave. Nonetheless, going by what we have seen in other parts of the world, the third wave is unlikely to be as severe as the second," said Sujith J, executive member, Private Hospitals and Nursing Association (PHANA). Of the 48,291 oxygenated beds available in hospitals across the state, 21,854 are occupied as on June 9. At this point, Karnataka has a total availability of 94,029 beds in all hospitals put together.  Speaking to DH, Shettar said the government was making plans for creating buffer stock to be prepared for any emergencies. Manufacturing units in districts "The Centre's allocation to Karnataka will not be reduced for now. The consumption of oxygen has reduced in several states across the country. Our focus will now be on creating buffer stock to use for emergency. We will start manufacturing units in all districts towards this end," he said. For instance, in Davangere, the government has set up an oxygen plant to ensure the generation of 5-7 MT of oxygen by making use of CSR donations, Shettar said. The government will also soon be appointing nodal officers to coordinate oxygen supply in each district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/oxygen-demand-eases-in-karnataka-as-government-plans-to-create-buffer-stock-996081.html
10-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 11,042 new Covid-19 cases, 194 deaths||Karnataka on Thursday reported 11,042 new cases of Covid-19 and 194 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 27,39,290 and the toll to 32,485. The day also saw 15,721 discharges. Bengaluru Urban logged 2,191 new cases, as the city saw 4,846 discharges and 47 deaths. As of June 10 evening, cumulatively 27,39,290 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 32,485 deaths and 24,96,132 discharges, the Health Department said in its bulletin. The total number of active cases in the state is at 2,10,652.  While the positivity rate for the day stood at 6.58 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.75 per cent. Mysuru reported 18 deaths, Belagavi (12), Hassan (10), Bengaluru Rural, Dakshin Kannada, Dharwad and Shivamogga (8 each), followed by others. Mysuru accounted for 1,011 new cases, Hassan 776, Dakshina Kannada 580, Tumakuru 571, followed by the rest. Bengaluru Urban district has a total of 11,91,732, positive cases, while Mysuru has 1,55,246 and Tumakuru 1,10,487. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 10,81,093, Mysuru 1,39,042 and Tumakuru 99,546. Cumulatively, a total of 3,11,93,920 samples have been tested in the state so far, of which 1,67,731 were tested on Thursday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-11042-new-covid-19-cases-194-deaths-996121.html
10-06-2021||West||Landslides, wall and bridge collapse incidents in Thane, Palghar amid heavy rains||Multiple incidents of landslide, wall and bridge collapse were reported in Thane city and neighbouring Palghar district in Maharashtra which were lashed by heavy rains on Wednesday, officials said. While no casualties were reported in these incidents, at least six vehicles were damaged after trees fell on them during the downpour, said Santosh Kadam, the chief of the Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) regional disaster management cell. Landslides were reported at Panvel-Kalwa road and Mumbra Bypass Road, both in Mumbra, the official said, adding rescue teams rushed to the scene to clear the roads and ensure smooth movement of vehicles. Apart from this, three incidents of wall collapse occurred in Thane city, but no casualty was reported. Compound walls of two housing complexes in Savarkar Nagar and Manorama Nagar collapsed due to the rains, but no one was injured, Santosh Kadam said. Another wall collapse incident took place in the Mumbra area of Thane city, he said. A bridge in Kolgaon village of Palghar district collapsed amid the downpour, said the Chief of the District Disaster Management Cell Vivekanand Kadam. No one was injured in the bridge collapse, but transport link to villages around the bridge was cut off, Vivekanand Kadam said. As per reports from the Thane district administration, low-lying areas in Kalyan, Dombivili, Ambernath, Badlapur, and Bhiwandi cities of the district were inundated following incessant showers. There were as many as 55 cases of water logging in Thane city, Santosh Kadam said. Thane mayor Naresh Mhaske and municipal commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma took stock of the situation, while district Guardian Minister Eknath Shinde visited the RDMC and the disaster control cell at the district collectorate to assess the situation. Meanwhile, flooding was reported in the low-lying of Palghar in the Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar belt. However, no major rain-related accidents were reported in the district, the CEO of the Disaster Management Cell at Palghar Dr Kiran Mahajan said. The authorities have suspended Covid-19 vaccination in both districts as heavy rains are expected in the regions in the coming days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/landslides-wall-and-bridge-collapse-incidents-in-thane-palghar-amid-heavy-rains-995745.html
10-06-2021||West||Eleven dead as house collapses in Mumbai amid heavy rain||At least nine persons were killed and eight others were injured when a twin residential structure in a slum pocket in Malvani area of Malad suburbs of Mumbai collapsed as heavy rains continued in coastal Konkan belt of Maharashtra on Thursday. The Mumbai fire brigade and police mounted a massive rescue operation. The Malwani locality has received over 250 mm rainfall over Wednesday and Thursday. In the incident, two ground+one structures at Plot No. 72 in New Collector Compound near Malvani Gate No 8 caved in. A total of 17 casualties were taken out from the debris of which nine were declared dead. A nearby ground+3 structure is in a dangerous condition and residents are being evacuated. The injured persons have been admitted to the Dr BR Ambedkar Shatabdi Hospital. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, accompanied by his son and state Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray, who is the Guardian Minister of Mumbai Suburban district, visited the hospital and spoke to the victims. Ports Minister Aslam Shaikh, who is the Mumbai City district Guardian Minister and the local MLA, visited the tragedy site and took a look at the rescue operation. Thackeray announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh to the next of kin of victims of the crash. The victims have been identified as: Arifa Shaikh (9) Jhoni Irrana (13)--- plus nine members of a single family ----- Alfisa S. Siddiqui, an 18-month-old child, Afina S. Siddiqui (6) Sahil S. Sayyed (9)  Alisha S. Siddiqui (10) Taher S. Siddiqui (12) Taufik S. Siddiqui (15) Raisabano S. Siddiqui (40), Ishratbano S. Siddiqui (40) and Shafiq M. Siddiqui (45).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/eleven-dead-as-house-collapses-in-mumbai-amid-heavy-rain-995801.html
10-06-2021||West||Mumbai building collapse: Man loses 9 from family as rescuers search amid rubble||Rescue workers in Mumbai frantically searched for survivors beneath the rubble on the morning after a building collapse killed at least 11 people, including eight children, following the first downpour of the monsoon season. Resident Mohammed Rafiq Siddiqui said he had lost nine family members when a four-story tenement block came down on the adjoining building where he lived late on Wednesday evening. "I left home at 10.30 pm to fetch some milk, but by the time I came home the building had collapsed," Siddiqui told Reuters. "People came to help us when the building collapsed, the police came, but they couldn't do anything," he said as he stood in the narrow lane where relatives had gathered, desperately hoping that rescuers would find someone alive. Eight injured people were taken to hospitals, officials said. Wednesday was the first day of heavy rains in Mumbai, as the monsoon moved up India's west coast, and almost every year some buildings collapse in the densely-populated city, due to their poor construction, Mumbai and its suburbs were likely to receive moderate to heavy rainfall in the next 24 hours, the weather department said in a daily bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-building-collapse-man-loses-9-from-family-as-rescuers-search-amid-rubble-995871.html
10-06-2021||West||Maharashtra rains: Red alert in Raigad; over 1,000 evacuated||A red alert has been sounded in Raigad district of Maharashtra, warning of heavy to extremely rainfall till Friday, prompting the district administration to shift over 1,000 people from 20 villages to safer places. The district received an average rainfall of 58 mm in the last 24 hours, Collector Nidhi Choudhary said in a release. She said in view of the prediction of heavy downpour, a red alert has been issued in the district for Thursday and Friday and an orange alert for June 12 and 13. Since there is a risk of landslides due to heavy rains, 1,139 people from 20 villages have been shifted to safer places, she said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had on Saturday confirmed the arrival of the south-west monsoon in Maharashtra at Harnai in the coastal Ratnagiri district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-rains-red-alert-in-raigad-over-1000-evacuated-995887.html
10-06-2021||West||Elgar case: Bombay HC extends Stan Swamy's stay in private hospital till June 18||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said Jesuit priest and activist Stan Swamy, arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, shall remain admitted in a Mumba-based private hospital till June 18 as he is suffering from Covid-19. Swamy, 84, was on May 28 shifted from the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai to the Holy Family Hospital here after he filed a petition, seeking interim bail on medical grounds. After being shifted to the private hospital, he tested positive for the coronavirus infection. He was lodged at the Taloja prison since his arrest in October 2020. On Thursday, his counsel Mihir Desai told a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that Swamy had tested positive for Covid-19 and hence, his stay at the private hospital should be extended. The bench said Swamy shall remain admitted at the private hospital till June 18, and posted the petition for hearing on June 17. The court also directed the hospital to submit in a sealed envelope medical reports of Swamy by the next date of hearing. Last month, when Swamy was produced before the HC from the prison via video-conferencing, he told the court that his mental and physical health had declined steadily in the jail. The Elgar Parishad case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at a conclave held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial on the Maharashtra city's outskirts. The Pune Police had claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) later took over the probe into the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/elgar-case-bombay-hc-extends-stan-swamys-stay-in-private-hospital-till-june-18-995929.html
10-06-2021||West||Energy transition a Rs 75,000 crore opportunity for Maharashtra: Study||With Maharashtra’s state budget stretched thin by the Covid-19 pandemic, a new analysis suggests significant savings opportunities in the state’s electricity generation sector – up to Rs 16,000 crores over five years and Rs 75,000 crores over the next decade. The report “Maharashtra’s Energy Transition – A ₹75,000 cr. opportunity” by research group Climate Risk Horizons suggests that the state government can save thousands of crores through three measures: the quick retirement of 4,020 MW of old coal power plants by 2022, halting ongoing construction of the new Bhusawal unit 6 that is surplus to requirements and long term replacement of expensive coal power contracts with cheaper renewable energy by 2030. The 'Climate Risk Horizons’ report suggests that 4,020 MW of coal plants owned by the Maharashtra State Power Generation Company (MAHAGENCO) could be retired by 2022. The savings generated can be used to improve efficiency in the electricity system, further reducing subsidy payouts from the government to Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Co. Ltd (MSEDCL), freeing up resources for other priorities in the health and infrastructure sector. The Central Electricity Authority and the Central government have both urged the shutdown of older coal power plants across the country. Older coal plants are typically less efficient, cause more pollution and will need to meet the 2015 air and water emission norms notified by the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change by 2024 at the latest. So far, analysts tracking air pollution say that MAHAGENCO has made little progress on installing FGDs for its older plants, of which several are in the pollution hotspots of Nagpur and Chandrapur. “Retiring these old units (Bhusawal Unit 3, Chandrapur Units 3-7, Khaparkheda Units 1-4, Koradi Unit 6 and 7, Nashik Units 3-5.) instead of incurring the capex to retrofit them will save approximately Rs 2,000 crore in avoided costs. The cost of electricity from these units is far more expensive than today’s competitive tariffs for renewable energy. Replacing the scheduled generation from these old units with cheaper renewable electricity will save another Rs 1,600 cr. annually (Rs 8,000 cr. over a 5 year period)”, said Ashish Fernandes, Lead Analyst at Climate Risk Horizons and author of the report. “The power surplus situation in the state and country, as well as the advent of cheaper renewable energy, allows the state government significant room to retire these end-of-life assets and generate savings which will benefit the discom and consumers.” Maharashtra’s coal fleet has been running below 55% Plant Load Factor (the ratio of average power generated by the plant to the maximum power that could have been generated in a given time) for the last four financial years, even before the pandemic- induced slump in economic activity in 2020-21. The Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) multi-year tariff order projects that MSEDCL will have approximately 15% surplus electricity requirement till at least 2025. Moreover, the state’s unconventional energy generation policy is targeting an addition of 17,360 MW of renewable energy over the same period. This makes the task of retiring older plants easier, the report explains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/energy-transition-a-rs-75000-crore-opportunity-for-maharashtra-study-995937.html
10-06-2021||West||Building collapse: Maharashtra govt announces Rs 5 lakh ex-gratia to victims’ kin||The Maharashtra government on Thursday announced an ex-gratia of Rs five lakh each to the kin of those who lost their lives in the house collapse incident in Mumbai’s Malwani area. It also said that the medical expenses of the injured will be borne by the government. Eight children and three adults were killed and seven other people injured after two floors of a three-storey building collapsed on an adjoining single-storey house located at the New Collector Compound on Abdul Hamid Road in Malwani around 11.15 pm on Wednesday, officials said. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray condoled the loss of lives in the incident and visited the Shatabdi Hospital in the city on Thursday to inquire about the well-being of the survivors, a statement issued by the chief minister's office (CMO) said. As soon as Thackeray got information of the incident last night, he spoke to municipal commissioner I S Chahal and directed that the rescue operation be carried out in a careful manner and the injured be rushed to hospital and treated with government expense, it said. The fire brigade, civic authorities, police were at the site since the last night to clear the debris and ensure rescue and relief operations. During the chief minister's visit to the hospital, state environment minister and Mumbai suburban gaurdian minister Aaditya Thackeray, civic chief Chahal and mayor Kishori Pednekar accompanied him, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/building-collapse-maharashtra-govt-announces-rs-5-lakh-ex-gratia-to-victims-kin-995945.html
10-06-2021||West||Heard loud sound on my house, thought it was cyclone, says Mumbai building collapse survivor||Rubina Shaikh, a widow, stays in the house positioned adjacent to the building along with her two sons. Shaikh, who is in her fifties, said that when the incident occurred around 11 pm, both her sons were out and she was cooking. "I heard a loud sound of something falling and found a stone on the roof of my house," she said. “I first thought it was a cyclone. But by the time I could run out of my house, I got stuck under the debris of a wall that fell on me," she added. Last month, cyclone Tauktae had brushed past the Mumbai coast. The cyclonic storm, which made landfall on the Gujarat coast on May 17, had triggered strong wind, heavy rainfall and high tidal waves, and Mumbai reeled under its impact for three days. Shaikh said people rescued her and took her to a hospital, which gave her primary treatment and allowed her to go. "I have lost my house in the incident…Now nothing is left,” she said. Shaikh urged the state government to get her house restored. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heard-loud-sound-on-my-house-thought-it-was-cyclone-says-mumbai-building-collapse-survivor-995971.html
10-06-2021||West||Atrocities case: Won't arrest Param Bir Singh till June 15, Maharashtra govt tells HC||The Maharashtra government on Thursday said it would not arrest former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh till June 15 in a case registered against him under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Senior counsel Darius Khambata, appearing for the state government, said his earlier statement that the police would not arrest Singh shall continue till June 15. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar posted for June 14 the petition filed by Singh, seeking to quash the FIR registered against him on a complaint of police inspector Bhimrao Ghadge. On that day, the court would also hear another petition filed by the senior IPS officer challenging two enquiries set up against him by the state government. The first order on April 1 was passed by the then state home minister Anil Deshmukh for alleged violation of some All India Services (Conduct) Rules. The second order of April 20 was passed by the present home minister (Dilip Walse Patil) over allegations of corruption levelled against Singh. The FIR registered under the Atrocities Act against Singh is based on a complaint filed by police inspector Ghadge, currently posted at Akola in Maharashtra. Ghadge made a series of allegations of corruption against Singh and other officers when Singh was posted in Thane. In the FIR, now transferred to Thane, Ghadge alleged that Singh pressured him to drop the names of some persons from a case and when he refused, the IPS officer framed him up in false cases. The FIR was registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/atrocities-case-wont-arrest-param-bir-singh-till-june-15-maharashtra-govt-tells-hc-996041.html
10-06-2021||West||Flight operations at Mumbai airport suspended for 30 minutes due to low visibility||Flight operations at the city's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) remained suspended for nearly 30 minutes on Thursday due to low visibility. Three flights were affected as a result of the runway operation's closure, CSMIA said in a statement. "Due to low visibility, flight operations at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport were suspended between 4:04 pm and 4:32 pm on Thursday as a precautionary step," the private airport operator said. The airport witnessed two go-arounds and one diversion to Ahmedabad during this period, it said. Operations have resumed and continue to proceed as per schedule, CSMIA added in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/flight-operations-at-mumbai-airport-suspended-for-30-minutes-due-to-low-visibility-996053.html
10-06-2021||West||Cigarette makers denying link between smoking and Covid-19 risk: Maharashtra govt to Bombay HC||The Maharashtra government on Thursday told the Bombay High Court that it was flooded with responses from several cigarette manufacturers, who have denied links between smoking and a higher risk of Covid-19 infection. The statement was made by Maharashtra Advocate General (AG) Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, before a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni. The bench had last month asked the state government if such a link existed, and had said the state should consider a temporary ban on the sale of cigarettes and beedis. The bench reminded the state government of its question on Thursday. "We know that smoking affects lungs and we know that Covid-19 affects the lungs," the court said. AG Kumbhakoni, however, said the state authorities were still going through the responses they had received from cigarette manufacturers and other stakeholders and was yet to draw a conclusion. "We have been flooded. They (manufacturers) have sent us so many documents all denying any link," he said. The court will continue hearing the matter next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cigarette-makers-denying-link-between-smoking-and-covid-19-risk-maharashtra-govt-to-bombay-hc-996094.html
10-06-2021||West||Sushant Singh Rajput’s flatmate Siddharth Pithani files bail plea||Late actor Sushant Singh Rajput's flatmate Siddharth Pithani, who is currently in judicial custody, moved a bail plea before a special court on Thursday. Pithani was arrested from Hyderabad on May 28 in a drug case linked to Rajput’s death last year. Among other grounds for seeking bail, the accused told the court that he is getting married on June 26. In his bail plea, filed through his advocate Taraq Sayyad, Pithani claimed that has been falsely framed in the matter. It said that Pithani has not been found in possession of any contraband and no incriminating material was recovered from him to even remotely suggest he was involved in dealings of any narcotic drug and psychotropic substances. Pithani has been booked under section 27-A (financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, among other charges. In the entire charge-sheet (filed by the Narcotics Control Bureau), there is not a single witness, statement of any person or any admissible evidence to even remotely allege that he (Pithani) was involved in financing or illicit trafficking of drugs, his plea said. “In view of the same, it is most respectfully submitted that no charge under Section 27-A can be framed against the applicant,” it added. The court has posted the matter for hearing on June 16. Rajput was found dead in his home in Bandra on June 14 last year. Following the actor's death, the NCB began a probe into alleged drug links in the film industry based on WhatsApp chats, and several people were arrested under the NDPS Act in this connection, most of who are out on bail currently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-s-flatmate-siddharth-pithani-files-bail-plea-996100.html
10-06-2021||West||Maharashtra govt waives interest on crop loan up to Rs 3 lakh||The Maharashtra government on Thursday said farmers who repay crop loan up to Rs 3 lakh regularly will be charged zero per cent interest. A decision to this effect was taken at a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray here. Earlier, there was 1 per cent concession in interest rate if crop loan between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 3 lakh was repaid on time. The concession has been now raised by by 2 per cent (total 3 per cent which has been waived), a statement from the chief minister's office (CMO) said. The cabinet decision, which comes at the start of the kharif season, waives 3 per cent interest on crop loan up to Rs 3 lakh and makes it interest-free as the Centre, too, has done away with 3 per cent interest on such farm credits. In the state budget this year, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who holds the finance portfolio, had announced that crop loan up to Rs 3 lakh will be charged at zero per cent interest. Under the Dr Punjabrao Deshmukh crop interest subsidy scheme, farmers who repay their interest of loan up to Rs 3 lakh get interest subsidy. Earlier, there was 3 per cent interest subsidy on loan up to Rs 1 lakh, 1 per cent concession on interest for loan between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 3 lakh. Now, there will be additional 2 per cent concession if loan up to Rs 3 lakh is repaid on time, the CMO statement said. The central government also gives 3 per cent concession on crop loan up to Rs 3 lakh if repaid on time. Hence, farmers will get 6 per cent concession and they will repay their short-term crop loan at zero per cent interest rate, it said. In another decision, the cabinet approved a proposal of mangroves and coral conservation through the Green Climate Fund. The project will be implemented in 11 talukas of four coastal districts, the statement said. Talukas of Devgad, Malwan, Vengurla (Sindhudurg district), Dapoli, Guhaghar, Rajapur, Ratnagiri (Ratnagiri district), Shrivardhan, Alibag (Raigad district) and Palghar, Dahanu (Palghar district) will be covered under the initiative. The project, that seek to enhance climate resilience of India's coastal communities, is being implemented in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha with financial assistance of the United Nations Development Programme and the Green Climate Fund. In Maharashtra, the project was implemented first in Sindhudurg district. The state's financial share in the project will be Rs 140.90 crore and its duration is till December 31, 2025, the statement said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-waives-interest-on-crop-loan-up-to-rs-3-lakh-996123.html
