11-06-2021||Comment||Why 'Union' or 'Centre' debate angers BJP||Tamil Nadu does it again by raising a few critical questions on the working of Indian federalism. The raging debate of whether India is a Union of states or the states are merely administrative units with the Union empowered to supersede the states' authority is timely. Although it may appear as an acrimonious political debate between the parties like Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), there is a constitutional guideline on this subject that is as clear as the daylight. Indian Constitution Part I- Article 1 states that India, that is Bharat, shall be a Union of States, thereby implying the indestructible nature of its unity with no provision for secession under the Constitution. Then why is the BJP protesting against the DMK for calling the Union government as Union government? Why is it asking the DMK to address the Union government as Central government while there is no such reference in the Indian Constitution itself? More curious is that Tamil Nadu is not alone in advocating that India is a Union of States. More political parties and states are espousing this line. The revival of this debate is unsettling for the BJP because of its ideas of nation and nationalism. There are no contradictions in their view of Hindutva, centralization of power and authority and the practice of one nation and one tax policy. All these variants can be cemented by their self proclaimed patriotism that tolerates neither debate nor dissent. The Preamble of the Indian Constitution clearly demonstrates the federal form, spirit and content of the Indian Constitution with an open acknowledgement of the centralizing tendencies and the quasi-federal characteristics in the actual working of the Constitution. There are also well-defined grounds and guidelines for enforcing the powers and authority of the Union over the states. But what has happened since the adoption of our Constitution is the erosion of states' powers has become a routine practice by successive governments in New Delhi. The term "in certain circumstances" became a common practice than an uncommon usage and application of the Union's power and authority over states. There is no exception during the Congress rule or the BJP holding the reins of the Union government. Worse is the extreme negligence and the poor precedents set by the Congress and BJP ruled states in turn by surrendering their rights silently without a word of dissent or even a mild record of disagreement. This is how the constitutional reference of 'Union' has been altered in practice to appear as 'Centre'. It has happened without any legal or constitutional sanctity over this transition. We should also keep in mind that India is not a classical federal model, and there are sufficient provisions to inform of its quasi-federal nature and characteristics. The Union is empowered, in certain circumstances, to supersede the authority of a state or to exercise powers otherwise vested with the states. The seventh schedule (Article-246) of the Constitution contains the Union List with 97 items, State List with 66 items and Concurrent List with 47 items. The successive Union governments have exploited the centralizing tendencies of the Constitution not only concerning the Concurrent List but also in the State List, e.g., agriculture and education. The GST Bill 2017, the New Education Policy 2020 and the Farm Bills 2020 have exposed the depth of isolation of states and the absence of broader national consensus over such critical issues concerning the entire nation. The Narendra Modi-led BJP government at the Union has handled these subjects as though states do not matter. There is an element of brutal indifference to the pleas of the states. Instances of this are the Union government's unresponsiveness to Tamil Nadu's appeal against NEET (National Eligibility cum Entrance Test), Punjab's challenge to the farm bills, and the genuine demand from several states to settle the GST dues on compassionate grounds. How West Bengal Assembly elections were held in eight phases has revealed the extent of political and structural control the Union government can exercise upon the conduct of an autonomous and quasi-judicial body like the Election Commission of India, especially during a strenuous period, like the Covid crisis, which had gripped the state and the country at large. On the one hand, DMK, besides its electoral success in the Parliamentary elections-2019 and the Assembly elections-2021, is undoubtedly on a revival path and wants to reinvent its ideological roots. On the other, the Modi government's handling of the corona crisis and the vaccine policy has not only exposed the weak links in the Union government's governance structure and communication but poor coordination with the states. The low trust combined with electoral defeats in West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu in the recent Assembly elections held in April-May 2021 has raised the prospects of opposition unity with the bench strength of Maharashtra momentum. Uttar Pradesh shows signs of complete failure in terms of deliberations over governance, and the cracks within the BJP are becoming more visible. Thus the changing ground realities, low trust of the people and the subtle shifts in states' responses to the Union government due to financial crisis are too intense for the BJP to hide behind the guise of Hindutva, Hindu nationalism and patriotism. It is, therefore, necessary for the BJP to introspect why and how the calling of the Union government as 'Union government' is illegal or unconstitutional and even anti-national. (Ramu Manivannan is a Professor and Head of the Department of Politics and Public Administration and the Director of the Centre for Dravidian Studies and Research, University of Madras) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors’ own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/why-union-or-centre-debate-angers-bjp-996204.html
11-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Congress workers stage protest against fuel price hike in Hubballi||Congress party workers staged protests in front of petrol pumps in Hubballi on Friday with the '100 not out' theme opposing the hike in petrol and diesel prices. Protesters pulled a bike tied to a bullock cart, near the Jigalur petrol pump at Bankapur Chowk in Old Hubballi. MLA Prasad Abbayya rode the bullock cart. "BJP leaders staged protests when fuel prices were increased even slightly during the UPA regime. They are silent now though people are suffering. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is not speaking about 'Achhe Din' now," Prasad Abbayya said. "Petrol price is reaching Rs 100 per litre probably for the first time in history. Though Rs 35 is the basic price per litre of petrol, Union and State governments are collecting Rs 65 tax on it.  They have put a heavy burden on people who are already in trouble due to the pandemic. Why is fuel not brought under GST when GST is being collected even for materials required for Covid-19 management?" he asked. Former minister AM Hindasgeri, Mahendra Singhi and Sadanand Danganavar were among those present during the protests. Hubballi-Dharwad City District Congress Committee president Altaf Halwoor, Anwar Mudol, Rajat Ullagaddimath and others staged a protest at Chennamma Circle. They also condemned the hike in the prices of cooking gas, edible oil and other essential commodities. They also gathered in front of the Mirjankar petrol pump and raised slogans against the government. Social distancing was not maintained during the protests. Police and some leaders asked the protesters to maintain a distance but that was in vain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-workers-stage-protest-against-fuel-price-hike-in-hubballi-996290.html
11-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man found murdered at Belavadi||A man found murdered in a vacant site at Belavadi under Yelwal police limits. Ravish (36) found dead. According to the Police, Ravish was running a petty shop at Hootagalli. He was killed by silting his throat. Ravish hails from Pandavapur taluk in Mandya district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-found-murdered-at-belavadi-996300.html
11-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||PM Modi's 'ache din' promises a political gimmick: Hebbalkar||Congress party leaders and office-bearers staged a protest on Friday opposing the increase in the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders. They demanded that the BJP government at the Centre and state reduce the prices of fuel and come to the aid of the people, who had been facing the brunt of Covid-19, as their promises of ‘ache din’ had failed to realise.   As per the call given by the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) to protest against the increase in fuel prices with the theme ‘100 not out’, Congress party workers and leaders staged protests in front of petrol bunks. They displayed placards demanding the removal of the BJP government. KPCC spokesperson and MLA Laxmi Hebbalkar led the protest in front of a petrol bunk at Hindalga village in Belagavi taluk. She said that ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power in the country, seven years ago, prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders have been increasing and his slogan of ‘ache din’ has remained a mere political gimmick with people suffering. Before becoming the Prime Minister, Modi had assured people of good days but the contrary has been happening since he assumed office. Prices of petrol and diesel were at Rs 58 and Rs 35, respectively when Dr Manmohan Singh was the Prime Minister despite prices of crude oils being high in the international market. Now, prices of crude oil have come down but fuel prices have reached Rs 100 mark that has dealt a severe blow to the people, she said. Hebbalkar demanded that the Centre and the state government decrease taxes on fuel.  Belagavi Rural Congress President Vinay Navalgatti led protests in front of a petrol bunk at Channamma Circle. Party office-bearers Rajendra Patil, Jayashree Malagi, Ayesha Sanadi and others took part in the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pm-modis-ache-din-promises-a-political-gimmick-hebbalkar-996459.html
11-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||38 illegal immigrants from Sri Lanka arrested in Mangaluru||The City Crime Branch police on Friday arrested 38 Sri Lankan nationals who have illegally migrated to India. The arrests were made during raids at multiple locations in and around Mangaluru. Six local people, who had sheltered these illegal immigrants have also been arrested. Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar told reporters that the operation was launched following a tip-off from Tamil Nadu police. He said that the illegal immigrants were trafficked to India with the promise of jobs in Canada. They were staying at two lodgings and two houses for past 45 days claiming to be daily wage workers and fishermen from Tamil Nadu. According to Commissioner, they had left Sri Lanka on March 17 by paying Rs 6 to Rs 10 lakh in Sri Lankan rupees to an agent. They reached Tamil Nadu’s Thoothukudi by boats. The agents, fearing intense scrutiny of foreign nationals due to Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, shifted the Sri Lankan nationals in buses first to Bengaluru and later to Mangaluru. The commissioner added that an organised illegal trafficking racket was operating in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/38-illegal-immigrants-from-sri-lanka-arrested-in-mangaluru-996472.html
11-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Will continue as Karnataka Chief Minister for next two years: B S Yediyurappa||Sending a strong message to the dissidents in his party, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday said he will continue as the CM for the next two years. Speaking to reporters in Hassan, he said, "The BJP national leaders have faith in me and have clarified that there will not be any changes in the party leadership in the State. This has increased my responsibility. I will tour across the state and work for the welfare of the people."  It may be mentioned that BJP State in-charge Arun Singh had recently clarified there will be no changes in the party leadership in the state putting an end to all the confusion and speculations regarding the change in leadership. "I will make all efforts to retain the faith of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah and work for the people," Yediyurappa said. The 78-year-old Lingayat strongman also said his responsibility has increased because of the trust shown in him by the BJP high command. "Arun Singh who is Karnataka in-charge has said that there is no question (of leadership change).. it doesn't arise and that Yediyurappa will remain (CM) for the next two years and complete the term-- where does that question arise," Yediyurappa said in response to a question. Speaking to reporters after a review meeting with officials and public representatives from the district, he said, "It has been clarified that Yediyurappa will continue for the remaining two years and with the cooperation of everyone I will focus on development and tour across the state and will make honest efforts to do a good job."  Amid speculation about leadership change in Karnataka, Singh, who is BJP's national general secretary in-charge of the state, on Thursday had ruled out replacing the Chief Minister and asserted that Yediyurappa will continue in the top post. Yediyurappa in response to a question said that Singh's statement has given him "more strength". "Hundred per cent, when our Karnataka in-charge has said there is no change for the remaining two years and good work is happening under my leadership, my responsibility has increased. I will put more effort and honestly work for the next two years, and try to live up to the trust shown in me by PM Narendra Modi and Amit Shah (Home Minister)," he added. Speculation has been rife for some time now that efforts were on, by a section of the ruling BJP to exert pressure for unseating Yediyurappa. Some BJP legislators are said to be pushing for convening a legislature party meeting, citing some decisions taken by the government, it is functioning, handling of the Covid-19 crisis and alleged instances of corruption, among others. Amid speculation, Yediyurappa had recently said he will continue in the top post as long as the BJP high command has confidence in him, and he had no confusion about it. Earlier too there has been intense speculation in some quarters that the BJP high command is mulling leadership change in Karnataka in the days to come considering Yediyurappa's advancing age. Though the BJP had officially rejected outright such speculation in the past, it refuses to die down, with some within the party like senior MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal giving credence to it with his statements, setting repeated deadlines for Yediyurappa's exit. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-continue-as-karnataka-chief-minister-for-next-two-years-b-s-yediyurappa-996313.html
11-06-2021||National||Centre asks states to prioritise young patients for mucormycosis treatment||The Centre has asked state governments to prioritise young patients while treating mucormycosis with Amphotericin B, the drug of choice, which is in short supply. In an advisory issued in consultation with the National Task Force on Covid-19 and the Indian Council of Medical Research, the government identified two specific categories of patients for treatment with Amphotericin B. They are young people and patients for which surgical removal of damaged or infected tissues (surgical debridement) is not possible. India currently has more than 28,000 mucormycosis cases of which nearly 42 per cent comes from Gujarat and Maharashtra. “So far, 28,252 cases have been reported from 28 states. Out of these, 86 per cent per cent(24,370 cases) have a history of Covid-19 infection and 62.3 per cent (17,601) have a history of diabetes. Maharashtra has reported the maximum number of Mucormycosis cases (6,339) followed by Gujarat (5,486),” Union health minister informed a Group of Ministers earlier this week. The advisory comes days after the Delhi High Court asked the Centre to protect the youth as they are the “future of the country” while the elderly have “lived their lives” since only a limited quantity of the medicine is available to treat thousands of black fungus cases. A division bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh asked the Centre to frame policy and file a status report. The high court said those who have a better chance of survival, who are younger and hold the promise of the future have to be prioritised over the older generation who have lived their lives. The court, however, clarified by saying: "We are not for a moment discounting the emotional support that the older generation provides families, particularly Indian families that are so closely bonded. But difficult choices have to be made and should be made at this stage.” "If we have to choose, the young will have to be chosen. They are the future. 80-year-olds are not going to carry this country forward. They have lived their lives," the court said. With several thousand mucormycosis cases and limited indigenous production of Amphotericin B, there is currently a shortage of crucial medicines. A month ago, the Centre had announced that five additional pharmaceutical companies received approval for producing the medicine in India in addition to the existing six companies. The firms have also placed orders for importing six lakh vials of Amphotericin-B.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-states-to-prioritise-young-patients-for-mucormycosis-treatment-996147.html
11-06-2021||National||Sedition case against Lakshadweep actor Aisha Sultana||The Lakshadweep police registered a case under sedition charges against actor Aisha Sultana. According to sources, Kavaratti police registered the case on the basis of a petition filed by BJP Lakshadweep president Abdulkhader Haji citing a remark of Sultana during a TV discussion in which she allegedly said that the Centre was using Covid-19 as a bioweapon on the people of Lakshadweep. A police personnel at Kavaratti police said that the case was registered on Wednesday and charges of sedition (IPC 124A) was invoked. Sultana, who is now learnt to be in Kochi, might be served a notice soon for recording her statement. It was during a discussion on a TV channel on June 7 on the ongoing resentment and protests of the people of Lakshadweep that Sultana allegedly made the remark. Sultana later clarified in a social media post that what she meant was not against the Union government, but the new 'draconian changes' imposed by Patel. Various forums like the Lakshadweep Sahitya Pravathaka Sangam had backed Sultana over the issue. A BJP local leader in Thrissur had also filed a similar petition against Sultana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sedition-case-against-lakshadweep-actor-aisha-sultana-996148.html
11-06-2021||National||Gross enrolment ratio up by 11% in 5 years, female enrolment rose by 18%: MoE survey||The Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) in higher education has increased by over 11 percent in the last five years, while the female enrolment has risen by over 18 percent during the same period, according to the All India Survey of Higher Education (AISHE), 2019-20. The number of universities has increased by 30.5 percent during the period of 2015-16 to 2019-20 and the number of colleges has also increased by about 8.4 percent in the same period, pointed out the report released on Thursday by the Union Ministry of Education. A total of 1,019 universities, 39,955 colleges and 9,599 stand-alone institutions participated in the survey, which provides key performance indicators on the current status of higher education in the country. "The Gross Enrolment Ratio or the percentage of students belonging to the eligible age group enrolled in higher education is 27.1 pc in 2019-20, which has seen a rise from 26.3 pc in 2018-19 and 24.3 pc in 2014-2015. "We have noted a tremendous growth of educational institutes in the country. The number of universities has increased by 30.5 pc from 799 in 2015-16 to 1,043 in 2019-20. The number of colleges has increased by about 8.4 pc from 39,071 in 2015-16 to 42,343 in 2019-20," Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' said in a series of tweets. Uttar Pradesh, with its highest student enrolment in India, has 49.1 percent male and 50.9 percent female students. While the number of students pursuing PhD in 2019-20 is 2.03 lakh against 1.17 lakh in 2014-15, only 2.7 percent colleges run PhD programme and 35.04 percent colleges run post-graduate level programmes. According to the report, there has been a significant shift in the choice of discipline of study, as in the last five years engineering and technology registered a negative growth (-13.4), while medical science enrolment has been up by 51.1 percent in the same period. The enrolment in higher education stands at 3.85 crore in 2019-20 compared to 3.74 crore in 2018-19, registering a growth of 11.36 lakh (3.04 pc). The total enrolment was 3.42 crore in 2014-15. GER of students belonging to the eligible age group enrolled in higher education in 2019-20 is 27.1 percent against 26.3 percent in 2018-19 and 24.3 percent in 2014-2015. Gender too indicates an improvement in the relative access to higher education for females of the eligible age group compared to males with 1.01 in 2019-20 as against 1.00 in 2018-19. As per the report, out of the total enrolment of 3,85,36,359 students, a vast majority of 3.06 crore students are enrolled in undergraduate which is approximately 79.5 percent of the total enrolment, followed by 11.2 percent students enrolled in post-graduation. Maharashtra tops in the enrolment of students in universities (including constituent units) with 9,67,034, followed by Tamil Nadu with 9,26,490 students and Delhi with 8,16,110 students, as per the report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gross-enrolment-ratio-up-by-11-in-5-years-female-enrolment-rose-by-18-moe-survey-996154.html
11-06-2021||National||Haryana to launch third round of sero survey on June 15||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij will launch the third round of the sero survey in the state on June 15 to determine the prevalence of coronavirus antibodies in the community, especially in children aged 6-17. Additional Chief Secretary (Health), Rajeev Arora said all the necessary preparations in this regard have already been made. The study will also collect data to know the effect and efficacy of the coronavirus vaccine besides helping the government in planning and strengthening paediatric services, including the establishment and upscaling of intensive care units. “The study is to provide us information regarding susceptible populations and areas in the state to prioritise the vaccination drive,” he said in a statement. Arora said the aim of this round of sero survey is to identify the impact of the second wave of Covid-19. Children aged six and above have also been included in the study to assess seroprevalence in them, he said. Arora further said the state has already conducted two rounds of sero surveys, the first in August 2020 wherein seroprevalence of Covid- 19 was found to be 8 per cent and the second round was conducted in October, wherein seroprevalence of Covid-19 was found to be 14.8 per cent in the whole state. Sero survey or seroprevalence studies are based on the analysis of antibodies collected through blood sample collection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-to-launch-third-round-of-sero-survey-on-june-15-996165.html
11-06-2021||National||Phased unlock likely to restore 67% non-farm jobs lost since May: CMIE||The gradual unlocking process across India is likely to restore about two-thirds of the 2.5 crore non-farm jobs lost following the lockdown in May, according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE). "This relentless loss of employment can be expected to abate somewhat in the coming weeks as many parts of the country that were under a lockdown have started announcing cautious relaxations. "These could provide some succour to the daily wage labourers who have suffered during the calibrated and localised lockdowns of May 2021," CMIE's CEO Mahesh Vyas said in a report. As these restrictions on movement are relaxed, these workers can be expected to return in search of employment, he added. "We can expect a quick recovery of the informal jobs that were lost in the unorganised sectors because of the local lockdowns. But, there is also a steady fall in employment independent of the lockdowns," Vyas noted. The total non-farm jobs lost since January 2021 works out to 3.68 crore. Of this, daily wage labourers account for 2.31 crore, according to CMIE data. Salaried employees account for 85 lakh and the rest are entrepreneurs. It would take a strong recovery of the India economy to recover the remaining jobs or revert to the employment levels of 2019-20, Vyas stated. "The unlocking process can be expected to repair about two-thirds of the job losses associated with the lockdown of May 2021. That would be 1.7 crore out of the 2.5 crore non-farm jobs lost during the month," the report said. As per CMIE data, the unemployment rate that reached 11.9 per cent in May, continued to rise into early June. The 30-day moving average unemployment rate as of June 6 was 13 per cent. The Indian labour market is in its worst condition since the nationwide lockdown months of April and May 2020, Vyas added. He mentioned that the last four weeks have seen a particularly sharp deterioration in labour market conditions. "The downturn began in the week ended May 16. During this week, the labour participation rate was at 40.5 per cent, which was higher by a whisker than the average 40.4 per cent rate around which this ratio has been hovering for several months since the 2020 lockdown," he noted. But the unemployment rate shot up suddenly to 14.5 per cent after remaining stable for several weeks at around 8 per cent. This implies that during this week of May 16, a number of people lost employment suddenly and they continued to look for jobs, albeit unsuccessfully, he pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/phased-unlock-likely-to-restore-67-non-farm-jobs-lost-since-may-cmie-996176.html
11-06-2021||National||May saw second-highest rainfall in 121 years; no significant heat wave spell: IMD||May received the second-highest rainfall in 121 years, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its monthly report Thursday, attributing two back-to-back cyclones and western disturbances for the record precipitation. It also said that at 34.18 degrees Celsius, the average maximum temperature over India this May was the fourth lowest since 1901. The lowest ever temperature recorded for May was 32.68 degrees Celsius in 1917. The temperature was lowest since 1977 when it was of 33.84 degrees Celsius, the IMD said. There was no significant heatwave spell observed during the month over any parts of India, he said. Rainfall over the country as a whole for the month of May 2021 was 107.9 millimetres, which is 74 per cent more than its Long Period Average (LPA) of 62 mm. "Rainfall over India during the month of May was second-highest since 1901. The ever highest rainfall occurred in the year 1990 (110.7mm)," the IMD said in its monthly report for May. May saw the formation of a cyclone each in the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal. Cyclone Tauktae formed over the Arabian Sea and developed into an 'extremely severe cyclonic storm'. It hit the Gujarat coast on May 17 after battering states along the western coast. Cyclone 'Yaas' developed over the Bay of Bengal and intensified into a 'very severe cyclonic storm'. It hit the Odisha coast on May 26 and also affected West Bengal. These two systems brought rainfall not only over the states along the western and eastern coasts but also to other parts of the country. For instance, as Cyclone 'Tauktae' weakened, it headed towards north India and brought rains over several parts of north India. Similarly, ‘Yaas’ brought rains over east India including Jharkhand, Bihar as it weakened. The IMD said that in all three months of the summer of 2021, frequencies of western disturbance activities over north India were higher than normal. In March, April and May 2021, it was seven, nine and eight respectively against normal of 4-6 WDs, the IMD added. Western disturbances are cyclonic storms that originate in the Mediterranean, traverse across Central Asia and hit north India. They are critical to northwest India as they are a major source of snow and rainfall during the winters. Like in March and April 2021, heatwave conditions in May 2021 was occasional and also for shorter periods over very small region. "No significant heatwave occurred during the month over the country except northwest Rajasthan where it was observed for two days on May 29 and 30,” the IMD said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/may-saw-second-highest-rainfall-in-121-years-no-significant-heat-wave-spell-imd-996194.html
11-06-2021||National||Knew Hardeep Singh Puri as helpful minister, not overzealous troll: Tharoor||Replying to a tweet by civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri to Rahul Gandhi wherein he snubbed both Rahul and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, Tharoor said that Puri who used to be a 'helpful minister' was unrecognisable as an 'overzealous troll.' Puri was responding to Rahul Gandhi's criticism of the Centre's new policy preventing retired intelligence officials from writing books without government approval. "No country allows retired intelligence officers to write books without prior approval. Alethophobia also means “inability to accept unflattering facts about your nation, religion, culture, ethnic group,or yourself” @ShashiTharoor’s companionship seems to be partially rubbing off," Puri tweeted while tagging Thiruvananthapuram MP Tharoor. In response, Tharoor said that he was unable to recognise Hardeep Singh Puri, the overzealous troll. "Hardeep, this continuing tirade really doesn't become you. As a former diplomat, surely you remember Talleyrand's classic exhortation, "surtout pas trôp de zèle"? I knew @HardeepSPuri the able diplomat & helpful minister, can't recognize Hardeep the overzealous troll!," Tharoor replied.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/knew-hardeep-singh-puri-as-helpful-minister-not-overzealous-troll-tharoor-996195.html
11-06-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on June 11||The daily Covid-19 count in India remained below the one-lakh mark for the fourth consecutive day with the country reporting 91,702 fresh cases, while the daily  positivity rate dropped to 4.49 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. With the fresh cases, the total tally of cases has climbed to 2,92,74,823. The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,63,079 with 3,403  fresh deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed  Coronavirus in India Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  2,92,74,823 as of June 11, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  3,63,079 as of June 11, 2021   
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->   Total Vaccination: 24,60,85,649 No. of people discharged: 2,77,90,073 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-june-11-996196.html
11-06-2021||National||External Affairs Minister Jaishankar meets Indian envoys to Gulf nations in Kuwait||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has held a meeting with India's envoys to the Gulf nations to discuss a host of issues, including encouraging speedy resumption of flights to this region and facilitating reuniting families separated by Covid disruption. Jaishankar, who arrived here on his first bilateral visit to the oil-rich Gulf nation early on Thursday, also unveiled a bust of Mahatma Gandhi at the Indian Embassy in Kuwait in presence of the ambassadors. "Chaired a fruitful meeting of Indian Ambassadors in Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Iran, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and Bahrain today," the external affairs minister tweeted. Chaired a fruitful meeting of Indian Ambassadors in Saudi Arabia, UAE, Iran, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and Bahrain today. Discussions focused on: "Discussions focused on ensuring utmost welfare of the Indian community in respective jurisdictions, facilitating reuniting of families separated by Covid disruption, interceding for early return of Indian talent and skills who left the Gulf during the pandemic, encouraging the speedy resumption of flights to Gulf destinations to help NRIs and strongly push our trade interests that contribute to economic recovery at home," he said in a series of tweets. Jaishankar also exuded confidence that the ambassadors and embassies will deliver on these priorities. Earlier in the day, he held "productive discussions" with his Kuwaiti counterpart Sheikh Ahmed Nasser Al-Mohammad Al-Sabah on Thursday during which the two sides discussed a range of issues including health, food, education, energy, digital and business cooperation. The two sides also signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) that will give Indian workers greater legal protection in Kuwait. There are over 10 lakh Indians residing in Kuwait. India is amongst the largest trading partners of Kuwait and Kuwait is a major supplier of oil for India. Jaishankar, who is carrying a personal letter from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Kuwait's Emir Sheikh Nawaf al-Ahmad al-Jaber al-Sabah, also called on Prime Minister Sheikh Sabah Khaled Al-Hamad Al-Sabah. "Conveyed our felicitations on the 60th anniversary of diplomatic relations. Appreciated his commitment to taking our partnership to higher levels. Our historical ties have been reinforced through our joint fight against COVID19," Jaishankar tweeted. His visit comes nearly three months after the two countries decided to establish a joint ministerial commission to formulate a framework to strengthen ties in sectors like energy, trade, investment, manpower and labour and information technology. Kuwaiti Foreign Minister Sheikh Ahmed visited India in March during which both sides decided to set up the joint commission. The year 2021-22 marks the 60th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between India and Kuwait. Kuwait has been supporting India in dealing with the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic by supplying relief material as well as medical oxygen. Indian Navy ships have brought a large quantity of medical oxygen from Kuwait in the last few weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/external-affairs-minister-jaishankar-meets-indian-envoys-to-gulf-nations-in-kuwait-996207.html
11-06-2021||National||Centre says reports on Co-WIN being hacked are fake||The Centre on Thursday debunked media reports about Co-WIN being hacked, stating that prima facie, these reports appear to be fake and that the portal stores all the vaccination data in a safe and secure digital environment. "There have been some unfounded media reports on the Co-WIN platform being hacked. Prima facie, these reports appear to be fake," a statement issued by the Union health ministry said. However, the ministry and the Empowered Group on Vaccine Administration (EGVAC) are getting the matter investigated by the Computer Emergency Response Team of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MietY), the statement said. Dr R S Sharma, Chairman of the Empowered Group on Vaccine Administration (Co-WIN), clarified that "our attention has been drawn towards the news circulating on social media about the alleged hacking of the Co-WIN system. In this connection, we wish to state that Co-WIN stores all the vaccination data in a safe and secure digital environment. No Co-WIN data is shared with any entity outside the Co-WIN environment. The data being claimed as having been leaked such as the geo-location of beneficiaries, is not even collected at Co-WIN".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-says-reports-on-co-win-being-hacked-are-fake-996209.html
11-06-2021||National||Young, unvaccinated: India's vaccination drive stumbles||India began the Covid-19 inoculation drive for its 130 crore people in earnest in mid-January. Healthcare, frontline workers and the elderly were the first eligible, followed by people aged over 45 in April and then adults aged 18-45 in May. That last extension, covering around 43% of the population, proved to be a crunch point. Following a surge in Covid-19 infections across the country in April, Prime Minister Narendra Modi accelerated plans to broaden the programme and opened up vaccinations from May 1 for people aged between 18 and 45 years. The decision led to a rush by people in that age group, who account for 60 crore of the population, to sign up on the government’s Co-WIN vaccination website. Critically, there was no corresponding increase in vaccine supplies. By June 4, India had provided at least one dose to roughly 5 crore people aged between 18 and 44, representing just 8% of that population group. Adding to the difficulties, a privilege gap emerged in the vaccination roll-out, with hospitals charging different prices for the same vaccine. Some hospitals in affluent areas have sold the Covishield shot, manufactured in India, for Rs 1,800 a dose, almost double the Rs 950 elsewhere. Also, urban Indians have received shots faster than those living in villages. That means vaccines remain unavailable to a large part of the population that cannot afford it or has little or no access to private hospitals. Vaccine importer India - the world's biggest producer of vaccines for polio, diphtheria and other diseases - sold or donated more than 660 lakh Covid-19 vaccine shots to 95 countries until the middle of April. But as infections started rising from around mid-March in the country, the clamour for vaccines at home also increased. India has now started importing vaccines and also expecting donations from the United States. The Centre expects vaccine supplies to improve substantially from June. It is expecting to produce enough shots by December to inoculate all of its estimated 95 crore adults, though those between 18 and 45 years will be the last on the priority list. Several states in India have begun to gradually lift restrictions on travel and businesses, after a fall in cases in recent weeks. However, health experts have warned that cases could surge again once most states reopen, and have called for vaccinations to be sped up. As of June 8, less than 4% of India’s adult population had been given the required two vaccine doses. Nearly 14% received at least one dose and, of that group, less than one-tenth of 18-45 year olds have been inoculated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/young-unvaccinated-indias-vaccination-drive-stumbles-996213.html
11-06-2021||National||With 3,403 fatalities, India sees spike in single-day Covid deaths; 91,702 new infections||The daily Covid-19 count in India remained below the one-lakh mark for the fourth consecutive day with the country reporting 91,702 fresh cases, while the daily  positivity rate dropped to 4.49 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. With the fresh cases, the total tally of cases has climbed to 2,92,74,823. The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,63,079 with 3,403  fresh deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed The active cases further declined to 11,21,671 comprising 3.83 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 94.93 per cent. A net decline of  46,281 cases has been recorded in the Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 20,44,131 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 37,42,42,384. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 4.49 per cent . It has been less than 10 per cent for the 18th consecutive day, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has also declined to 5.14 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 29th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,77,90,073, while the case fatality rate  has increased to 1.24 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 24,60,85,649 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 3,403 new fatalities include 1,915 from Maharashtra, 358 from Tamil Nadu, 194 each from Karnataka and Kerala. A total of 3,63,079 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,03,748 from Maharashtra, 32,485 from Karnataka, 28,528 from Tamil Nadu, 24,748 from Delhi, 21,597 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,642 from West Bengal, 15,367 from Punjab and 13,285 from Chhattisgarh. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-3403-fatalities-india-sees-spike-in-single-day-covid-deaths-91702-new-infections-996227.html
11-06-2021||National||Covid threatens India's regional, global ambitions, says US think-tank||India's domestic challenges due to Covid-19 crisis have become a threat to its regional and global ambitions, a US think-tank has observed and warned that unless it recovers with the help of allies like the United States, the pandemic could impact the geopolitical balance in the Indo-Pacific. As such, it is in the United States' best interests to help India retain its status as a pre-eminent power in South Asia, particularly in view of China's efforts to bolster its position at the expense of the US and India, it said. The Hudson Institute think-tank said that at the start of the pandemic, India offered medical assistance to its immediate neighbours and followed vaccine diplomacy in the first three months of 2021 which helped India to project itself as a regional leader, advancing its claim of being a global power in waiting. "There was optimism that India would be able to counter China's soft power with its own. Now, however, at least over the short term, India's domestic challenges have become a threat to its regional and global ambitions," wrote Husain Haqqani, a former Pakistani Ambassador to Sri Lanka and the US, and Hudson research scholar Aparna Pande. Haqqani is currently the director of South and Central Asia at the Hudson Institute. Pande is director, Initiative on the Future of India and South Asia at the think-tank. "The recent surge of Covid-19 in South Asia challenges India's traditional ability to aid its smaller neighbours, a change that could, in turn, affect India's influence in its competition with China. "Unless India can recover from this surge with the help of allies like the United States, the pandemic could impact the Indo-Pacific's geopolitical balance," the joint policy memo released by Hudson stated. In the first phase of the Covid-19 pandemic, India succeeded in occupying the role of a regional leader. But official complacency, disinclination on the part of government leaders to accept the advice of scientific advisors and reluctance to ramp up vaccine production and distribution has seriously damaged India’s standing, the think-tank report said. Haqqani and Pande wrote that a year-and-a-half after the start of the Covid-19 pandemic, China's footprint in South Asia is larger than it was before. Both Pakistan and Sri Lanka are deeply in debt to China, having borrowed heavily from it due to the pandemic. "Unless India, the United States, and the financial institutions led by the democracies provide support, the Maldives and Nepal may also turn towards China for assistance," they warned. Bipartisan support within the US policy community for India has already mobilised Americans to help India. The Joe Biden administration has sent oxygen concentrators, medicines testing kits, ventilators, and personal protective equipment to India, and many US companies and the Indian-American community have rallied to India's support, the think-tank report stated. The Hudson Institute recommended the Biden Administration offers Covid vaccine doses to India and other countries in need of them. In the short term, one way to help India's economy recover from the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic would be to reinstate India's Generalized Scheme of Preferences Plus status, which the Donald Trump administration removed. “A mini-trade deal could be offered to signal American support for India's economic recovery,” the policy memo said. Noting that India’s economy underwent its first recession in 2020, contracting by 10 per cent, it said encouragement for American companies and those of other countries such as Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan, that are moving out of China, to invest in India would also aid the country in restoring its economic growth. It recommended the Indian government enforces smart lockdowns, engage in vaccine diplomacy and also bolster 'Quad' diplomacy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-threatens-indias-regional-global-ambitions-says-us-think-tank-996230.html
11-06-2021||National||Fact-Check: Was Indians' vaccine data on Co-Win actually leaked? Here's what experts believe||The government has refuted reports of user data being leaked from the CoWin portal and sold on the dark web, though it has launched an investigation into the issue out of caution. Reports of an alleged hack of the vaccination site surfaced on Thursday, with pictures of a website on the dark web that claimed to be hawking the names, mobile numbers, Aadhaar IDs and location data of 15 crore vaccinated citizens. "There have been some unfounded media reports on the CoWin platform being hacked. Prima facie, these reports appear to be fake," a statement issued by the Union health ministry said. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan also rubbished the reports, saying that all vaccination data was stored in a “secure digital environment”, but said an emergency response team of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology would look into the matter just to be safe. Data speculated to have been leaked such as geo-location of beneficiaries, is not even collected on Co-WIN. What do the experts believe? Cybersecurity researcher Rajshekhar Rajaharia has backed the government’s assertion, saying the leak was completely fake and a Bitcoin scam that was set up to swindle unsuspecting buyers out of up to $800. Rajaharia also posted pictures to prove that the website had regularly been posting fraudulent “leaked” datasets, including data from Tata Communications and SBI YONO, which were never hacked; Upstox and Mobikwik user data, which were not available on the dark web. However, some cybersecurity experts are still concerned that the site’s security protocols were not impenetrable and suggested that the government err on the side of caution. Apar Gupta, who runs the Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF), said the government should not take the claim lightly and implored the response team to investigate the breach thoroughly. The IFF had earlier this year filed a Right to Information (RTI) petition regarding the kinds of data the Cowin portal stored and what its privacy policy was. The government said it would receive names, genders, dates of birth, photo IDs, and mobile numbers but refused to outline a privacy policy and did not disclose which ministries and departments in the government will have access to the data on the CoWin platform. The data it says it will collect will be your name, gender, date of birth, photo ID, and number. National, State, and District level admins will have access to use the app, but there is not much further clarity on this point. But most importantly...4/n||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-was-indians-vaccine-data-on-co-win-actually-leaked-heres-what-experts-believe-996239.html
11-06-2021||National||Fresh nation-wide hike takes petrol price in Mumbai beyond Rs 102||Petrol price in the financial capital of Mumbai breached the Rs 102-mark (per litre) on Friday after a fresh hike in the fuel prices across the country. Fuel prices have touched record highs after consistent hikes for over a month. In Mumbai, petrol price soared to Rs 102.04 and diesel now costs Rs 94.15, according to Indian Oil Corporation.  Both petrol and diesel were up by at least 28 paise across four metro cities. In national capital Delhi, petrol price stood at Rs 95.85, a record high, and diesel is charged at Rs 86.75. In Kolkata, petrol is at Rs 95.80 and diesel at Rs 89.60. In the southern city of Chennai, petrol is at Rs 97.19 and diesel at 91.42.  Opposition party workers have gathered in various parts of the country protesting Centre's hikes in petrol and diesel prices.  Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Rajasthan levies the highest value-added tax (VAT) on petrol in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fresh-nation-wide-hike-takes-petrol-price-in-mumbai-beyond-rs-102-996241.html
11-06-2021||National||BookMyShow lays off 200 employees as Covid-19 cloud hangs over theatres||With movie theatres shuttered and slim chances of cinema-going revival on the horizon, online ticketing portal BookMyShow has laid off as many as 200 employees, the company's chief executive announced on Twitter, as Covid-19 takes a sizable bite out of the film business. “COVID19 has taught me many lessons & I learnt another one today,” Ashish Hemrajani tweeted, announcing that the firm had let go of close to 17 per cent of its existing workforce. The firm had laid off or furloughed 270 employees in May last year as the Covid-19 restrictions were already beginning to sting the ticketing giant. Hemrajani also appealed to other employers on the microblogging site to take on some of the employees, soliciting private messages to work out terms with potential employers. Estimates suggested an increase in revenue in 2021 as fresh infections had flatlined in the early part of the year, but the second Covid wave may have dashed some of those hopes. This could also mean that the shift towards at-home entertainment could be accelerated and box-office earners could skip a theatrical release altogether.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bookmyshow-lays-off-200-employees-as-covid-19-cloud-hangs-over-theatres-996258.html
11-06-2021||National||Pakistan's National Assembly passes bill to give right of appeal to Kulbhushan Jadhav||Pakistan's National Assembly has passed a government-backed bill that will provide the right of appeal to Indian death-row prisoner Kulbhushan Jadhav, according to a media report. The National Assembly passed the ICJ (Review and Re-consideration) Bill, 2020 on Thursday aimed at allowing alleged Indian spy Jadhav to have consular access in line with the International Court of Justice (ICJ) verdict, the Dawn newspaper reported. Jadhav, the 51-year-old retired Indian Navy officer, was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of espionage and terrorism in April 2017. India approached the ICJ against Pakistan for denial of consular access to Jadhav and challenging the death sentence. The Hague-based ICJ ruled in July 2019 that Pakistan must undertake an "effective review and reconsideration" of the conviction and sentence of Jadhav and also to grant consular access to India without further delay. The ICJ, in its 2019 verdict, had asked Pakistan to provide a proper forum for appeal against the sentence given to Jadhav. Speaking after the passage of the bill, Law Minister Farogh Nasim said had they not passed the bill, India would have gone to the UN Security Council and could have moved contempt proceedings against Pakistan in the ICJ. Nasim said the bill was being passed in light of the verdict of the ICJ. He said by passing the law, they had proved to the world that Pakistan was a "responsible state".  The National Assembly also passed 20 other bills, including the Elections (Amendment) Bill. The Opposition members staged a walkout and pointed out the lack of quorum three times, but each time the chair declared the house in order and continued the business, forcing the Opposition to resort to noisy protest. The Opposition members gathered in front of the Speaker’s dais and raised slogans. Criticising the government's move, Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) lawmaker Ahsan Iqbal pointed out that it had included the bill in the heavy legislative agenda to provide relief to Jadhav. Iqbal said it was a person-specific bill and the name of Jadhav was mentioned in the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the bill. He said when the country’s law allowed high courts to review the sentences awarded by military courts then what was the need for bringing the law. The government had already enforced the law through the promulgation of an ordinance in May last year soon after the ICJ verdict in Jadhav's case. Amid stiff resistance offered by Opposition parties, the National Assembly’s Standing Committee on Law and Justice on October 21 last year had approved the bill that seeks a review of the conviction of Jadhav. The house also witnessed a rumpus when Pakistan Peoples Party's Raja Pervez Ashraf protested over remarks of Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, who had stated that by opposing the bill to provide relief to Jadhav, the Opposition members were toeing the Indian narrative, the paper said. Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) Chairman Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari asked the speaker to provide some time to the members to see the bills. He criticised the government for first bringing the bill to provide relief to Jadhav through an ordinance and then getting it passed through bulldozing the legislation. Law minister Nasim said he was shocked to see the Opposition’s behaviour and it seemed that the opposition had not read the ICJ verdict. He said the ICJ had clearly asked Pakistan to make effective legislation to provide the right of review to Jadhav.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistans-national-assembly-passes-bill-to-give-right-of-appeal-to-kulbhushan-jadhav-996265.html
11-06-2021||National||Actor Dilip Kumar discharged from hospital||Legendary actor Dilip Kumar was discharged from a hospital here on Friday, five days after he was hospitalised due to episodes of breathlessness. The 98-year-old screen icon was admitted to suburban Khar-based Hinduja Hospital, a non-COVID-19 facility, on Sunday. He was diagnosed with bilateral pleural effusion -- a build-up of excess fluid between the layers of the pleura outside the lungs and underwent a successful pleural aspiration procedure on Wednesday. "With the blessings and prayers of all of you, Dilip Sahab is going to his home from hospital. Your immense love and affection always touches the heart of Sahab,” a post on the official Twitter handle of Kumar read. The tweet was shared by the cinema icon's family friend, Faisal Farooqui.   Kumar was initially supposed to be discharged on Thursday but the family and the doctors decided to let him rest in the medical facility for another day. The Hindi cinema veteran, whose career spans over five decades with hits like "Mughal-e-Azam", "Devdas", "Naya Daur", and "Ram Aur Shyam", was admitted to the same hospital last month for a regular health check-up. Kumar's last big screen appearance was the 1998 film "Qila.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/actor-dilip-kumar-discharged-from-hospital-996278.html
11-06-2021||National||Covid-19: INI-CET 2021, for post-graduate medical courses, postponed||The Supreme Court on Friday ordered the postponement of the INI-CET 2021 exam for admission to post-graduate medical courses for AIIMS, JIPMER, PGIMER and NIMHANS, scheduled for June 16, by at least one month in view of the Covid-19 situation in the country. More details awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-ini-cet-2021-for-post-graduate-medical-courses-postponed-996280.html
11-06-2021||National||Congress leaders hold protest against fuel price hike||Congress leaders and party workers on Friday held symbolic protests at petrol pumps in several parts of the city, demanding a complete rollback of fuel price hike. Party leaders K C Venugopal and Shakti Singh Gohil reached the Feroz Shah Kotla Stadium petrol pump on a horse cart. Venugopal said that under the UPA government, the tax on petrol and diesel stood at Rs 9.20. Now, it is Rs 32. "The government should stop imposing excise duty on petrol and diesel. It should come under the purview of Goods and Services Tax. We demand a complete rollback of fuel price hike," Venugopal, who is the Congress general secretary, said. Ajay Maken led a protest against rising fuel prices at petrol pumps in Rajinder Nagar and Janpath. Party leaders said protests are being held at petrol pumps across the county by local units in compliance with Covid-19 protocols. Petrol and diesel prices were hiked again on Friday by 31 paise per litre and 28 paise per litre, respectively. A litre of petrol in Delhi costs Rs 95.85, whereas diesel costs Rs 86.75 per litre. Petrol prices have crossed the Rs 100 per litre mark in Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Rajasthan and Ladakh. Sri Ganganagar district in Rajasthan has the costliest fuel in the country with petrol priced at Rs 106.94 a litre and diesel at Rs 99.80.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-leaders-hold-protest-against-fuel-price-hike-996293.html
11-06-2021||National||Sena mocks BJP over induction of Jitin Prasada; advises Congress to create strong team||The Shiv Sena on Friday described as ''hilarious” the BJP’s celebration over the induction of Uttar Pradesh leader Jitin Prasada into the party fold, but also said that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will have to create a strong team in his party. In a shot in the arm for the BJP, Prasada, a Congress leader joined the saffron party on Wednesday, months ahead of the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh scheduled for early next year. The 47-year former Union minister comes from a well-known Brahmin family of UP. In an editorial in party mouthpiece ‘Saamana’, the Shiv Sena said Prasada, a young leader, was of no use to the Congress and will remain so to the BJP. "Jitin Prasada, Jyotiraditya Scindia, Sachin pilot were young leaders and there were high expectations from them. There is already a vacuum in the Congress after the death of Ahmed Patel and Rajeev Satav. It is not good that young leaders are going the BJP way," the Sena said. "Prasada, who had faced defeat in Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, has finally joined the BJP. Prasada’s family members were Congress loyalists. He was a minister in former prime minister Manmohan Singh’s cabinet. However, he kept losing Assembly and Lok Sabha elections. The BJP has now started celebrating his induction into the party fold. The caste politics of Uttar Pradesh is behind it. Eye on UP’s Brahmin vote bank is being said to be behind Prasada’s induction into the BJP," it said. "But if Prasada had a hold over the Brahmin votes, why these votes weren't transferred to the Congress?" it asked. The Sena said that BJP's traditional upper caste vote must be drifting away from the party. "Till now, the BJP did not require any arithmetic or face in UP. Narendra Modi was everything. Ram mandir or Hindutva were the issues to win votes. But now, the situation is so bad that it wants support of Prasada,” it said sarcastically. The Uddhav Thackeray-led party said the important issue is why are the Congress leaders jumping ship. Talking about the defection of Jyotiraditya Scindia to the BJP and the rebellion of Sachin Pilot, the Sena said that in Punjab, too, there is a rebellion in the Congress. It, however, said that rebellion and factionalism is not restricted to the Congress alone. "Despite being in position to win Kerala and Assam, the Congress couldn't do so. It lost Puducherry. But there is no discussion on what the Congress should do next and how it should resurrect itself . Except in Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka, the Congress is fighting for its survival everywhere else. This political imbalance is harmful to the democracy," it said. The Congress has done a lot of work in the pre-Indepedence era and even after that. The Congress has a contribution in building the nation. Even today, the ‘Nehru-Gandhi’ identity of the country cannot be obliterated…The Congress has a strong hold at the grass root level, it said. "Congress president Sonia Gandhi has ably carried out her responsibility in the party. Now, Rahul Gandhi has to create a strong team, which will be the answer to the challenge before the party," the Sena added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sena-mocks-bjp-over-induction-of-jitin-prasada-advises-congress-to-create-strong-team-996332.html
11-06-2021||National||Congress workers hold protest against fuel price hike, over 30 detained||Over 30 Congress workers were detained on Friday for holding protests at petrol pumps in several parts of the city to demand a complete rollback of fuel price hike. Some Indian Youth Congress members protested shirtless at a petrol pump at Janpath with posters criticising fuel price hike taped to their chest.   Police detained over 30 protesters from the location for flouting Covid protocol. “We detained the protesters as protests are not allowed due to the ongoing Covid situation. They will be released soon, a senior police officer said. Party leaders K C Venugopal and Shakti Singh Gohil reached the Feroz Shah Kotla Stadium petrol pump on a horse cart. Venugopal said that under the UPA government, the tax on petrol and diesel stood at Rs 9.20. Now, it is Rs 32. "The government should stop imposing excise duty on petrol and diesel. It should come under the purview of Goods and Services Tax. We demand a complete rollback of fuel price hike," Venugopal, who is the Congress general secretary, said. Ajay Maken led a protest against rising fuel prices at petrol pumps in Rajinder Nagar and Janpath. IYC President Srinivas BV accused the government of spending the tax collected on diesel and petrol on “extravagant projects”. “The reduction in fuel prices comes only on the occasion of elections. The BJP's loot starts again as soon as it gets time from the election campaign,” he alleged. Party leaders said protests are being held at petrol pumps across the county by local units in compliance with COVID-19 protocols. Petrol and diesel prices were hiked again on Friday by 31 paise per litre and 28 paise per litre, respectively. A litre of petrol in Delhi costs Rs 95.85, whereas diesel costs Rs 86.75 per litre. Petrol prices have crossed the Rs 100 per litre mark in Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Rajasthan and Ladakh. Sri Ganganagar district in Rajasthan has the costliest fuel in the country with petrol priced at Rs 106.94 a litre and diesel at Rs 99.80.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-workers-hold-protest-against-fuel-price-hike-over-30-detained-996336.html
11-06-2021||National||Judicial custody of Olympic wrestler Sushil Kumar extended till June 25 in murder case||A Delhi court on Friday extended the judicial custody of Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar till June 25 in connection with the alleged brawl at Chhatrasal Stadium in which a young wrestler died.  Sushil Kumar was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Reetika Jain at the end of the nine-days judicial custody. The international wrestler is facing charges of murder, cupable homicide and kidnapping.  He, along with his associates, allegedly assaulted Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends at the stadium on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over an alleged property dispute. Dhankar, 23, succumbed to the injuries later.   Police has alleged Sushil Kumar the “main culprit and mastermind” of the murder and said that there is electronic evidence wherein he and his associates could be seen beating Dhankar.  Sushil Kumar was nabbed on May 23, along with co-accused Ajay Kumar Sehrawat. He has already undergone custodial interrogation of 10 days. A total of 10 people, including Sushil Kumar, have been arrested so far in connection with the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/judicial-custody-of-olympic-wrestler-sushil-kumar-extended-till-june-25-in-murder-case-996343.html
11-06-2021||National||Central government says it is working closely with states to address vaccine hesitancy||Amid media reports alleging 'vaccine hesitancy' among health workers in rural areas, the Union Health Ministry on Friday said it is working closely with states and union territories to address the issue. The government of India has been supporting the efforts of states and UTs for an effective vaccination drive under the 'Whole of Government' approach since January 16 this year, it said. There have been certain media reports alleging 'vaccine hesitancy' in rural areas among health workers, the ministry stated. "It is informed that vaccine hesitancy is a globally accepted phenomenon and should be addressed by scientifically studying and addressing the issue at the community level," it said in a statement. Keeping this in mind, a 'Covid-19 Vaccine Communication Strategy' covering details on vaccine hesitancy was shared with all states and UTs at the beginning of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. This strategy was also shared with mission directors of the National Health Missions of all states on January 25 as part of the orientation of state immunisation and IEC officers on Covid-19 Vaccination Communication Strategy. All states and UTs are following the same and adopting the strategy as per the local requirement, the statement said. Several IEC materials and prototypes for all media – print, social and electronic – have been prepared and shared with the states for suitable adaptation at their level. The Union Ministry of Health is working closely with all states and UTs in addressing the issue of vaccine hesitancy on a regular basis. Further, it has communicated to all states and UTs to create awareness in tribal communities through IEC materials on Covid-19 vaccines and Covid appropriate behaviour, the statement added. The ministry is also working in close coordination with the Ministry of Tribal Affairs in this regard, it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-government-says-it-is-working-closely-with-states-to-address-vaccine-hesitancy-996355.html
11-06-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: Five states with the slowest vaccination rates in the country||The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is on the wane, but fresh cases still hover just below the peak of the first wave. Policymakers are now turning their attention to preventing a possible third wave, with vaccinations being the armour of choice. The government’s efforts to ramp up administration of vaccines has not yet led to a massive jump in inoculations, as only about 14.7 per cent have received even a single jab; a measly 3.5 per cent of India’s large population is fully protected against the deadly infection. The distribution of vaccines has also heavily leaned towards the older segment of the population, with nearly three-fourths of vaccines received by those above 45 years of age. Here are the five states that have registered the slowest rate of vaccinations so far: Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh shares the bottom run for the slowest pace of vaccination, being the only state other than Bihar to have a vaccination rate of less than 8 per cent. However, in terms of total vaccinations, the state has administered the second-highest number of doses, behind only Maharashtra. The poor run-rate can be attributed to the large population of the state, implying that it may require a larger share of vaccines in times to come. Active cases in the state had fallen to 12,243 by Thursday, while the cumulative test positivity ratio had dropped to 1 per cent. Of the people who have received at least one vaccine dose, 31.4 per cent are in the 18-44 age group. Bihar The scenario in Bihar is similar to Uttar Pradesh. However, despite having the third highest population in the country, the state is at eighth place in terms of the number of people vaccinated. This could be a cause of concern if the vaccination rate is not ramped up from the current 8 per cent. Bihar’s active caseload is nearly half that of Uttar Pradesh and its positivity rate is even lower. However, the state has the lowest percentage of people covered under two doses. Tamil Nadu Tamil Nadu has fared the worst among the southern states by far, having vaccinated only 10.7 per cent of its population, though a bigger population does play a role. However, Andhra Pradesh with a comparable population has administered about 7 lakh more doses. Despite having about a third of Uttar Pradesh’s population, Tamil Nadu has roughly 15 times the number of active cases and saw the biggest rise in daily cases on Thursday with 16,813 cases. Assam The northeastern state has the smallest population on this list and has lagged its peers with a vaccination rate of a shade under 11 per cent. The vaccination drive is also heavily skewed towards the 45-and-over category, with nearly 70 per cent of vaccines going to the group. Assam also has an alarmingly high caseload of more than 47,000, with the cumulative positivity rate touching 3.2 per cent in the state. Jharkhand While Jharkhand has only about a sixth of the population of Uttar Pradesh, the state has fallen short in its vaccination drive, having administered at least one dose to just close to 11 per cent of its population and a second dose to just over 2 per cent. The state also has one of the lowest active caseloads among major states at about 4,515.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-five-states-with-the-slowest-vaccination-rates-in-the-country-996360.html
11-06-2021||National||Covid-19 Vaccine Matters: Roadblocks aplenty for India||Vaccination in India was always going to be a mammoth challenge, given its population of nearly 1.4 billion citizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-matters-roadblocks-aplenty-for-india-996362.html
11-06-2021||National||ICMR to conduct national sero-surveys to assess Covid-19 spread: MoFHW||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is set to launch its fourth round of national sero-survey later this month to check the extent of people’s exposure to SARS-CoV-2, NITI Ayog member V K Paul said on Friday, asking the states to launch their own sero-surveys, too. "The ICMR will begin work for the next sero survey this month, which will help assess the intensity of spread of Covid-19. But if we want to protect our geographies, we can’t depend on one national sero-survey alone and will have to encourage states and union territories to do sero-surveys at their levels also," Paul said. The third ICMR sero-survey was carried out in December on 28,500 people from 70 districts. It showed a Covid-19 prevalence of 21.4 per cent among the adult population, which went up to 31.7 per cent in urban slums and 26.2 per cent in urban non-slum areas. The fourth survey will be held in the same 70 districts in 21 states and will include children aged 6 years and above. On reducing the gap between two doses of Covishield shots as was done by the UK, Paul said there was no need to panic and immediately switchover, but the issue would be discussed at the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation. Several experts have asked for a review of the current spacing of 12-16 weeks for the second dose of Covishield in India. The UK government's recently decided to shorten the gap to eight weeks following scientific studies showing that this would increase the vaccine’s efficacy against the more infectious Delta variant. “There is no need for any panic, suggesting a need for immediate switchover or change in the gap between the doses. All these decisions must be taken very carefully,” Paul said, brushing aside apprehensions on whether the current dosing regimen will be effective against the Delta variant, which is the dominant strain in most parts of India.  “We must remember that when we increased the gap, we had to consider the risk posed by the virus to those who have received only one dose. But the counterpoint was that more people will then be able to get the first dose, thereby giving a reasonable degree of immunity to more people. The NTAGI will now review the new data,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-to-conduct-national-sero-surveys-to-assess-covid-19-spread-mofhw-996364.html
11-06-2021||National||Bombay HC asks Centre to look at Kerala, J&K for door-to-door vaccination||The Bombay High Court on Friday said the Union government should look at the door-to-door vaccination programme carried out “successfully” by Kerala and Jammu and Kashmir, and take a “sound decision” on its present policy that states door-to-door vaccination was not possible. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni noted that it was unable to understand what the Centre’s problem was in starting door-to-door vaccination when states such as Kerala and Jammu and Kashmir were already carrying out such drives. Responding to a query raised by the court earlier this week, as to how a senior politician got vaccinated at his residence in Mumbai, Anil Sakhare, counsel for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), on Friday said the jab was not given by the civic body. The bench then asked additional government pleader Geeta Shastri, appearing for the Maharashtra government, about who administered the vaccine to the politician. Shastri sought a week's time to respond. To this, Chief Justice Datta said, “One week to take information on this? This is alarming. There is an old saying 'You show me the man and I will show you the rule'.” The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by advocates Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari, seeking door-to-door vaccination for senior citizens above the age of 75 and persons who are specially abled, wheelchair bound or bed ridden. The court asked how the Union government policy says door-to-door vaccination was not possible presently, when individual states such as Kerala and Jammu and Kashmir were carrying out the drive. “How is it that individual states like Kerala and Jammu and Kashmir have introduced and are successfully doing door-to-door vaccination? What is the Centre's comment on the Kerala and Jammu and Kashmir pattern?” the bench asked. "We are not able to understand what the Centre's problem was. Why don't you (Union) communicate with these states and if it appeals to you, then you can ask other states also to start the same drive,” the court said, asking the government to take a "sound decision". The court also noted that it was very happy with the good job being done by the BMC during the pandemic and asked why the civic body was hesitant to introduce door-to-door vaccination. To this, BMC counsel Sakhre pointed out a letter written by civic commissioner Iqbal Chahal to the Centre stating that the civic body was willing to carry out door-to-door vaccination and requested the Union government to provide guidelines for the same. The bench directed Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh to take instructions from the Health Secretary of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on the letter and posted the matter for further hearing on June 14. ASG Singh told the court that the Covid-19 pandemic had a national impact and all states need to work in coordination with the Centre. “The Centre forms guidelines and it is expected from all state governments that the guidelines are followed,” Singh said, adding that the guidelines for the vaccination drive are updated as per the prevalent situation from time to time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bombay-hc-asks-centre-to-look-at-kerala-jk-for-door-to-door-vaccination-996369.html
11-06-2021||National||Workplace jabs account for significant share of city vaccination: Report||Describing it as a “crucial step”, the Centre allowed corporates to vaccinate at the workplace on April 7. Later, on May 22, the Centre announced that family members and dependents of the employees can also avail of the workplace vaccination service. From April 7 until June 9, a total of 69,170 shots have been administered across several campuses of Tata Consultancy Services (TCS). Similarly, while Bengaluru-based Centum Electronics conducted 48,313 vaccinations; Infosys, Ernst & Young, and Maruti Suzuki conducted 28,493; 26,406 and 22,472 respectively, according to the IE report. Mumbai, Bengaluru, Pune, Hyderabad, Gurgaon, Noida and Chennai’s workplaces have conducted approximately 20.36 lakh vaccinations, which account for more than 12 per cent of the total vaccinations carried out in the top seven metros of India. Among vaccination doses administered at workplaces, Information technology (IT) services companies are top of the list, followed by consulting firms, automobiles, manufacturing and e-commerce. Accelerated inoculation at these firms is a successful move as it makes a notable contribution to the country’s GDP. However, as these big corporates depend upon the private sector -- which has a 25 per cent share of total vaccine doses -- it could lead to vaccine inequality, according to the publication’s analysis. Most of India’s workforce belongs to unorganised sectors of the economy. Hence, it calls for the Centre to put down a similar policy for them in its updated vaccination policy in which the Centre will procure 75 per cent of the total vaccine doses. The data shows that aggressive and targeted vaccination has given extra protection to the section of society which already has access to better healthcare and left out the vulnerable population. Even in the case of vaccine shortage, these big corporates can easily get their share from the allocated 25 per cent due to their financial position. The analysis suggests that the government should put down a strategy targeting the vulnerable groups who lack access to good healthcare. Vaccinating them against Covid-19 can help in avoiding a potential third wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/workplace-jabs-account-for-significant-share-of-city-vaccination-report-996371.html
11-06-2021||National||Sports Ministry not to send its delegation to Olympics||The Sports Ministry on Friday said it has decided against sending its delegation to Tokyo Olympics to accommodate "maximum" support staff, including coaches and physios, for the athletes competing in the Summer Games. A total of 100 Indian athletes have so far qualified and another 25 to 35 might make the cut for the delayed Tokyo Olympics scheduled from July 23 to August 8. "The Ministry has decided to depute maximum additional support staff such as coaches, doctors, physiotherapists, to optimize the performance of the athletes," the Ministry said in a statement. "Visit of any person other than athletes, coaches and support staff will be taken up only if there is any protocol requirement. In the light of the arrangement, it has been decided not to have any Ministry delegation for the Tokyo Olympics." As per the norms, the number of officials travelling to Olympics cannot be more than one-third of the athletes' contingent. With the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, the Japanese government had also decided to restrict the staff accompanying the foreign ministers to 11 per head of state, while limiting the cabinet-level delegations to five people. In a bid to support logistic support to the Indian athletes, the Ministry also decided to set up a Olympic Mission Cell in the Embassy of India in Tokyo. "An Olympic Mission Cell is being set up in the Embassy of India in Tokyo, as a single window node to provide logistic support to the Indian Contingent bound for Tokyo, so that all possible assistance is rendered seamlessly," the ministry said. The Indian contingent for the Tokyo Olympics is expected to be around 190, including over 100 athletes. Indian athletes from 12 sports -- badminton, boxing, hockey, wrestling, sailing, athletics, archery, equestrian, fencing, rowing, shooting and table tennis -- have so far qualified for the Tokyo Olympics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sports-ministry-not-to-send-its-delegation-to-olympics-996383.html
11-06-2021||National||Wrestler murder case: Close-aide of Sushil Kumar sent to 4-day police custody; to be taken to Jammu||A Delhi Court on Friday remanded an alleged close-aide of Olympic wrestler Sushil Kumar to 4-day police custody in connection with the murder of a 23-year-old former junior national wrestling champion at Chhatrasal Stadium here. Anirudh was arrested by Delhi Police's Crime Branch from the national capital on Thursday. In all, 10 people, including Sushil Kumar, have been arrested so far in connection with the incident. The police produced Anirudh before Metropolitan Magistrate Divya Malhotra and sought his custody for seven days. The court, however, allowed his police interrogation for only four days.  During the course of proceedings, Additional Public Prosecutor Atul Shrivastava, representing the police, told the court that his custody is required as he has to be taken to Jammu.  The court was also apprised that Anirudh has been spotted in the purported video of the brawl.  Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted wrestler Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends Sonu Mahal and Amit Kumar on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over a property dispute. Dhankar, 23, succumbed to injuries later. The two-time Olympic medallist faces charges of murder, culpable homicide, kidnapping and criminal conspiracy.  Police have called him the "main culprit and mastermind" behind the alleged murder and said there is electronic evidence in which he and his associates could be seen beating Dhankar with sticks.  Earlier on Friday, the district court extended his judicial custody till June 25 in connection with the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wrestler-murder-case-close-aide-of-sushil-kumar-sent-to-4-day-police-custody-to-be-taken-to-jammu-996387.html
11-06-2021||National||FM to chair GST Council meet on July 12; tax cut on Covid-19 essentials, black fungus medicine on agenda||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will on Saturday chair the meeting of the GST Council, which is expected to decide on tax relief for Covid-19 essentials and black fungus medicine. The 44th GST Council meeting will be attended by Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur, besides finance ministers of states and Union territories and senior officers from Union government and states, the Union finance ministry tweeted on Friday. The Council will discuss the report of the Group of Ministers, headed by Meghalaya Deputy Chief Minister Conrad Sangma, on GST concessions on Covid-19 relief items like medical grade oxygen, pulse oximeters, hand sanitisers and ventilators, among others. Besides, GoM also looked into vaccines, drugs and medicines for Covid-19 treatment and testing kits for its detection. Some state finance ministers in the GoM are understood to have pitched for a rate cut on Covid-19 essentials. UP Finance Minister Suresh Kumar Khanna, who is also a member of the GoM, had on Wednesday said the state is in favour of cutting taxes on Covid-19 essentials to facilitate patients, but will accept the decision of the GST Council on tax rates. The GST Council in its previous meeting on May 28 left taxes on Covid-19 vaccines and medical supplies unchanged after the BJP- and Opposition-ruled states sparred over whether the tax cut benefits will reach the common man. The GoM was set up to recommend rates for Covid-19 essentials. The Congress party- and other Opposition-ruled states have been demanding a reduction in taxes but the central government felt the move may not result in tangible gains for people. Currently, 5 per cent GST is levied on domestically manufactured vaccines, while it is 12 per cent for Covid-19 drugs and oxygen concentrators. In the meeting on May 28, GST was exempted on import of Amphotericin B, a medicine used for the treatment of black fungus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fm-to-chair-gst-council-meet-on-july-12-tax-cut-on-covid-19-essentials-black-fungus-medicine-on-agenda-996392.html
11-06-2021||National||Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma meets RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma met Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh supremo Mohan Bhagwat at the organization's headquarters here on Friday. This was Sarma's first visit to the RSS headquarters after becoming chief minister of Assam a month ago. Sarma spent more than an hour at the RSS headquarters and met Bhagwat, Sangh sources said, without revealing what transpired at the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-cm-himanta-biswa-sarma-meets-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-996406.html
11-06-2021||National||Lalu Prasad turns 74, celebrates quietly at Delhi home; Nitish extends greetings||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Friday extended birthday greetings to his arch rival Lalu Prasad, with whom his love hate relationship has been the stuff of legend in contemporary politics. Prasad, the founding president of Rashtriya Janata Dal who enjoyed unmatched mass following in his heydays, turned 74. "Of course, I extend him my greetings. I always do", replied Kumar with a broad smile when asked by reporters what would he like to say on the birthday of the RJD supremo, whom he had unseated from power more than a decade ago. Political hostility between the two leaders, which began in mid 1990s and continues till date barring a short-lived alliance in the previous decade, has been highly talked about in the political circles. When Prasad's elder son Tej Pratap Yadav got married in 2018, it was the image of the grooms father and his political adversary in a warm embrace which hogged the limelight. Prasad, who has been convicted in a number of fodder scam cases, was released from jail recently, though the fresh outbreak of Covid-19 has kept the ailing septuagenarian from being in his home town, in the midst of his doting supporters. The ailing septuagenarian, who is staying at New Delhi, took part in a quiet celebration, pictures of which were shared on social media by his eldest daughter Misa Bharti. Adored and abhorred in equal measure for his devil may care attitude, Prasad can be seen, in one of the pictures, flanked on either side by wife Rabri Devi, who had succeeded him as the Chief Minister of Bihar, and Misa besides his grandchildren. Other pictures show the flamboyant politician, dressed in T-shirt and shorts, cutting the cake and receiving a bouquet from his wife. In Patna, former chief minister and Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) president Jitan Ram Manjhi wished Prasad on his birthday. Manjhi talked to Prasad over phone when Tej Pratap Yadav visited his house during the day. Manjhi and Yadav meeting was seen with interest in the political circles as HAM is a part of the NDA in Bihar. But, both Manjhi and Yadav maintained that the meeting was personal and not political.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lalu-prasad-turns-74-celebrates-quietly-at-delhi-home-nitish-extends-greetings-996412.html
11-06-2021||National||Centre seeks suggestions from experts on Covid-19||The Centre on Friday welcomed recommendations by a group of experts that mass, indiscriminate and incomplete vaccination can trigger emergence of mutant strains and that there is no need to inoculate those who had documented coronavirus infection, saying the suggestions will be deliberated upon. In their latest report which has been submitted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the group of public health experts, including doctors from AIIMS and members from the national taskforce on Covid-19, had recommended that there is no need to inoculate those who had coronavirus infection and that vaccinating the vulnerable and those at risk, instead of mass population-wide inoculation including children, should be the aim at present. At a press conference, NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said these recommendations have been made by respectable epidemiologists and experts who are from very respectable institutions. “We welcome their suggestions and will hold one on one discussion with them," he said. On the suggestion of doing away with inoculation of those having recovered from Covid-19, Paul said such decisions are to be taken by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation in India (NTAGI), which receives such suggestions, reviews and deliberates on them. "They looked at science and the data available when they took the decision that Covid patients can get vaccinated three months after recovery from illness. If more data becomes available and new suggestions come, they will consider them and deliberate upon them. It is a dynamic process. "Even in WHO and other countries, several decisions are being refined or changed from time to time. Decisions are taken based on Science. Appropriate deliberations will be held on such suggestions," he noted. The experts from the Indian Public Health Association (IPHA), Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine (IAPSM) and Indian Association of Epidemiologists (IAE) in their report had said “the present situation of the pandemic in the country demands that we should be guided by the logistics and epidemiological data to prioritise vaccination rather than opening vaccination for all age groups at this stage". "Opening all fronts simultaneously will drain human and other resources and would be spreading it too thin to make an impact at the population level," the experts said in the report. Highlighting that vaccination of young adults and children is not supported by evidence and would not be cost effective, they said unplanned inoculation can promote mutant strains. "Mass, indiscriminate, and incomplete vaccination can also trigger emergence of mutant strains. Given the rapid transmission of infection in various parts of the country, it is unlikely that mass vaccination of all adults will catch up with the pace of natural infection among our young population," they said in the report. There is no need to vaccinate people who had documented Covid-19 infection. These people may be vaccinated after generating evidence that vaccine is beneficial after natural infection, the recommendations stated. "Vaccine is a strong and powerful weapon against the novel coronavirus. And like all strong weapons it should neither be withheld nor used indiscriminately; but should be employed strategically to derive maximum benefit in a cost-effective way," they said. The report had also suggested implementing repeated local level serosurveys in real time at the end of the second wave to map the vulnerability at district level to guide vaccination strategy and long-term follow up of the cohort of recovered Covid-19 patients to document re-infection, severity and outcome to provide evidence base on duration of immunity after natural infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-seeks-suggestions-from-experts-on-covid-19-996421.html
11-06-2021||National||Court seeks Tihar's response on ISIS man allegation he was forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'||A Delhi court on Friday sought response from Tihar jail authorities on an application moved by an alleged ISIS member claiming that he was beaten up by other inmates there and was forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. The accused, Rashid Zafar, was arrested in 2018 on the allegations of being members of an ISIS-inspired group who were planning suicide attacks and serial blasts, targeting politicians as also government installations, in Delhi and other parts of north India. Special Judge Parveen Singh issued notice to Tihar jail superintendent and sought the reply to Zafar's application by June 14, when the court will further hear the matter. The application said that the incident was disclosed by the accused to his father telephonically from Tihar Jail. “The accused was beaten up and forced to chant religious slogans like 'Jai Shri Ram' by his inmates,” advocate M S Khan, appearing for the accused, claimed. The plea, moved by advocate Qausar Khan, requested that “appropriate directions may be passed to the Jail Superintendent to look into the matter.“ The accused were arrested along with nine others in December 2018 after NIA carried out searches, in coordination with Special cell of Delhi Police and Anti-Terrorism Squad of Uttar Pradesh Police, at six places in Jafrabad, Seelampur in Delhi, and 11 places in Uttar Pradesh -- six in Amroha, two in Lucknow, two in Hapur and two in Meerut. The searches and the arrests came a month before the Republic Day celebrations on January 26. According to NIA, a locally-made rocket launcher, material for suicide vests and 112 alarm clocks to be used as timers were recovered from the searches. The agency also said it recovered 25 kg of explosive material -- Potassium Nitrate, Ammonium Nitrate and Sulphur. The group allegedly had also purchased remote control cars and wireless doorbells to use their circuits in assembling remote-controlled improvised explosive devices. Besides, the NIA also recovered steel containers, electric wires, 91 mobile phones, 134 SIM cards, 3 laptops, knife, sword, ISIS-related literature during the searches. The probe agency had initially rounded up 16 persons of the group 'Harkat ul Harb e Islam', which loosely translates into war for the cause of Islam. Of the 16 detained, 10 were later arrested - five from Amroha, in UP and five from Seelampur and Jafrabad localities in north-east Delhi, the agency had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-seeks-tihars-response-on-isis-man-allegation-he-was-forced-to-chant-jai-shri-ram-996424.html
11-06-2021||National||Govt holds back release of complete industrial production data for April||The government has held back the release of complete data of the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) for April, as was done for the same month last year due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Last year in June, the National Statistical Office (NSO) had held back the release of complete IIP data due to the effect of the nationwide lockdown on factory output. This year too industrial production was hit due to lockdown restrictions imposed by states to curb the second wave of the pandemic. According to the partial data released on Friday by the NSO, the IIP (general index) stood at 126.6 points in April this year. The IIP was at 54 points in April 2020 and 126.5 points in April 2019. Industrial output had shrunk by 57.3 per cent in April 2020. As per the partial data, IIP growth works out to be 134 per cent in April 2021 over the same month last year, mainly due to the low base effect. However, industrial growth was flat in April if we compare the IIP to that in the same month of 2019. This indicates that the nascent economic recovery has been impacted by the second wave of the pandemic. In a statement, NSO said, "It may be noted that the nationwide lockdown and other measures implemented to restrict the spread of Covid-19 pandemic from the end of March 2020, had led to a majority of the establishments not operating in April 2020 and consequently, there were many units which reported 'Nil' production, affecting comparison of the indices for the months of April 2020 and April 2021." The Centre had on March 25, 2020 enforced a nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19. The government started easing lockdown restrictions for some economic activities from April 20, 2020. This year, the second wave of pandemic began in the middle of April, which also affected production in factories due to local restrictions imposed by states.  The NSO stated that for the month of April 2021, the indices of industrial production for the mining, manufacturing and electricity sectors stood at 108, 125.1 and 174 points, respectively. As per use-based classification, the indices were at 126.7 for primary goods, 82.4 for capital goods, 137.9 for intermediate goods and 134.8 for infrastructure/ construction goods for April 2021. Further, the indices for consumer durables and consumer non-durables were at 112.4 and 142.3, respectively. The IIP had registered a growth of 5.2 per cent in February last year. It had shrunk by 18.7 per cent in March 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-holds-back-release-of-complete-industrial-production-data-for-april-996430.html
11-06-2021||National||'PM has been holding meetings with ministers to take stock of their work in last 2 years'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been holding in-person meetings with Union ministers in different groups apparently to take stock of the work done by them in the past two years, sources said on Friday. Three such meetings have been held so far at 7, Lok Kalyan Marg, the official residence of the prime minister, which was also attended by BJP president J P Nadda. Almost all meetings lasted for more than five hours, the sources said. These meetings were called after the second wave of Covid-19. A presentation was also given by several ministers, the sources said. So far, ministers -- both cabinet and their deputies -- holding the charge of agriculture, rural development, animal husbandry and fishing, tribal affairs, urban development, culture, statistics and programme implementation, civil aviation, railways, food and consumer affairs, jal shakti, petroleum, steel and environment were among those who were called for the meetings, they said. These meetings are expected to continue for several days, the sources added. The Cabinet meeting, which is chaired by the prime minister, is usually held once a week and that of the council of ministers once a month. The cabinet meeting is being held virtually every Wednesday. These meetings with the Union ministers were preceded by similar meetings that Modi held with the presidents of various wings of the BJP and with the party general secretaries. Both meetings lasted for more than four hours. Nadda and BJP general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh were also present at the prime minister's meetings with the party office-bearers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-has-been-holding-meetings-with-ministers-to-take-stock-of-their-work-in-last-2-years-996436.html
11-06-2021||National||Indian Railways to introduce anti-collision system||Indian Railways would soon introduce Train Collision Avoidance System (ACAS), an indigenously developed system, which will help it to prevent accidents and ensure maximum safety. Currently, the movement of trains is dependent on the signalling system between a given block, wherein the signal changes depending on train movement on track whether it will be green, yellow or red. In ACAS, all signal posts will be fixed with Radio-Frequency Identification (RFID) tag and the loco engine of each train would have the RFID reader. Instead of watching the signal from a distance, the loco pilot can view the status of the signal on the reader inside the loco cabin, said an official in the Railways. According to Railways, this would help during foggy conditions, where the engine automatically adjust speed and initiate the breaks as per signal. "The system will prevent signal jumping,  even if the pilot missed the signal," said the official. The Union Cabinet recently approved the proposal for the allotment of 5 MHz Spectrum in 700 MHz frequency band to Railways for public safety and security services at stations and in trains.  The radiowaves would help Railways to provide LTE or Long Term Evolution based mobile train radio communication on their route and it will be implemented in the next 5 years. "The project brings a strategic shift in Railways operations and safety. It will also ensure seamless communication with loco pilots and guards," said a statement from the Indian Railways. Once the project completes, it will provide secure voice, video and data communication services for operational, safety and security applications, said the Railways. "The project will also enable Railways to implement Internet of Things (IoT) based remote asset monitoring especially of coaches, wagons & locos, and live video feed of CCTV cameras in the train coaches," said the official. "Once the project is complete, the present communication system, which is based on cable and wire, would be replaced by a telecommunication network using the spectrum allotted to Railways which would be more secure and faster," said the official. "Allotment of the spectrum will help national transporter to faster implementation of ACAS in Railways system," said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-to-introduce-anti-collision-system-996452.html
11-06-2021||National||Naroda Gam riots case: Plea to arraign 80 eyewitnesses as accused withdrawn||After pursuing the courts for nearly eight years, a group of accused in the Naroda Gam massacre case of 2002 post-Godhra riots on Friday withdrew their application seeking arraignment of 80 eyewitnesses as accused, for allegedly participating in the violence. The accused also withdrew the pleas against ex-IPS officer Rahul Sharma and investigating officer P K Mal for alleging that they destroyed evidence related to the case. The principal sessions judge S K Bakshi allowed the withdrawal plea moved by advocate Chetan Shah on behalf of the accused. Shah didn't assign any reason behind the withdrawal. When contacted, Shah told DH, "There is no reason."  Naroda Gam is one of the nine major riots cases probed by the SIT. Among the 82 accused facing trial of allegedly killing 11 Muslims are former BJP minister Maya Kodnani and Bajrang Dal leader Babubhai Patel alias Babu Bajrangi. In 2013, Shah had moved a plea on behalf of the accused against 80 witnesses alleging that they were also involved in the rioting as revealed in their testimonies in court and therefore, they should be tried as accused under section 319 of code of criminal procedure (CrPC).  Based on these witnesses' accounts, Shah stated in the plea that there was "cross stone-pelting, throwing of acid bulbs etc; The shops and houses of Hindus were also burnt. The damage has been sustained by the Hindus but then the investigation has not been carried on that line." He argued in the plea that 80 witnesses "were also members of the same illegal assembly, hence they should also be tried as co-accused in this trial as required under section 149 of IPC (illegal assembly). The plea also claimed that "there were robberies at the houses of Hindus who also suffered a lot". It claimed that police registered a total of 21 ICR in 2002 and implicated members of both communities in the chargesheet. The Supreme Court appointed-Special Investigation Team (SIT), which probed the case, opposed the application, stating that there was no direct evidence against the witnesses and material produced in the application is "general in nature" and "hearsay" which couldn't be considered as evidence. It also stated that a total of 181 witnesses had already been examined and if powers under section 319 of CrPC were invoked, there would be a "de novo trial" or a new trial. The then special judge Jyotsna Yagnik had rejected the application on July 1, 2013, while holding that granting this plea would delay the trial. The accused challenged the lower court's order in a high court which, in 2018, remanded the matter back to the trial court to hear the final arguments of the accused. The accused had also filed similar pleas against ex-IPS officer Rahul Sharma for allegedly destroying CDs of call detail records containing VIP movements during the riots, collected while assisting the probe for a brief period in 2002. Similarly, the accused also wanted investigating officer P K Mal to be arraigned as an accused for allegedly destroying evidence. The pleas against both the officers have been withdrawn.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/naroda-gam-riots-case-plea-to-arraign-80-eyewitnesses-as-accused-withdrawn-996455.html
11-06-2021||National||Govt says no need to panic over need for immediate change in dosage interval of Covishield||The government Friday said there is no need to panic on the need for an immediate change in the dosage interval of the Covishield vaccine, underlining that reducing the time gap requires proper scientific study in the Indian scenario. In the context of some media reports quoting recent studies that it would be better to shorten the gap between two doses of Covishield vaccine, in light of the variants in circulation, Dr V K Paul, Member (Health) at NITI Aayog, said there is a need to balance such concerns.  Addressing a media briefing on Covid-19, he said, "There is no need for any panic, suggesting need for immediate switchover or change in the gap between the doses. All these decisions must be taken very carefully. We must remember that when we increased the gap, we had to consider the risk posed by the virus to those who have received only one dose. But the counterpoint was that more people will then be able to get the first dose, thereby giving a reasonable degree of immunity to more people."  "We need to balance these concerns. So, please remember, that we need to necessarily have this debate and discourse in the public domain; however, the decision has to be taken by appropriate fora comprising eminent people who are knowledgeable about this," he said. Paul said in the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), there are quite a few people who have been a part of WHO panels and committees and are globally renowned and recognised for their eminence. Moreover, NTAGI is regarded as a standard when it comes to global and national immunization programmes.  "So, please respect their decisions," he said. Welcoming a discourse on this topic, Paul highlighted the need for due scientific process in arriving at such decisions. He appealed to the public to respect the decision taken by NTAGI, a body of globally renowned experts.  Let the decision regarding dose interval be examined by NTAGI, according to due process. The UK must have adopted due process and examined data scientifically, to revise their previous decision regarding the gap. The UK had earlier kept the gap at 12 weeks, but as per data available to us, we did not consider it safe at that point, he said. "So, let us entrust this to our scientific fora, they must be addressing it already. They will review it based on the pandemic situation in our country, depending on the extent of prevalence of the delta variant in our country and then take a comprehensive view. Whichever decision is taken by our scientific community, we will honour it," Paul stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-says-no-need-to-panic-over-need-for-immediate-change-in-dosage-interval-of-covishield-996462.html
11-06-2021||National||Decrease in active Covid cases should not lead to complacency, says Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan||A decrease in the number of Covid cases should never inculcate a sense of complacency among the public, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Friday, underlining that the behavioural pattern of putting masks on and off intermittently, improper wearing of masks and not following Covid-appropriate behaviour contributed to the second wave of the viral disease.  Vardhan said this after inaugurating the newly-revamped Hardayal Municipal Heritage Public Library at Chandni Chowk, New Delhi, according to a statement issued by the health ministry. He dedicated the library, which has an enormous collection of rare books, to the nation. The library has been renovated with a public investment of more than Rs 3 crore. The MP from Chandni Chowk said the steadily declining number of active coronavirus cases in the country, a trend sustained for 28 days, and less than one lakh fresh cases for the fourth consecutive day have allowed a sliver of opportunity to him to be with the people of his constituency physically, according to the statement. He expressed his admiration for the rare collection of books in the library such as the Persian Mahabharata, translated by Abul Fazl and composed in the court of Mughal emperor Akbar, a copy of "The History of World" from 1677 AD, handwritten Bhagavata Purana of 1810 AD, Bhrigu Samhita, an old copy of the Quran in Hindi, the first book ever written in "Briji", the native language of the Yamuna plains. Started in 1862, the library has archived copies of the Delhi Gazette from 1917 to 1988 and has many rare gems in its collection, including 350 manuscripts and 8,000 old books that were in need of proper archiving and storage before the reconstruction, the statement said. The minister was apprised that several court cases, including one involving the fate of a village on the eve of the country's partition, was settled in court in favour of India sourcing evidence from the library, it added. Strongly advising adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour to everyone present on the occasion, Vardhan said the decrease in the number of active cases of the infection should never inculcate a sense of complacency among people. "This behavioural pattern of putting masks on and off intermittently, improper wearing of masks and not following Covid-appropriate behaviour contributed to the second wave of Covid. When many of our doctors, nurses became corona warriors in an act of self-sacrifice to protect us, with many of them eventually succumbing to Covid, it is our moral duty to do the maximum to support them...," he was quoted as saying in the statement. Speaking on the government's digitisation drive in the context of digitalisation of library archives, Vardhan said, "Prime Minister Narendra Modi has relentlessly pursued the mission of a Digital India. In the entire lockdown, people could get government benefits directly transferred to their accounts. The JAM trinity has enabled the Direct Benefit Transfer to the account of 10 crore farmers at the push of a button. Similarly, the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) currently being implemented in the Union territories will bring speed, transparency and accountability in our health system. Such digital interventions in other areas have vastly improved the lives of Indians." He observed that these interventions have shattered the popular saying of the 1980s that for Re 1 allocated by the Union government, only 15 paisa actually reach the intended beneficiaries. Vardhan also said the Centre would soon have enough Covid vaccines at its disposal to fully vaccinate every person aged 18 years and above in the country. "With the increase in the production capacity, we have more vaccines in June compared to May. As the capacity improves, the supply would ease and soon, there will be enough vaccines to immunise every citizen," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/decrease-in-active-covid-cases-should-not-lead-to-complacency-says-union-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-996464.html
11-06-2021||National||With Nepal, India restarts Covid-19 outreach to neighbours||India has returned to helping its neighbours with medical equipment to deal with the SARS-CoV-2 virus outbreak, after receiving foreign aid for weeks to save its own people from the brutal second wave of the pandemic that wreaked havoc across the country. India chose to restart with Nepal, a nation where its geopolitical influence faced tough challenges from China. The Indian Army gifted Nepali Army medical aid worth over Rs 18.02 crore on Friday. New Delhi’s envoy to Kathmandu, Vinay Mohan Kwatra, met Nepali Army chief General Purna Chandra Thapa on Thursday and handed over medical aid including ventilators, ambulances, Intensive Care Unit beds, Personal Protective Equipment sets and Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test kits to detect SARS-CoV-2 infection. Kwatra had a meeting with Thapa at the headquarters of the Nepali Army at Tundikhel in Kathmandu. He conveyed to Thapa India’s support to the Nepali Army in its fight against the pandemic, a spokesperson of the Embassy of India in Kathmandu stated on Friday. This was the first gift of medical aid New Delhi provided to any foreign nation after taking a break for weeks when it had to accept foreign assistance from over 40 countries to deal with the crisis caused by the resurgence of the SARS-CoV-2 infection among its own people. Earlier, during Indian Army chief General M M Naravane’s visit to Kathmandu on November 4 to 6 last year, New Delhi had gifted Nepali Army medical equipment including X-Ray machines, computed radiography systems, ICU ventilators, video endoscopy units, anesthesia machines, laboratory equipment and ambulances. The Indian Army had also gifted Nepali Army 100,000 doses of vaccines on March 29 this year. Since the Covid-19 pandemic swept the world, India provided medicines and medical equipment to over 150 countries in its neighbourhood and beyond, including Grants-in-Aid valued at around Rs 80 crore to 82 countries. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government also sent out 107.15 lakh doses of the Made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines to foreign nations as grant till April 16, in addition to the 357.92 lakh doses exported commercially and 198.628 lakh doses as contribution to the Covax initiative of the World Health Organization, Gavi – The Vaccine Alliance and others to ensure equitable access to vaccines around the world. New Delhi, however, had to pause sending out drugs, medical equipment and vaccines to foreign countries after the second Covid-19 wave hit India. India itself received medical aid, including 17018 ventilators, 46 oxygen plants, 885 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen, 23,116 oxygen concentrators and 25,124 oxygen cylinders, from governments and private sector entities in over 40 countries around the world over the past few weeks. Besides, it also received 13,30,105 doses of Faviparavir, 1106940 doses of Remdisivir and 51,024 doses of Tocilizumab drugs as foreign medical aid, in addition to 19,88,985 rapid diagnostic kits, 98,32,274 masks. China, which has been keen to spread its tentacles in South Asia and Indian Ocean region, stepped in to take advantage of the situation and augmented supply of medical aid and vaccines to Nepal, Sri Lanka and other nations in the neighbourhood of India. New Delhi’s relations with Kathmandu came under stress after Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli’s government in May 2020 lodged a protest over a new 80-kilometer-long road New Delhi built from Dharchula in Uttarakhand to the Lipulekh Pass – an India-Nepal-China tri-junction boundary point. It alleged that the road passed through Nepal – a claim dismissed by India. Kathmandu, however, went ahead, published a new map, which showed nearly 400 sq kms of India’s areas in Kalapani, Lipulekh Pass and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepal. It also got the Nepalese Parliament to amend the country’s constitution to endorse the new map.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-nepal-india-restarts-covid-19-outreach-to-neighbours-996475.html
11-06-2021||National||Over 24.93 crore Covid vaccine doses administered in India: Govt||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has gone past 24.93 crore, the Union health ministry said on Friday. It said 19,49,902 beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group received the first dose while 72,279 in the age group received the second dose of the vaccine on Friday.  Cumulatively, 3,79,67,237 people in the 18-44 age group have received the first dose and 5,58,862 have received the second dose since the start of the third phase of the vaccination drive across the country. Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered the first dose of the vaccine to more than 10 lakh beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group each, the ministry said. The total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has reached 24,93,16,572, according to a provisional report compiled at 7 pm. The number includes 1,00,34,573 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose, 69,44,682 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,66,29,408 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose, 88,08,261 FLWs who have taken the second dose, 3,79,67,237 and 5,58,862 individuals in the 18-44 age group who have received the first and the second dose respectively. Besides, 7,46,36,068 and 1,18,25,194 beneficiaries in the 45-60 age group have been administered the first and the second dose respectively, while 6,21,62,987 and 1,97,49,300 beneficiaries above 60 years of age have taken the first and the second dose respectively. On the 147th day (June 11) of the vaccination drive, a total of 31,50,368 vaccine doses were administered -- 28,48,435 beneficiaries vaccinated for the first dose and 3,01,933 for the second dose -- the ministry said.  Final reports for the day would be compiled by late night. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-2493-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-govt-996477.html
11-06-2021||National||IRDAI issues guidelines on professional indemnity policy for insurance intermediaries||Regulator IRDAI has come out with guidelines on standard professional indemnity policy for insurance intermediaries, including brokers, corporate agents and web aggregators. The guidelines issued by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) will come into effect from July 1. Professionals and professional entities may be sued by their clients for errors or negligence during the course of their professional duties, as per the guidelines. A professional indemnity policy is a liability insurance product that protects individuals giving professional advice and professional entities against negligence claims by their clients for errors and omissions. It covers financial loss suffered by the clients resulting from breach of professional duty. As per the guidelines, every general insurer should endeavour to offer the standard professional indemnity for insurance brokers, corporate agents, web aggregators and insurance marketing firms. On policy period, the guidelines said: "An insurer shall issue an annual policy to the insurance intermediary. The insurer shall endeavour to issue long-term policy valid for the period of certificate of registration." The premium rates will be determined by the insurers depending upon various risk factors and its board approved underwriting policy. Insurance intermediaries engaged in solicitation and distribution of insurance products are required to take professional indemnity insurance policies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/irdai-issues-guidelines-on-professional-indemnity-policy-for-insurance-intermediaries-996496.html
11-06-2021||National||Follow guidelines to report Covid-19 data: Health Ministry to states/UTs||The health ministry on Friday said it has regularly emphasised on the need for a robust reporting mechanism to monitor district-wise Covid cases and deaths on a daily basis, two days after Bihar revised its Covid-19 death toll by including 3,951 unreported fatalities. The Covid-19 death toll in Bihar was on Wednesday revised drastically upwards by the state health department which put the total number of fatalities caused by the pandemic at 9,429. In a statement, the ministry said states and union territories have been advised to report Covid deaths in accordance with the prescribed guidelines. This spike in deaths was on account of the 3,971 fatalities reported in Bihar after data reconciliation by the state government, the ministry said. "States and UTs have been advised repeatedly through formal communications, multiple video conferences and through deployment of Central teams for recording of deaths in accordance with laid down guidelines," the ministry said. The Union government has written to Bihar to provide a detailed date and district wise break-up of the reconciled number of deaths to the health ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/follow-guidelines-to-report-covid-19-data-health-ministry-to-states/uts-996511.html
11-06-2021||National||India 'moved mountains' to contain second wave of Covid-19, says Jaishankar in Kuwait||Indian External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday assured the worried diaspora in Kuwait that the second wave of Covid-19 was receding in India and the government "really moved mountains" to contain the pandemic. Jaishankar, who arrived here on his first bilateral visit to the oil-rich Gulf nation early on Thursday, addressed the Indian community here at the conclusion of his meetings in the country. "The second wave of the Covid-19 has started to recede. The daily number of new infections is less than what it was in early May. The positivity rate has also come down dramatically," he said. "A large part of it has been made possible by very very vigorous government response to the second wave. The kind of effort and energy that I saw, the long hours that people put in. People really moved mountains to respond to what was an unprecedented situation," he said. The minister said the government ran hundreds of oxygen trains to ferry oxygen from the production centres to the major cities. "All our planes were mobilised, including the Air Force planes for the oxygen cylinder tanks to be moved, both within the country and from abroad to India," Jaishankar said. "We procured medicines which were essential for Covid treatment. Many of them came from abroad. We also ensured the domestic production of the medicines was enhanced," he said. On the vaccination programme, the minister acknowledged that it was a "big issue" and 3 million people were being vaccinated daily and its pace will pick up in the coming days. "As the production of the vaccines scales up, as the year progresses, we will be able to vaccinate all our people," he said. Jaishankar said the economy has started to make a strong recovery, asserting that there is a sense that the economic impact of the second wave would be less than what happened in the last year. "The belief we have is that India will pick up. India will recover rapidly, a lot of what we have seen in the past - the steady rise of India and its economy and influence in the world - and that will continue," he said. Jaishankar lauded the contributions of the Indian community, saying it in many ways defines India abroad. "The contribution you make, the respect you earn, the support that you provide and the bridge you constitute is what makes India's interaction with the world unique... Keep the Indian flag flying high here in Kuwait," he said. Earlier, Jaishankar held a meeting with India's envoys to the Gulf nations to discuss a host of issues, including encouraging speedy resumption of flights to this region and facilitating reuniting families separated by Covid disruption. He said the Indian missions in the crucial Gulf region have been told to do whatever they could to help the Indian community during the pandemic. He said the government attached high importance to the region not only because it was one of the main sources of oil and gas for the country but also due to the presence of a large number of Indian nationals living in countries in the region. Jaishankar said he held "productive discussions" with his Kuwaiti counterpart Sheikh Ahmed Nasser Al-Mohammad Al-Sabah on Thursday during which the two sides discussed a range of issues including health, food, education, energy, digital and business cooperation. During the visit, India and Kuwait also signed an MoU that brings Indian domestic workers in the Gulf nation within the ambit of a legal framework that streamlines their recruitment and provides them with the protection of the law. The MoU brings the Indian domestic workers in Kuwait within the ambit of a legal framework that streamlines their recruitment and provides them with the protection of the law. Around one million (ten lakh) Indians reside in Kuwait.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-moved-mountains-to-contain-second-wave-of-covid-19-says-jaishankar-in-kuwait-996515.html
11-06-2021||National Politics||Youth Congress couriers cycle to PM, petroleum minister against fuel price hike||The youth Congress Thursday couriered bicycles to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan in protest against the rising fuel prices. The Indian Youth Congress claimed in a statement that petrol and diesel prices have been increased "43 times" over the last five months, and demanded the hike be rolled back. The statement also said the Congress youth wing couriered a bicycle to Women and Child Welfare Minister Smriti Irani too. "When the BJP was in opposition, it was seen demonstrating on the streets on the increase of Rs 5 on petrol and diesel, but today when there is all-round inflation, everyone is silent. Today, the Youth Congress has tried to wake them up from sleep," IYC president Srinivas B V said in a statement. "In many parts of the country, petrol has crossed Rs 100, diesel has crossed Rs 90, the shameful thing is that despite doing such open loot, the BJP government is again blaming the Congress for this price rise," he added. He demanded that the excise duty on petrol and diesel be reduced, and the increased prices withdrawn with immediate effect. "If the Petroleum Minister cannot do this, then he should resign at the earliest," he said. Terming the BJP's rule a "rule of robbers", Srinivas alleged that "farmers, youth, labourers, traders, women" are suffering due to inflation and that "the anti-people face of the RSS and BJP has come up before the people of the country". "The people of this country had chosen PM Modi and his ministers on the promise of 'Achhe Din', now PM Modi and his government have broken the trust of the people. It is the effect of the policies of the Modi government that a new record is being set in the prices of petrol and diesel," he said. IYC National general secretary Bhaiya Pawar and Youth Congress National media In-charge Rahul Rao were also present during the protest. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/youth-congress-couriers-cycle-to-pm-petroleum-minister-against-fuel-price-hike-996145.html
11-06-2021||National Politics||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath calls on PM Narendra Modi||Indicating that some drastic changes will be made to give the party more teeth ahead of polls in Uttar Pradesh and six other states next year, the BJP top brass on Friday got into a huddle to decide the strategy soon after Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's two-day visit to Delhi concluded. During his visit, Adityanath met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and party chief J P Nada on Friday after a one and half hour long interaction with Home Minister Amit Shah amid a strong buzz of a rift with Centre. Shah and Nadda huddled with PM Modi amid a strong buzz for a reshuffle of the Union Cabinet and impending Cabinet reshuffle in Uttar Pradesh. Both the rejigs will be made keeping in mind the upcoming state polls in seven states including UP, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh in 2022. Modi will also meet Union Ministers in batches in next few days. Yogi's meeting with Modi lasted for nearly an hour and with Nadda nearly one and half hour. However, there was no media interaction or press conference after these high profile meetings. Leaders tweeted about it with photographs. After the meetings, Yogi tweeted in Hindi saying "Heartfelt gratitude to the respected Prime Minister for providing time to meet and for loving guidance (aatmiya margdarshan) amid his busiest schedule," Yogi said. While Modi and Shah simply mentioned that they met the UP CM,  Nadda hailed him as "successful (Yashaswhi) Chief Minister of UP." Yogi thanked Nadda for giving time to him from his busy schedule and "guidance on various issues". Insiders say while the party has made it clear to Yogi's dissenters that the incumbent Chief Minister will remain its face for next Assembly polls, Shah, who was in charge of party affairs of UP before 2014 Lok Sabha polls had changed BJP's fortunes, is back in action for the political strategy of the state, which has 80 Lok Sabha seats including Modi's Parliamentary seat Varanasi and the three temples Ayodhya, Mathura and Kanshi, the key to Hindutva politics of the saffron party. Recently, the party performed very badly in Panchayat elections even in these regions. Shah on Thursday met Apna Dal (S) chief Anupuriya S Patel, who was Union Minister in Modi's first government and leaders of Nishad party in UP. While Patel hails from the Kurmi caste, the second most dominant OBC after Yadavs in UP, the Nishad Party leader Sanjay Nishad is influential among the boatmen (mallah) community, which can influence outcomes in nearly 100 assembly seats on the banks of river Ganga. Images of bodies floating in the holy river during the pandemic have dented the good governance image of BJP in the state. The non-Yadav backward castes have been the bedrock of BJP's support base in UP in the last seven years. These meetings are significant amid the impression that the caste calculus the Modi-Shah built assiduously in UP is now under strain. While the BJP has publicly dismissed talk of any rift, the Opposition Congress went to the town claiming that "all is not well in UP BJP." Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate, who hails from Uttar Pradesh asked "what is the reason for the tug of war between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath or between Yogi and Shah...Yogi Adityanath first refused to meet Arvind Sharma (former Gujarat cadre IAS officer turned MLC in UP), the messenger of Modi Ji for four days, then put his foot down against making him state's home minister Then Modi's picture went missing for one and half months from government advertisements in UP." There was also big speculation around Modi and Shah not giving their birthday wishes to Yogi Adityanath on Twitter last week, which was slammed by BJP IT Cell head Amit Malviya as "desperation to spin stories around non-issues". BJP has changed two of its CMs---Trivendra Singh Rawat in Uttarkhand in March this year one year before the polls and Sarbananda Sonowal in Assam after the Assembly polls to make way for the ambitious and assertive Himanta Biswa Sarma. If there is a reshuffle in Union Cabinet as well, BJP may take a call on inducting the two former CMs as well as Jyotiraditya Scindia, who after switching sides delivered Madhya Pradesh back to BJP in 15 months after it lost the state in 2018 polls. But Yogi is no pushover. Moreover, BJP feels a combo of Brand Modi and Brand Yogi is a better option for it in UP. Hence, BJP is trying to address issues like the anger of Brahmins by inducting Congress' Brahmin face Jitin Prasada and addressing governance deficit issues by roping in the services of former IAS officer Arvind Sharma. Sharma, who is seen as a trusted hand of Modi, is also in Delhi to meet party leaders and allies. The BJP and RSS have held a series of high-level feedback exercises in UP as well as Delhi over poll and pandemic in the last fortnight. During his meeting with Shah, Adityanath also presented a copy of the report 'Solution of Migrant Crisis'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-calls-on-pm-narendra-modi-996260.html
11-06-2021||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi slams Centre over Covid-19 vaccine procurement||Attacking the Centre, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday said a lot could have been done, including procuring vaccines for all, with the money collected in taxes on petrol and diesel during the Covid-19 pandemic, but nothing was done. Congress leaders and party workers on Friday held symbolic protests at petrol pumps in several parts of the city, demanding a complete rollback of fuel price hike. In a tweet, Priyanka Gandhi said, "During the pandemic, Modi government collected taxes on petrol-diesel: Rs 2.74 lakh crore." "What all could have been done with this money: Vaccines for the whole country (Rs 67,000 crore)+ oxygen plants in 718 districts+ AIIMS hospital in 29 states + Rs 6,000 as help to 25 crore poor people. But nothing was done," the Congress general secretary tweeted in Hindi using the hashtag 'BJPLootingIndia'. महामारी के दौरान मोदी सरकार ने पेट्रोल-डीजल पर टैक्स वसूले: 2.74 लाख करोड़ इस पैसे से क्या मिल सकता था- पूरे भारत को वैक्सीन (67000 करोड़)+718 जिलों में ऑक्सीजन प्लांट+29 राज्यों में एम्स अस्पताल+25 करोड़ गरीबों को 6000 रू की मदद||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-slams-centre-over-covid-19-vaccine-procurement-996316.html
11-06-2021||National Politics||Political strategist Prashant Kishor meets Sharad Pawar, sets off political speculation||Political strategist Prashant Kishor on Friday called on NCP president Sharad Pawar at the latter's residence here and held talks with him for around three hours, setting tongues wagging in political circles. NCP sources said apart from discussing the prevailing political situation, Pawar hosted lunch for Kishor. The meeting got over by around 2 pm, but neither Kishor nor Pawar spoke to the media persons gathered outside 'Silver Oak' (NCP chief's residence). This is Kishor's first meeting with Pawar after the victory of the DMK and the TMC in the assembly elections in Tamil Nadu and West Bengal respectively. He had helped craft the election strategy for these parties in the assembly elections.  After the assembly poll results, the election strategist had said that he was "quitting this space". Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar downplayed the meeting, saying that Kishor has already said he will not be a political strategist anymore. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said many leaders are in touch with Kishor, while NCP's Chhagan Bhujbal said he was no aware of the agenda of the meeting. Stating that Kishor was a successful political strategist, Bhujbal said he was sure that Pawar will take into account Kishor's suggestions. Kishor had met Uddhav Thackeray in 2019 before the latter became chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/political-strategist-prashant-kishor-meets-sharad-pawar-sets-off-political-speculation-996330.html
11-06-2021||National Politics||Centre 'abusing' some state governments instead of supporting them, alleges Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Friday accused the Centre of "abusing" some governments instead of supporting them. Sisodia also said that the BJP has become 'Bharatiya Jhagda Party', following the Centre's objection to the Delhi government's doorstep ration delivery scheme. "The Centre does not have any other job apart from abusing some state governments. The whole central government and the BJP is targeting CMs of three-four states. The Centre only works after the Supreme Court raps them," he alleged during an online briefing. Sisodia said people have become "fed up" of such a government which only "abuses" state governments. "People elected the Bharatiya Janata Party and not 'Bharatiya Jhagda Party'. Please don't become Bharatiya Jhagda Party. They should work with state governments. Instead of interfering in their work. They should support the state governments in their initiative of nation building," he stressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-abusing-some-state-governments-instead-of-supporting-them-alleges-sisodia-996337.html
11-06-2021||National Politics||Instead of fighting, Centre should work with states, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said instead of abusing and fighting with state governments, the Centre should work with them. Kejriwal tagged a media report according to which Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad blamed the Kejriwal government over allegedly failing to provide ration and oxygen to the people. In response, Kejriwal said the country will progress when 130 crore people, all the state governments and the Centre work together as 'Team India'. "Today people want to see such a leadership at the Centre which, instead of abusing and fighting the state governments all day, takes everyone along. "The country will progress when 130 crore people, all the state governments and the Centre work together as Team India, Abusing so much is not good," Kejriwal tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/instead-of-fighting-centre-should-work-with-states-says-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-996373.html
11-06-2021||National Politics||PM Modi meets Shah, Nadda amid Cabinet reshuffle buzz||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday held deliberations with Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J P Nadda amid speculation about a reshuffle in the Union cabinet, an exercise Modi has not undertaken since forming the government for a second time in May 2019. There is also a growing buzz about the Cabinet expansion in Uttar Pradesh after Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath met the BJP top brass during his two-day visit to the national capital. Sources, however, added that Modi has been meeting Union ministers in different batches of late, and Nadda has also been present there. The deliberations among the top BJP leaders at the prime minister's residence came a day after Shah also met party allies from Uttar Pradesh, including Apna Dal's Anupriya Patel who was a minister in the first Modi government but was not inducted in the next. There has been no official word from the party on these deliberations. The BJP has of late engaged in the review of its organisation and government works in different states. Nadda had also held a meeting with the party general secretaries where, besides the relief work carried out by the saffron organisation during the Covid-19 pandemic, its performance in the recent assembly polls were reviewed. With the party now gearing up for the next round of assembly polls in five states early next year, including in all important Uttar Pradesh, it is expected to take various measures to bolster its social equation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-meets-shah-nadda-amid-cabinet-reshuffle-buzz-996407.html
11-06-2021||National Politics||Fuel price hike: Congress protests in many parts of country, over 150 workers detained||The Congress Friday demonstrated in several parts of the country against the rising fuel prices, during which over 150 members were detained in Gujarat, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh for allegedly violating Covid protocol and protesting without permission. The protests, in response to a call given by the Congress leadership, came on a day when another hike -- the 22nd since May 4 -- pushed the fuel prices across the country to historic heights. The protesters pulled bullock carts, rode horse carts, staged a street play, pulled a car using a rope and set another on fire to highlight their concerns.  Congress leader Rahul Gandhi asked as to how much will the BJP "loot". "GDP crashing, Unemployment soaring, Fuel prices skyrocketing. In how many more ways is #BJPLootingIndia," he asked on Twitter. GDP crashing,Unemployment soaring,Fuel prices skyrocketing. The protesting leaders said the rising fuel prices and inflation have compounded the problem people were already facing due to the pandemic. "During the pandemic, Modi government collected taxes on petrol-diesel: Rs 2.74 lakh crore," party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted. An official party statement later claimed the protests were held across the country. It said that barring a few incidents of "police highhandedness" in UP and Gujarat where Congress workers were stopped and detained these protests were peaceful. The party said 140 crore people of India are suffering the "Modi-made disaster" of inflation, unemployment, economic recession and the coronavirus pandemic. Petrol is retailing above the Rs 100 per litre mark in six states and union territories -- Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Ladakh. In the last 13 months, the BJP government raised petrol and diesel rates by Rs 26.25 and Rs 24.46 respectively, the Congress alleged. "This amounts to a shocking 820 per cent hike in excise duty on diesel and 258 per cent increase in excise duty on petrol." Over 30 Congress workers were detained during the protests at petrol pumps in the national capital with the police saying they flouted the Covid protocol. Party leaders K C Venugopal and Shakti Singh Gohil reached the Feroz Shah Kotla Stadium petrol pump on a horse cart. "The government should stop imposing excise duty on petrol and diesel. It should come under the purview of Goods and Services Tax. We demand a complete rollback of fuel price hike," Venugopal, who is the Congress general secretary, said. Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu and other party workers were detained by police before their protest. "I was not allowed to step out of the house in the morning and later brought to the Eco Garden where about 350 party workers, including MLC Dipak Singh and other-officer bearers were present," Lallu told PTI over the phone. Protests were staged across the state, he said, adding that party leaders were "arrested" in Allahabad too. More than 100 Congress workers, MLAs and leaders were detained in different parts of the BJP-ruled Gujarat too for staging the protest without a police permission, an official said. During the protest in Punjab, some protesters set fire to an old car, saying they wanted to send a message to the Centre that common people are unable to maintain vehicles because of the high cost of fuel. The party's workers staged a street play in Panchkula while some rode bullock carts and horse carts as a mark of protest. In Madhya Pradesh, during a protest at a petrol pump in New Market in Bhopal, led by Congress Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh, party workers held placards denouncing the Centre and highlighting the "excessive taxation" on fuel. Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot staged a dharna outside a petrol pump in Sanganer area. "People lost jobs and labourers are not getting wages. It is very sad that lakhs of people died. Dead bodies were seen in rivers and every family struggled with coronavirus. In such a situation, the government is not taking any step to control inflation and is also increasing fuel prices," he said. Down south, Congress workers in Kerala and Tamil Nadu gathered outside petrol pumps to demand a roll back of the rise in prices. Leading the protest in Tamil Nadu, state Congress president K S Alagiri said while people grappled with the second wave of Covid-19, the rise in fuel prices is set to have a cascading effect leading to an increase in prices of essential commodities too. Responding to the protests, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said, "International crude price is at its place. People asking us questions should get VAT reduced in the states ruled by them. This will provide relief."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fuel-price-hike-congress-protests-in-many-parts-of-country-over-150-workers-detained-996429.html
11-06-2021||National Politics||Centre, Delhi government at loggerheads over ration initiative||The Centre and the Delhi government were at loggerheads yet again over Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s plans to provide highly subsidised rations at the doorstep of the poor. The fresh stand-off came after Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal asked Kejriwal to reconsider the proposal contending that the Centre’s approval was not sought to change the method of distribution of subsided food grains under the National Food Security Act. As Kejriwal targeted the Modi government for “blocking” the scheme of the Delhi government that proposes to deliver four kg flour and one kg cleaned rice at the doorstep of the poor. Law Minister and senior BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad accused Kejriwal of violating the National Food Security Act, which entails the delivery of food grains through fair price shops. “Doorstep ration delivery might look good on the face of it but it is a big scam and a fraud on the people of Delhi,” Prasad said accusing Kejriwal of creating roadblocks in the implementation of the NFSA. Prasad said the Delhi Chief Minister was free to launch a separate scheme for home delivery of rations over and above the NFSA, which is fully funded by the Centre. “Delhi government could not provide medicines and oxygen to the people at home and now it is talking of delivering grains at home,” the senior BJP leader said. Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal also accused Kejriwal of failing to implement the ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ scheme and denying migrant labourers their right to avail the entitled quantity of subsided food grains from fair price shops. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia hit out at the Modi government accusing it of abusing a few state governments instead of supporting them. “People elected Bharatiya Janata Party and not Bharatiya Jhagda Party. They should work with state governments,” Sisodia said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-delhi-government-at-loggerheads-over-ration-initiative-996471.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||Students of classes 9, 11 in Delhi to be promoted on basis of mid-term exam scores: Sisodia||Students of classes 9 and 11 whose final exams could not be completed in view of the second wave of Covid-19 in Delhi will be promoted on the basis of marks obtained in the mid-term examination, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia announced on Thursday. "While students of Class 8 were promoted without any hassle due to the no-detention policy, roadblocks in the promotion of students of classes 9 and 11 needed to be reduced. Annual examinations of classes 9 and 11, which were supposed to be conducted from April 12 onwards, were cancelled by the Delhi Government, keeping in mind the safety and security of students," Sisodia, who is also the education minister, said at a press conference. "Private schools that have already conducted their annual assessments can follow the guidelines postulated by the Directorate of Education with regard to the promotion policy and declare their result," he said. In case schools did not conduct any mid-term examination or students were unable to take all mid-term papers, results will be declared on the basis of the average marks obtained in the best two of five main subjects, he added. Sisodia said the policy will have to be implemented by both government and private schools. "The result for classes 9 and 11 in all government schools will be declared on June 22. No student will be called to school, rather they will receive their results online or via a phone call or WhatsApp," he said. The minister also said that all such students who appeared for their mid-term exam in only one subject or were unable to take the exam in any subject and those who did not receive the minimum qualifying marks will be eligible for re-assessment. "These students will be assessed on the basis of assignments, projects, school-based tests etc., for promotion to the next class. No additional physical or online assessment will be conducted for these students," Sisodia said. The minister also announced that the admission process in Delhi government schools for classes 6 to 9 will begin from June 11. "Similar to the admission process conducted last year, admissions to Delhi government schools will be conducted online. Parents or candidates can register their children or themselves online from June 11 onwards until June 30. "Admissions will begin from July 5 onwards, based on the registration of students. Students who are unable to register by the given date will be eligible to register for the second admission cycle that will begin from July 23 and go on till August 6," Sisodia said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/students-of-classes-9-11-in-delhi-to-be-promoted-on-basis-of-mid-term-exam-scores-sisodia-996152.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||AAP claims private builders in Delhi's Model Town occupying PWD land; BJP denies allegation||The AAP on Thursday claimed that private builders in north Delhi's Model Town are occupying PWD land in connivance with the BJP-ruled MCD, an allegation denied by the Delhi BJP. Addressing a press conference, AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj claimed that private builders are constructing PWD roads, including drainage and footpath, by getting the map made in the form of a plot approved by the municipal corporations. "Private builders in Model Town are occupying PWD land in connivance with the BJP-ruled MCD, hence proving their indulgence into abysmal corrupt practises," Bhardwaj said. Akhilesh Pati Tripathi, MLA from Model Town Assembly, also claimed that the MCD has passed the map and has given certificate to the private builder to take possession of the government land. "Aam Aadmi Party demands that action should be taken against those who have passed the map and FIR should be registered against the builders," said Tripathi. Delhi BJP Spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor has said that North DMC has no involvement in sanctioning the building plan for the disputed plot which measures barely 60 metres. "Some individual occupying the plot has got a building plan passed online under the 'saral' scheme. North DMC's local authorities have already started the procedure to cancel the builders online plan and police complaint has been sent," he said. "Both Bhardwaj and Tripathi are MLAs and should know that building plan for small plots like this one get sanctioned by architects online under saral scheme and Standing Committee of North MCD has no role in this sanctioning," Kapoor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-claims-private-builders-in-delhis-model-town-occupying-pwd-land-bjp-denies-allegation-996156.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||Centre allocates Rs 7,000 cr to Maharashtra under Jal Jeevan Mission; highest to any state so far||The Centre has allocated Rs 7,000 crore to Maharashtra under the Jal Jeevan Mission, the highest allocation to any state so far under the scheme that aims to provide tap water connections to every rural household by 2024, the Jal Shakti Ministry said on Thursday. This is more than three times the funds allocated to the state last year, the ministry said. Last week, the ministry had announced Rs 6,998.97 crore to West Bengal, the second highest allocation to any state under the Jal Jeevan Mission. Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh have been allocated Rs 3,410 crore and Rs 5,117 crore while the northeastern states have been given Rs 9,262 crore. "Central government has increased the grant-in-aid in 2021-22 to Maharashtra under the Jal Jeevan Mission to Rs 7,064.41 crore, which was Rs 1,828.92 crores in 2020-21," the Jal Shakti ministry said. The allocation for Uttar Pradesh has not been done yet, however, it is expected to be more, the official said, citing the size of the state and its target to ensure tap water connections to every rural household by 2022. Assembly elections are scheduled to be held in Uttar Pradesh in early 2022. In Maharashtra, out of a total of 142 lakh rural households, 91.30 lakh (64.14 per cent) have been provided with tap water connections. On August 15, 2019, at the time of launch of JJM, only 48.43 lakh (34.02 per cent) households had tap water supply, the ministry said. In 21 months, 42.86 lakh households in the state have been provided tap water connections, it added. The state has planned to provide tap water connections to 27.45 lakh households in 2021-22, 18.72 lakh connections in 2022-23 and 5.14 lakh in 2023-24 to ensure tap water supply in every rural household, the ministry said. The water supply work to provide tap water connection has not yet started in 29,417 villages in Maharashtra, the ministry said. "Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has written a letter to the chief minister of Maharashtra, emphasising the work of providing tap connections should start in all the villages so that the state can provide tap water supply to every household by 2024," the ministry said. Shekhawat has urged the state to recover the pace of implementation, which was 1.59 lakh tap water connections per month in the last quarter of 2020-21, which has dropped to about 9,800 tap water connections in April and May, he said. In 2020-21, Rs 1,828.92 crore central grant was allocated to the state but it could not draw Rs 1,371.69 crore and surrendered this grant meant for tap water supply in rural areas of the state. This year with more than three-fold increase in central allocation (Rs 7,064.41 crore), unspent balance of Rs 268.99 crore and shortfall in state matching share of Rs 149.43 crores in 2020-21, and matching state share in current year, the state has an assured availability of Rs 14,547.24 crore under JJM for water supply work in 2021-22, it said. Thus, there is no shortage of funds for water supply, it added. In 2021-22, Rs 2,584 crore have been allocated to Maharashtra as 15th Finance Commission is a tied grant for water and sanitation to rural local bodies/ PRIs. The JJM aims to provide tap water connection to all rural households by 2024. Goa, Telangana, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Puducherry have achieved 100 per cent target of providing tap water connection to every rural household.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-allocates-rs-7000-cr-to-maharashtra-under-jal-jeevan-mission-highest-to-any-state-so-far-996157.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||J&K Village Defence Committees without wages for four years||Once an important part of the anti-militancy grid in Jammu and Kashmir, Village Defence Committee (VDC) members reportedly have not been paid an honorarium for the last four years due to certain complications in the procedure for salary distribution. The VDCs which were first set up in the mid-1990s in the Chenab Valley area of Jammu to arm and train villagers to defend against Pak-sponsored militants comprise villagers as well as Special Police Officers (SPOs). As per the official figures, there are 4,125 VDCs in the Union Territory (UT) and the Army trains them from time to time in weapons-handling and intelligence-gathering skills. The members of these committees not only guard the identified villages along the border, but also the infrastructural installations in and around them. There are five members in a VDC and two of its members, which are called SPOs, are getting wages at the rate of Rs 18,000 per month, but the VDC component of VDCs have not been paid any wages in the last four years, a local English daily reported. Quoting unknown sources, the daily reported that after the online system of salary payment was started in 2017, an honorarium was deposited in the account of the SPOs of every VDC who were earlier collecting the amount from the police station concerned. As the amount was deposited in the account of VDC SPOs, they refused to pay the same to other members on the plea that the money has been deposited in their account, hence they can’t distribute the same among other members of the VDC, it added. This has created an awkward situation for the other members of the VDCs who since then are running from pillar to post for getting their wages released but to no avail. The VDC members have held protests several times to draw the attention of the authorities to their pleas. In 2020, during one protest rally in Jammu, they had even threatened to surrender their weapons in respective districts with police lines “if the government failed to release their wages.” In 2015, the police department had decided to disengage the VDCs at the age of 60, but later on the intervention of Union Minister Jitendra Singh, who is also MP of Kathua–Doda Parliamentary constituency, it was kept in abeyance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-village-defence-committees-without-wages-for-four-years-996250.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand disaster was caused by massive rock and ice avalanche: Study||The February 7 disaster in the Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, that resulted in over 200 dead or missing, was the result of an avalanche that dropped about 27 million cubic metres of rock and glacier ice from the nearby Ronti Peak, according to a study by an international team of researchers. The region experienced a humanitarian tragedy on February 7 this year, when a wall of debris and water barrelled down the Ronti Gad, Rishiganga and Dhauliganga river valleys. To investigate the cause, scope, and impacts of the disaster, a global team of 53 scientists came together in the days following the tragedy. The researchers, including those from Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi and Indian Institute of Technology Indore, determined that the flood was caused by falling rock and glacier ice that melted on its descent, and not by a lake or diverted river. The study, published in the journal Science on Thursday, suggests that climate change is contributing to such events happening more frequently, and highlights risks of increasing development projects in fragile environments. The rock and ice avalanche rapidly transformed into an extraordinarily large and mobile debris flow that transported boulders 20 metres in diameter, and scoured the valley walls up to 220 metres above the valley floor, the researchers said. The finding will help researchers and policymakers better identify emerging hazards in the region. The study used satellite imagery, seismic records, and eyewitness videos to produce computer models of the flow. Initial hypotheses for the cause of the event suggested a glacial lake outburst flood. However, there are no glacial lakes large enough to produce a flood anywhere near the site, the researchers noted. "Our access to high-resolution satellite imagery and research software, and our expertise in satellite remote sensing were crucial to get a bird's-eye view of how the event unfolded," said study co-author Shashank Bhushan, a doctoral student at the University of Washington in the US. "We worked with our French collaborators to coordinate satellite collections within days of the event and rapidly process the images to derive detailed topographic maps of the site," Bhushan said. The team compared the images and topographic maps from before and after the event to document all of the changes and reconstruct the sequence of events. "We tracked a plume of dust and water to a conspicuous dark patch high on a steep slope," said study lead author Dan Shugar, associate professor at the University of Calgary in Canada. The dark patch turned out to be the scar left by the 35 million cubic yards of missing rock and glacier ice with a three-foot-deep layer. "This was the source of a giant landslide that triggered the cascade of events, and caused immense death and destruction," said Shugar. The researchers also used the maps to determine how far the block of ice and rock fell. "The failed block fell over a mile before impacting the valley floor. To put this height in context, imagine vertically stacking up 11 space needles or six Eiffel Towers," Bhushan said. The team also quantified how the pulverised rock and ice were redistributed over the downstream areas. "As the block fell, most of the glacier ice melted within minutes. This resulted in a huge volume of water associated with the flooding,” Bhushan said. "This is highly unusual -- a normal rock landslide or snow/ice avalanche could not have produced such huge volumes of water," he explained. The team also used satellite image archives to show that previous large ice masses had been dislodged from the same ridge and struck the same valley in recent years. The researchers suggest that climate change is likely increasing the frequency of such events, and that the greater magnitude of the latest disaster should be considered before further infrastructure development in the area. "These high-mountain rivers are appealing for hydropower projects, and we need a better understanding of the full spectrum of potential high-mountain hazards," said David Shean, a University of Washington assistant professor. "We hope that lessons learned from this effort will improve our ability to respond to future disasters and guide policy decisions that will save lives," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-disaster-was-caused-by-massive-rock-and-ice-avalanche-study-996272.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||SC declines to consider former Mumbai top cop's 'witch-hunt' plea||The Supreme Court on Friday questioned former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh for making serious allegations against his own police force, saying "people who lived in glass houses should not throw stones at others". The top court declined to consider a fresh petition filed by Singh for transfer of all the probes, ordered against him, outside Maharashtra, following his explosive letter alleging Rs 100 crore extortion target against then Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. “You been in the force for 30 years; you can’t now say move inquiries outside the state. You can't have doubts over your own force. This is a shocking allegation," a bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian told Singh's counsel senior advocate, Mahesh Jethmalani. The counsel contended that he has been honest and come out, but there are officers who may be victimised by State DGP Sanjay Pandey. "All I want is that no new FIR should be lodged without permission from this court," he said. "People who live in glass houses should not throw stones at others," the bench said, questioning him if it was possible for other state agencies to probe the officer. The court refused to entertain the matter, while Singh's other counsel sought liberty to approach the High Court. In his plea, Singh alleged witch-hunt following his sensational charges of fixing monthly extortion target of Rs 100 crore against Deshmukh. Singh asked the top court to transfer all investigations already initiated or contemplated against him to the CBI, which was already probing the charges against Deshmukh. The CBI had already lodged an FIR in the matter on April 21 after the top court declined to interfere the Bombay High Court's order for preliminary investigation against Deshmukh. Singh, who himself faced proceedings afterward, sought a direction to the state authorities not to initiate any inquiry or investigation or coercive action against him without a permission from the top court. Within days of his transfer to Homeguards department on March 17, Singh had accused the then Minister of setting a collection target of Rs 100 crore for former API Sachin Vaze of Crime Intelligence Unit, Mumbai, arrested in the Antilia bomb scare case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-declines-to-consider-former-mumbai-top-cops-witch-hunt-plea-996284.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||Rita Bahuguna Joshi may have spoken to Sachin Tendulkar, not me: Sachin Pilot refutes BJP leader's claim||Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Friday refuted claims made by BJP leader Rita Bahuguna Joshi that she had spoken to him about joining the saffron camp. "Rita Bahuguna Joshi claimed that she had spoken to Sachin. She might have spoken to Sachin Tendulkar. She does not have the courage to speak to me," Pilot told reporters during a protest organised by the Congress in Jaipur against fuel price hike. Joshi told a TV channel that she had spoken to Pilot about joining the BJP. Pilot's statement came amid reports of his discontentment with the Congress leadership. The Congress leader had openly revolted against the leadership of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot in July last year, and after a month-long political crisis, the party high command assured him of resolving the issues raised by him and formed a committee. The Pilot camp, however, says that the issues are unresolved and nothing was done by the committee. In the protest outside a petrol pump in the Sanganer area, Pilot targeted the central government over inflation and hike in fuel prices. "Economic slowdown, inflation and unemployment have hit the country hard during the coronavirus pandemic. People have lost jobs and labourers are not getting wages," he said. "It is very sad that lakhs of people died, dead bodies were thrown in rivers and every family struggled with the coronavirus, and in such a situation, the government is not taking any step to control inflation and instead, increasing fuel prices," Pilot added. He said the prime minister had to roll back his decision on vaccination and announce free inoculation for all under pressure from the Congress. The Congress and other Opposition parties will be successful in mounting pressure on the Centre over inflation and fuel price hikes, Pilot said. Earlier, the Congress leader reached Dausa's Bhandana village to pay tributes to his father and former Union minister Rajesh Pilot on his death anniversary. Local leaders of the party were there with him in Dausa. Gehlot and PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra paid tributes to Rajesh Pilot on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rita-bahuguna-joshi-may-have-spoken-to-sachin-tendulkar-not-me-sachin-pilot-refutes-bjp-leaders-claim-996286.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||Italian marines case: Supreme Court agrees to close all proceedings, formal order next week ||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to close all proceedings against the Italian marines as Rs 10 crore compensation was deposited with the court for disbursal to family members of two Indian fishermen who were killed off the Kerala coast in February 2012.   A bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and M R Shah said it would pass orders in the matter on June 15.   Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted the compensation of Rs 10 crore has been deposited with the court and it is up to the Kerala government to decide on the apportionment of it.  The counsel for the Italian government submitted that criminal proceedings pending before a Delhi court must also be dropped in terms of the award by the international tribunal.    The Italian government had offered a compensation of Rs 10 crore, out of which the Kerala government proposed to disburse Rs 4 crore to the dependents of each deceased and Rs 2 crore to the owner of the boat St Antony.   During the hearing, Mehta submitted that the tribunal held that Italy would reserve the right to prosecute the marines. "Both the Union of India and Government of Kerala have accepted the tribunal's award," he said. The bench pointed out Rs 4 crore isn't a small amount, and some appropriate measures will have to be taken to ensure the money isn't wasted. Mehta responded that money can be deposited in interest-bearing bank accounts for gradual withdrawal and accrual of adequate interest.  The top court suggested that the money can be transferred to the Kerala High Court, which can monitor the aspect of disbursement to the families of the victims.  The Centre as well as the Italian government asked the court to close all proceedings and formalise the aspect of disbursement in its final order.  The Italian government told the top court that it would prosecute the marines, as per the international tribunal order. The court said that it would pass the order on quashing the pending criminal case against the Italian marines here.  In February 2012, India had accused the two marines Salvatore Girone and Massimiliano Latorre, on board the MV Enrica Lexie -- an Italian flagged oil tanker -- of killing two Indian fishermen who were on a fishing vessel in India's Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). The Centre has filed an application for closure of the case against the two marines after the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) had on May 21, 2020, ruled that the criminal investigation into the matter would take place in Italy due to sovereign immunity enjoyed by the accused, and India would be entitled to grant of compensation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/italian-marines-case-supreme-court-agrees-to-close-all-proceedings-formal-order-next-week-996299.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi government under control of 'ration mafia': BJP||The BJP on Friday alleged that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government is under the control of "ration mafia" and claimed that its proposal of home delivery of subsidised grains is merely a show to promote a "scam". Addressing a press conference, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the Kejriwal government cannot violate the Food Security Act, and fair price ration shops are at its core for the supply of subsidised grains to the poor as they are covered under the law's provisions and are accountable for any lapse.  If grains are home-delivered, people will not get to know how much of it is going where and how much of it might have disappeared on the way, he said, while attacking the Delhi government for not implementing the "One nation one ration card" scheme and not connecting its ration shops with electronic point of sale (EPOS) machine to "evade" accountability.  "Grains at doorstep is very much a 'jumla' (rhetoric). The Delhi government is under the control of ration mafia," Prasad alleged.  "You want to break the law. You want to throw dust into the eyes of the people of Delhi. The central government procures and spends money on the scheme and you have to follow the law," he said.  With Kejriwal targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government for not approving his dispensation's home delivery scheme, the senior BJP leader said the chief minister is free to launch a separate scheme outside the Food Security Act-covered programme.  Prasad noted that the Centre provides 37,573 tonnes subsidised grains to 73 lakh people in Delhi at the cost of Rs 1,163 crore, asserting that the interest of Delhi is very much its interest as well.  The central government is annually spending Rs 2 lakh crore to give subsidised ration to people, he said.  Taking a swipe at the Aam Aadmi Party leader, he said the Delhi government could not deliver medicine and oxygen to people at home but it is now talking about delivering grains at home.  To help migrant population receive their quota of ration at their place of work, the central government launched "one nation one ration card" scheme but Delhi is among the three states which has not implemented it.  The Kejriwal government also stopped e-authentication of ration shops within four months of its launch in 2018 after lakhs of fake ration cards were spotted, he claimed and a sought reply from the chief minister as to why the process was not completed.  The Delhi government also has no data on dalit and tribal beneficiaries of the ration scheme, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-under-control-of-ration-mafia-bjp-996323.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||Militants open fire at security forces in J&K's Shopian||Militants on Friday attacked a security forces' party in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said. No loss of life or injury has been reported so far in the incident. A police official said the militants fired upon the joint party of police and CRPF at Aglar in Zainapora area of the south Kashmir district around noon. The area has been cordoned off and a hunt has been launched to nab the attackers, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militants-open-fire-at-security-forces-in-jks-shopian-996326.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||'No excuses': SC wants WB to implement one nation one ration card||The Supreme Court on Friday pulled up the Centre for delay in the development of software for registration of unorganised workers after Rs 417 crore have been disbursed for it, saying it can't be put on hold forever. The top court also emphasised that all states must implement one nation-one ration card scheme to allow migrant workers to take ration from a place other than the registered one. In a suo motu matter related to migrant workers' problems during the Covid-19 pandemic, the Centre sought three to four months for developing a "comprehensive, dynamic and useful National Database for Unorganised Workers (NDUW)". "The Centre was not conducting any survey etc but only creating a module so that data can be fed into the mechanism," the bench said, as senior advocate Colin Gonsalves contended three years have passed with no progress in the matter. "What is your project for National Database of Unorganised Workers? 417 crore has been released but not even a module is created. How much time will you take? Process has not even started," the bench asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The database aims to help them avail benefits of various welfare schemes, "This can't be left to bureaucracy anymore. Your officers have done nothing. Just because your directors etc don't have time, this can't be put on hold forever," the bench told him. During the proceedings, the court also asked the West Bengal government to immediately implement 'one nation, one ration card' scheme.  "No excuse will be considered and the state must implement the scheme," the bench said as the state government counsel submitted that there are Aadhaar seeding issues. “You cannot cite one or the other problem. This is for migrant workers," the bench told the counsel. Maharashtra and Punjab government counsel submitted that they implemented the scheme in their states. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave submitted that there were nearly 2.8 crore migrants without ration cards, and they are under serious difficulty, and they would not be covered under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana.  The bench noted that the scheme has been extended till November. Dave said the scheme will benefit only those who have ration cards. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta pointed out that 80 crore have been identified under the Garib Kalyan scheme, on which the bench asked what scheme would cover the people who don’t have ration cards. Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati replied that the latitude has been given to the states to have schemes for those who do not have ration cards. Dave said that the Centre was trying to pass the burden on states.  Mehta, for his part, said the government’s secretary can have talks with concerned secretaries in the states and come back after a week.  The top court asked the states to file a short response in the matter and reserved the judgment. Mehta requested the court not to pass an order on the extension of the scheme, as it may have financial ramifications.  The court was hearing an application by activists Harsh Mander, Anjali Bhardwaj and Jagdeep Chhokar, seeking directions to ensure that migrant workers are not deprived of ration and food security, and they should also be able to travel back to their homes at nominal cost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-excuses-sc-wants-wb-to-implement-one-nation-one-ration-card-996327.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||After petrol, diesel at almost Rs 100-mark in Rajasthan||After petrol, diesel is now at almost Rs 100 per litre mark in Rajasthan as oil firms raised fuel prices yet again on Friday. Petrol price was hiked by 29 paise per litre and diesel by 28 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The hike -- the 22nd since May 4 -- took fuel prices across the country to historic highs. Petrol is retailing above the Rs 100 per litre mark in six states and union territories -- Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Ladakh. In Delhi, petrol hit an all-time high of Rs 95.85 a litre, while diesel is now priced at Rs 86.75 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan near the India-Pakistan border has the costliest fuel in the country -- petrol is priced at Rs 106.94 a litre and diesel at Rs 99.80. This small town was the first in the country to see petrol price hit Rs 100 a litre mark in mid-February. Premium or additive laced petrol in the town sells for Rs 110.22 a litre and same grade diesel at Rs 103.47. Rajasthan levies the highest VAT on petrol and diesel in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Mumbai on May 29 became the first metro in the country where petrol was being sold at over Rs 100 a litre. Petrol now costs Rs 102.04 a litre in the city and diesel comes for Rs 94.15. The hike on Friday was the 22nd increase in prices since May 4, when state-owned oil firms ended an 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during assembly elections in states like West Bengal. In 22 increases, petrol price has risen by Rs 5.45 per litre and diesel by Rs 6.02 a litre. Oil companies revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on the average price of benchmark fuel in the international market in the preceding 15 days, and foreign exchange rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-petrol-diesel-at-almost-rs-100-mark-in-rajasthan-996334.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||18 houses gutted in fire in J&K||At least 18 houses were gutted in a blaze that broke out in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir, leaving 30 families homeless, officials said on Friday. The fire broke out late on Thursday at Sweeper Colony in the Noorbagh area, they said, adding that police, fire and emergency services department were pressed into service to douse it. The Army's fire tenders were also used to extinguish the flames, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/18-houses-gutted-in-fire-in-jk-996348.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||SC orders postponing AIIMS PG entrance test by one month||The Supreme Court on Friday ordered postponing of the post-graduate entrance test for admission to premier medical institutes for a month due to Covid-19. More than 80,000 graduate doctors were expected to take up Institute of National Importance Combined Entrance Test (INI CET) on June 16 for admission to 815 seats in post-graduate courses in 10 colleges, including AIIMS, JIPMER, PGIMER, NIMHANS across the country. A bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and M R Shah held the decision to conduct the test on June 16 as arbitrary.  "We direct the exam to be postponed by one month. Needless to say, the exam can be held any time after the expiry of one month," the bench added, after hearing senior advocates Arvind Datar and Sanjay Hegde for the candidates and advocate Dushyant Parashar for AIIMS, Delhi. The top court, however, clarified that it will not entertain a petition in the matter to cancel the exam. Questioning validity of such a plea, the bench asked how it can ask exams not to be  conducted. "This has never happened. We can't entertain a request to waive the exam completely," the court added. At the beginning of the hearing, the top court asked the counsel representing AIIMS, "Situation in Delhi has improved but in other places figures are high. Can't this be postponed by a month?" Parashar, for his part, submitted that if the exam was stayed, there would be an unprecedented crisis. "If stay is granted, there will be no PG doctors," he said. The bench then said, "You do this or we will pass order." Parashar sought time from the bench to come back with instructions at 12.30 pm. After the hearing resumed in the matter, the bench passed the order postponing the exam by a month. A group of 26 doctors, led by Poulami Mondal, contended that holding of the Institute of National Importance Combined Entrance Test (INI CET) 2021 would be in contravention of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution, since NEET PG had already been deferred by four months. Other board examinations had also been cancelled due to the prevailing pandemic. The notice issued by AIIMS on May 27 for the test on June 16 would build up pressures on graduate doctors, rendering their services during the pandemic across the country. This "is not in public interest in view of the present condition of the country and non-availability of doctors, beds in the hospitals coupled with the fact that there is a dearth of Covid-19 vaccination," their plea stated. It also pointed out after assurance from the PMO, many doctors have taken a job or duty in a State and have become frontline workers with no spare time to prepare for test. There was also no one month's prior notice for holding the examination, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-orders-postponing-aiims-pg-entrance-test-by-one-month-996352.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||'Not expert in financial matters': SC declines to pass order on moratorium amid second wave||Maintaining that the judges are not experts in financial matters, the Supreme Court on Friday refused to consider a plea for fresh loan moratorium relief, an extension of the time period under the restructuring scheme and temporary cease on the declaration of NPA by banks due to Covid-19 second wave.   “We accept that we aren't experts in financial matters. We can't anticipate financial implications. These issues are in the realm of policy decisions,” a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M R Shah said. The court stressed that it is for the government to assess the situation and take appropriate decisions. Advocate Vishal Tiwari sought some relief for borrowers during the second wave of Covid-19, claiming that the second wave has made at least one crore people jobless.  The bench, however, pointed out that RBI has already announced certain financial packages as per its circular, which the petitioner said was not sufficient to address the problems of middle class families.  To this, the bench said, “We cannot decide financial matters.”  The bench also said the government had other pressing matters to address like vaccination, issues connected with migrant workers etc. The PIL sought a direction to the Centre to permit all the lending (financial) institutions to grant interest-free moratorium period for term loan and defer the payment of loan installments for a period of six months or until the situation from Covid-19 continued. The plea said a bank or financial institution should not take action for auction in respect of any property of any citizen or person or party or anybody corporate for a period of six months. No account should be declared as Non-performing Asset (NPA) for a period of six months, keeping in view the surge in the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/not-expert-in-financial-matters-sc-declines-to-pass-order-on-moratorium-amid-second-wave-996359.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||J&K plans mythological theme park near Vaishno Devi shrine||The Jammu and Kashmir administration is planning to set up India's best mythological theme park near the famous Vaishno Devi shrine in Reasi district and has sought investors for the project, officials said on Friday. The state-of-the-art park is aimed at increasing economic activity and generating direct and indirect local employment, besides improving the overall experience of tourists and citizens in the union territory, they said. Around one crore devotees from across the country and abroad visit the Vaishno Devi shrine atop the Trikuta hills annually, with Katra town, 43 km from Jammu, serving as the base camp for the pilgrimage. Based on a vision of adventure, mythology, education and entertainment, the officials of the administration and the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board have identified three possible locations for the project – two near the shrine and another 10 km from the Katra bus stop. The park will come up on the way to the shrine and will have full connectivity, the officials said, adding that it would provide recreational activities for the pilgrims post-'darshan'. The J-K government would also provide other benefits like outdoor and indoor art and entertainment, shops, sports and activities, rides and games, food and beverages across formats and hotels and stays, the officials said. They said investors would be eligible for central sector scheme benefits and various other concessions from the Jammu and Kashmir government, including a contract valid for 25 years with a provision of extension. Central sector scheme benefits applicable on the project include capital investment incentive of 30 per cent on investment of up to Rs 5 crore, working capital interest incentive of five per cent per annum for existing units for five years maximum up to Rs one crore, Goods and Service Tax-linked incentive equal to 100 per cent of the gross GST for 10 years maximum up to 300 per cent, and capital interest subvention of six per cent per annum for a maximum of seven years on a loan amount up to Rs 500 crore for investment, the officials said. They said the J-K government would ensure all union territory-level clearances within 30 days of filing of application and would also provide support on other clearances and approvals, water at Rs 0.50 per cubic metre, power starting at Rs 3.85 per unit, besides additional incentives on stamp duty and green industrialisation. The officials said investors should have the experience of running a theme-based or an amusement park with an annual footfall of five lakhs and should also adhere to international safety standards throughout the project. Once a Memorandum of Understanding is signed, business operations with specified minimum requirements will have to commence within three years, they said, adding that the final theme needs to be passed through the Department of Industries and Commerce, J-K, and also generate direct and indirect employment opportunities. Highlighting the advantages of investing in Jammu and Kashmir, the officials said the union territory has progressive, competitive and investor-friendly policies, competitive cost of doing business, a conducive work environment and skilled labour. It also has 57 industrial estates across 20 districts, availability of industrial and sector-specific land bank, pristine and pollution-free environment, large captive market and easy access to consumers of neighbouring states, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-plans-mythological-theme-park-near-vaishno-devi-shrine-996365.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh varsity to introduce 'gilli-danda', 'kanche' in its syllabus||In an apparent bid to revive traditional sports, state-owned Chaudhary Charan Singh University in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut town, about 450 kilometres from here, has decided to include sports like 'gill-danda' and 'kanche' in its syllabus of Bachelor of Physical Education. According to the Varsity officials, some other traditional sports such as 'stapoo' (hopscotch) has also been included in the syllabus from the next academic session. ''The objective is to revive these traditional games, which were once very popular in the state and the country but they are on the verge of extinction....many in the new generation do not even know about them,'' said a senior Varsity official in Meerut. 'Gilli-danda' is played with two sticks, including a large one called a 'danda', which is used to hit a smaller one, the 'gilli' while the game 'kanche', which is still very popular with the children, especially in the rural areas, is played with round-shaped marble balls.  The University had earlier hogged the limelight after it included a book on 'Hathyoga' (a branch of Yoga that focuses on learning the yogic techniques by force) written by UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. It also included a book on Yoga written by Baba Ramdev. The book contains information on how to treat illness through Yoga. The varsity officials said that the inclusion of these books as part of its endeavour to make the students familiar with the ancient Indian culture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-varsity-to-introduce-gilli-danda-kanche-in-its-syllabus-996370.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||SC gives Centre time to respond to plea for Rs 4 lakh to each Covid-19 victim||The Centre on Friday told the Supreme Court that the matter related to ex-gratia monetary compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the family members of Covid-19 victims and issuance of death certificates was under consideration of the Union government. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted before a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M R Shah that the government treated the issues raised in the PILs as important and would file its response. In view of submission, the bench said in the order, "The Centre seeks time to file a reply. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta says issues are under consideration and a reply will be filed. As prayed time is allowed to file a reply. List these petitions on June 21." Two PILs were filed by advocates Gaurav Kumar Bansal and Reepak Kansal seeking an urgent intervention of the top court for payment of Rs 4 lakh ex-gratia amount to Covid victims' families. Senior advocate S B Upadhyay, appearing for a petitioner, contended that the hospitals were not issuing death certificates citing Covid-19 as cause of death. He said the black fungus was also result of Covid-19, therefore, the death certificate must include this reason. On May 24, the court on Monday sought a response from the Centre. It had also asked the Centre to inform whether there was a uniform policy on issuance of death certificates as there were many a situation where Covid was not cited as reason for death. In their plea, the petitioners contended since the Union government declared Covid-19 as a national disaster by a notification on March 14, 2020, it is all the more necessary for the national authority under Section 12 of the Disaster Management Act, to recommend the minimum standards of relief to the affected persons. They said the financial assistance was a constitutional obligation on the state as the right to live with dignity of victim and family members of deceased, were violated due to death of the bread-earner. According to the law, the National Disaster Management Authority was duty-bound to provide ex-gratia assistance on account of loss of lives to the personnel from healthcare sector, police department, municipal boards, nagar nigam etc during their services in relief operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-gives-centre-time-to-respond-to-plea-for-rs-4-lakh-to-each-covid-19-victim-996386.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt extends excise licenses of liquor shops, clubs for 3 more months||The Delhi government has decided to extend the excise license of liquor shops, clubs, restro-bars and other establishments by three more months till September 30. In an order issued on Thursday, the excise department said the government has approved the new excise policy 2021-22 which is likely to be implemented in the next three months. The excise department will renew the licenses that are coming to an end by June 30, it said. "Therefore, in order to ensure smooth and uninterrupted supply of authorised liquor in Delhi, it has been decided to extend/renew all existing licenses for a further period of 3 months up to 30.09.2021, commencing from 01.07.2021," the order read. The licenses will only be renewed after the payment of proportionate license fees on or before June 30 for the period of three months, it said. It is the second time this year that the excise department has decided to renew the licences of liquor vendors, bars, restaurants among others for a period of three months. Earlier in March, the extension was given from April 1 till June 30. There are around 850 liquor shops in the city including those run by government agencies and private individuals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-extends-excise-licenses-of-liquor-shops-clubs-for-3-more-months-996399.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||Curfew in Himachal Pradesh extended with more relaxations||The Covid-19 curfew in Himachal Pradesh has been extended with several more relaxations till further orders, an official spokesperson said here on Friday.  The buses within the state will ply with 50 per cent occupancy and shops will remain open from 9 am to 5 pm from June 14, he added.  The decision to extend the curfew was taken on Friday in the cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur.  The curfew will continue from 5 pm to 5 am in the state till further orders, the spokesperson added.  Intrastate public transport will be allowed with 50 per cent occupancy and the timing of the opening of shops has been increased from 9 am to 5 pm from Monday.  Earlier the shops were allowed to open from 9 am to 2 pm.  However, the shops except those of essential commodities will remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays.  It was also decided that the offices will function with 50 per cent of staff from Monday, the spokesperson said. All the medical colleges, ayurvedic colleges and dental colleges will open from June 23. Pharmacy and nursing schools will open from June 28. Now there will be no requirement of RT-PCR negative tests for entering in the state, the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/curfew-in-himachal-pradesh-extended-with-more-relaxations-996402.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||Hurt Congress finds solace in Sachin Pilot as he rejects BJP’s reported overtures||Days after Jitin Prasada’s exit, Congress heaved a sigh of relief as former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Friday rejected BJP’s reported overtures to him to shift political loyalties. Pilot’s assertion also came on a day when BJP vice president Mukul Roy dumped the saffron party and returned to the Trinamool Congress, a development seen within the Congress as a beginning of a dent in the BJP ranks. “Rita Bahuguna Joshi has said she has spoken to Sachin. She must have spoken to Sachin Tendulkar. She doesn’t have the guts to speak to me,” Pilot told reporters in Jaipur about Joshi’s reported overtures to him to join the BJP. Joshi, a former Uttar Pradesh Congress President, joined the BJP in 2016 and was elected as an MLA in the 2017 Assembly elections. She served as a minister in the Uttar Pradesh government till her election to the Lok Sabha in 2019. Pilot has been upset with the Congress leadership for not fulfilling the assurances given to him last year when he had rebelled against Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. After Prasada’s exit from the Congress on Wednesday, rumour mills were agog about Pilot being the next to defect, particularly after he publicly reminded the party leadership about the promises made to him last year. Reports had it that Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who had brokered peace between Pilot and Gehlot last year, reached out to Pilot with a fresh assurance on addressing his concerns. AICC General Secretary Ajay Maken said he was in touch with Pilot on a regular basis and vacancies in the Rajasthan cabinet, boards and corporations would be filled soon. As it struggled to put its house in order, the Congress rejoiced at a dent in the BJP ranks when its national vice president Mukul Roy made a surprise return to the Trinamool Congress. “The BJP, which was poaching leaders from other parties, is now worried about saving its own house. Mukul Roy has embarked on a noble cause from Bengal. What Bengal thinks today, the country follows in that direction. Let us see how long the BJP would celebrate,” Roy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hurt-congress-finds-solace-in-sachin-pilot-as-he-rejects-bjp-s-reported-overtures-996405.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||Monsoon advances in Madhya Pradesh; IMD issues orange alert in 11 districts||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday issued an orange alert, predicting heavy rains with thunderstorm in 11 districts of Madhya Pradesh, as southwest monsoon advanced into the state. Rains lashed large parts of the central state during the day, with Parasia area of Chhindwara receiving 90.1mm rainfall, the highest, in the last 24 hours, ending 8.30 am on Friday, senior meteorologist P K Saha of IMD Bhopal said. After covering Jabalpur and Hoshangabad divisions, large parts of Indore and Shahdol divisions and parts of Bhopal and Sagar divisions, southwest monsoon is advancing to other parts of the state. The department has issued an orange alert predicting heavy rains with thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds at the speed of 30 to 40 km per hour (KMPH) at isolated places of 11 districts, including Hoshangabad and Mandla, he said. A yellow alert predicting likely thunderstorms with lightning and wind gusts at the speed of 30 to 40 KMPH has been issued for isolated places of four divisions, including Indore, Gwalior and Chambal, the official said, adding that similar weather conditions have been forecast for 20 districts, including Bhopal and Jabalpur. These alerts are valid till Saturday morning, it was stated. Mercury dropped in the parts of the state that received good rainfall, with Jabalpur recording the maximum and minimum temperature of 31.0 (-8) and 23.4 (-4) degrees Celsius respectively, Saha said. Bhopal city recorded 21.2 mm rainfall while Pachmari, a hill station in Hoshangabad received 21.0 mm rainfall between 8.30 am and 5.30 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/monsoon-advances-in-madhya-pradesh-imd-issues-orange-alert-in-11-districts-996417.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||Ex-Himachal Pradesh CM Virbhadra Singh tests Covid-19 positive for second time||Former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh has tested positive for Covid-19 for the second time in two months, a health official said on Friday. The veteran Congress leader had earlier tested positive for the disease on April 12. He is being treated at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) hospital, Shimla and his condition is stable, Special Secretary (Health) Nipun Jindal said. Nine-time MLA and five-time MP, Singh was Himachal Pradesh's chief minister for six terms. The 86-year-old veteran Congress leader is currently the MLA from Arki in Solan district. Earlier, he was admitted to a hospital in Chandigarh after he tested positive for coronavirus on April 12. Singh returned home in Holly Lodge here on April 30 from the Chandigarh hospital after recovering from Covid-19. However, within hours after reaching home, he was admitted to IGMC when he complained of cardiac and breathing problems. Since then he is being treated at the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-himachal-pradesh-cm-virbhadra-singh-tests-covid-19-positive-for-second-time-996418.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||SAD's manifesto for Punjab Assembly polls to be ready by October: Sukhbir Badal||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) will prepare its manifesto for the 2022 Punjab Assembly polls by October, its president Sukhbir Singh Badal said on Friday. The Assembly polls in Punjab are scheduled to be held early next year. Badal said the manifesto will include only those demands of the government employees that can be fulfilled, "unlike the Congress party, which made tall and false promises to them". At a meeting with the "Mulazam Front" (employees' front) of the party, in which the front leaders submitted a memorandum to him, the SAD chief insisted that his party will include only those demands that can be fulfilled by it if it comes to power. "The SAD believes in keeping its word," he said. "On the other hand, parties like the Congress believe in making tall and false promises to the employees and other sections of the society to mislead them with the sole motive of achieving power," Badal alleged. He said the SAD is in the process of preparing the manifesto for the state polls and "it is most likely to be completed by the end of October".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sads-manifesto-for-punjab-assembly-polls-to-be-ready-by-october-sukhbir-badal-996487.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||Southwest Monsoon likely to reach Delhi by June 15, 12 days ahead of schedule||The southwest monsoon is likely to reach Delhi by June 15, 12 days before its usual date of June 27, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said on Friday. In 2008, too, the wind system had reached Delhi on June 15, said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre. "Conditions are favourable for an early onset. It (monsoon) may reach Delhi by June 15 this time," he said. A low pressure area lies over northwest Bay of Bengal. It is likely to move across Odisha, Jharkhand and north Chhattisgarh over the next three to four days, the IMD said. A trough runs from south Punjab to the centre of this low pressure area. Also, strong south-westerly winds are prevailing along the west coast and an offshore trough lies off the west coast. These conditions are likely to persist over the next five to six days. "Under these favourable meteorological conditions, the southwest monsoon is likely to advance over the entire country outside south Rajasthan and Kutch region of Gujarat during the next five-six days," the IMD said. Srivastava said largely, three factors are considered for declaring the arrival of the monsoon in an area (after it makes onset in Kerala) -- widespread rainfall over a large area, prediction of more precipitation over the next three to four days and easterly winds. In 2013, monsoon covered the entire country by June 16, according to Mahesh Palawat of Skymet Weather, a private forecasting agency. Last year, the wind system had covered the entire country by June 29, seven days before the usual date of July 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/southwest-monsoon-likely-to-reach-delhi-by-june-15-12-days-ahead-of-schedule-996491.html
11-06-2021||North and Central||Mobile-for-girls remarks: UP women’s panel chief says considering show-cause notice to member||UP State Women’s Commission chairperson Vimla Batham on Friday said she is contemplating to give a show-cause notice to a panel member, who had suggested that girls should be kept off mobile phones by families who don't want them "running away" with boys. "Girls should not be given mobile phones and if given, families should keep tabs on them. Girls talk with boys over the phone and later run away with them," commission member Meena Kumari had told reporters in Aligarh on Thursday when asked about the rise in crime against women. "The statement was unfortunate and should not have been issued. I had asked her to apologise for it and she tendered an apology for it before the media on Thursday,” Vimla Batham told PTI over the phone. Batham said Meena Kumari said her statement "was not intentional and was in the context of the cases which had come before her and were linked to mobile phones". The commission chairperson said she is contemplating giving a show-cause notice to the member to ensure that such things are not repeated in future. Batham said in the present times, mobile phones have become a necessity as even classes are being held online. "It was wrong to say such things," Batham added. Apart from asking people not to give mobile phones to their daughters, Meena Kumar had asked mothers to keep tabs on them. She had said such incidents occur due to their "negligence".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mobile-for-girls-remarks-up-women-s-panel-chief-says-considering-show-cause-notice-to-member-996516.html
11-06-2021||Opinion||Covid-19: Tracing outbreak origins is tricky business||By Marilyn J. Roossinck for The Conversation Every time there is a major disease outbreak, one of the first questions scientists and the public ask is “Where did this come from?” In order to predict and prevent future pandemics like Covid-19, researchers need to find the origin of the viruses that cause them. This is not a trivial task. The origin of HIV was not clear until 20 years after it spread around the world. Scientists still don’t know the origin of Ebola, even though it has caused periodic epidemics since the 1970s. As an expert in viral ecology, I am often asked how scientists trace the origins of a virus. In my work, I have found many new viruses and some well-known pathogens that infect wild plants without causing any disease. Plant, animal or human, the methods are largely the same. Tracking down the origins of a virus involves a combination of extensive fieldwork, thorough lab testing and quite a bit of luck. Viruses jump from wild animal hosts to humans Many viruses and other disease agents that infect people originate in animals. These diseases are zoonotic, meaning they are caused by animal viruses that jumped to people and adapted to spread through the human population. It might be tempting to start the viral origin search by testing sick animals at the site of the first known human infection, but wild hosts often don’t show any symptoms. Viruses and their hosts adapt to each other over time, so viruses often don’t cause obvious disease symptoms until they’ve jumped to a new host species. Researchers can’t just look for sick animals. Another problem is that people and their food animals aren’t stationary. The place where researchers find the first infected person is not necessarily close to the place where the virus first emerged. In the case of Covid-19, bats were an obvious first place to look. They’re known hosts for many coronaviruses and are the probable source of other zoonotic diseases like SARS and MERS. For SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, the nearest relative scientists have found so far is BatCoV RaTG13. This virus is part of a collection of bat coronaviruses discovered in 2011 and 2012 by virologists from the Wuhan Virology Institute. The virologists were looking for SARS-related coronaviruses in bats after the SARS-CoV-1 pandemic in 2003. They collected fecal samples and throat swabs from bats at a site in Yunnan Province about 932 miles (1,500 kilometers) from the institute’s lab in Wuhan, where they brought samples back for further study. To test whether the bat coronaviruses could spread into people, researchers infected monkey kidney cells and human tumor-derived cells with the Yunnan samples. They found that a number of the viruses from this collection could replicate in the human cells, meaning they could potentially be transmitted directly from bats to humans without an intermediate host. Bats and people don’t come into direct contact very often, however, so an intermediate host is still quite likely. Finding the nearest relatives The next step is to determine how closely related a suspected wildlife virus is to the one infecting humans. Scientists do this by figuring out the genetic sequence of the virus, which involves determining the order of the basic building blocks, or nucleotides, that make up the genome. The more nucleotides two genetic sequences share, the more closely related they are. Genetic sequencing of bat coronavirus RaTG13 showed it to be over 96% identical to SARS-CoV-2. This level of similarity means that RaTG13 is a pretty close relative to SARS-CoV-2, confirming that SARS-CoV-2 probably originated in bats, but is still too distant to be a direct ancestor. There likely was another host that caught the virus from bats and passed it on to humans. Because some of the earliest cases of Covid-19 were found in people associated with the wildlife market in Wuhan, there was speculation that a wild animal from this market was the intermediate host between bats and humans. However, researchers never found the coronavirus in animals from the market. Likewise, when a related coronavirus was identified in pangolins confiscated in an anti-smuggling operation in southern China, many leaped to the conclusion that SARS-CoV-2 had jumped from bats to pangolins to humans. The pangolin virus was found to be only 91% identical to SARS-CoV-2, though, making it unlikely to be a direct ancestor of the human virus. To pinpoint the origin of SARS-CoV-2, a lot more wild samples need to be collected. This is a difficult task – sampling bats is time-consuming and requires strict precautions against accidental infection. Since SARS-related coronaviruses are found in bats across Asia, including Thailand and Japan, it’s a very big haystack to search for a very small needle. Creating a family tree for SARS-CoV-2 In order to sort out the puzzle of viral origins and movement, scientists not only have to find the missing pieces, but also figure out how they all fit together. This requires collecting viral samples from human infections and comparing those genetic sequences both to each other and to other animal-derived viruses. To determine how these viral samples are related to each other, researchers use computer tools to construct the virus’s family tree, or phylogeny. Researchers compare the genetic sequences of each viral sample and construct relationships by aligning and ranking genetic similarities and differences. The direct ancestor to the virus, sharing the greatest genetic similarity, could be thought of as its parent. Variants sharing that same parent sequence but with enough changes to make them distinct from each other are like siblings. In the case of SARS-CoV-2, the South African variant, B.1.351, and the U.K. variant, B.1.1.7, are siblings. Building a family tree is complicated by the fact that different analysis parameters can give different results: The same set of genetic sequences can produce two very different family trees. For SARS-CoV-2, phylogenetic analysis proves particularly difficult. Though tens of thousands of SARS-CoV-2 sequences are now available, they don’t differ from one another enough to form a clear picture of how they’re related to each other. The current debate: Wild host or lab spillover? Could SARS-CoV-2 have been released from a research lab? Although current evidence implies that this is not the case, 18 prominent virologists recently suggested that this question should be further investigated. Although there has been speculation about SARS-CoV-2 being engineered in a lab, this possibility seems highly unlikely. When comparing the genetic sequence of wild RaTG13 with SARS-CoV-2, differences are randomly spread across the genome. In an engineered virus, there would be clear blocks of changes that represent introduced sequences from a different viral source. There is one unique sequence in the SARS-CoV-2 genome that codes for a part of the spike protein that seems to play an important role in infecting people. Interestingly, a similar sequence is found in the MERS coronavirus that causes a disease similar to Covid-19. Though it is not clear how SARS-CoV-2 acquired these sequences, viral evolution suggests they arose from natural processes. Viruses accumulate changes either by genetic exchange with other viruses and their hosts, or by random mistakes during replication. Viruses that gain a genetic change that gives them a reproductive advantage would typically continue to pass it on through replication. That MERS and SARS-CoV-2 share a similar sequence in this part of the genome suggests that it naturally evolved in both and spread because it helps them infect human cells. Where to go from here? Figuring out the origin of SARS-CoV-2 could give us clues to understand and predict future pandemics, but we may never know exactly where it came from. Regardless of how the SARS-CoV-2 jumped into humans, it’s here now, and it’s probably here to stay. Going forward, researchers need to continue monitoring its spread, and get as many people vaccinated as possible.  (The author is a part of Penn State University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19-tracing-outbreak-origins-is-tricky-business-996275.html
11-06-2021||Opinion||What makes Delta coronavirus variant so worrisome?||As nations race to roll out vaccines in the global effort to contain Covid-19 and allow for a return to normal, the rise of dangerous virus variants threatens to prolong the pandemic. In the UK, the spread of the so-called Delta variant, first identified in India, has led officials to send military personnel to hotspots and prompted the government to reconsider easing Covid restrictions on June 21 as planned. Here, Sam Fazeli, a Bloomberg Opinion contributor who covers the pharmaceutical industry for Bloomberg Intelligence, answers questions about the risks stemming from this variant and more. The conversation has been edited and condensed. What sets the Delta variant apart from other variants and what makes it so concerning? The Sars-Cov-2 Delta variant, also known as B.1.617.2, is a so-called variant of concern like others we have seen before including “alpha”(first found in the UK), “beta” (first identified in South Africa) and “gamma” (discovered in Brazil). Two factors set Delta apart and make it potentially the most dangerous to date: First, it has about a 40 per cent higher transmission rate compared with alpha, which already had a 50 per cent higher transmissibility than the original strain of the virus. This is clearly visible in the data coming out of the UK, which shows that the Delta variant went from accounting for 1 per cent of all cases in early April to 70 per cent by mid-May. It will likely almost completely replace the alpha variant by the end of June. The higher transmissibility is also clear from the increase in the number of cases across the UK Second, it is also believed to cause more severe disease than alpha, translating to a further rise in the percentage of positive cases that require hospitalization, despite the fact that the infections are in younger people. This second problem of increased severity had not been confirmed with any other variant to date. Does the Delta variant respond to vaccines? Is there any data about which vaccines may work better against it? What is rather surprising about Delta is that it has lost the key mutation that had people worried about the beta and gamma variants (to get technical, it’s the one in position 484 of the amino acid chain of the spike protein of the virus). This is one of the mutations that contributed to the loss of response to some antibodies, including those produced by the vaccines. We do know that Delta is less sensitive than alpha to antibodies generated by the vaccines, and at about the same level as beta. Also, data from Public Health England shows that the first dose of the Pfizer Inc.-BioNTech SE and AstraZeneca Plc vaccines provide only about a 30 per cent protection against Delta, though this rises to at least 88 per cent after the second dose of the Pfizer vaccine and 60 per cent after the second dose of the Astra vaccine (this is likely to rise with more time for second doses to take effect in Britain). These levels of protection are lower than what has been seen against the older variants such as alpha, but they still show that two doses of vaccines work pretty well against the Delta variant. The  real risk is when you consider the broader population, where many people are either unvaccinated or only have one dose of the vaccine, combined with Delta’s higher transmissibility and disease severity. Where is it in the world? This is not an easy question to answer because the level of genomic surveillance is low in so many countries. Based on data from GISAID, a global effort for sharing and tracking information on viruses, the UK has the highest proportion of the Delta variant outside of India, at 70 per cent of its cases. The US is showing about 5 per cent (and growing) and Germany is at about 2 per cent. Italy and Spain are each at about 3 per cent to 5 per cent. The issue is that many of these countries are going down the road of opening their economies while their full vaccination levels have yet to hit the critical 50 per cent to 70 per cent required for controlling virus spread. Should the US or countries in the European Union worry about it as much as the UK? The spread of Delta is already out of control in the UK But other countries appear to only be at the early stages. I think the best any country can do, where the virus variant is already present, is to vaccinate as fast as possible, while increasing testing and genomic surveillance. Otherwise, the first indication of a problem will be an increased rate of positive cases. The UK's situation compared with Israel throws a spotlight on why the Delta variant is such a problem. Israel managed to get its cases under control when it reached about a 50 per cent vaccination rate among its entire population. Despite the fact that the UK achieved a 42.3 per cent a vaccination rate, its case counts have started to rise rapidly in the past two weeks because of a combination of early reopening and the spread of Delta. And incidentally, the US vaccination rate is similar to the UK’s, so there are risks there, too. Why is the UK sending the military to the hardest hit regions? To scare people into social distancing? Or is the military able to do something with Delta that normal health professionals can't? I have to assume it’s all about getting as many people tested as possible, which requires shoes or boots on the ground. With enough testing and increased vaccinations in hot spots, the spread can be better controlled, allowing the government to remove all restrictions. However, I not only think that the June 21 relaxation of all restrictions will have to be delayed, but it’s also possible some earlier loosening steps, such as allowing indoor dining, may need to be reversed to stop the spread of Delta. A lot of the focus has been on the UK , but the biggest danger from more transmissible variants is to the many parts of the world where vaccination rates are very low, right? Absolutely. If you sum up everything that I mentioned above, especially the effectiveness of the vaccines against Delta, the best solution, aside from a severe lockdown, is to test, isolate positive cases and vaccinate. Can the virus mutate again to become even worse? Oh sure, and it almost certainly has already. Many mutations do nothing or actually hinder the virus. In the case of Delta, though, high levels of transmission combined with a partially vaccinated population increases the risk of more people catching the virus and raises the risk of further meaningful mutations that could drive Delta to further evade vaccine-induced immunity. As of now, the depth of the vaccine-induced immune response to the virus is strong enough such that those fully vaccinated will be much less likely to develop severe disease. But that still leaves a whole swath of the population at risk. This is why I cringe when I hear that 30 per cent of US adults don’t want to be vaccinated. What does it mean for parents of children and young adults not eligible for vaccination yet? Should they keep them on tight leashes this summer? Cancel any long-haul trips? Children have so far been much less at risk of developing severe Covid-19 disease, though that doesn’t mean they are completely risk-free. As for adolescents, the vaccine is already available. But for those who can’t take it or don’t have access, there has to be continued use of non-pharmaceutical preventative methods, such as masking and distancing, until community cases are so low that the risk of contracting the virus is minimal. Also, we may have to rethink our risk assessments for children if the Delta variant or some derivative of it or others proves to be worse for kids. We already know that more younger people are being hospitalized in the UK with the Delta variant than with previous variants. The Sars-Cov-2 virus has so far been one step ahead of us. We need to regain the initiative, which is only possible with high levels of vaccination and continuous testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-makes-delta-coronavirus-variant-so-worrisome-996315.html
11-06-2021||Opinion||Banerjee has won twice over, Modi has lost two times||Pointless temper tantrums are always silly; in politics, it is even more so, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi has probably figured out to his cost. Instead of scoring a point against a three-time Assembly elections winner, a leading candidate for the chair of the next prime minister, Mamata Banerjee, beleaguered Prime Minister Modi ducked behind the barricade of institutions. It started with the Constitution, then the Central Bureau of Investigation and followed up by the bulwark of India’s bureaucracy to try and salvage his injured image and save face. The third and doubtless not the last shot was seriously way off the mark. As the head of the national executive, Prime Minister Modi had scheduled a meeting with the executive head of Cyclone Yaas hit West Bengal, Chief Minister Banerjee. To this meeting, he invited Governor J P Dhankar, who is not a functionary of the executive branch of government, and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s newly anointed leader of the legislative Opposition, Suvendu Adhikari. In doing so, the PM made a political move that backfired. Neither Adhikari nor the Governor had any reason to be part of the meeting, but Banerjee did not object.  Instead, she came to it and left within minutes, handing over a report but not a request for funds or resources. It was a politically neat manoeuver by Banerjee, who could not be faulted because she attended the meeting or at least showed up for it. She left citing a reason and asking to be excused. It was a snub. She had no intention of allowing Modi to put her and Adhikari on the same level. She dodged what would have been a politically humiliating moment and one that the BJP would have used relentlessly to claim that it was the equal of Banerjee, even if the party bombed in the elections. The choice of Bengal’s just retired chief secretary and newly appointed Chief Advisor, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, to settle scores was a blunder. To have expected that Bandyopadhyay, a diligent IAS officer, would stay behind and pamper the PM, even when his boss, the CM, had instructed him to accompany her on the second leg of her tour of cyclone devastated areas, was politically and officially gauche. There was no way in which Bandyopadhyay could have flouted direct instructions without staging an insurrection, so overwhelming numbers of seasoned bureaucrats opine. “It’s not the done thing,” is the consensus. Worse was to expect Bandyopadhyay to report for duty in New Delhi’s North Block on the day he retired. The order to quit Bengal and join the government at the Centre is where the PM disappeared behind the walls of the rules that govern the institution of the All India Services. Bureaucrats writing up the transfer order would have known, full well, that Bandyopadhyay could not officially move without being released by the West Bengal government. The question is, how did anyone in New Delhi think he could? There are other points too that are of concern. Bandyopadhyay, a senior bureaucrat, should have been asked before he was ordered; the state government had to be requested to release him. None of this happened. The PM’s pique is stamped all over the Bandyopadhyay incident. Trying and settling political scores by making a brouhaha over the actions of a bureaucrat is a loud and clear admission of having lost a fight and that too in bad spirit. The outcome is that Banerjee has won twice over and Modi has lost two times. The political embarrassment for Modi is huge. To paint over the defeat, the BJP has to find a way to score a win against Banerjee. For now, it cannot. The unintended consequence of the Bandyopadhyay incident is that Banerjee has come out as a strong defender of her subordinates, who rewards loyalty, having made Bandyopadhyay chief advisor for three years. The barracking of Banerjee began even before the counting of votes ended. The saga begins with the first shot fired against Banerjee for political violence before and after the polls. The BJP had a point, albeit weak but not unconvincing. After losing the elections in Bengal, the BJP as a failed principal challenger, the principal opposition party in the state, a party that is in power at the Centre and has other resources at its command, did its best to destabilise the newly elected government. It used the inevitable score-settling violence that is intrinsic to the state’s long-established political culture. Aided and encouraged by Governor Dhankar’s Twitter storm in the days immediately after the polling was over that law and order was spiralling out of control, and that it was on the verge of a breakdown of constitutional proportions, the BJP felt it was getting some advantage out of the narrative of hostility it had crafted. The second shot was when the politics began to unravel, and pique became visible. Four political leaders, including two key ministers of the newly elected Bengal government, were arrested by the CBI, bundled into jail after bail was granted and then cancelled. After a week of courtroom battles, they returned home and got on with their jobs. That Modi is not great at either governance or politics when times are tough is all too evident. He seems to have a predilection for losing the plot. And Bengal is his weakness. Working to oust Banerjee from power in Bengal and install a “double engine government” of the BJP at the Centre and in the state was a higher priority than staying ahead of the pandemic surge and so keeping it from spreading exponentially. Nobel winner Amartya Sen has precisely pinpointed the catastrophic consequences of inappropriate chest-thumping. He said recently, “The government seemed much keener on ensuring credit for what it was doing rather than ensuring that pandemics do not spread in India,” which resulted in a daily infection rate that topped 4.5 lakhs for days and killed 4,500 people a day. Professor Sen was precise about the effect. “The result was a certain amount of schizophrenia,” he said. The Supreme Court’s intervention was necessary to get the Modi government back on track, only after which a National Task Force was set up to sort out the disastrous supply problems of oxygen when the demand curve showed a steep rise. Post the Bandyopadhyay affair, the same court’s scathing statement that variable pricing of vaccines and a botched distribution plan violated the fundamental rights to equality and life guaranteed by the Constitution underscores that Modi was not focused on the job because his attention was elsewhere. (Shikha Mukerjee is a Kolkata-based senior journalist and political commentator.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/banerjee-has-won-twice-over-modi-has-lost-two-times-996322.html
11-06-2021||Opinion||Srinagar-Delhi dialogue to break the logjam on Kashmir soon||In the coming days, the political leadership in Kashmir is expected to enter into negotiations with Delhi to draw a roadmap that can help the two sides erase some mistrust and fill the ever-widening political vacuum in Jammu and Kashmir. The urgency of doing so has dawned on Delhi and Srinagar both, as they found that their stiff attitudes toward each other were leading them nowhere. The Kashmiri leadership was becoming increasingly aware of losing its ground and growing disenchantment of the people in despair with them, which has pushed them to embrace the idea of talking to Delhi to ease the situation in Kashmir. They were also aware that their legacy was being discussed as do-nothing men and women who had no courage to stand for their people in distress. As such, it reinforced their old realisation that Delhi alone can create space for them to operate to regain their legitimacy, as China or Pakistan cannot help them in any way. The rhetoric of "solidarity" coming from Pakistan is not a solution to their problems and has complicated things. It dawned on them that they should look for a pragmatic approach rather than being in an echo chamber where frustration triggers accusations and counter-accusations, leaving the problems unresolved. Delhi, too, has compulsions that have made it change its mind. It is reeling from the devastating impact of the pandemic. It has dented its image internationally due to what some have described as unimaginative handling of the situation. Kashmir offers an opportunity to develop an alternative narrative. The starting point of the proposed discussions could centre around the after-effects of the August 5, 2019 decisions of the Government of India when it declared a victory of Indian nationalism over secessionism and corruption in Jammu and Kashmir. It had anticipated that once the constitutional guarantees and special status of J&K are done away with, which it did, the people will fall in line. They would accept and practice the idea of India that had found resistance due to Pakistan and the militancy it has sponsored. So, it cut off the Buddhist majority area of Ladakh from J&K and made it a union territory. The rest of the state, Jammu and Kashmir, also suffered degradation as Delhi reduced it to a union territory. In their assessment, people in Kashmir were not as unhappy with the abrogation of Article 370, which was high on symbolism, than what they perceive as a real threat to their land and demography, the scrapping of Article 35A. They were angry over the scrapping of Article 35A granting exclusive rights to the permanent residents of Jammu and Kashmir to own immovable property and to jobs and scholarships. The subsequent domicile laws brought by the government opened things in favour of non-permanent residents. This anger has bred radicalism. It gained its space in two forms. First, local youth joining armed militant outfits. Second, It added to desperation and fear. Mainstream leaders, most of whom had formed a group People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration with a vow to restore Article 370, felt they would get consumed by the radical forces, so there was a need for a middle-path to save themselves politically. That's why this alliance made an offer of talks, which is under consideration of the Centre. Prime Minister Narendra Modi may call an all-party meeting on Kashmir to convey a message of the sincerity of working with the leadership of Kashmir. The discussions are likely to centre around the areas of agreement while deferring the contentious to avoid the confrontation. The areas of agreement are apparent. These are - unhindered political activity by all parties, especially in the Valley, where the administration is accused of playing a partisan role by denying movements of political leaders on the pretext of Covid protocols, the release of political prisoners and a complete halt to arrests and detentions of youth. All this would lead to the possibility of holding the Assembly polls. There is a bit of disagreement between the two sides. The Centre will go by its own thumb rule that once the delimitation commission constituted last year finalises its report on defining the constituencies, and Election Commission can announce the polls. The Assembly polls in the current arrangement leave the elected representatives with no power as the Lieutenant Governor enjoys all the powers from controlling law and order to general administration. Therefore, there is a solid reminder to the government of its promise to restore statehood to Jammu and Kashmir. Home Minister Amit Shah had promised to restore the statehood to J&K once the conditions so permitted. Though he had not elaborated much, yet it was clear that he wanted J&K to become terror-free, development narrative to replace all others and no room for anti-Delhi noises. This objective was a daunting task, and now it has been understood that dialogue to fill the political gaps alone can improve the situation. It is an opportunity that neither side can afford to squander. (Arun Joshi is a senior journalist based in Jammu and Kashmir and writes about South Asia's political and geo-strategic affairs.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/srinagar-delhi-dialogue-to-break-the-logjam-on-kashmir-soon-996339.html
11-06-2021||Opinion||Mukul Roy's summer somersault leaves BJP sweating||The year 2021 was supposed to be the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)'s year in West Bengal. Instead, it has turned out to be a nightmarish one, with the saffron party finding itself in a muddle.   Let us go back in a time machine to March and April. The Assembly elections in West Bengal were just around the corner, and the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) was reportedly on the backfoot. Mamata Banerjee and her army tried to salvage momentum as several TMC leaders, notably Suvendu Adhikari and Rajib Banerjee, decided to jump the ship and bet on a BJP victory.  On the other hand, the saffron camp was high on confidence. The BJP had never been a strong force in Bengal. Another national party, the Congress, had tasted success in the state, but not the BJP. Even in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, when the nation jubilantly embraced the 'Modi wave', the BJP managed to win only two seats in Bengal. Two years later, the BJP won one more seat in the state Assembly elections.  But as has been the case so often for the BJP under the leadership of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, the party turned things around and astonishingly secured 18-seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.  It strengthened its organisational structure in Bengal thanks to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and inducting some notable leaders who knew how to take on the Mamata Banerjee juggernaut. These leaders would eventually revamp the state BJP and steer it to become the main Opposition party in the state, which until then unchartered territory for the saffron machine. One of these leaders was Mukul Roy.  Roy was one of the founders of the TMC in 1998 and touted as one of the brains behind the party's landslide win in the 2011 Bengal Assembly elections, which saw the demise of the 34-year-old Left regime. It catapulted Roy to an iconic figure in Bengal politics, and he became one of the most trusted lieutenants of Mamata Banerjee. But then, he clashed with the party leadership and joined the BJP in November 2017. It was the first departure that jolted the TMC, the degree of which would be matched years later by the exit of Suvendu Adhikari. Roy was never the face of the Bengal BJP, but he helped to strengthen the party. His decision to rejoin the TMC in the aftermath of the BJP's defeat in the Assembly elections has sent the top saffron leaders in the state scrambling for excuses. Since the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Bengal BJP has never really entrusted leaders who have been in the party for a long time with significant responsibilities. On the eve of the Assembly elections, the party welcomed with open hands the TMC turncoats. Much to the old party leaders' disappointment, most turncoats got tickets to fight the polls. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh repeatedly attacked the turncoats without naming anyone, and it was clear that anger was brewing within the party.  The defeat exposed the state BJP's lack of cohesiveness. Former TMC leader Rajib Banerjee expressed his dissatisfaction and reportedly wished to return. BJP leader Anupam Hazra lashed out at the party leadership for not giving enough chance to the loyal guards, and Ghosh continued to take digs whenever asked about the prospects of the turncoats going back to the TMC.  Roy's exit can open the floodgates of departures from the BJP to TMC. Most of the turncoats reportedly fear losing their political relevance by staying in the opposition camp. And now the question can arise in their mind: "If Roy, the BJP national vice president, can leave, then why can't we?"  Further exodus can push the state BJP back to where it started, something that the TMC would dearly want as the party looks to spread its wings outside Bengal. The saffron party cannot afford to go on the backfoot further after the 2021 dejection. The departure of Roy could not have come at a worse time for the Hindutva party, and Mamata Banerjee has hinted that more TMC turncoats can return in the future.  The BJP has now lost momentum in Bengal and must look to arrest the slide if the party harbours ambitions of breaching the unconquered citadel in the next election. The biggest challenge for the BJP now is to steady the ship without the expert guidance of Roy. And it looks like that the party will experience rough weather for some time in Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/mukul-roys-summer-somersault-leaves-bjp-sweating-996376.html
11-06-2021||South||Supreme Court to pronounce Rs 10 crore compensation disbursal order next week for Kerala fishermen kin ||The Supreme Court on Friday said it would pass orders on June 15 on disbursal of Rs 10 crore compensation to family members of two Indian fishermen allegedly killed by Italian Marines off the Kerala coast in February 2012 and made it clear that Italy would prosecute them.  A vacation bench of justices Indira Banerjee and M R Shah said that it may ask the Kerala High Court to ensure proper disbursal of compensation to the heirs of the victims. The top court would also pass an order on quashing the pending criminal case against the Italian Marines in India for killing the fishermen on Tuesday. It said that the Republic of Italy will prosecute the accused Italian Marines as per the International arbitral award. Earlier, the Centre had told the court that Italy had initiated the transfer of Rs 10 crore compensation to be given to the kin of the fishermen. In February 2012, India had accused the two marines on board the MV Enrica Lexie -- an Italian flagged oil tanker -- of killing two Indian fishermen who were on a fishing vessel in India's Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/supreme-court-to-pronounce-rs-10-crore-compensation-disbursal-order-next-week-for-kerala-fishermen-kin-996263.html
11-06-2021||South||Mamta Banerjee all set to marry Socialism in Tamil Nadu||Mamta Banerjee is all set to marry Socialism in Tamil Nadu this Sunday! This 'wedding' has now drawn a lot of attention from people across the country after the invite went viral on social media. The groom's father, A Mohan (52) is the Salem district secretary of the Communist Party of India (CPI). The groom, named Socialism, is Mohan's third son. Ever since the wedding card went viral, Mohan and his family are getting a lot of calls from people. “I don't know who circulated the marriage invitation on social media. As phone numbers are also printed on it, hundreds of people are calling daily to express their wishes,” he said, adding, “We will die one day, but these names reflecting our ideology will live forever.” The ideology Mohan has mentioned goes back to the days when he had joined CPI when he was 18 years old. Mohan told the publication, “Due to the Soviet Union breaking up into many countries, many said Communism is dead. This made me upset and, even before my marriage, I decided to name my sons or daughters in a way that reflects the ideology.” The 52-year-old has three sons and he has named them Communism, Leninism and Socialism respectively. Following his father’s footsteps, Leninism has named his son Marxism. Mohan said his sons have faced humiliation in school too due to their unusual names.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mamta-banerjee-all-set-to-marry-socialism-in-tamil-nadu-996341.html
11-06-2021||South||ED conducts searches at TRS MP Nageswara Rao's offices||Enforcement Directorate officials on Friday conducted searches at some of the offices of Madhucon Group belonging to TRS MP and its Lok Sabha floor leader Nama Nageswara Rao, sources said. The searches are related to alleged fund diversion of Ranchi Expressway Limited, a Madhucon Group company, they said. The searches were conducted at Madhucon offices in Jubilee Hills here and residences of some of the directors, sources said. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), in March 2020, booked the promoters of the Ranchi Expressway Ltd, including its CMD K Srinivasa Rao, for allegedly causing a loss of over Rs 1,000 crore to a consortium of banks led by Canara Bank.  Ranchi Expressway Limited had been incorporated in the year 2011 as a special purpose vehicle promoted by Madhucon Infra Limitedand Madhucon Projects Limited to carry out the four-laning of Ranchi-Jamshedpur Highway section of NH-33 from km 114.000 to km 277.500 in Jharkhand on Design, Build, Finance, Operate, Transfer (DBFOT) Annuity basis. The directors allegedly indulged in fraudulent acts to get a total loan amount of Rs 1,029.39 crore released by the consortium of banks but no progress was made on the project with the loan becoming a non-performing asset in 2018, CBI had said. On January 31, 2019, the National Highways Authority of India terminated its contract with the company and forfeited Rs 73.95 crore by way of encashment of the performance bank guarantee with Canara Bank.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ed-conducts-searches-at-trs-mp-nageswara-raos-offices-996347.html
11-06-2021||South||Man accused of brutal torture of woman in Kochi nabbed||A person accused of brutally assaulting a woman by locking her up in a flat in Kochi for nearly a month was held by the police from a hideout with the help of a drone. Thrissur native Martin Joseph, 33, who was accused of physically and sexually assaulting a 27-year-old woman, was held on Thursday night. The incident came to light recently after the woman had shown pictures of the bruises on her body allegedly inflicted by Martin. She lodged the complaint around two months back. He allegedly befriended her during lockdown last year by offering accommodation and later assaulted her by locking up in a flat room. Martin, who was absconding, was traced by the police from a hideout in Thrissur district by Thursday night. He was hiding on the terrace of a vacant building in an isolated area. Police spotted him with the help of a drone after tracing his mobile phone location. Another woman had also filed an assault complaint against Martin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-accused-of-brutal-torture-of-woman-in-kochi-nabbed-996393.html
11-06-2021||South||CM Jaganmohan Reddy meets Dharmendra Pradhan, urges him not to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy on Friday called on Union Steel and Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and urged him not to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). On his second day of a two-day visit to Delhi, Reddy held over an hour-long discussion with Pradhan on the Kakinada Petro Complex and VSP, according to an official statement. In the meeting, the CM appealed to the central government to stop privatisation of VSP and requested it to consider the alternatives suggested by the state in reviving the plant. He said 20,000 people are employed in VSP and thousands more are having indirect employment. The company performed well and generated profits between 2002 and 2015. The plant has gone through an expansion by taking loans, but due to the slump in the international market during 2014-15, the company fell into debts with the increasing operational costs and lack of own mines, he said. Reddy requested to allot the captive mine in Odisha that will help in reviving VSP. He also suggested other possibilities in restructuring the finances of VSP, where all the short-term and long-term loans could be converted into equity easing the burden. The plant has a debt of Rs 22,000 crore, which is being serviced at interest rates as high as 14 per cent. Conversion of these loans into equity and listing the entity on the stock exchange, would remove the interest burden totally, where the banks would also encash through the stock exchange, he added. The CM said VSP has supplied 7,000 tonnes of oxygen during the second wave of Covid-19, saving lives of people in hard times. Discussing the Kakinada Petro Complex, Reddy said a promise was made to set up a petro complex at Kakinada SEZ (special economic zone) under the Andhra Pradesh Reorganization Act. The detailed project reports (DPRs) have been prepared for the project by HPCL-GAIL companies together with a capacity of one million tonne and at a cost of Rs 32,900 crore. As the Centre has asked for Rs 975 crore per annum under viability gap funding (VGF) for 15 years, the chief minister requested to cut down VGF as the state could not bear such a burden in the present circumstances. Reddy said the central government has reduced the corporate tax by 25 per cent and overall rate of interest across the world had also been reduced. He added that the project can be made possible without any VGF. He said members have already been nominated for the working group on behalf of the state government to discuss the project modalities. Reddy also asked the Centre to issue immediate directions to start the project. The Union minister has assured that a petro complex will definitely be set up in Andhra Pradesh and meeting will be scheduled next week, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cm-jaganmohan-reddy-meets-dharmendra-pradhan-urges-him-not-to-privatise-visakhapatnam-steel-plant-996394.html
11-06-2021||South||TN extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 21, relaxes curbs||Tamil Nadu has extended the Covid-19 lockdown till June 21 with more relaxation, according to ANI. Government-run Tasmac shops will now be allowed to operate between 10 am and 5 pm in 27 districts of the state.  Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu logged 15,759 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, including two returnees from Andhra Pradesh and New Delhi, pushing the tally to 23.24 lakh, while 378 deaths took the toll to 28,906. Recoveries continued to outnumber new infections with 29,243 people being discharged from hospitals, totalling 21,20,889, leaving 1,74,802 active cases, a health department bulletin said. Fresh cases have been on the decline in Tamil Nadu since May 21 when the state reported its highest daily count of 36,184 infections. On May 30, the state saw its daily cases dropping below the 30,000 mark, and on June 7, below 20,000. Three districts constituted the bulk of new cases on Friday with Coimbatore adding 2,056, followed by Chennai with 1,094 and Erode 1,365. The state capital leads in the number of total infections and fatalities among districts with 5,23,123 cases and 7,720 deaths. Chengalpet, Salem, Thanjavur and Tiruppur reported new cases in excess of 500 infections each while the rest was scattered across other districts. After about a three-month gap Perambalur recorded less than 100 cases on Friday, with 96 infections. Among the 378 deceased, 80 did not have any comorbidities, the bulletin said. A total of 1,82,586 were tested on Friday, pushing the cumulative number of specimens examined so far to 2,96,07,865. Meanwhile, medical and family welfare minister M Subramanian told reporters that the state has received 3.65 lakh vaccine doses, which would be distributed to various districts tonight. He was speaking after inspecting the facility at the Department of Public Health, where the vaccines are stored. Earlier, the minister flagged off a 'Drive-Thru' Covid vaccination camp, organised at MGM Healthcare. "It is being launched for the first time in Tamil Nadu. Through this facility, people coming in four-wheelers can get vaccinated by staying in their cars", he said. He lauded MGM Healthcare for this initiative and also other hospitals for their efforts in undertaking the vaccination drive and urged people to come forward in large numbers to get inoculated.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-june-21-relaxes-curbs-996395.html
11-06-2021||South||Prior infected given first Covid-19 vaccine dose well protected; divert their second dose: AIG researchers||Previously infected individuals given a single dose of Covid-19 vaccine have mounted up to 10 times more immune response and memory cell responses lasting up to one year, compared to the unexposed who also received the first jab, a study conducted at the city-based Asian Institute of Gastroenterology has shown. The findings are based on the assessment of 280 healthcare workers of the ICMR recognized Covid-19 care facility, who were vaccinated with Covishield between January-February. 131 of them were RTPCR test positive cases earlier. The work has recently appeared in the International Journal of Infectious Diseases (IJID). Citing the results, AIG researchers including the hospital chairman Dr Nageshwar Reddy are advocating a strategy where the second dose of the previously infected cases is instead diverted to vaccinate and offer protection to a larger, unexposed population. The recommendation comes at a time when the nation is still facing a severe crunch in vaccine supply. “We found that the amount of antibodies produced in the previously infected after the first dose is 10 times more than the unexposed persons. Their memory cell response to SARS-CoV-2 could last up to 12 months, compared to three months among the latter,” Dr Reddy told DH. “While individuals with no prior Covid-19 exposure would be required to take the second dose; the second dose in the case of the previously infected could be used as a booster shot next year,” Dr Reddy says. Though it is known that individuals with Covid-19 infection demonstrate immune memory to SARS-CoV-2 infection and higher antibody response to a single dose of mRNA vaccine than non-exposed individuals, AIG researchers said their study was to measure the efficacy to generate immunological memory among the previously infected after a single dose of vector-based vaccine. “Our study reports higher memory T and B-cell responses in addition to higher antibody response with a single dose of Covishiled given at 3–6 months after recovery,” said Dr Mitnala Sasikala, corresponding author of the study. “We are now assessing the immunity and memory cell responses with Covaxin and Sputnik V vaccines too,” Dr Reddy said Of the 280 individuals enrolled in the study, 131 were RTPCR positive with mild to moderate disease, and 50 had required hospital admission. All the infected 131 (46.78%) were sero-positive, and the remaining 149 (53.22%) were sero-negative before the first vaccination dose. All the participants were given Covishield (AstraZeneca vaccine, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India) in two doses, 28 days apart. “Baseline neutralizing antibodies were significantly higher in previously infected individuals compared with the no prior exposure group. All the sero-positive and 94.6% of sero-negative participants developed neutralizing antibodies by day 28 after the first dose. The previously infected group mounted greater antibody response and memory CD4+ T-cell responses elicited were also significantly higher compared with the no prior exposure group,” said the IJID article titled “Immunological memory and neutralizing activity to a single dose of Covid-19 vaccine in previously infected individuals.” “Our results demonstrate evidence to support a single-dose vaccination strategy for previously infected individuals to increase coverage and protect a larger number of populations,” Dr Mitnala said. “Longitudinal follow-up studies are necessary to assess the longevity of protective memory to determine the timing of the second dose.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/prior-infected-given-first-covid-19-vaccine-dose-well-protected-divert-their-second-dose-aig-researchers-996408.html
11-06-2021||South||How Kerala attained overutilisation of Covid vaccine||Kerala's health care sector made another remarkable achievement in Covid management by not only avoiding vaccines wastage but also achieving overutilisation. This was possible due to the expertise of nurses who administer the jabs and meticulous planning and coordination at the grassroot level. Considering the possibility of wastage, each vial contains a little bit more than the mentioned quantity. Excess quantity from each vial helped in vaccinating more persons, thereby helping the state negate waste and achieve overutilisation. As per government data, Kerala and West Bengal recorded negative wastage of Covid-19 vaccines in May, saving 1.10 lakh and 1.61 lakh doses respectively. While Kerala reported -6.37 per cent vaccine wastage, West Bengal recorded -5.48 per cent. So far, 86.21 lakh people in Kerala were vaccinated, of which 21.97 lakh have received the second dose as well. Kerala government attributes maximum utilisation vaccines to meticulous planning. Each vial of vaccine is opened only after ensuring that there are adequate takers as the vaccine is to be utilised within four hours of opening the vial. The vaccination centers and the ASHA staff work in coordination so that in case of a shortage for one or two beneficiaries towards the end of a day, they can arrange doses. Health department sources said that public cooperation was also a key factor in attaining zero wastage. If the number of beneficiaries at the end of a day is low, health workers advise them to come back the next day to avoid wastage. Kerala Health department nodal officer Dr Amar Fettle said that nurses in Kerala were being given training constantly in vaccinations and hence, they could ensure that the correct quantity of vaccine was used. Kerala had attained 100 per cent vaccine utilisation in earlier instances of the H1N1 vaccination drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/how-kerala-attained-overutilisation-of-covid-vaccine-996415.html
11-06-2021||State||Karnataka reports 8,249 new Covid-19 cases and 159 deaths; positivity rate at less than 5%||Karnataka recorded less than five per cent Covid-19 positivity rate on Friday, as the state reported 8,249 new cases and 159 fatalities, taking the tally to 27.47 lakh and the toll to 32,644 The day also saw 14,975 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases. Out of 8,249 new cases reported on Friday, 1,154 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 4,769 discharges and 48 deaths. Cumulatively 27,47,539 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 32,644 deaths and 25,11,105 discharges, the Health department said in a bulletin. The total number of active cases is 2,03,769. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 4.86 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 1.92 per cent. Out of 159 deaths reported on Friday, 48 were from Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru (20), Haveri (10), Ballari and Dharwad (9), Shivamogga (7), followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 1,154, Mysuru 817, Hassan 733, Tumakuru 576, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district headed the list of positive cases, with a total of 11,92,886, followed by Mysuru 1,56,063 and Tumakuru 1,11,063. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 10,85,862, followed by Mysuru 1,39,856 and Tumakuru 1,00,777. Cumulatively a total of 3,13,63,615 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,69,695 were tested on Friday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-8249-new-covid-19-cases-and-159-deaths-positivity-rate-at-less-than-5-996433.html
11-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka tops in access to higher education||Karnataka has the maximum number of colleges — 59 per lakh of the population eligible for higher education and ranks third in the country with 4,047 colleges across the state. According to the All India Survey on Higher Education (AISHE) 2019-20, Bengaluru Urban with 1,009 colleges takes the top rank in the list of districts with the maximum number of colleges followed by Jaipur, which is a distant second with 606 colleges. The survey, released on Thursday by Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, also revealed that of the 1,043 universities, 42,343 colleges and 11,779 standalone institutions listed on the AISHE portal, 32.6% colleges, run only a single programme, out of which 84.1% are privately managed. The majority of the colleges are smaller in terms of enrollment of students as 16.6% of colleges have less than 100 students and 48.9% of colleges have student strength of 100 to 500. “Only 4% of colleges have an enrollment more than 3,000,” the survey said. The survey noted that only 2.7% of the colleges offer PhD programmes and 35.04% of colleges run postgraduate (PG) level courses. At the PhD level, the maximum numbers of students are enrolled in engineering and technology stream followed by science. The engineering and technology stream is divided into 19 sub-streams with a total number of 52,478 students enrolled for PhD and 1.77 lakh students at PG level. Computer engineering has the highest number of 7,682 students enrolled for PhD with 57.7% male students. Mechanical engineering is the second-highest, having 6,714 students with 91.2% male students. According to the survey, there has been a growth of 11.4% in student enrollment. “Total enrollment in higher education has been estimated to be 38.5 million with 19.6 million boys and 18.9 million females. Women constitute 49% of the total enrollment,” it said. The Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) in Higher education in India is 27.1, which is calculated for 18-23 years of age group. GER for male population is 26.9 and for females, it is 27.3. For Scheduled Castes, it is 23.4 and for Scheduled Tribes, it is 18.0 as compared to the national GER of 27.1. Gender Parity Index (GPI) in higher education in 2019-20 is 1.01 against 1.00 in 2018-19 indicating an improvement in the relative access to higher education for females of eligible age group compared to males, the survey said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-tops-in-access-to-higher-education-996158.html
11-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka will get adequate Covid-19 vaccines in two days: Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa stated that Karnataka will receive an adequate number of Covid-19 vaccines in two days so that eligible beneficiaries can take the vaccine. He was speaking at the taluk tri-monthly Karnataka Development Programme meeting in Shikaripur town on Friday. He said that deputy commissioners have been directed to take all possible to reduce the Covid-19 positivity rate to 5%. "The officials concerned must take all measures to reduce the number of Covid-19 cases in the district," he said.  He said the government is transferring financial aid directly to bank accounts of people who are in crisis due to lockdown enforced to contain the spread of Covid-19. But banks should not use lockdown compensation towards loan dues under any circumstance.  He also warned that the government would initiate disciplinary action against bankers without fail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-will-get-adequate-covid-19-vaccines-in-two-days-chief-minister-b-s-yediyurappa-996374.html
11-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 crisis: How the vaccination drive is progressing in Karnataka districts||Karnataka is all set to ease lockdown measures in 19 out of 30 districts starting next week as Covid-19 numbers decline in the state. However, with the state’s overall test positivity rate still slightly above the 5 per cent mark, lockdown measures will remain in place in 11 districts and the focus will be on vaccination. The state has so far vaccinated close to 18.5 per cent of its entire population, compared with the national average of 14.9 per cent. However, given Bengaluru Urban’s massive population, it has so far lagged in terms of vaccination, languishing at a mere 3.5 per cent. Active cases in the district stand at 95,424, while its cumulative case fatality rate — the ratio of deaths to cases — is still quite high at 1.3 per cent. Kalaburagi and Ballari are the second and third-worst performers in terms of vaccination, having inoculated only 5.8 per cent and 7.1 per cent respectively. Both of these districts will begin relaxing lockdown measures starting June 14, though they do have comparatively lower active cases-to-population ratio. On the other hand, Belagavi is miles ahead of others when it comes to the dosage rate and has vaccinated more than two-thirds of its population, while Bengaluru Rural has covered more than 57 per cent of its population with at least one dose, but both districts will remain under lockdown for at least another week. Meanwhile, Haveri has vaccinated more than 21 per cent of its population, but still has a worrisome overall death rate of 2.5 per cent, which is the highest in the state. Mysuru, Mandya and Chikkamagaluru have also inoculated more than 20 per cent of their citizens, but will stay under lockdown as active cases stay high. Hassan and Shivamogga have vaccinated 16 per cent and 18.6 per cent of their populations, respectively, but are still quite high on the case fatality and active cases charts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-crisis-how-the-vaccination-drive-is-progressing-in-karnataka-districts-996391.html
11-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Noted Kannada poet Siddalingaiah passes away at 67||Noted Kannada poet Siddalingaiah passes away on Friday due to Covid-19 related ailments, sources close to him said. Popularly known as "Dalita Kavi" (Dalit Poet), he was 67. He is survived by wife, a son, and a daughter. According to the sources, he was admitted to a private hospital for over a month and had been on ventilator support for some time now. His wife too was infected by Covid-19 and has recovered. Siddalingaiah was poet, playwright, essayist and a Dalit activist, and was one of the founders of the Dalita Sangharsh Samiti. His notable works include Holemadigara Haadu, Saaviraaru Nadigalu, Kappu Kaadina Haadu and Meravanige, among others. He had written plays like Panchama, Ekalavya, and one of his popular essays was Gramadevathegalu. Several of his works have been translated into English and other languages and his Ooru Keri, an autobiography, had won him the Sahitya Akademi Award. Siddalingaiah is also a recipient of the Pampa Award, the highest literary award in Kannada, presented by the State government, Nadoja Award by Hampi University and Rajyostava Award, among others. He had also chaired the 81st Kannada Sahitya Sammelana (a premier gathering of Kannada literature) held in Shravanabelagola. He had also served as the member of the Karnataka Legislative Council and Chairman of the Kannada Development Authority, a post with Cabinet rank, and had taught Kannada at Bangalore University. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has condoled the death of Siddalingaiah. "In his death, we have lost a great writer with social concern, who strove for the upliftment of the depressed classes," the Chief Minister said in his condolence message. Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda, several of Yediyurappa's Cabinet colleagues and Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy, among others, have expressed grief over Siddalingaiah's death.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi also condoled his demise on Twitter. "Dr. Siddalingaiah will be remembered for his prolific writings, poetry, and contributions towards social justice. Saddened by his passing away. My thoughts are with his family and many admirers in this hour of sadness. Om Shanti," he tweeted. Dr. Siddalingaiah will be remembered for his prolific writings, poetry and contributions towards social justice. Saddened by his passing away. My thoughts are with his family and many admirers in this hour of sadness. Om Shanti.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/noted-kannada-poet-siddalingaiah-passes-away-at-67-996401.html
11-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Now, II PUC repeaters also want department to declare them 'all pass' them without exams||The Department of Pre-University Education (DPUE), which had recently announced promoting regular/fresher students of II PU, is now contemplating passing repeaters, who had registered for the 2021 examinations. Repeaters are the candidates who had failed to clear the II PU board examination in the previous years. The department had recently announced that repeaters and private candidates will have to take examination after the Covid situation is eased. Repeaters have questioned the department's move on holding the examinations for them while promoting the freshers.  According to officials, they were flooded with calls from repeaters and their parents. "The students and parents started calling on our mobile numbers. Some even threatened to commit suicide. It was not an easy job to convince students at this stage and we brought it to the notice of the higher ups," said an official from the department. The candidates even expressed their anxiety of appearing for the examinations at this stage when all other students are declared pass. "The contention of the repeater students is that a majority of them were of 2020 batch and had appeared for the examinations last year. They deserve to be promoted," added official. As per the information available from the department, around 76,000 candidates have registered as repeaters for the 2021 examination. This apart, around 17,000 people have registered as private candidates.  Meanwhile, the department has already announced that 5.86 lakh candidates who have registered as freshers are deemed as pass candidates for the 2020-2021 academic year.    A senior official in the department said even among the 76,000 candidates who had registered as repeaters, there were different categories. "There are candidates who had failed three years ago. Also, there are those who were unable to clear the exams last year. We are still discussing whether to pass all repeaters or consider only those who had written and failed last year."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/now-ii-puc-repeaters-also-want-department-to-declare-them-all-pass-them-without-exams-996469.html
11-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Pandemic-hit RTCs in Karnataka seek 10-15% fare hike||A proposal to hike RTC bus fare by 10 to 15 per cent is before the state government, KSRTC managing director Shivayogi Kalasad said on Friday. “All four RTCs are under financial distress due to the Covid-induced lockdown. The RTCs are incurring a revenue loss of Rs 20 crore a day. The corporations need Rs 300 crore to pay their 1.15 lakh-strong staff every month. The employees are being paid with financial assistance from the state government. The corporations can overcome losses if the bus fare is hiked by 50 per cent,” Kalasad told reporters. Replying to a specific query, the KSRTC MD said the corporations would start operating the buses based on demand, only if the government gives its nod. In the initial phase, bus will be operated within districts, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pandemic-hit-rtcs-in-karnataka-seek-10-15-fare-hike-996474.html
11-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Fill up vacancies in prison hospitals: Karnataka HC tells state government||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the state government to fill up within three months all sanctioned posts of medical and paramedical staff in prisons across the state. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka passed this order after going through a statement submitted by the state government. In the statement, the government had requested the court to grant three months to respond to the issue of vacancies. Presently 86 out of 114 posts of medical officers/psychiatrists/pharmacists are vacant, including all 7 posts of Chief Medical Officer (CMO) in prison hospitals. Meanwhile, the court has asked the respective district legal services authorities to conduct surprise inspections of prisons in the districts to ascertain the facilities at visitors’ rooms. The district legal services authorities have been asked to ascertain whether the visitors can see and also properly hear the prisoners during the visitation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fill-up-vacancies-in-prison-hospitals-karnataka-hc-tells-state-government-996476.html
11-06-2021||West||2022 Assembly polls: BL Santosh, CT Ravi arrive in Goa to meet party leaders, MLAs||The BJP kick-started its poll preparations on Thursday, with the party's two top officials, national general secretary (organisation) BL Santosh and national general secretary and Goa desk in-charge CT Ravi, conducting one-on-one meetings with all MLAs and senior party officials in the state. Both the BJP leaders arrived in Goa late on Wednesday. "Our preparations for the assembly elections have started," Chief Minister Pramod Sawant told reporters before his meeting with the central duo in Panaji. Both central leaders conducted one-on-one meetings with all party legislators and are scheduled to meet the core committee of the state BJP later on Thursday. Elections to the state Legislative Assembly are scheduled to be held in early 2022. CT Ravi, who briefly interacted with media persons on Thursday however claimed that the BJP does not focus on elections alone when asked about the party's plans ahead of the 2022 polls. "The BJP is not just there for elections. We also work under the motto of 'Sewa hi Sangathan'. There are other parties who work only for elections. We do not do that. This party is for the people," Ravi said. The two party leaders also conducted a review of development works carried out in the constituencies of individual MLAs, a party legislator said. According to state Bharatiya Janata Party president Sadanand Shet Tanavade, the two central leaders also conducted a review of the Goa BJP's works carried out under the 'Seva hi Sangathan' programme. "BL Santosh reviewed the party's performance under the 'Seva hi Sanghatan' programme for Covid management. He assessed how we performed as a party and reached out to help people (during the Covid pandemic)," Tanavade told reporters. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/2022-assembly-polls-bl-santosh-ct-ravi-arrive-in-goa-to-meet-party-leaders-mlas-996167.html
11-06-2021||West||Navi Mumbai airport to be named after Bal Thackeray||The Navi Mumbai International Airport will be named after Shiv Sena founder late Bal Thackeray, the father of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, it was announced on Thursday. The airport, coming up in neighbouring Navi Mumbai, is expected to relieve the pressure on the Mumbai international airport. Some local politicians had demanded that the new airport be named for farmer leader late D B Patil. Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde, who made the announcement, said the chief minister has assured the DB Patil Action Samiti, which is raising this demand, that some other project will be named after the farmer leader. "We have a lot of respect for D B Patil. The chief minister has requested the action committee to recommend any other project (to be named after Patil)," said Shinde, a senior Shiv Sena leader. "One meeting has taken place (with the committee) and one more will take place. A positive outcome is expected," he said. CIDCO, the state-run planning agency which is executing the greenfield airport project, proposed that it be named after Bal Thackeray, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/navi-mumbai-airport-to-be-named-after-bal-thackeray-996191.html
11-06-2021||West||IIT Bombay roped in by Railways||As monsoon continues to throw up challenges to Mumbai's commuters, the Indian Railways has decided to rope in technical institutions like IIT Bombay to come out with solutions. At a review meeting, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, who hails from Mumbai, advised the Railways to partner with institutions like IIT Bombay to study the efficiency of technical and civil work initiatives in handling monsoon rains. The suburban railway network of Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) spread in the Mumbai metropolitan region is considered the lifeline of India’s financial capital. “Innovation and hard work must go together to ensure that railway services continue to operate safely and in an uninterrupted manner,” he said. The development assumes significance in the wake of Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar’s statement that the railways was not cooperating with the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation in cleaning the tracks – a statement which was immediately refuted by CR and WR administrations. The Minister examined the current status of vulnerable areas and reviewed plans for the smooth functioning of trains. Goyal said that Railways is committed to ensuring that no inconvenience is caused to Mumbaikars as monsoon begins. It may be noted that even during the Covid-19 pandemic, Railways had undertaken a major exercise for the cleaning of muck/garbage/earth of 3,60,000 cu meters from suburban section by deploying six muck special trains including specially modified EMU rakes in Mumbai. Flooding spots of the previous monsoon were identified and customised solutions were devised for each spot like Bandra, Andheri, Mahim, Grant Road, Goregaon, Sandhurst Road and Kurla. In order to have real-time and authentic rain data, four numbers of an Automatic Rain Gauge (ARG) have now been installed, in association with IMD, and 10 numbers installed by WR independently. The number of pumps provided on track and depots including sewerage and submersible pumps has been increased by 33%. Drones were used for survey and monitoring of cleaning of nallah in Borivali, Virar, etc. and section, and suction/desludging machines were used to ensure deep cleaning of culverts. Adoption of a new micro tunneling method for the construction of culverts was taken up to ensure that waterlogging is minimised. The Minister has also instructed officials to coordinate with municipal corporations to check the dumping of garbage on tracks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/iit-bombay-roped-in-by-railways-996255.html
11-06-2021||West||Mahrashtra's Latur civic body to prioritise Covid vaccination of auto drivers, grocery shop owners||The civic body in Maharashtra’s Latur city has declared auto-rickshaw drivers, grocery and medical shop owners, newspaper vendors and bank employees as frontline workers, and decided to vaccinate them on priority, an official said. During the coronavirus-induced lockdown, auto drivers, bank employees, medical and grocery shop owners, newspaper distributors worked without a break. They come in contact with many people. Therefore, the Latur Municipal Corporation (LMC) has declared them as frontline workers, the official said in a statement issued on Thursday. The civic body has now decided to undertake their vaccination, the official added. These people have been asked to obtain a certificate from their associations or offices and get their vaccination done at five designated centres in Latur city. The Covid-19 case count in Latur district reached 89,731 on Thursday evening with the addition of 59 cases, while the death toll has gone up to 2,323. There are 785 active cases at present, another official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mahrashtras-latur-civic-body-to-prioritise-covid-vaccination-of-auto-drivers-grocery-shop-owners-996256.html
11-06-2021||West||IIT Bombay launches its new Centre for Digital Health||In a significant initiative, the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay has launched its new Centre for Digital Heath – the first-of-its-kind in India. The ‘Koita Centre for Digital Health’ (KCDH) was launched with a generous contribution received from its alumni Rekha and Rizwan Koita, under the aegis of the Koita Foundation. KCDH will be the first of its kind in India, focussed on driving academic programmes, research and industry collaboration in Digital Health. Improving the quality, accessibility and affordability of healthcare is one of the world’s biggest priorities. Digital Health, including healthcare informatics, has a profound impact on the quality of care and efficiency of healthcare delivery. Consequently, there is substantial focus globally on enhancing Digital Health and Informatics. In India too, the launch of the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) in 2020 is expected to drive Digital Health adoption at a national scale. KCDH’s academic and research focus areas include clinical applications (including electronic patient records and medical imaging), healthcare data management (including healthcare data privacy and security), healthcare analytics, healthcare AI /ML, consumer health, public health and public policy. KCDH will offer minor, dual degree, Masters and Ph D programmes in Healthcare Informatics. KCDH will conduct industry/outreach programmes for healthcare and industry professionals in Digital Health and enable them to act as force-multipliers. Digital Health and Informatics need cross-functional expertise – computer science, statistics, AI/ machine learning, bioinformatics, and medicine. KCDH will foster strong collaboration with Digital Health partners - hospitals, medical research institutes, industry. KCDH and its Digital Health partners will establish joint academic and research programmes. In addition, KCDH will actively collaborate with healthcare technology companies, healthcare NGOs and government organisations. “The centre will enable an ecosystem that can help address the healthcare challenges that have been so glaringly exposed by the Covid-19 pandemic. Digital Health and Informatics need cross-functional expertise,” said Prof Subhasis Chaudhuri, Director, IIT Bombay. “Digital Health is critical to improve healthcare at scale. We are delighted to support IIT Bombay in establishing the centre, which can play a pivotal role in improving healthcare in India and across the world,” added Rizwan Koita, Founder Koita Foundation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/iit-bombay-launches-its-new-centre-for-digital-health-996375.html
11-06-2021||West||Respite for Mumbai after two days of incessant rains||After two days of continuous showers, the residents of Mumbai got some respite on Friday morning as rains took a break in the city and its suburbs, civic officials said. The transport services in the city, including the suburban trains and buses, are running as per their normal schedule, they said. The south-west monsoon had arrived in the city with a bang on Wednesday as heavy rains caused flooding on roads and rail tracks, disrupting suburban train services. The first rains of this year's monsoon season in Mumbai had also caused water-logging in various parts of the city on that day. In the last 24-hours, the eastern suburbs of Mumbai received 51.76 mm rainfall, followed by 43.42 mm in the island city and 34.33 mm in its western suburbs, an official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. Another official said that after two days of continuous rain, showers have stopped in the city and suburbs since around 9 am and the citizens also got to see sunlight. On Wednesday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued an "orange alert" for Mumbai, predicting "heavy to very heavy rain" at isolated places till Sunday. The civic administration was on its toes as a high tide of 4.34 metres was expected at around 12.54 pm on Friday. But as the rain has stopped, they have heaved a sigh of relief. At least 12 people, including eight children, were killed and seven others injured after two floors of a three-storey residential building collapsed on an adjoining single-storey house in Malwani in suburban Mumbai around 11.15 pm on Wednesday, when Mumbai experienced heavy rains throughout the day. Besides, one person died in a separate incident of house crash on Thursday evening at Dahisar, a western suburb of Mumbai, civic officials said. Meanwhile, chief spokesperson of Western Railway, Sumit Thakur, said, "Trains are running normally on Western Railway's suburban section on Friday." Central Railway's chief spokesperson Shivaji Sutar said that suburban services on the main line were affected briefly between Thane-Mulund around 9.30 pm due to track fracture, but it had nothing to do with rain. According to BMC officials, the IMD has predicted "moderate rainfall in the city and suburbs with possibility of heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places" for the next 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/respite-for-mumbai-after-two-days-of-incessant-rains-996295.html
11-06-2021||West||Over 100 Congress leaders, workers detained in Gujarat for protests on fuel prices||More than 100 Congress workers, MLAs and leaders were detained in different parts of Gujarat on Friday for staging without police permission protests against the central government over the rise in fuel prices, an official said. Leaders and workers of the Gujarat Congress staged demonstrations in Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Rajkot, Bharuch, Palanpur and Vadodara as part of a nationwide call given by the party high command to protest against the high petrol and diesel prices. While the party's state president Amit Chavda led the agitation in Gandhinagar, former state unit chief Bharatsinh Solanki took part in the party's protest in Vadodara, where workers pulled a car using ropes. In Ahmedabad, senior MLA and deputy Leader of Opposition Shailesh Parmar led the agitation. According to the police, more than 100 Congress workers in different cities have been detained for staging protests without permission. Chavda and 40 other agitators were detained from their protest venue near Satyagrah Chhavni ground in Gandhinagar, deputy superintendent of police, Gandhinagar, M K Rana said. "We have detained around 40 Congress workers, including Amit Chavda and Gandhinagar legislator C J Chavda, for organising the programme without police permission and that too amid the coronavirus pandemic," Rana said, adding that a decision to release the workers will be taken soon by senior officials. In Vadodara, the police detained Solanki and 20 other Congress workers for a brief period, and similar detentions took place in other parts of the state, an official said, adding that 20 workers were detained in Rajkot city. Talking to reporters before his detention, MLA Parmar said that petrol and diesel prices had been increasing constantly after the BJP came to power at the Centre in 2014. "On the one hand, the fuel prices are increasing, on the other hand, people are losing jobs and there is high inflation. The BJP government isn't doing anything to give respite to people. We want the government to either reduce the excise duty on fuel or bring it under the GST, so that the prices come down," Parmar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-100-congress-leaders-workers-detained-in-gujarat-for-protests-on-fuel-prices-996302.html
11-06-2021||West||Rajasthan Congress MLA Hemaram Choudhary meets Sachin Pilot||Congress MLA Hemaram Choudhary, who had sent his resignation to the Rajasthan assembly speaker, met former deputy CM Sachin Pilot at the latter’s residence here on Friday. The MLA from Barmer's Gudhamalani constituency was among 19 legislators who had rebelled against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot under Pilot’s leadership last year. Choudhary, considered close to Pilot, said he has listened to his heart and decided to resign. “I resigned after listening to my heart. People may appeal to me to withdraw the decision, but it is for me to decide,” he told reporters. It was his first visit to Jaipur after sending his resignation letter to assembly Speaker C P Joshi on May 18. Choudhary had said that he was anguished over some issues, therefore, sent the resignation letter. He is said to be dissatisfied with the Ashok Gehlot government over the alleged stoppage of the developmental work in his constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-congress-mla-hemaram-choudhary-meets-sachin-pilot-996329.html
11-06-2021||West||Cong protests across Rajasthan against fuel price hike, inflation||The Congress Friday held demonstrations across Rajasthan against the fuel price hike and inflation, which the opposition BJP termed a 'drama'. Congress leaders and workers held symbolic protests outside petrol pumps and demanded the centre curb inflation. The main protest was held outside a petrol pump near civil lines on the Ajmer Road which was attended among others by state Congress chief Govind Sigh Dotasra, Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas and Energy Minister BD Kalla. Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot staged a dharna outside a petrol pump in Sanganer area. They held placards with slogans like 'GDP Patal Me, Mahangai Aasman me (GDP in the abyss, inflation sky high)', 'Modi Matlab Mahangai (Modi means inflation)', 'Modi Hai to Mehangai Hai (Where there is Modi, there is inflation)'. The Congress leaders said that constantly rising prices of petrol, diesel and LPG gas, skyrocketing inflation has made the life of people miserable, but the central government is "not bothered". "The Modi government has been ruling the country for seven years but it has forgotten the real issues. People are suffering due to rising inflation and unemployment," Dotasra said. "Petrol prices have crossed Rs 100 while the rate of LPG cylinder has gone beyond Rs. 800. The Modi government has failed on all fronts, be it coronavirus management or controlling inflation," he told reporters after the protest. He also tweeted alleging that the government was looting the public through "Modi-Tax" on petrol and diesel. During the protest at Sanganer, Sachin Pilot said that the country has been hit hard by an economic slowdown, inflation and unemployment during the pandemic. "People lost jobs and labourers are not getting wages. It is very sad that lakhs of people died. Dead bodies were seen in rivers and every family struggled with coronavirus. In such a situation, the government is not taking any step to control inflation and is also increasing fuel prices," he said. On the government's recent announcement to give coronavirus jabs free to those above 18, he said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had to change the vaccination policy under pressure from Congress. Similarly, Congress and other Opposition parties will be successful in pressuring the Centre on the issue of inflation and fuel prices hike as well, he said. Protests were held across the state. The BJP called the protest a "drama" and demanded the Congress government in the state to reduce VAT on petrol. Leader of Opposition Gulabchand Kataria said that Rajasthan levies the highest VAT on petrol and diesel in the country. "The Rajasthan Congress is indulging in a drama on petrol and inflation in districts but the highest VAT on petrol and diesel in the country is in Rajasthan. There is 36 percent VAT on petrol and 26 percent on diesel in the state," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cong-protests-across-rajasthan-against-fuel-price-hike-inflation-996354.html
11-06-2021||West||Covid-19: Kolhapur’s positivity rate, oxygen bed occupancy highest in Maharashtra||Maharashtra health department on Friday released the figures related to the weekly Covid-19 positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy of the administrative units in the state, and directed the local administrations to decide on the level of restrictions to be imposed in those areas. As per the data, the positivity rate of Kolhapur is 15.85 per cent and its oxygen bed occupancy is 67.41 per cent. Both these figures are the highest in the state. Gondia recorded the lowest positivity rate of 0.83 per cent, while Wardha recorded the lowest bed occupancy level of 1.57 per cent. On June 4, the state government had notified five levels of restrictions to be imposed in various administrative units of the state as per the Covid-19 positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy. Under the new rules, the health department will declare the positivity rate and the percentage of oxygen beds that are occupied for each district on every Thursday. As per the data, the number of oxygen beds occupied across the state as on June 10 was 20,697. The state’s weekly positivity rate is 5.81 per cent. The state's oxygen bed occupancy is 16.94 per cent.  Based on the numbers, the level of restrictions will be imposed by the district administrations from June 14. From June 4 to 10, a total of 17,97,920 people were tested in the state and the positive cases found during this period were 1,04,534. Mumbai's positivity rate is 4.40 and 27.12 per cent is the oxygen bed occupancy. The oxygen bed occupancy in Sindhudurg is 51.59 per cent, Ratnagiri 48.75 per cent and Satara is 41.06 per cent, The positivity rate in Ratnagiri is 14.12 per cent, Raigad 13.33 per cent, Sindhdurg 11.8 percent, Satara 11.3 per cent and Pune 11.11 per cent, it said. As per the last week’s notification, areas with infection positivity rate of five per cent or less and oxygen bed occupancy of less than 25 per cent will be in the first category, and can open up completely, whereas in the fifth category areas, with positivity rate of more than 20 per cent, only essential shops will remain open and office attendance will be capped at 15 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-kolhapur-s-positivity-rate-oxygen-bed-occupancy-highest-in-maharashtra-996366.html
11-06-2021||West||Maharashtra's Covid-19 death toll mounts by 2,619||Maharashtra reported 2,619 more Covid-19 deaths on Friday with the state reconciling and updating figures in the Covid-19 portal. In the last 24 hours, the state reported 11,766 cases and 406 deaths. Besides, 2,213 deaths were added to the state's progressive death tally. Out of the 2,213 deaths, 546 occurred in Pune, 398 in Thane, 291 in Ahmednagar, 194 in Nashik, 160 in Nagpur, 129 in Beed, 53 in Satara, 49 in Chandrapur, 46 in Buldhana, 45 in Nanded, 40 in Palghar, 39 in Sangli, 34 in Jalna, 28 in Ratnagiri, 25 in Yavatmal, 20 in Latur, 18 in Nandurbar, 14 in Raigad, 11 in Bhandara, 10 in Akola, 10 in Parbhani, 8 in Gondia, 6 in Dhule, 6 in Jalgaon, 5 in Aurangabad, 5 in Hingoli, 5 in Osmanabad, 5 in Sindhudurg, 5 in Solapur, 4 in Kolhapur, 2 in Amravati and 2 in Gadchiroli.  “In the process of updating figures as per the portal, all these deaths have been reported on Friday. This report is prepared based on figures provided by the authorised laboratories on Central Government’s Covid-19 portal. Because the laboratory reports scrutiny and the availability of figures accordingly is an ongoing process, state cumulative numbers are subject to change,” the Public Health Department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-covid-19-death-toll-mounts-by-2619-996466.html
11-06-2021||West||More Pilot loyalists come out in open, spell trouble for Congress in Rajasthan||A day after a group of Congress MLAs met Sachin Pilot, another party legislator on Friday expressed support for the dissident leader as trouble brewed again in Rajasthan’s ruling party. Pilot, however, brushed aside speculation that he is switching to the BJP, like Jitin Prasada who quit the Congress two days back. In Dausa, Todabhim MLA P R Meena said the party’s central leadership should address the issues raised by Pilot, who led a rebellion last year against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. An All India Congress Committee (AICC) panel formed then to sort out differences between Gehlot and the Pilot camp is yet to come up with a solution. Also during the day, Congress MLA Hemaram Choudhary, who sent his resignation to the Assembly Speaker recently, met Pilot at his Jaipur home. Like Meena, he is considered a part of the Pilot faction in the state Congress. Pilot, who was sacked as the deputy chief minister and the state’s Congress chief after his rebellion, dismissed suggestions that he is headed for the Bharatiya Janata Party. He rejected a claim made on a television show by BJP leader Rita Bahuguna Joshi that she had spoken to him about the possibility. “Rita Bahuguna Joshi said she spoke to Sachin. She might have spoken to Sachin Tendulkar (the cricketer). She doesn’t have the courage to speak to me,” the Congress leader told reporters in Jaipur during his party’s protest over fuel prices. Earlier in the day, he visited Bhandana village in Dausa where he offered flowers at the memorial to his father and former Union minister Rajesh Pilot on his death anniversary. Pilot loyalist Meena called for an expansion of the Gehlot ministry. “The party high command should take a decision at the earliest because everyone is waiting,” he said. Meena had recently issued a statement praising Gehlot for fulfilling the demands from his constituency and on the his government’s management of the Covid crisis. He said it was his duty to appreciate the work done by the CM but he stands with the younger leader. “I was with Pilot, I am with Pilot and will remain with him,” the MLA told reporters. Congress MLA Hemaram Choudhary met Pilot in Jaipur on Friday morning, his first public visit to the state capital after sending in his resignation to Speaker P C Joshi on May 18. “I resigned after listening to my heart. People may appeal to me to withdraw the decision but it is for me to decide,” he told reporters. Choudhary said he sent the resignation letter as he was anguished over some issues. Party sources said Pilot left for Delhi after taking part in the Congress dharna outside a petrol pump in Sanganer area in Jaipur. Other senior party leaders were present at the state-level protest held outside a petrol pump near Civil Lines on Ajmer road. On Thursday, at least five Congress leaders had met Pilot at his Jaipur home. Former minister Vishvendra Singh held a one-on-one meeting with him. Later, Ved Prakash Solanki, Mukesh Bhakar, Ramniwas Gawria and Rakesh Pareek reached his residence. They questioned the “delay” in cabinet expansion and political appointments by Gehlot. The Pilot faction MLAs said they will fight within Congress. "All of us are raising our voice for the strength of the party. Those who question our allegiance to the Congress are not well-wishers of the party," Chaksu MLA Solanki had said after meeting Pilot. He said the Congress high command should listen to Pilot and resolve the issues raised by him. "There has been no discussion or hearings on the demands raised by us," the MLA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/more-pilot-loyalists-come-out-in-open-spell-trouble-for-congress-in-rajasthan-996484.html
