12-06-2021||Comment||Battle with BJP helps a dynast in Bengal earn his stripes ||A new star is born in Bengal. Abhishek Banerjee. He was around from 2014 when he won the Lok Sabha election from the Diamond Harbour constituency. But the recent Assembly elections have helped the 33-year old come out of the shell of a low-key background player. Abhishek Banerjee has metamorphosed himself to rise to the top during and after the recent Assembly elections in Bengal. Ironically, the credit for this goes to Trinamool Congress's political bête noire, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The BJP's top leadership felt that to go for the kill in Bengal, they must harp on the corruption charges against Abhishek Banerjee centring on the cattle smuggling and coal smuggling scams.  They dragged Mamata Banerjee in it by depicting her as the aunt playing the role of protector to her nephew. Probably bhaipo/bhatija (nephew) was the most used catchphrase in the BJP's campaign. But it did not stick. Nearly 48 per cent of the voters of Bengal discarded the charge as a political gimmick. As Abhishek Banerjee came out unscathed from this onslaught by Narendra Modi, Amit Shah and JP Nadda, he became a hero for the TMC workers. After all, at 66-year-old party chief Mamata Banerjee is not young anymore, and the responsibility of leading the party will have to be shouldered by someone else in the years to come. Abhishek was the chosen one for this role even before May 2, the day election results were announced. But on May 2, he earned the crown of being the bona fide second-in-command of the TMC. From then, in the last few weeks, Abhishek Banerjee's rise has been phenomenal. He had a significant say in ticket distribution and finalising electoral strategy along with political strategist Prashant Kishor. It was Abhishek Banerjee who decided to hire Kishor after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.  Ultimately, the results vindicated his decision. Programmes the party undertook at Kishor's instance - like 'return the cut money', 'didi ke bolo' and 'duare sarkar' - worked a miracle. After the election, Mamata Banerjee herself gave Abhishek Banerjee the credit of winning this tough battle. This credit was well earned. Consequently, the chief of the party's youth wing, Abhishek Banerjee, is now promoted to the party's national general secretary. On his part, he has said he would not take any ministerial berth in the state in the next 20 years, signalling that he will first establish himself as the leader of the party before taking the reins of the government. Since May 2, Abhishek Banerjee has spearheaded the political campaign too. He knows that the primary criticism against him is that he is a dynast. In Bengal, political dynasties have flourished only as exceptions, and at best at the district level, like in Malda (ABA Ghani Khan Chowdhury's family) or Medinipur (the Adhikari family). Suvendu Adhikari is a rare leader in Bengal who has inherited a political legacy at the state level. And he has decided to take the challenge head-on.  Abhishek Banerjee recently first dared the BJP enact a law at the national level that no family can have a second person in politics. Then he made it a sharper political weapon claiming 'dynasty is better than nasty'. At the same time, he showed excellent political maturity when he recently virtually went against his aunt to stop the political agitation after two ministers of Bengal — Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim — were arrested and charge-sheeted by the CBI in the Narada case. Mamata Banerjee went to the CBI office and staged a dharna, declaring the investigative agency had to arrest her too. Hundreds of her supporters who gathered outside the CBI office pelted stones at the paramilitary jawans. The situation could have led to a constitutional crisis. But in the nick of time, Abhishek Banerjee tweeted to instruct TMC supporters in unequivocal terms that they would have to be calm and abide by Covid-19 restrictions while the party would fight the legal battle in the court of law.  Within a couple of hours, the whole area turned quiet. The CBI later charged the chief minister with violating the rule of law and got a go-ahead from the Supreme Court to take action against her. According to reports, in an affidavit on behalf of the CM, she claimed that she went to the CBI office to meet Subrata Mukherjee and not stage a dharna. However, Abhishek Banerjee, with his tweet, opened the escape route she is now trying to take. Abhishek Banerjee has come out of the shell of being just a nephew of an influential aunt. He has now joined the league of N Chandrababu Naidu, MK Stalin, Akhilesh Yadav and Tejaswi Yadav, all second-generation leaders of different regional parties who have inherited the legacy of their respective families. (Diptendra Raychaudhuri is a Kolkata-based journalist and author of the detective novel ‘Mirchi Memsaab’s House of Faith’) (Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors’ own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/battle-with-bjp-helps-a-dynast-in-bengal-earn-his-stripes-996595.html
12-06-2021||First Edit||Wrong choice||The appointment of former Supreme Court judge Arun Mishra as chairman of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has invited much criticism. Mishra, who retired last year, has been a controversial judge and is known for some judgements that were not exactly examples of upholding human rights. Earlier, only a retired Chief Justice of India (CJI) could hold the position of the NHRC chairman. But the law was amended in 2019 to make former SC judges also eligible for it. But sympathy and support for the idea of human rights should be the first requirement for a person holding the position. A former director of the Intelligence Bureau (IB), Rajiv Jain, who has no human rights credentials, has also been appointed as a member of the NHRC. These appointments show the government’s attitude toward the Commission and what it expects from it. Mishra has pronounced a number of judgements that make him a wrong choice to head the NHRC. In 2019, he ordered the eviction of a million families of tribals and foresters from their age-old dwelling places. A Supreme Court lawyer had recounted how a man had to literally drag his physically challenged father along the court hall to the podium after the judge insisted that he get up from his wheelchair and walk to it. A number of persons, including members of human rights organisations, have called Mishra’s appointment “one more deliberate blow by the central government to the Constitution, rule of law and human rights.’’ Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjuna Kharge, who was on the selection panel, disagreed with the selection of Mishra and sought the appointment of a person from the marginalised communities, as most victims of human rights abuses belong to those communities.  It may be recalled that Mishra had praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi as an "internationally acclaimed visionary" and a "versatile genius.’’ Open praise of the Prime Minister by a sitting judge was improper and inappropriate. Many human rights cases and situations involve the violation or denial of citizens’ rights by the government and political or other establishments and agencies of the State. Human rights bodies from across the country have in a public statement pointed out that Mishra’s judgements had gone in favour of the State in cases that involved human rights, such as those relating to land acquisition or bail, as in the Bhima-Koregaon case. The NHRC is a constitutional body that should offer protection to citizens in such situations and should proactively try to expand their rights. Mishra does not inspire confidence in that respect. Institutions that protect constitutional and human rights have been weakened during the Modi government's tenure. The NHRC, whose powers are already limited, should not become one more of them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/wrong-choice-996529.html
12-06-2021||In Perspective||Does old age blunt one’s creative edge?||Old age was an indecent state that had to be ended before it was too late… At eighty-one years of age, Dr Urbino had enough lucidity to realise that he was attached to this world by a few slender threads… - Gabriel García Márquez, Love in the Time of Cholera We generally associate old age with inertia, purposelessness and intimations of mortality. There is a common feeling that once you cross seventy-five years, you experience cognitive decline. But this is not always true. For 95-year-old former Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, age is just a number and it has made no difference to his political ambitions. Last year, he launched his new party with renewed vigour. In India, the octogenarian 'Metroman' Elattuvalapil Sreedharan (88) kicked off his new innings as a politician in Kerala in February this year. These octogenarians and nonagenarians are focusing on their work without the pitfalls of impatience and cynicism. Elderly people in their sixties and seventies are more often than not stereotyped as petulant and cynical people, who are content to spend their time watching the world go by. Most of them have a tendency to look back at the past and hold regrets. In the poem, Gerontion, T S Eliot refers to old age as something which is undesirable, as it brings in its wake bitterness and the struggle to make sense of one’s life. Similarly, in the poem, Sailing to Byzantium, W B Yeats says that once a person crosses the line into old age, he tends to become as worthless and helpless “as a scarecrow”. Be that as it may, there are numerous instances of politicians, writers, musicians and painters who have faced the insidious snares of old age with rare courage and determination. Last year, during the presidential campaign in the US, both the Democratic presidential candidates, Bernie Sanders (78) and Joe Biden (77) were considered “too old” to run the country, so much so that a magazine in the United States ran a feature that labelled the 2020 race “the dementia campaign.” Biden hit back at his critics, saying that he was in fine fettle, offering as evidence a doctor’s report and a claim that he could do forty-four push-ups. No wonder, he had the last laugh as he went on to become the 46th President of the United States.  Two thousand years ago, Plutarch of Chaeronea, a Greek philosopher, wrote an essay titled Should an old man engage in politics? Plutarch knew that with age comes mental and physical decline. After all, he wrote his essay at the age of 70 and took an active part in local politics. Plutarch believed that old men should participate in politics. He also believed that in the case of older politicians, their greatest asset is not the “wisdom that comes with age, but the composure that comes with experience.” Morarji Desai happens to be the only Indian politician to become prime minister post 80. In 1977, Desai took the oath of office as the fourth prime minister and led the government formed by the Janata Party. He died in 1995 at the age of 99. Besides politicians, there are instances of writers, singers and painters too, who, despite their advancing years, discovered sources of serendipity and mined a rich seam of creativity in their works. At the age of 96, writer Harry Bernstein earned belated literary fame with his memoir. Famous American singer-songwriter and Nobel Prize winner Bob Dylan, who recently turned 80, is still going great guns. Having penned more than 600 songs in his career, these days, since he can’t hold a guitar, Dylan performs propped up by a piano. Writers like Nirad C Chaudhary and Khushwant Singh, defying the tyranny of age, kept on producing works of merit till their death. Their advancing age hardly blunted their creative edge. If there is one writer in India who continues to write with rare maniacal energy and unflagging zeal, it is none other than the venerable and prolific Ruskin Bond. His latest book based on some of his memorable short stories was released on his 87th birthday on May 19. The effervescent Bond, who lives with his adopted family in Landour, Mussoorie's lvy Cottage, finds his zest for living undiminished. He is happy as always, living close to nature. Painters and writers like Picasso, Tagore, Michelangelo, Bach, Goethe, Stravinsky, to name a few, utilised their advancing years by pushing the envelope of creativity. It is never too late to start something new. Rabindranath Tagore developed an interest in painting at the age of 63 and, like in poetry and prose, proved his remarkable mastery over this medium as well. For the creatively inclined, age is not a restrictive factor. (The writer is a senior journalist based in Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/does-old-age-blunt-one-s-creative-edge-996533.html
12-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hubballi KIMS gets Vedanta's Covid field hospital||Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi, which is treating Covid-19 patients from different districts in the region, is now equipped a 100-bed field hospital set up by Vedanta Group. 'Vedanta Cares' Covid field hospital, built in less than three weeks, includes oxygen supply to all beds, along with 20 ICU beds, triage rooms, exam rooms, X-Ray, ECG, patient monitoring systems, ventilators and other facilities. Vedanta Group will maintain the hospital, while the medical staff will be from KIMS. A similar hospital is already set up by Vedanta Group in Chitradurga. After inaugurating the hospital on Saturday, Union Parliamentary Affairs, Coal & Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi suggested the KIMS administration to use this facility to treat all Covid patients at KIMS when cases come down, and to use other buildings for non-Covid treatment. This field hospital would also come in handy to ably manage the possible third wave of Covid-19, he added. Vedanta Resources chairman Anil Agarwal, who joined the occasion virtually, expressed willingness to join hands in service activities in future also. Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar stated that the field hospital building can be used for 15 years. As the demand for liquid oxygen to treat Covid patients in the state has come down to 550 MT now, deputy commissioners are given the power to allocate additional liquid oxygen available to industries, while oxygen generation plants are also being set up, he noted. Legislative Council chairman Basavaraj Horatti lauded KIMS for efficiently treating Covid-19 and mucormycosis (black fungus) patients. He also shared his own experience of getting treatment for Covid-19 at KIMS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hubballi-kims-gets-vedantas-covid-field-hospital-996658.html
12-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga airport to be ready by June 2022: Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday said that work on Shivamogga airport, which will have facilities on par with Bengaluru airport, is in progress and instructions have been given to complete it by next June. The Chief Minister reviewed the progress of the work today at Sogane village, about 12 km from Shivamogga city. The airport will be well equipped and be next only to Bengaluru airport to have such facilities, and despite financial difficulties, funds have been released and work taken up in a fast phase, Yediyurappa was quoted as saying in an official release. Stating that much development is expected in central Karnataka districts with the coming up of this airport, he said it would help in all-round development of Shivamogga district, encourage more industries to come up and generate more jobs. The Chief Minister noted that the work on the runway, link roads and perimeter roads is in progress and the compound construction work has mostly been completed and that 11,500 metres of 15,900 meters compound work has been finished. He also unveiled the building design of the airport, during the review, the release added. The cost of Shivamogga airport has gone up from Rs 220 crore to Rs 384 crore, the government had said a few months ago. Shivamogga is the political home turf of Yediyurappa, as he represents Shikaripura constituency in the district, while his son B Y Raghavendra is the MP from Shivamogga constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-airport-to-be-ready-by-june-2022-yediyurappa-996780.html
12-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||A year on, relief remains elusive for North Karnataka flood victims||Almost a year after three separate incidents of flooding in North Karnataka districts along Krishna and Bhima rivers, none of the victims whose houses were completely damaged (A category) or those that suffered 50-75 per cent damages (B category) has received full compensation. While the government had announced Rs 5 lakh and Rs 3 lakh as compensation to such houses, respectively, victims have received just one instalment of Rs 1 lakh compensation. During the floods, a total of 44,835 houses were affected, of which around 37,300 houses suffered minor damages. A compensation of Rs 50,000 was paid to all houses that suffered minor damages. Officials blame the Covid-19 pandemic for delay in disbursing relief. According to Revenue Minister R Ashoka, pending compensation will be released as soon as possible. But complaints over disbursing relief for victims of the devastating floods of 2019 are yet to be addressed. After the floods in August, September and October 2020, the government had identified 1,342 houses in category A and 5,790 houses in category B. Sources in the Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation Ltd said only Rs 1 lakh compensation was paid and the remaining amount was yet to be disbursed to these beneficiaries. Beneficiaries under category A were expected to receive Rs 5 lakh in four instalments based on the progress of the house under construction, while those in category B were to receive Rs 3 lakh in three instalments. Nagaraj Kambale, a resident of Hulabagali in Athani taluk, said he was still awaiting compensation for the house damaged during the floods. “I have grown tired running from pillar to post for the relief announced by the government,” he said. Kambale alleged that the re-survey left out several damaged houses. According to Ashok Chandaragi, social activist based out of Belagavi, compensation for even the 2019 flood victims was pending. “As many as 10,000 victims are yet to receive compensation for the floods, along with those affected in 2020,” he said. At a news conference earlier this week, minister Ashoka said labour shortage caused by Covid-19 had affected relief activity, due to which houses of the 2020 flood victims were not complete. “We have disbursed first instalment of relief to 90 per cent of the victims and 30 per cent have received second instalment,” Ashoka said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/a-year-on-relief-remains-elusive-for-north-karnataka-flood-victims-996791.html
12-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah drops hints about contesting 2023 Karnataka Assembly polls from Badami||Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Saturday indicated that he may contest the 2023 assembly elections from Badami, which he currently represents as an MLA, even as a section in the party urged him to enter the poll fray from the city's Chamarajpet segment. "Press people question me about my repeated visits to Chamarajpet, I come here as I'm repeatedly invited, that's all. They ask me whether I will leave Badami and contest from Chamarajpet during the next election," the Leader of Opposition in the legislative assembly said. Speaking at an event in Chamarajpet, he said, "It is Zameer Ahmed Khan's (Congress MLA) generosity that he is asking me to contest the election from the constituency he represents." "As of now I will contest the election from Badami itself... it is important that Zameer Ahmed Khan should win (the next election) and should be in the government," Siddarmaiah said, even as Khan and those present at the event demanded that he contest from Chamarajpet. As people present at the event on Khan's insistence shouted that the former Chief Minister should contest from Chamarajpet, Siddaramaiah said, "... lets see later," and heaped praise on the MLA for his service to the constituency and people in need. Making it clear that he will be contesting the 2023 assembly elections, the Congress legislature party leader had recently said no decision has been taken yet on the constituency. There has been speculation within the party circles for some time now that Siddaramaiah, who represents Badami in north Karnataka, may come back to his home turf of the old Mysuru region or somewhere in Bengaluru for the next election. His loyalist and party's Chamarajpet legislator B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan has even offered to vacate the constituency for him. The Chamarajpet segment in the city has a sizeable minority population. Siddaramaiah has already announced that he will not contest again from the Chamundeshwari assembly constituency in Mysuru, where he had tasted defeat during the May 2018 assembly polls. Siddaramaiah, the then sitting Chief Minister, had lost in Chamundeshwari to JD(S) G T Deve Gowda by a margin of over 36,042 votes. He, however, won Badami, the other constituency from where he had contested. Making his debut in the Assembly in 1983, Siddaramaiah had got elected from Chamundeshwari on a Lok Dal Party ticket. He has won five times from this constituency and tasted defeat thrice. After neighbouring Varuna became a constituency in 2008 following delimitation, Siddaramaiah represented it till he vacated the seat for his son Dr Yatindra in the 2018 assembly polls and went back to his old constituency of Chamundeshwari. Ahead of the May 2018 assembly polls, Siddaramaiah had said it would "most likely" be his last election. Earlier, during the 2013 assembly polls too, he had said that it was his last election and went on to become chief minister after the polls. It is no secret that Siddaramaiah is nursing his ambition to become chief minister for a second term if the party wins the next assembly polls in 2023, and his loyalists like Khan have already started to openly pitch for him as the next CM candidate. This could come in the way of State Congress president D K Shivakumar's ambitions, as he too is said to be eyeing to become the Chief Minister, with some of his supporters too already batting in favour of him for the coveted post||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-drops-hints-about-contesting-2023-karnataka-assembly-polls-from-badami-996721.html
12-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Arvind Bellad meets B L Santosh, but fails to meet Arun Singh||Ahead of BJP National General Secretary (incharge Karnataka) Arun Singh's visit to Bengaluru to resolve dissident activities in the party, Hubballi-Dharwad (West) MLA  Arvind Bellad on Saturday met BJP National General Secretary B L Santosh here. Bellad, who arrived in Delhi on Friday night, met Santosh and explained the political situation in Karnataka. However, when Bellad tried to meet Arun Singh, the latter refused to give an appointment, sources in the BJP said. Singh conveyed to Bellad that he would come to Bengaluru and meet all leaders there, sources said. Bellad came to the national capital to request the party top brass to advise Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to convene a legislative party meeting immediately, sources said. Earlier, Bellad and Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar came to Delhi with complaints against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and his family members. Both were among a few leaders who were demanding the party top brass to unseat Yediyurappa. However, Bellad said his visit to Delhi was private and there was nothing political in it. “I came to Delhi to a family private programme. There is no politics in it and I have no plan to meet any leaders here,” Bellad posted on his Facebook. “Though I came to Delhi on my private visit, the media carried news saying it was a political visit. There is no truth in what is appearing in the media. I am requesting media persons not to create confusion regarding my Delhi visit,” Bellad posted. Arun Singh will visit Bengaluru for 3 days from June 16 and is scheduled to meet all leaders including those who tried to unseat Yediyurappa, and the group who tried to mobilise support to the CM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/arvind-bellad-meets-b-l-santosh-but-fails-to-meet-arun-singh-996750.html
12-06-2021||Mysuru||Police constable in Mysuru dies by suicide||A police constable attached to City Armed Reserve (CAR) died by suicide, near T Narasipur road, in Varuna. A passerby noticed the police after spotting the corpse floating in a lake. Varuna police shifted the dead body to KR Hospital where the doctors conducted an autopsy. Mohan of Nagamangala in Mandya district joined the police department in 2008. Mohan is survived by his parents, wife and a five-year-old child.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/police-constable-in-mysuru-dies-by-suicide-996651.html
12-06-2021||National||French President Macron calls for easing of supply of Covid-19 vaccine raw material to India||Ahead of a crucial summit of the G7 grouping, French President Emmanuel Macron has called for easing the supply of raw materials for the production of coronavirus vaccines to India and some other countries, saying such a step was absolutely necessary to ramp up manufacturing for their own requirement as well to help the African region. At a press conference in Paris, Macron also favoured a proposal by India and South Africa at the World Trade Organisation for a temporary lift on the patents on Covid-19 vaccines and said France will raise the issue at the G7 summit. He said France and South Africa will propose at the G7 summit that nations should work on exemptions for intellectual property rights, saying the patents must not create obstacles in boosting the production of the vaccines. Leaders of G7 countries France, Germany, Japan, the UK, the US, Italy and Canada are holding a summit in the British resort of Cornwall from June 11-13 with a focus on exploring ways to deal with the coronavirus pandemic. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will participate virtually in the outreach sessions of the summit on June 12 and 13, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Thursday. On easing the supply of raw materials for the vaccines, Macron keeping open the supply chains of the ingredients was key for boosting production of the vaccines. "As we know, there have been export bans by several G7 member countries which have blocked production in other countries....I will take just one example, India," he said. "India, and in particular the Serum Institute of India, has been blocked in its production by export restrictions on the ingredients needed to produce these vaccines from certain G7 economies," the French president said. "These restrictions must be lifted both so that India can produce more for itself and so that it can very quickly supply the Africans in particular, who are very dependent on its production," he said. The excerpts of Macron's press briefing was made available by the French embassy in India. On the issue of patent waiver for Covid-19 vaccines, the countries must ensure that intellectual property rights will never be an obstacle to access to vaccines. "And for me, it is the principle that should govern our work. Intellectual property must never block these transfers of technology and the capacity to produce," Macron said. "That's why we decided to put on the table with South Africa for this G7 a proposal also allowing to work on a derogation limited in time and space of this intellectual property," he said. At the same time, he mentioned the need for fair remuneration for innovation and respect for intellectual property. "It is an initial proposal from India and South Africa that we have reworked, that we still want to work with the WHO, the WTO, our partners. But I hope that it will precisely allow an agreement during this G7," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/french-president-macron-calls-for-easing-of-supply-of-covid-19-vaccine-raw-material-to-india-996559.html
12-06-2021||National||Government refuses to exempt mainstream media from new IT rules, asks them to comply with norms||The government has rejected the demand to exempt the digital news content of mainstream television channels and print media from the ambit of the IT Rules, 2021 and asked them to take “urgent steps” to comply with the law, if not done already. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, in a letter to digital news publishers, OTT platforms and associations of digital media publishers, said the traditional news media – television and print – were already regulated by the programme codes under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act and the Press Council Act respectively and the digital media rules were not new or additional compliance. “Making any exception of the nature proposed will be discriminatory to the digital news publishers who do not have a traditional TV/print platform,” the Ministry said. The National Broadcasters Association (NBA) had recently written to the Ministry, urging it to “exempt and exclude” the traditional television news media and its extended presence on digital news platforms from the ambit of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021, saying they were already “sufficiently regulated” by various statutes, laws, guidelines, codes and regulations. However, the Ministry said the existing regulatory framework covered the broadcast and print media but did not extend to websites where the content differs from the traditional media. It said the digital version/digital publication of the organisations having traditional news platforms (TV and print) may be following internal guidelines of the self-regulatory bodies. “Accordingly, if the organisations so desire, they can request the same self-regulatory bodies to serve as the Level II of the self-regulatory mechanism, after ensuring consistency with the Digital Media Rules, 2021,” the Ministry said. The Ministry also dismissed the concerns that the oversight mechanism stipulated under the digital media rules would lead to excessive government control over the functioning of the digital news publishers and the OTT platforms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-refuses-to-exempt-mainstream-media-from-new-it-rules-asks-them-to-comply-with-norms-996565.html
12-06-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on June 12||India continued to report under one lakh cases for the fifth straight day on Saturday while the country's deaths and fatality rate remained high. In reconciliation of numbers, Bihar added 3,951 new deaths on June 10, Maharashtra added 2,619 new deaths on June 11. The total case tally presently amounts to 2,93,59,155. With 4,002, new deaths, the current fatality rate stood at 1.3 per cent. Active cases continued to decline, with 10,80,690 people currently positive for the deadly virus.  Coronavirus in India Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  2,93,59,155 as of June 12, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  3,67,081 as of June 12, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->   Total Vaccination: 24,96,00,304 No. of people discharged: 2,79,11,384 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-june-12-996580.html
12-06-2021||National||You may soon get a driving licence without a test if you learn at an accredited training centre||The road ministry on Friday notified rules for accredited driver training centres where candidates will be provided high-quality driving courses, and once test is cleared, they will be exempted from driving test at the time of obtaining driving licence. These centres will be equipped with simulators and dedicated driving test track to provide high-quality training to candidates, the Ministry of Road Transport & Highways (MoRTH) said, adding that remedial and refresher courses, as per the requirements under Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, can be availed at these centres. The ministry has "notified rules mandatory for accredited Drivers Training Centres. These rules will come into effect from 1st July, 2021. This will help in imparting proper training and knowledge to candidates who enrol at such centres", a statement said. The candidates, who successfully pass the test at these centres, will be "exempted from the driving test requirement" at the time of applying for driving licence, which is currently being taken at the regional transport offices. "This will help the drivers in getting the driving licence after completing training from such accredited driving training centres," the statement said.         These centres will be allowed to provide industry-specific specialised training as well, the ministry said, adding that shortage of skilled drivers is one of the major issues in the Indian roadways sector and a large number of road accidents occur due to lack of knowledge of road regulations.         Section 8 of the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act 2019 empowers the central government to make rules regarding accreditation of driver training centres.           According to the notification, an accreditation granted for accredited driver training centres shall be in force for a period of five years and may be renewed. The duration for light motor vehicle driving course in accredited driver training centres is 29 hours in the span of maximum 4 weeks from the date of commencement of the course, the notification said, adding that the course will to be divided into theory and practice.         Likewise, the duration for medium and heavy motor vehicle driving course in accredited driver training centres is thirty eight hours in the span of six weeks.           "These are to be divided into two segments, theory and practical," the notification said.  Drivers will also be taught some basic aspects about ethical and courteous behaviour with other road users. Indian Foundation of Transport Research and Training (IFTRT) senior fellow and coordinator S P Singh in a statement welcomed the notified rules for accredited driver training centres by the road ministry.         However, Singh pointed out that in the notified rules, the minimum educational qualification for drivers has been dropped, which was Class 8th passed.         "A well-educated person should be having better skill imparting and knowledge of road rules and therefore... There should be a minimum educational qualification of 12th class pass as the country has millions of educated unemployed and the road transport sector needs educated and skilled drivers for efficient and safe driving," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/you-may-soon-get-a-driving-licence-without-a-test-if-you-learn-at-an-accredited-training-centre-996585.html
12-06-2021||National||Indian-origin Covid-19 response professionals in Queen Elizabeth's Birthday Honours spotlight||Indian-origin healthcare experts involved in the field of Covid-19 vaccine trials and community support efforts are among those in the spotlight at the Queen's Birthday Honours List released on Friday evening. Kolkata-born Divya Chadha Manek has been honoured with an Order of the British Empire (OBE) for services to the government during the Covid-19 response for her involvement in the research and development of vaccines and the resulting clinical trials. Chadha Manek, now the director of business development and marketing at the British government's National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Clinical Research Network, was at the heart of ensuring that Covid-19 vaccines could be put through requisite trials for a timely deployment as the Clinical Trials Workstream lead at the UK's Vaccine Taskforce. "To me, this honour is recognising not just me, but everyone involved in the success of UK vaccine research — the half-a-million people who signed up to the vaccine research registry and the tens of thousands who took part in the vital Covid-19 vaccine trials here," said Chadha Manek, who moved to the UK as a teenager with a simple message from her Punjabi father. "When I left India for the UK at the age of 18, my father gave me a flight ticket, put GBP 500 in my pocket and told me: 'Be good, do good and do something amazing that you get to meet the Queen'. I lost my father last year, but this honour truly feels like I have done good on his behalf. So thank you so much for this honour," she said. Chadha Manek was instrumental in supporting companies to bring vaccine trials to the UK, generate the data required for marketing authorisation and help with the development of the Vaccine Research Registry. "The honour feels like a real recognition and nod to clinical research which may not always get the spotlight it truly deserves. It's fantastic to receive this 'thank you' from the Queen," she added. Chadha Manek represents one of many honours related to Covid-19 pandemic response that make up nearly 23 per cent of the list this year, including damehoods for Sarah Gilbert, Saïd Professor of Vaccinology at the Jenner Institute, University of Oxford, for her pivotal role in developing a vaccine, and Kate Bingham, Chair of the Vaccine Taskforce, for services to the procurement, manufacture and distribution of vaccines. Andrew Pollard, professor of Paediatric Infection, University of Oxford, receives knighthood for services to public health, particularly during Covid-19, for his role in the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine development as the director of the Oxford Vaccine Group. The Queen's Birthday Honours List is released every year to coincide with Queen Elizabeth II's official birthday celebrations held during the second weekend of June. This time, it has a special focus on the extraordinary efforts made by individuals across the country during the pandemic. "The Queen's Birthday Honours allow us to pay tribute to all those who have gone above and beyond in their service to this country," said UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson. "Throughout the pandemic, we have seen countless examples of everyday heroes. From those using their expertise to help develop life-saving vaccines, which are now being rolled out successfully to all parts of the UK, to the people who have given time and energy to care for their communities," he said. "We should take heart from the stories of those receiving honours today and be inspired by their courage and kindness. May they be a reminder of all that we can achieve when we come together as a society," he added. Among the over 30 Indian-origin honours recipients for 2021 include OBEs for Jasvinder Singh Rai, founder and chairman of the Sikh Recovery Network for services to the Sikh community during the pandemic, and Jasjyot Singh of Lloyds Banking Group for services to financial services during the pandemic. Those honoured as Members of the British Empire (MBE) include Devina Banerjee, from Vaccine Taskforce, Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, for services to Covid-19 vaccine development; Anoop Jivan Chauhan, professor of respiratory medicine and executive director of Research, Portsmouth Hospitals University NHS Trust, for services to respiratory medicine; and Dr Ananthakrishnan Raghuram, consultant physician, Gloucestershire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, for services to the NHS and Covid-19 response. Others across different fields honoured with an OBE include Jagjit Singh Chadha, director of the National Institute of Economic and Social Research, for services to economics and economic policy; actress and writer Lolita Chakrabarti for services to drama; and Sumita Singha for services to architecture. Those receiving MBEs include Vimalkumar Choksi, Councillor, Ashton Waterloo, Tameside, for services to the community in Greater Manchester; Gurveer Dhami, senior private secretary to the Secretary of State For Education, and Amika Sara George, Founder of #FreePeriods Campaign, both for services to education; Sumit Goyal, consultant oncoplastic surgeon, Cardiff and Vale University Health Board, for services to breast cancer and Cardiff Breast Centre Charity; and Priya Guha, Venture Partner, Merian Ventures, and Member, Innovate UK Council, for services to international trade and women-led innovation. Of the 1,129 recipients of an award this year, 567 are women which is 50 per cent of the total, and 62 per cent of the recipients have undertaken outstanding work in their communities, either in a voluntary or paid capacity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-origin-covid-19-response-professionals-in-queen-elizabeths-birthday-honours-spotlight-996587.html
12-06-2021||National||Mehul Choksi denied bail on grounds of flight risk by High Court in Dominica||The Dominica High Court has denied bail to fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi in the case of illegal entry into the island country after his mysterious disappearance from neighbouring Antigua and Barbuda where he is staying as a citizen since 2018, local Caribbean media reported. The high court on Friday (local time) gave the ruling by concluding that Choksi was a "flight risk", did not have any ties with Dominica and the court could not impose any conditions which will stop him from leaving the country, news outlet AntiguaNewsroom said. Choksi had approached the high court after the magistrate had rejected his bail petition. The promoter of Geetanjali Gems and other famous diamond brands in India had fled the country weeks before Rs 13,500 crore fraud in Punjab National Bank (PNB) allegedly involving him and his nephew Nirav Modi surfaced. Choksi, 62, who has an Interpol Red Notice against him, had mysteriously gone missing on May 23 from Antigua and Barbuda where he has been staying since 2018 as a citizen after fleeing from India. He was detained in the neighbouring island country of Dominica for illegal entry after a possible romantic escapade with his rumoured girlfriend. Choksi's lawyers alleged that he was kidnapped from Jolly Harbour in Antigua by policemen looking like Antiguan and Indian and brought to Dominica on a boat. He was also brought before a Roseau magistrate, on the orders of High Court Judge Bernie Stephenson, hearing Habeas Corpus matter, to answer charges of illegal entry where he pleaded not guilty but was denied bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mehul-choksi-denied-bail-on-grounds-of-flight-risk-by-high-court-in-dominica-996591.html
12-06-2021||National||Seek to curb misinformation in India whilst respecting rights, says US official||The Joe Biden administration seeks to work with the Indian government and Internet businesses to ensure that freedom of expression is respected while combating the spread of misinformation, a senior US official has told lawmakers. The US believes that the best response to misinformation is truthful information, said Scott Busby, the acting principal deputy assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights and Labour while testifying before the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific, Central Asia, and Non-Proliferation on Wednesday. "Misinformation has cost lives in India and so has lack of access to independent information. Prior to the pandemic, misinformation led to several instances of 'cow-lynchings' in which hooligans, inflamed by social media, assaulted people suspected of harming cattle," he said. At the onset of the pandemic in India, some leveraged social media to blame Muslims for the spread of Covid-19, Busby told the lawmakers. "The government levied content restrictions and demanded content takedowns of social media companies negatively impacting access to information and freedom of expression," Busby claimed. Throughout South Asia, there have been constraints on liberties such as freedom of expression and association, he said. "In India, authorities tell US businesses to block social media content, including posts relating to public health, and charge or arrest journalists for the same, at the height of the country's Covid-19 surge when up-to-date information is needed most." India's enforcement of its Foreign Contribution Regulation Act resulted in the deregistration of over 1,500 civil society organizations and the closure of such prominent organizations as Amnesty International India, he claimed. "As large democracies, the United States and India have a special responsibility towards combating misinformation with a rights-respecting approach. We seek to work with the Government of India and Internet businesses to respect freedom of expression while combatting dis- and misinformation," Busby said. Observing that information manipulation, whether it is through media capture, censorship or disinformation campaigns is a global problem, he alleged China actively seeks political, economic and strategic advantage, including through the spread of propaganda and disinformation and silencing critical voices. "In the Indo-Pacific region, disinformation has profoundly changed how people vote, obtain healthcare and treat vulnerable members of minority groups. Responsible governments must not suppress factual information nor permit their officials to contribute to the spread of misinformation," Busby said. In Bangladesh, the restrictive Digital Security Act infringes upon the exercise of freedom of expression both online and offline and targets civil society, media, political opposition, and religious minorities. Government measures in Bangladesh restrict freedom of expression and authorize the criminalization of defamation and slander, offences most other democracies consider civil infractions while in Nepal, regulations governing the media and online environment carry criminal penalties that trigger self-censorship, the official said. Bhutanese Internet has flourished with news on blogs and social media, though posters risk defamation lawsuits and national security charges filed against them and actively self-censor, Busby said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seek-to-curb-misinformation-in-india-whilst-respecting-rights-says-us-official-996592.html
12-06-2021||National||PM Modi to attend G7 Summit on June 12||PM Narendra Modi is set to attend the G7 Summit via video conference on Saturday. He will speak in a total of three sessions spread across June 12 and 13. The sessions are themed Building Back Stronger, Building Back Together and Building Back Greener. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-attend-g7-summit-on-june-12-996598.html
12-06-2021||National||India records 4,002 new Covid-19 deaths, 84,332 fresh infections||The daily Covid-19 count in India remained below the one-lakh mark for the fifth consecutive day with the country reporting 84,332 fresh cases, its lowest in 70 days, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Saturday. With the fresh cases, the infection tally has climbed to 2,93,59,155. The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,67,081 with 4,002 daily deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases further declined to 10,80,690 accounting for 3.68 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 95.07 per cent.   India's active caseload declined to less than 11 lakh after 63 days while 84,332 new cases reported in 24 hours are the lowest in 70 days, the ministry said. Also, 20,44,131 coronavirus tests were conducted on Friday taking the total number to 37,42,42,384. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 4.39 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for the 19th consecutive day, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has also declined to 4.94 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 30th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,79,11,384, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.25 per cent, the data stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-4002-new-covid-19-deaths-84332-fresh-infections-996600.html
12-06-2021||National||Explained | How will the ICMR sero survey aid the Covid-19 fight?||Sero surveys are tools that help scientists uncover the true extent of the virus’ spread in the population and could lay bare the actual impact of the second Covid wave in the country. What is a sero survey? Sero surveys serve to determine what percentage of a population has caught an infection, which is Covid-19 in this case, and also includes those who recovered from it. Sero surveys usually try to examine how much of the population has an antibody specific to the disease and its concentration, revealing hidden infections and aiding in pinning down the actual extent and prevalence of a disease. How is a sero survey carried out? In these studies, the blood serum of random and anonymous samples is tested with an antibody or serology test to see if an individual’s immune system has responded to the infection. Sero surveys are generally targeted towards detecting the presence of the Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody, which develops two weeks after the onset of the infection and stays in the body for a long period of time. Why do we need sero surveys? Sero surveys give scientists, policymakers and the general public a better idea of how many people have been actually been infected by a disease. They not only take into account more than officially reported cases, but also reveal many asymptomatic or unreported cases that have flown under the radar. They give a rough idea of how many people have actually contracted the infection and how far a community is from the elusive idea of herd immunity, which would require antibodies to be present in 60 to 70 per cent of a community’s population, according to experts. What has the sero survey shown so far? The first part of the study, conducted in May, compiled data from 65 out of 83 districts across India. It showed that 0.73 per cent of the population surveyed displayed evidence of past exposure to the novel coronavirus, according to ICMR. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-how-will-the-icmr-sero-survey-aid-the-covid-19-fight-996638.html
12-06-2021||National||India says desires 'normal' neighbourly ties with all countries, including Pakistan||India has said it desires “normal" neighbourly relations with all countries, including Pakistan, and asserted that the onus is on Islamabad to create a "conducive atmosphere" and not allow its territory to be used for cross-border terrorism against India in any manner. The remarks by Counsellor in India’s Permanent Mission to the UN, R Madhu Sudan came at the UN General Assembly meeting on ‘Report of the Security Council for 2020' on Friday. “India desires normal neighbourly relations with all countries, including Pakistan. Our consistent position is that issues, if any, between India and Pakistan should be resolved bilaterally and peacefully, in an atmosphere free of terror, hostility and violence," Sudan said in the General Assembly. "The onus is on Pakistan to create such a conducive atmosphere, including by taking credible, verifiable action to not allow any territory under its control to be used for cross-border terrorism against India in any manner,” he added. Speaking earlier, Pakistan’s Permanent Representative to the UN Munir Akram raised the issue of Jammu and Kashmir during his remarks. Sudan said it is rather “unfortunate” that Pakistan continued to indulge in “theatrics not befitting” the forum. “It is clear that the international community is not getting fooled by this delegation anymore,” he said, adding that the country sought to exploit the UNGA forum and “once again raised matters internal to my country.” Sudan asserted that the decision taken by the Parliament of India on Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh are “matters internal to India.” India abrogated the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 on August 5, 2019 and bifurcated it into two Union territories. India, currently serving a two-year term on the Security Council as a non-permanent member, further said that as a member of the 15-nation Council it will continue its efforts along with other elected members to pursue reforms in the working methods and for better reporting to the General Assembly. Sudan said the General Assembly debates on the reports of the Security Council time and again have sought more in-depth analysis by the Council of its work in the annual reports. “Unfortunately, this request has not been heeded to by the Council, whose functioning is based on anachronistic working methods centred around the principle of decision making by consensus. This principle affects mostly the elected members, who ironically hold the majority voice in the Council,” he said. He said India believes it is important for the Security Council to pay more attention to its report to the General Assembly rather than view it as a mere formality. “The General Assembly is indeed the most representative organ of the United Nations. The fact that there exists a separate provision in the UN Charter mandating such a report by the Security Council itself shows the importance with which this report is viewed. "Hence, the annual report of the Security Council must inform, highlight and analyse the measures that it has decided upon or taken to maintain international peace and security during the reporting period.” India also reiterated the need for analysis of the UN peacekeeping operations, the flagship tool for the maintenance of international peace and security. “We need more information on how peacekeeping operations are run, the problems they face, on why certain mandates are set or changed, or on when and why they are strengthened, scaled-down or ended. As most peacekeepers are contributed by non-Council members, who put the lives of their troops at risk to serve the cause of international peace, a better partnership between the Security Council and the Troop Contributing Countries (TCCs) is needed,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-says-desires-normal-neighbourly-ties-with-all-countries-including-pakistan-996639.html
12-06-2021||National||Diesel at Rs 100 mark in Rajasthan, Karnataka sees petrol at Rs 100/litre||Diesel price on Saturday breached the Rs 100 per litre mark in Rajasthan after yet another increase in fuel rates, which also led to Karnataka becoming the 7th state to record Rs 100 a litre petrol. Petrol price was hiked by 27 paise per litre and diesel by 23 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The hike, 23rd since May 4, pushed fuel prices across the country to new historic highs. In Delhi, petrol hit an all-time high of Rs 96.12 a litre, while diesel is now priced at Rs 86.98 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. And because of this petrol retails at over Rs 100 per litre mark in six states and union territories -- Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Ladakh. Karnataka got added to that list with many places in the state including Bidar, Bellary, Koppal, Davanagere, Shimoga and Chikmagalur recording over Rs 100 per litre petrol. Petrol in the state capital Bengaluru is priced at Rs 99.39 per litre and a litre of diesel comes for Rs 92.27. Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan near the India-Pakistan border was the first place in the country to see petrol hit Rs 100 a litre mark in mid-February and on Saturday it also earned the distinction of diesel crossing that psychological mark. Petrol in the city is sold at Rs 107.22 a litre - the highest rate in the country, and diesel comes for Rs 100.05. Premium or additive laced petrol in the town sells for Rs 110.50 a litre and same grade diesel at Rs 103.72. Rajasthan levies the highest VAT on petrol and diesel in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Mumbai on May 29 became the first metro in the country where petrol was being sold at over Rs 100 a litre. Petrol now costs Rs 102.30 a litre in the city and diesel comes for Rs 94.39. After Leh, Srinagar too is witnessing near Rs 100 a litre petrol (Rs 99.27). Hyderabad too is in the same league with petrol costing Rs 99.96. Petrol sells for Rs 101.73 a litre in Leh and diesel costs Rs 93.66. The hike on Saturday was the 23rd increase in prices since May 4, when state-owned oil firms ended an 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during assembly elections in states like West Bengal. In 23 increases, petrol price has risen by Rs 5.72 per litre and diesel by Rs 6.25 a litre. Oil companies revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on the average price of benchmark fuel in the international market in the preceding 15 days, and foreign exchange rates. International oil prices have firmed in recent weeks in anticipation of demand recovery following the rollout of vaccination programme by various countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/diesel-at-rs-100-mark-in-rajasthan-karnataka-sees-petrol-at-rs-100/litre-996641.html
12-06-2021||National||Smriti Irani urges people to report child labour cases||On World Day Against Child Labour, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani on Saturday appealed to every citizen to report instances of child labour on PENCIL portal or call on Childline 1098. Reaffirming commitment towards combatting child labour, Irani said it is with people's participation that it can be ensured that children get a childhood they deserve. "Every child has a right to education and a happy childhood. On World Day Against Child Labour, let us reaffirm our commitment towards combatting child labour. It is with people's participation that we can ensure our children get a childhood they deserve," Irani tweeted. "I appeal to every citizen to report instances of child labour on PENCIL Portal http://pencil.gov.in or call on Childline - 1098. Because... We owe it to our children - the future of our Nation," she said in another tweet.  Because... We owe it to our children - the future of our Nation. World Day Against Child Labour observed on June 12 every year aims to raise awareness and activism to prevent child labour. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/smriti-irani-urges-people-to-report-child-labour-cases-996643.html
12-06-2021||National||Wider alliance of anti-BJP parties necessary: NCP leader Nawab Malik after Pawar-Kishor meet||A day after election strategist Prashant Kishor met NCP chief Sharad Pawar, a spokesperson of the party on Saturday said there is a need to have a "wider alliance" of political parties against the ruling BJP ahead of the 2024 Lok Sbha polls. Kishor met Pawar at the latter's residence in Mumbai on Friday. The meeting, which lasted around three hours, sparked speculation in political circles. However, what transpired during the meeting could not be known. Talking to PTI, NCP leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik said, "There is a need to form a wider alliance of political parties against the BJP ahead of the next general elections. NCP president Sharad Pawar had himself spoken about the need to have a national alliance of all parties to take on the BJP, and had said he would try to bring together all such forces." "Political strategist Prashant Kishor is well-versed with the data and statistics...During their three-hour long deliberations, this surely has come up for consideration," he said. Last month, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut had stressed the need to have an alliance of opposition parties at the national level and said that he had discussed the issue with Sharad Pawar. Prior to that, he had also said that there is a need to restructure the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) so that it emerges as a strong alternative to the BJP, and the new front should be led by a senior leader like Pawar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wider-alliance-of-anti-bjp-parties-necessary-ncp-leader-nawab-malik-after-pawar-kishor-meet-996647.html
12-06-2021||National||Regulatory nod for conducting clinical trials of Colchicine on Covid-19 patients: CSIR||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has given approval to the CSIR and Laxai Life Sciences Private Limited to conduct clinical trial of Colchicine on Covid-19 patients, according to a statement on Saturday. Ram Vishwakarma, the advisor to the CSIR Director General, said Colchicine in combination with standard care will be an important therapeutic intervention for Covid-19 patients with cardiac co-morbidities and also for reducing pro-inflammatory cytokines, leading to faster recovery.  A number of global studies have confirmed that cardiac complications during the course of Covid-19 infections and post-Covid syndrome are leading to loss of many lives, and it is essential to look for new or repurposed drugs, he said. "Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR), and Laxai Life Sciences Pvt Ltd Hyderabad, have been given the regulatory approval by DCGI to undertake a two-arm phase-II clinical trial to assess the safety and efficacy of the drug Colchicine in improvement of clinical outcomes during the treatment of Covid-19 patients,” the statement said.  The partner CSIR institutes in this important clinical trial are the CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), Hyderabad and CSIR-Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine (IIIM), Jammu. India is one of the largest producers of this key drug and if successful, it will be made available to patients at an affordable cost, IICT Director S Chandrasekhar said. Laxai Life Sciences CEO Ram Upadhayay said the enrolment of patients has already begun at multiple sites across India and the trial is likely to be completed in the next 8-10 weeks.  He further added that this drug can be made available to a large population of India based on the results of this trial and regulatory approval. Last week, the CSIR announced that it along with Laxai Life Sciences Pvt Ltd has initiated phase II clinical trials of anti-helminitic drug Niclosamide for treatment of Covid-19. Niclosamide has been extensively used in the past for treatment of tapeworm infection in adults as well as children. The safety profile of this drug has been tested over time and has been found safe for human consumption at different dose levels, the CSIR said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/regulatory-nod-for-conducting-clinical-trials-of-colchicine-on-covid-19-patients-csir-996649.html
12-06-2021||National||Over 25.87 cr Covid vaccine doses provided to states so far: Centre||More than 25.87 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and union territories so far through the Centre and direct state procurement category, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. Of 25,87,41,810, the total consumption, including wastage, is 24,76,58,855 doses (according to data available at 8 am on Saturday), the ministry said in a statement. "More than 1.12 crore (1,12,41,187) Covid vaccine doses are still available with states/UTs to be administered," it added. Furthermore, the ministry said more than 10,81,300 vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by states and union territories within the next three days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-2587-cr-covid-vaccine-doses-provided-to-states-so-far-centre-996650.html
12-06-2021||National||NGT directs Aditya Birla Group firm in Gujarat to expedite work related to recycling of waste water||The National Green Tribunal has directed Aditya Birla Group's flagship Indian Rayon in Gujarat's Gir Somnath district to expedite to the maximum extent the work related to recycling of waste water. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel accepted the report filed by a committee comprising officials from the Central Pollution Control Board, state pollution control board and others, and directed that its recommendations be implemented. "We accept the report and direct that recommendations in the report be acted upon by the Project Proponent-Indian Rayon (A unit of Aditya Birla Nuvo Ltd.), Junagadh – Veraval, District Gir Somnath, Gujarat which may be overseen by the concerned statutory regulators.  "If any grievance survives, the aggrieved parties will be at liberty to take remedies, in accordance with law," the bench also comprising Justices Sudhir Agarwal and M Sathyanarayanan, said. The committee recommended that analysis results of Sewage Treatment Plants sampling shows BOD marginally exceeds the standards and therefore industry should improve its STP operation to meet the prescribed norms. "It is advisable to improve/beautify surrounding area of natural drain including stone pitching along the natural drain in the premises of the industry in consultation with concerned authorities. The industry should expedite the work related to recycling of waste water to the maximum extent. "Municipality should restrict throwing/dumping of solid waste into the Devka river and clean periodically with awareness among the citizens,” the committee recommended. The green panel had earlier formed a committee to submit a report on a plea alleging discharge of chemicals by Aditya Birla Group's flagship Indian Rayon in Gujarat''s Gir Somnath district. The committee also comprised officials from the Gujarat Coastal Zone Management Act, nominee of National Institute of Oceanography, Goa and District Magistrate of Gir Somnath. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by the Protection of Environment and Public Service Committee alleging violation of environmental norms by Indian Rayon. According to the applicant, the damage is done to Deveka River at Gir Somnath and the company was discharging hazardous chemicals into the sea as well as the river. The unit was generating electricity for which environmental clearance was granted on June 22, 2015, in spite of opposition from local residents, it said. There is dumping of fly ash at public places and there is also air pollution, the plea claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-directs-aditya-birla-group-firm-in-gujarat-to-expedite-work-related-to-recycling-of-waste-water-996657.html
12-06-2021||National||Stronger measures needed to safeguard interests of migrant workers||By Pooja Prabhakar The tragic sight of lakhs of migrant workers painfully making their way back to their homes during the national lockdown last year shook the conscience of the nation. Several people questioned why there were no laws in place which could have compelled governments at the Centre and in the States, as well as employers, to take care of these people in a time of intense crisis. After all, with 20 per cent of the total workforce made up of migrants, they are the very backbone of the economy. Like human beings from times immemorial, these workers migrate to states with growing economies that can provide them with more work opportunities. As a crucial segment of the mainstream workforce, a comprehensive regulatory framework is therefore a key imperative. The tragic truth, however, is that such a framework already exists. The work conditions of migrant workers and benefits entitled to them are governed by the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1979 (ISMW Act), the Building and Other Construction Workers’ (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1996 (BOCW Act), the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Cess Act, 1996 (BOCW Cess Act) along with the schemes framed thereunder. There are no exceptions. The ISMW Act is applicable to every establishment in which five or more inter-State migrant workmen are employed or who were employed on any day of the preceding year. The Act is also applicable to every contractor who employs or who employed five or more inter-State migrant workmen on any day of the preceding year, irrespective of whether or not such workmen are employed by the contractor or in the establishment. An ‘Inter-State Migrant Workman’ (ISMW) is defined under the Act to mean any person who is recruited by or through a contractor in one State for employment in an establishment in another State. It doesn’t matter whether such employment is with or without the knowledge of the principal employer. Sadly, lack of awareness and some unintended loopholes in the system have meant that when these rules were put to the test during the course of the current pandemic, they were found to be wanting. Thus, the law states that to be treated as a migrant worker, the recruitment should have been made in one State through a contractor and the person then brought to another State in which the establishment is located. However, if a person directly approaches an employer for employment in another State, and if hired by the employer, such an employee is not covered by the ISMW Act. This rule has been manipulated by contractors who avoid compliance by mentioning a local address of the worker instead of the permanent address in the State from where he has migrated. In any case, a vast majority of the migrant workers are not routed through licensed contractors, who thereby avoid the associated compliance costs, resulting in most of them being excluded from availing any benefits provided under the ISMW Act. Potential employers, with exceptions, have also failed to do their bit, despite specific responsibilities outlined for them. For instance, the Act mandates that in case a migrant worker performs the same or similar kind of work as is being performed by any other workman in the establishment, the wage rates, holidays, hours of work and other conditions of service of an ISMW should be the same. The Act also stipulates clear responsibilities with regard to timely payment of wages, the primary responsibility for which lies with the contractor. However, in case the contractor fails to make payment of wages within the prescribed period or makes short payment, the principal employer is liable for the wages in full, and can recover it from the contractor. On ground, the rule isn’t followed for a variety of reasons, with the result that migrant workers have had to depend on the benevolence of their employers for even basic necessities and are often at the mercy of contractors for holidays and hours of work. There have also been serious administrative failures in the implementation of the BOCW Act and the BOCW Cess Act which were aimed at ensuring that building and construction workers are guaranteed such basics as education for their children and access to medical facilities. For this purpose, the BOCW Cess Act enables the State governments and the Union Territory administrations to collect a cess from every employer. However, State governments have repeatedly expressed helplessness in utilising the money collected as cess. There is increasing awareness of the massive cost to the economy of such errors of omission. Companies that saw workers return home during this period testify to the enormous price of the disruption to production as well as the enormous efforts needed to restore their confidence such that they would come back to work as soon as possible. Recognising this, in many sectors companies are now mounting much-needed programmes to vaccinate their staff along with their families. Sadly, at the bottom of the pyramid this still remains a distant dream for migrant workers. A more robust regulatory framework in the form of The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code 2020 was published in the Gazette of India on September 29, 2020 after receiving the assent of the President. The Code subsumes the existing ISMW Act and states that a migrant, who comes on his own, to the destination State to work in the establishment, now falls within the ambit of Inter-State Migrant Worker. Further, it provides for registration of ISMW on the portal on the basis of self-declaration and Aadhaar. This gives portability benefits to workers. While these provisions will hopefully pave the way for a more effective implementation of the regulatory framework there is still some distance to cover. As per the earlier notification of the Government of India, the Labour Codes were to be effective from April 1, 2021. Now, however, it has been reported that the Government has deferred implementation of labour codes citing delay on the part of States to finalise the rules. As should be evident from the repeated waves of the migrant workers’ crisis, only a proactive and coordinated effort by the Central and State governments, along with key stakeholders including employers, will bring a sustainable and just solution to this problem. (The author is Managing Partner and CEO, BCP Associates. The views expressed are personal)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stronger-measures-needed-to-safeguard-interests-of-migrant-workers-996660.html
12-06-2021||National||Digvijaya Singh kicks off row over 're-look Article 370' remarks||Former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Digvijaya Singh’s offer to have a re-look into the abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir kicked off a political row with BJP accusing the senior Congress leader of playing into the hands of Pakistan. “… the decision of removing Article 370 in J&K and revocation of its statehood was an extremely sad decision. The Congress party would certainly have to take a relook at this issue,” Singh said triggering a backlash. “This is what Pakistan wants,” BJP IT cell chief Amit Malviya said. In a Club House chat, Rahul Gandhi’s top aide Digvijaya Singh tells a Pakistani journalist that if Congress comes to power they will reconsider the decision of abrogating Article 370… Addressing a press conference, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra demanded Congress President Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi to clarify the Congress position on the issue. Union Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said instead of playing to the gallery across the border, the Congress must come to terms with the abrogation of Article 370. “This bunch of illiterate people cannot possibly differentiate between 'shall' and 'consider',” the former Madhya Pradesh chief minister said as BJP leaders launched an all out attack on him. Former J&K Chief Minister Farooq Abdullah welcomed Singh’s remarks and asked the Modi government to look into the issue of Article 370 and bifurcation of the state of J&K into two union territories. “I hope the current government will look into it and try to win the hearts of the people. That can only be won if they reverse what they did,” said Abdullah, who now heads the Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration. Asked about Singh’s remarks, AICC spokesperson Pawan Khera said every Congress leader should follow the official stand of the party articulated in the Congress Working Committee resolution on J&K adopted on August 6, 2019. The CWC had slammed the “unilateral” decision to abrogate Article 370, contending that it deserved to be honoured until it was amended after consultation with all sections of the people and strictly in accordance with the Constitution of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/digvijaya-singh-kicks-off-row-over-re-look-article-370-remarks-996678.html
12-06-2021||National||GST council cuts rates on Covid-19 essentials to 5%||The GST Council Saturday waived tax rates on medicines to treat black fungus and reduced levies on a host of Covid-19 essentials such as ventilators, ambulances, test kits and hand sanitisers, in a move that is expected to give much needed relief to the common man fighting the second wave of the pandemic. GST rates were brought down to nil on black fungus drugs — Amphotericin and Tocilizumab — and reduced to 5% on Remdesivir, used for treating Covid, from the earlier 12%. However, the GST rate on Covid vaccine will remain unchanged at 5%. “The 5% GST on vaccines will stay. The Centre will buy the 75% vaccine as announced and will pay its GST too. But 70% of income from GST will be shared with the states," Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said briefing reporters on the GST Council decisions.    The Council decided to cut tax rates from 12% to 5% on medical grade oxygen, ventilators, pulse oximeter and oxygen concentrators while the rate was brought down to 12% on ambulances from the existing 28%. The new rates will be valid till September. The tax rates were reduced based on the recommendations of a Group of Ministers set up last month headed by Meghalaya Deputy Chief Minister Conrad Sangma to examine whether any GST concessions or exemptions should be given on Covid-relief items. The Council agreed to almost all suggestions given by the GoM. The thorny issue of GST compensation cess did not come up in Saturday’s meeting, with Sitharaman saying another meeting to sort out the issue will be held soon. Finance ministers from Congress-ruled states walked out of the GST Council meeting after expressing their disapproval on not providing zero-rate GST on Covid relief items.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gst-council-cuts-rates-on-covid-19-essentials-to-5-996679.html
12-06-2021||National||Adhir urges PM to treat Bengal river bank erosion as national disaster, release funds||Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Saturday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to treat large-scale river bank erosion in Malda and Murshidabad districts of West Bengal as a national disaster and release adequate funds for mitigation. In a letter to the prime minister, the senior Congress leader, who is also the party's state unit chief, said that large chunks of fertile land have been lost to the Ganga, which flows through the two minority-dominated districts, rendering lakhs of people homeless and making them "neo- refugees". "They become landless and lose their livelihood. Sometimes, poverty leads to an increase in crimes. It creates neo-refugees with many social problems," the letter read. Citing an example of the problems faced by the erosion-affected people, Chowdhury said a colony of such people from Malda has come up in Mumbai's Byculla area, where they are branded as Bangladeshi infiltrators as they have also lost their documents to the erosion. "During the UPA regime, a large fund was sanctioned for the above issue. I request you to kindly release adequate funds to check the land erosion and protect the life and livelihood of the affected people," he said. Chowdhury represents Berhampore Lok Sabha constituency in Murshidabad district. Ganga flows through Malda before entering Murshidabad, where it splits into Bhagirathi that flows south through West Bengal and Padma which flows east into Bangladesh. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adhir-urges-pm-to-treat-bengal-river-bank-erosion-as-national-disaster-release-funds-996686.html
12-06-2021||National||IMA to hold country-wide protest on June 18 against assault of doctors||The Indian Medical Association will hold a protest on June 18 against assault on doctors, with the slogan of ‘save the saviors’. In a statement, the apex medical body asked all its state and local branches across the country to observe the protest by wearing black badges, masks, ribbons, shirts and running awareness campaign against violence targeting healthcare professionals. The IMA said press conferences will also be organised and they will also meet local NGOs and voluntary service leaders. It termed "extremely disturbing" a series of violence against doctors in the last two weeks in Assam, Bihar, West Bengal, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and other places. It demanded the implementation of central hospital and Health Care Professionals Protection Act with IPC and Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), standardisation and augmentation of security in each hospital, and declaring hospitals as protected zones among others. "Action Committee of IMA, after considering all the aspects and to express our concern, anger and solidarity, has decided to observe the 18th June 2021 as IMA National Protest Day with demand to stop assault on the profession and the professionals with the slogan ‘Save the Saviors’," the medical body said. It further said that June 15 will be observed as a National Demand Day and Press Meets will held across the country by branches. On yoga guru Ramdev's alleged recent disparaging remarks against allopathy, the IMA said the legal course is underway and it will be followed up. "Ramdev has now publicly issued the new statement saying that 'DOCTROS ARE DEVDOOTS' and he will personally also go for vaccination. But the mental agony/verbal violence inflected on us, is unforgettable," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ima-to-hold-country-wide-protest-on-june-18-against-assault-of-doctors-996690.html
12-06-2021||National||Extending vaccine intervals may leave you vulnerable to variants: Dr Fauci||Vaccination against Covid-19 is the key to fight the infection and extending jab intervals could leave the population vulnerable to one of the Covid-19 variants, according to Dr Anthony Fauci, medical advisor to the US President. "... and we've seen that in the UK, where they extended that interval, in that period you can get infected by the variants. So, we recommend staying on schedule," Dr Fauci added. For the second time in three months, the Indian government on May 13 extended the gap between the doses of Serum Institute of India-manufactured Covishield vaccine from six-eight weeks to 12-16 weeks. Previously, in March, the gap was increased from 28 days to six-eight weeks “for better results”. While the increase in gap between two doses of Covishield has been linked to better efficacy, the decision is said to have been taken due to an acute vaccine shortage. Dr Fauci stressed on the importance of vaccinating more people in a short period of time to avoid getting infected from the ‘delta’ variant -- which is said to be 40- 50 per cent more infectious. "The Delta variant, that is dominant in many states in India, spreads much more readily and efficiently from person to person. So any country that has the Delta variant should be concerned that there will be a surge of infections, particularly, if that particular country does not have a substantial proportion of their people vaccinated. We've seen that when the Delta variant spreads among non-vaccinated people, it can become dominant very, very quickly. That's what is going on in the UK -- the Delta variant is taking over. It is close to 90% dominant now," he told NDTV. Recent studies by AIIMS and NCDC suggest that the Delta variant may be able to infect fully-vaccinated people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/extending-vaccine-intervals-may-leave-you-vulnerable-to-variants-dr-fauci-996703.html
12-06-2021||National||Work from home effect: Count of males seeking emotional counselling sees upward trend||The national lockdown imposed last year due to coronavirus had reportedly witnessed a rise in the number of complaints from women about domestic violence, abuse by family members, psychological disorders, emotional outbursts and other issues. But counsellors say that they have been observing a trend over the past few months in which men are increasingly coming forward to complain about a host of issues, including strain in the relationship with spouse and work-related stress as a large number of professionals continue to work from home due to the restrictions during the second wave of the pandemic. Officials and the counsellors from Pune police’s Bharosa Cell that was set up to offer help to women, children and senior citizens in distress, said since September last year, men are increasingly coming forward with complaints. Assistant police inspector Sujata Shanme of the cell said that it had received a total of 2,074 complaints in 2020. "Of these, 1,283 complaints came from women, while in 791 cases the complainants were men. In 2021, till April, we have received 729 complaints from women and 266 from men," she said. Advocate Prathana Sadavarte, one of the counsellors with the cell, said that during the strict lockdown last year, they started receiving more complaints from women about domestic violence abuse, emotional outbursts, psychological confinement and husbands and in-laws’ tendency of taking them for granted. "But post-unlock (September onwards), complaints from men also increased and they were about mostly work-related stress and extended working hours due to work from home mode,” she said. She said that if both the spouses are working, they are generally are sympathetic towards each other's job responsibilities. However, if one spouse is not working, then he or she may not get full idea of the hardships that the other one is facing on the professional front. Giving an example, she said, "A male professional had approached us saying that he has been working from home since the last lockdown. He complained that just because he is at home, his wife expects him to help in household chores.” The husband had failed to communicate to her his work-related woes, as a result of which both of them started arguing. While counselling them, we realised that both of them had not given space to each other which was required, she said. "During the counselling sessions, we asked them to start giving compliments about each other’s work and spending more time with each other,” she added. Sadavarte said that there is a perceived notion that such cells and helplines are generally women-centric, but the lockdown has changed that notion and men have also found a platform where they can share their emotions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/work-from-home-effect-count-of-males-seeking-emotional-counselling-sees-upward-trend-996705.html
12-06-2021||National||Explained: How Covid-19 vaccine gaps affect immunity||One of the enduring debates that have run through the course of Covid-19 waves and vaccinations is the question of gaps between jabs. The contentious issue has had numerous studies conducted on it and governments flip-flopping on what the right policy should be. Real world data from the United Kingdom had previously supported a gap of 12 weeks between doses as more effective, but with the rise of the new Delta variant, first identified in India, those inferences have lost some of their sheen. The UK itself has reversed its policy and shortened the gap between doses and newer studies have shown that a single dose may be less effective against the new variant than previously thought. Why gaps are important to vaccines Many Covid-19 vaccines are administered in two doses, with the first spurring an immune response, and the second “booster” shot redoubles that immune response to increase protection. For some vaccines, a longer delay before a booster dose generates a stronger immune response, though the studies that test the gap need real-world data, which means identifying a sure shot and highly effective interval may take some time. Why is it difficult to set policy regarding gaps? Policymakers have struggled to balance the most effective gap between doses, vaccine supply, variants and the need to get the maximum number vaccinated as quickly as possible. While real-world data informs scientists recommendations, it may not always be possible to implement their advice. A question most countries face with the rise of newer, more virulent variants is whether it is better to cover more people with a single dose or prioritise the second dose as vaccine stocks are limited. What do the experts say? The new findings go against real-world studies conducted in the UK that had not accounted for the Delta variant. The studies had shown that a longer gap of about 12 weeks actually improved the immune response, which had informed the Indian government’s decision to lengthen the gap between Covishield jabs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-how-covid-19-vaccine-gaps-affect-immunity-996712.html
12-06-2021||National||MEA Jaishankar arrives in Kenya on bilateral visit to strengthen ties||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Kenyan counterpart Raychelle Omamo on Saturday held a "productive discussion" on bilateral cooperation that the two countries will take forward through a joint commission. Jaishankar, who arrived in Kenya on Saturday on a three-day visit, had a detailed exchange on regional and global issues with the Kenyan Cabinet Secretary for Foreign Affairs. "A detailed exchange on regional and global issues as befitting two UNSC members. A historical solidarity is today a modern partnership," Jaishankar tweeted after the talks. A detailed exchange on regional and global issues as befitting two UNSC members. A historical solidarity is today a modern partnership. Thanking Omamo for her "gracious welcome and hospitality," Jaishankar said they had a "productive discussion" on bilateral cooperation that the two countries will be taking forward through the Joint Commission. He will chair, along with his Kenyan counterpart, the 3rd meeting of the India-Kenya Joint Commission meeting which will review all aspects of the bilateral relationship. The last meeting of the Joint Commission was held in New Delhi in March 2019. Meanwhile, senior officials from both countries discussed a wide range of bilateral matters, laying the groundwork for the India-Kenya Joint Commission Meeting, the Indian High Commission here said in a tweet. Jaishankar will also meet with other ministers of the Kenyan government to take forward the India-Kenya relationship. "The development partnership is an important aspect of the relationship between the two countries which the visit will seek to deepen," the Ministry of External Affairs said in New Delhi ahead of the visit. The minister will also interact with the thriving Indian-origin community, an important bridge between the two countries. Kenya has a vibrant community of persons of Indian origin presently numbered around 80,000 including an estimated 20,000 Indian citizens. India and Kenya are currently serving in the United Nations Security Council. They are also members of the Commonwealth. Kenya is an active member of the African Union, with which India has longstanding ties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mea-jaishankar-arrives-in-kenya-on-bilateral-visit-to-strengthen-ties-996726.html
12-06-2021||National||213 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi, lowest in over 3 months||Delhi recorded 213 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest in over three months, and 28 more fatalities on Saturday, while the positivity rate dipped to 0.30 per cent, according to data shared by the health department here. As per the latest health bulletin, these new fatalities pushed the death toll from Covid-19 here to 24,800. On Thursday, the city had recorded 305 cases with a positivity rate of 0.41 per cent, and 45 deaths, while the daily tally was 238 on Friday with 0.31 per cent positivity rate, and 24 deaths. On March 8, Delhi had recorded 239 cases and on March 9, the tally was 320, according to official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/213-new-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-lowest-in-over-3-months-996736.html
12-06-2021||National||Covaxin's scientific standards and commitment are transparent: Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech on Saturday said scientific standards and commitment of the indigenously-developed Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin are transparent, and the company has so far published nine research studies on its safety and efficacy. "Covaxin's scientific standards+commitment is transparent. Academic journals, peer reviewers, NIV-ICMR-BB researchers -scientists, nine studies and data published," Bharat Biotech co-founder and Joint MD Suchitra Ella said in a tweet. The complete data for Phase I and II, and partial data for Phase III trials of Covaxin have been thoroughly scrutinised by the regulators in India, Bharat Biotech said in a statement. "In a timely approach to peer review, the company has already published as many as nine research studies on the safety and efficacy of Covaxin in five globally reputed peer-reviewed journals in a span of just twelve months," it added. Covaxin, a whole-virion inactivated coronavirus vaccine, is the first and only product to have published any data from human clinical trials in India, Bharat Biotech said. "It is the only product to have any data on emerging variants. It is also the first and only Covid-19 vaccine to have efficacy data in Indian populations," it added. Bharat Biotech completed three preclinical studies, which are published in Cellpress, a peer-reviewed journal. The studies on Covaxin's Phase I and Phase II clinical trial are published by the peer-reviewed journal, The Lancet - Infectious Diseases, Bharat Biotech said. The full data from studies on Covaxin's neutralisation of variants are already published at bioRxiv, Clinical Infectious Diseases, and Journal of Travel Medicine, it added. "Currently, data from both efficacy and safety follow-up of Covaxin's Phase III trial is being analysed and compiled. Upholding its uncompromising commitment to integrity, the company will make Phase III trials data from the final analysis public soon," Bharat Biotech said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covaxins-scientific-standards-and-commitment-are-transparent-bharat-biotech-996738.html
12-06-2021||National||From the Newsroom: GST council cuts rates on Covid-19 essentials to 5%||In your evening news brief, GST council cuts rates on Covid-19 essentials to 5%; Diesel at Rs 100 mark in Rajasthan, Karnataka sees petrol at Rs 100/litre and Priyanka Gandhi slams govt's Covid-19 response.  The GST Council Saturday waived tax rates on medicines to treat mucormycosis and reduced levies on a host of Covid-19 essentials such as ventilators, ambulances, test kits and hand sanitisers, in a move that is expected to give much-needed relief to the common man fighting the second wave of the pandemic. GST rates were brought down to nil on mucormycosis drugs — Amphotericin and Tocilizumab — and reduced to 5% on Remdesivir, used for treating Covid, from the earlier 12%. However, the GST rate on the Covid-19 vaccine will remain unchanged at 5%. Diesel price on Saturday breached the Rs 100 per litre mark in Rajasthan after yet another increase in fuel rates, which also led to Karnataka becoming the 7th state to record Rs 100 a litre petrol. Petrol price was hiked by 27 paise per litre and diesel by 23 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The hike, 23rd since May 4, pushed fuel prices across the country to new historic highs. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi on Saturday launched a scathing attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, alleging that Indians do not come first for the PM, politics does and that truth does not concern him, propaganda does. As part of her "Zimmedaar Kaun (who is responsible)" campaign, in which she has been asking questions of the government over its handling of the pandemic, the Congress general secretary focused on the "crisis of leadership" and claimed that the whole world has witnessed the prime minister's “incompetence at governance” during the pandemic. Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-gst-council-cuts-rates-on-covid-19-essentials-to-5-996745.html
12-06-2021||National||Sri Lanka, India discuss defence, security cooperation||Sri Lanka's Defence Secretary Gen. Kamal Gunaratne has held talks with Indian High Commissioner Gopal Baglay on ways to further enhance defence and security cooperation between the two countries. Gunaratne expressed his views on matters of defence cooperation and recalled the long existing bilateral ties and cooperation between the two countries, according to a report in Colombo Page news portal. The meeting held on Friday focused on areas of bilateral cooperation, including the matters of mutual relevance, it said. Gunaratne also expressed Sri Lanka's appreciation for India's rapid response and support to douse the flames on Singapore-flagged cargo ship MV 'X-PRESS PEARL', that caught fire on May 20 and sank near the outer area of Colombo port, the report said. India on May 25 dispatched Indian Coast Guard vessels and an aircraft to help the Sri Lankan Navy extinguish the fire. India's specialised pollution response vessel Samudra Prahari reached there on May 29. During the meeting, attention was also drawn towards the long-existing military training exchange between two countries, Colombo Gazette reported, citing the Sri Lanka Defence Ministry. The meeting was held while adhering to the stipulated health guidelines to contain the spread of Covid-19, the ministry said. The Commanders of the Sri Lankan Navy and Air Force and the Chief of National Intelligence also attended the talks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sri-lanka-india-discuss-defence-security-cooperation-996765.html
12-06-2021||National||Gujarat RSS veteran Amrut Kadiwala dies of post Covid-19 complications||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) veteran from Gujarat Amrut Kadiwala died of post Covid-19 complications at a private hospital here on Saturday, a leader of the organisation said. Kadiwala (83), who served as the Sanghchalak of Gujarat prant for a long period, died at about 4 pm at a hospital, where he was undergoing treatment for post Covid-19 complications, the leader said. Condoling Kadiwala's death, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted in Gujarati, "Saddened by the demise of Shri Amrutbhai Kadiwala, an RSS leader of Gujarat prant. His social contribution will always be remembered. Pray from the heart for peace of his soul. Om Shanti." Born on December 5, 1938, Kadiwala was an RSS volunteer from the time of late Madhukarrao Bhagwat, the father of the present Sarsanghchalak Mohan Bhagwat. "He served as the Karyavah (caretaker) of Karnavati (Ahmedabad), then took over as the president, then Karyavah of Gujarat state, and for a very long time served as the Sanghchalak of Gujarat," the RSS said in a release. Amrutbhai's specialty was his wide contacts. His instinctive contact with the volunteers of the Sangh, senior citizens of the society and leaders other than the Sangh circle was very natural, the release stated. Union Minister Amit Shah, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and state BJP President C R Paatil also paid tribute to Kadiwala. "Received the news of the sad demise of Shri Dr Amrutbhai Kadiwala, former Sanghchalakji of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, Gujarat. May God give salvation to his divine soul and strength to the family to bear this suffering. Om Shanti," Shah said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-rss-veteran-amrut-kadiwala-dies-of-post-covid-19-complications-996766.html
12-06-2021||National||Twitter sends notices to cartoonist Manjul, others on request from law enforcement agencies||Unnamed law enforcement agencies have asked Twitter to take down certain tweets of popular cartoonist Manjul, fact-checking website Alt News co-founder Mohammed Zubair and others, over alleged violation of law. Manjul, Zubair and retired IAS officer Surya Pratap Singh have shared screenshots of the notice sent by the microblogging platform on their Twitter handles over the last few days. Sources said the Ministry of Electronics and IT was not involved in sending these legal requests to Twitter. It wasn't clear which agencies have flagged these tweets by these users and for what violations. Emails sent to Twitter did not elicit a response. Meanwhile, the screenshot shared by Manjul showed Twitter as saying: "In the interest of transparency, we are writing to inform you that Twitter has received a request from Indian law enforcement regarding your Twitter account @MANJULtoons, that claims the ... content violates the law(s) of India". It further stated that Twitter has “not taken any action on the reported content at this time as a result of this request”.   Twitter, in its notice, said it is the company's policy to notify users if it receives a legal request from an authorised entity (such as law enforcement or a government agency) to remove content from their account. Twitter further informed the account holders that while the platform is unable to provide legal advice, "we want you to have an opportunity to evaluate the request and, if you wish, take appropriate action to protect your interests". "This may include seeking legal counsel and challenging the request in court, contacting relevant civil society organisations, voluntarily deleting the content (if applicable), or finding some other resolution," Twitter added. Mohammed Zubair and Surya Pratap Singh also shared screenshots with similarly worded notices from Twitter on their own accounts. These three users each have lakhs of followers on the platform. Twitter has had several faceoffs with the Indian government over the past months, including during the farmers' protest and later when it tagged political posts of several leaders of the ruling party BJP as "manipulated media". Twitter has also been facing heat for delay in complying with the IT rules that mandate large digital platforms to undertake greater due diligence and make them more accountable and responsible for the content hosted by them. Social media companies will have to take down flagged content within 36 hours, and remove within 24 hours content that is flagged for issues such as nudity and pornography under the new rules. Under the rules, significant social media intermediaries -- those with over 50 lakh users -- are required to appoint a grievance officer, a nodal officer and a chief compliance officer. These personnel have to be residents in India. Earlier this week, Twitter assured the Indian government that it is in advanced stages of finalising the appointment of chief compliance officer as required under the new IT rules, and that it will submit additional details within a week. Twitter has also stated that India will be one of the first countries in which it pilots a new approach of building an in-market team to "locally tailor" its global product to the needs of the region. As part of its strategy, the company is scouting for a 'Staff Designer', who will help the platform establish a bespoke product strategy for Twitter in India and execute against it with support from a dedicated local team. Twitter has an estimated 1.75 crore users in India, as per data cited by the government recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-sends-notices-to-cartoonist-manjul-others-on-request-from-law-enforcement-agencies-996770.html
12-06-2021||National||Extrapolation sans epidemiological evidence: Centre trashes report on higher Covid-19 deaths||India Saturday refuted a report which claimed that its Covid deaths could be "five to seven times" higher than the official number, saying the assessment is based on extrapolation of data without any epidemiological evidence. In a statement, the Union Health Ministry also slammed the publication, without naming it, for the article which claimed: "India has suffered perhaps five to seven times 'excess deaths' than the official number of Covid-19 fatalities". The ministry termed the article, published by The Economist, speculative, without any basis and misinformed. "The unsound analysis of the said article is based on the extrapolation of data without any epidemiological evidence," the ministry said, adding the studies used by the magazine to estimate the mortality are not validated tools for determining the death rate of any country or region. The ministry then went on to list the reasons why the studies used by the publication cannot be trusted. An internet search of research studies in scientific databases such as Pubmed, Research Gate, etc., did not locate this study and its detailed methodology has not been provided by the magazine either, the ministry said. "Another evidence given is the study done in Telangana based on insurance claims. Again, there is no peer-reviewed scientific data available on such a study," the statement said. "Two other studies relied upon are those done by Psephology groups namely 'Prashnam' and 'C-Voter' who are well versed in conducting, predicting and analyzing poll results. They were never ever associated with public health research. Even in their own area of work of psephology, their methodologies for predicting poll results have been wide off the mark many times," it said. By their own submission, the magazine states that "such estimates have been extrapolated from patchy and often unreliable local government data, from company records and from analyses of such things as obituaries", the statement said It said the government has been transparent in its approach to Covid-19 data management. In order to avoid any inconsistency in the number of deaths being reported, the ministry said, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) issued guidelines as early as in May 2020. It said that for correct recording of all deaths, the ICD-10 codes recommended by World Health Organisation (WHO) was followed. States and Union Territories have been urged through formal communications, multiple video conferences and through the deployment of Central teams for correct recording of deaths in accordance with laid down guidelines, it said. The Health Ministry said that it has also regularly emphasised the need for a robust reporting mechanism for monitoring district-wise cases and deaths on a daily basis. "States consistently reporting lower number of daily deaths were told to re-check their data. A case in point is the Union Government writing to the State of Bihar to provide detailed date and district wise break-up of the reconciled number of deaths to Union Health Ministry," it said. The statement said there shall always be difference in mortality recorded during a profound and prolonged public health crisis such as Covid-19 pandemic and well-conducted research studies on excess mortalities, usually done after the event when data on mortalities are available from reliable sources. The methodologies for such studies are well established, the data sources are defined as also the valid assumptions for computing mortality, the statement said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/extrapolation-sans-epidemiological-evidence-centre-trashes-report-on-higher-covid-19-deaths-996778.html
12-06-2021||National||India crosses 25 crore-mark in Covid-19 vaccination||India on Saturday crossed the 25-crore mark in administering Covid-19 vaccines with more than 20 crore persons receiving at least one dose of the vaccine. According to provisional data, 25,28,78,702 doses of Covid-19 vaccines were administered till 7:00 p.m. on Saturday, the 148th day of the vaccination drive. “India has also crossed the historic landmark of 20-crore (20,46,01,176) first doses administration,” a health ministry statement said. Health workers had administered more than 31.67 lakh doses of vaccines on Saturday, it said. More than four crore beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 have received the first dose of vaccine since May 1, when they became eligible for vaccination. “Cumulatively, 4,00,31,646 persons across 37 States/UTs have received their first dose and total 6,74,499 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive,” the ministry said. Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years for the first dose of Covid vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-crosses-25-crore-mark-in-covid-19-vaccination-996785.html
12-06-2021||National||Digvijaay known for 'pro-Pakistan' views: Jitin Prasada||Jitin Prasada, who recently quit the Congress and joined the BJP, criticised Digvijay Singh on Saturday for his "pro-Pakistan" views after the former Madhya Pradesh chief minister in an audio chat purportedly said that the Congress will have a "relook" at the nullification of Article 370 if the Modi government loses power. Prasada tweeted, "He is known for his pro-Pakistan views. This way one day he might even condemn Indira ji for dividing Pakistan." After the neighbouring country lost to India in the 1971 war when Indira Gandhi was the prime minister, Bangladesh was carved out of Pakistan and became an independent country. Prasada, who is from Uttar Pradesh, recently severed his family's three-generation ties with the Congress and joined the BJP. "The decision of revoking Article 370 and reducing the statehood of J&K is extremely, I would say, sad decision, and the Congress party would certainly have a relook on the issue," Singh purportedly said, according to excerpts of his clubhouse conversation available on social media. He was responding to a question about the "way forward" on the issue "once the Modi government is gone". The BJP launched a scathing attack on Singh and top Congress leaders, accusing them of speaking "the language of Pakistan" and spewing venom against India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/digvijaay-known-for-pro-pakistan-views-jitin-prasada-996819.html
12-06-2021||National||Will bear responsibility of marriage of girls who lost earning members to Covid: BJP MP||BJP MP Parvesh Verma's NGO Rashtriya Swabhiman will bear all responsibility of marriage of girls in Delhi who lost earning members in their families to Covid-19, said the senior leader on Saturday. The NGO, founded by Verma's father and former Delhi chief minister Sahib Singh Verma, would do its best to make sure that the wedding takes place at the fixed time only, he said. "It is every father's dream to marry off his daughter well but if he dies due to Covid, there is bound to be tension in that family. But no longer, as I will do it for them. My organisation will bear the responsibility of marriage of those girls where there are no earning members left in a family due to Corona deaths," said the MP from West Delhi. "If one comes across such a family in Delhi, you can inform me on WhatsApp," he added. The BJP leader asked those in need to WhatsApp their number and address on 9868181111. Notably, the Delhi administration had announced Rs 50,000 compensation for families whose sole breadwinner died due to Covid-19. In addition to this, the government will also provide free education for kids who lost both parents due to the virus and Rs 2,500 will also be given every month till they are 25 years old. Delhi recorded 213 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest in over three months, and 28 more fatalities on Saturday, while the positivity rate dipped to 0.30 per cent, according to data shared by the health department here. The new fatalities have pushed the death toll from Covid-19 here to 24,800.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-bear-responsibility-of-marriage-of-girls-who-lost-earning-members-to-covid-bjp-mp-996822.html
12-06-2021||National||No heatwave expected over next five days: IMD||No heatwave is expected in the country over the next five days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. On Saturday, the highest maximum temperature of 44.2 degree Celsius was reported in Ganganagar in west Rajasthan, it added. "No Heat Wave Conditions likely over any part of the country during next five days," the weather agency said in a bulletin. The maximum temperatures of more than 40 degree Celsius were recorded at most places over west Rajasthan, at many places over Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, at a few places over and at isolated places over east Rajasthan, Punjab, west Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, the IMD said. Meanwhile, several parts of the country are witnessing a good spell of rainfall. The IMD said the Southwest Monsoon has further advanced into remaining parts of Northwest Bay of Bengal some more parts of Odisha, most parts of West Bengal and some parts of Jharkhand and Bihar. "Conditions are favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into some more parts of Madhya Pradesh, remaining parts Chhattisgarh, Odisha, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar and some parts of east Uttar Pradesh during next 24 hours," the IMD said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-heatwave-expected-over-next-five-days-imd-996824.html
12-06-2021||National Politics||BJP top brass talk strategy after Yogi-Modi meet||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and  party chief J P Nadda, concluding his two-day engagements in Delhi that made headlines and fuelled much speculation of a rift with the Centre. Following Adityanath's departure, the BJP top brass huddled together, indicating that some drastic changes could be on the anvil in the state to arrest any damage to the party's image from the Yogi government's handling of the Covid-19 crisis. Shah and Nadda met Modi as rumours swirled about a reshuffle in the Union Cabinet and a similar reshuffle in Uttar Pradesh. Both the rejigs will be done keeping in mind the upcoming state polls in 2022 in seven states, including UP, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh. Modi will also be meeting Union ministers in batches in the next few days, revealing a sense of urgency in the saffron party that is still smarting over its drubbing in the West Bengal Assembly polls. Yogi's meeting with Modi lasted nearly an hour and he was with Nadda for nearly 90 minutes. However, there was no media interaction or press conference after these high-profile meetings, with leaders choosing to tweet photographs. After the meetings, Yogi tweeted in Hindi saying: "Heartfelt gratitude to the respected Prime Minister for providing time to meet and for loving guidance (aatmiya margdarshan) amid his busy schedule." Modi and Shah merely mentioned they met the UP CM, while Nadda hailed him as "successful (Yashaswhi) Chief Minister of UP".  According to insiders, the party has made it clear to Aditynath's critics that the chief minister will remain the party's face for next Assembly polls. But in a key change, Shah will be back in the thick of action in the state, where he turned around the party's fortunes before the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Shah on Thursday met Apna Dal (S) chief Anupuriya S Patel, who was Union Minister in Modi's first government, and leaders of Nishad party in UP. While Patel hails from the Kurmi caste, the second-most dominant OBC after Yadavs in UP, Nishad Party leader Sanjay Nishad is influential among the boatmen (mallah) community, which can influence outcomes in nearly 100 Assembly seats. Images of bodies floating in the Ganga during the pandemic have done much damage to the good governance image of BJP in the state.  The non-Yadav backward castes have been the bedrock of BJP's support base in UP in the last seven years. These meetings are significant amid the impression that the caste calculus Modi-Shah built assiduously in UP is now getting fractured under the strain of the pandemic, with the BJP's poor performance in the recent panchayat polls being a possible symptom.  But the BJP — even though it might be miffed with Adityanath — also feels a combo of 'Brand Modi and Brand Yogi' is a better option for it in UP when it goes to polls. Hence rather than making heads roll, the BJP is trying to address issues like Brahmins' anger by inducting Congress' Brahmin face Jitin Prasada and address governance-deficit issues by roping in former IAS officer Arvind Sharma, a trusted hand of Modi. While the BJP has publicly dismissed talk of any rift, the Opposition Congress went to the town, claiming that "all is not well in UP BJP". Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said Adityanath had fallen on hard times as he is "wandering door-to-door to retain his post".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-top-brass-talk-strategy-after-yogi-modi-meet-996538.html
12-06-2021||National Politics||SAD, BSP announce tie-up for Punjab Assembly polls; Mayawati's party on alliance spree since 2018||Poll-bound Punjab is 'destination next' on regional tie-ups for Mayawati's BSP, which on Saturday announced an alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for next year's assembly elections in the Congress-ruled state. Mayawati-led BSP will fight 20 of the 117 Assembly seats in Punjab, while the rest will be contested by SAD, the erstwhile ruling party of the state. SAD walked out of the BJP-led NDA alliance at the Centre last year in protest against the contentious farm laws. The laws have kicked up a more than six months-long farmer protest on Delhi borders adjoining Punjab, UP (both states are going to polls next year) and Haryana. UP and Haryana are BJP-ruled and the ongoing protest could pose real problems for the saffron party in both states -- particularly since farmers there are most vocal against the new laws. Making the announcement at a joint conference, BSP's Satish Chandra Mishra and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal hailed it as a “new day, historic day and big turn in Punjab's politics”.  Badal said both parties will jointly fight the 2022 polls and future elections together, a hint at the 2024 general elections. The SAD-BSP alliance had contested the 1996 Lok Sabha polls together and won 11 out of 13 seats in Punjab. It had broken up after the former allied with Congress. With the past apparently in mind, both Mishra and Badal expressed confidence that their alliance will sweep the 2022 polls and oust the ruling Congress government from power. However, a close look at BJP's alliances with regional parties in other states shows that the party has not been able to do much when it has been out of power in UP. Hence, SAD's high hopes may be misplaced; although, unlike other parties with which BSP allied in other states, SAD is a key player in Punjab politics. The BJP, in fact, was a junior ally, contesting from only 23 seats in the past. The BSP had indicated its willingness to tie up with SAD way back in 2018, much before the SAD-BJP relations soured in 2020. BSP Punjab affairs in-charge Meghraj Singh had, in August 2018, said his party was open to ally with SAD if they broke ties with BJP. In Punjab, Dalits constitute a huge 31 percent voting block and Punjab is the home state of Mayawati's mentor and anchor of new Dalit politics, Kanshi Ram. Knowing well the emotional connection of Kanshi Ram's name with Dalits, Badal also referred to the bond between SAD patriarch Parkash Singh Badal and BSP founder Late Ram Sharad. This could spell some trouble for the ruling Congress in Punjab, which is already battling massive infighting between Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu. Punjab, where the BSP reworked an alliance with SAD after a gap of 27 years, is the fifth state where the BSP has allied with regional parties. The string of alliances began with HD Devegowda's JDS in February 2018 in Karnataka, which has 20 percent Dalit electorate. It later tied up with Ajit Jogi’s Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (JCC) for 2018 Assembly polls and Om Prakash Chautala’s Indian National Lok Dal in Haryana for 2019 Lok Sabha polls. While Mishra promised "this alliance will continue forever now", the fact remains that the BSP has continued its curious plank of instability to shore its own political fortunes. BSP also understands that a tie-up with regional parties is more beneficial than any alliance with the national parties -- Congress or BJP, which it has been calling as "two sides of the same coin" and lambasting them as "Naagnath and Saanpanath" (both meaning the king of snakes). BSP's alliance spree In September 2018, Mayawati tied up with Ajit Jogi's party in Chhattisgarh, where Dalits constitute 16 percent of the voting population. Both parties failed to make a difference to the outcome and Congress romped home, bringing to end the 15-year uninterrupted rule of the BJP. SC/STs mainly backed Congress in the 2018 state polls. Six months later, BSP snapped ties with Jogi's party in Chhattisgarh. BSP had tied up with HD Devegowda's Janata Dal (S) for Karnataka Assembly polls in 2018, which threw a hung verdict making JDS' H D Kumaraswami chief minister with outside support from Congress, an experiment that did not last long. But that was more due to the triangular nature of politics in the state, where JDS was an influential player. Mayawati's party could win only one seat in Kollegal, whereas it notched up only a few votes (total votes less than one percent) in 16 other constituencies where it contested. In fact, the pre-poll tie-up in Karnataka was the first such alliance that the BSP had entered into with any party since the 1996 tie-up with the Congress in Uttar Pradesh. Two months later, BSP and Om Prakash Chautala’s Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) announced their tie-up for both the 2019 assembly polls in Haryana as well as the Lok Sabha polls. Chautala’s son Abhay Singh was quick to proclaim that a non-BJP, non-Congress Third Front would be formed under the leadership of the BSP supremo. The calculation was since Dalits make up a fifth of Haryana’s population, Chautala's Jat, farmer base with Dalit votes could do wonders. In the 2014 assembly elections there, the BSP had secured a vote share of 4.37 percent and won one seat. But the outcome of Lok Sabha polls left both BSP and INLD distraught, as the BJP won all 10 Lok Sabha seats. The BSP got 3.65 percent votes and INLD less than 2 percent. Clearly, the Jat-Dalit social engineering failed. Months later, both parties parted ways and contested Assembly polls separately, in which BSP got 4.21% and INLD  got 2.44%. In UP, the BSP had allied with all three parties -- BJP, Congress and SP -- in the past. The Congress and BSP entered into an electoral alliance in Uttar Pradesh in 1996. Soon, the BSP dumped the Grand Old Party and joined hands with the BJP to form a short-lived government. Earlier, it had tied up with Mualyam Singh Yadav's SP, which ended on a bitter note in June 1995 with the Lucknow Guest House incident.  In 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Mayawati again tied up with SP. The BSP won 10 and SP 5 seats, Soon after, Mayawati snapped ties, alleging the SP's votes did not get transferred to BSP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sad-bsp-announce-tie-up-for-punjab-assembly-polls-mayawatis-party-on-alliance-spree-since-2018-996633.html
12-06-2021||National Politics||Policy on war history silent on public release||The Defence Ministry on Saturday unveiled a new policy on properly framing the official history of wars or military operations, but didn’t make any commitment on the public release of such military history documents. The policy, approved by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, mandates the constitution of a committee headed by a Joint Secretary in the Defence Ministry for compilation of history books for various military operations and future wars if it occurs. Such history books would only be for “restricted use” within the government. “Compiled History on wars or military operations (within 5 years) will be for internal consumption first. Later the committee may decide to publicly release whole or parts of it, considering the sensitivity of the subject,” said an official. In the last 74 years, the only war history declassified by the Centre relates to the Indian Army’s 1947-48 operations. Official histories of three subsequent wars in 1962, 1965 and 1971; Kargil conflict of 1999 and military operations of the 1980s like Op Bluestar on Punjab militancy and raiding of the Golden Temple; and Op Pawan – the first IPKF operation – in Sri Lanka still remained a secret. The new policy is unlikely to lead to the disclosure of the Henderson Brooks report on the 1962 Sino-Indian war, which remains India’s top-secret military document, nearly 60 years after the war that India lost. In 2014, a redacted version of the first part of the report was released in the public domain by its author, but the entire report remains locked in the Defence Secretary’s Office in the South Block. The BJP government did a classic flip-flop on the Henderson Brooks report. When in opposition senior BJP leader Arun Jaitley demanded its disclosure in “larger public interest”, but opposed such a move on “national security reasons” in July 2014 after becoming the Defence Minister. The MoD panel will consist of representatives of the Army, Air Force, Navy, Foreign Ministry, Home Ministry, other government agencies and prominent military historians if required. The ministry’s History Division will be responsible for coordination with various departments while compiling, seeking approval and publishing such histories. The three Services, Integrated Defence Staff, Assam Rifles and Indian Coast Guard have been asked to transfer the records, including war diaries, letters of proceedings and operational record books to the History Division for proper upkeep, archival and writing the histories. The Committee has to be formed within two years of completion of a war or a military operation. The collection of records and compilation should be completed in three years following which it will be disseminated to all concerned. According to the policy, the records should "ordinarily be declassified" in 25 years. Records older than 25 years should be appraised by archival experts and transferred to the National Archives once the historical documents have been compiled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/policy-on-war-history-silent-on-public-release-996644.html
12-06-2021||National Politics||'Secret' friendship between Modi and Punjab CM Amarinder Singh: Manish Sisodia||AAP leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday alleged a "solid" friendship between Prime Minister Narenda Modi and Punjab CM Amarinder Singh ahead of the Punjab elections, after the state was ranked number one in the Performance Grading Index (PGI) 2019-20 by the Centre in terms of school education. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is in opposition in the Congress-governed Punjab where Assembly polls are slated for early next year. Modi's BJP is another opposition party in the state. "This report claims that government schools in Punjab have emerged to be the best, while pointing that government schools in Delhi are not up to the mark. This report is just another way to show the blessings Modiji has showered on Captain Amarinder Singh, extending a hand of friendship similar to the previous election. "Strangely enough, this report has been released at a time when people have been raising questions regarding the performance and inadequacies of the Punjab government in education," Sisodia said during an online briefing. The AAP leader alleged that the report points towards the "solid friendship" between the PM and the Punjab chief minister, in lieu of the upcoming Punjab polls. Crediting the Punjab government with the best government schools in the country at a time when the state has seen the closure of more than 800 schools, and several schools have been found to be functioning as alcohol factories is a farce, Sisodia said. "It is crystal clear that Captain Amarinder Singh has the blessings of Modiji and central government for the upcoming elections and we can consider this report as a gift to Captain Singh," he added. The AAP leader claimed that quality education and learning have become a "joke" in Punjab government schools. Alleging that the report has been released to hide the "inadequacies" in quality education of Punjab, he claimed many government school students have had to suffer due to "gross negligence" of the state government. "In the last three to four years, almost 800 government schools have shut down in Punjab, and have been given to NGOs or other institutions to function. Many children had to bear the brunt and parents had to transfer their children to private schools. "In a few days, Modiji will release another report claiming that Punjab government's hospitals are the best in the country. This is just a collaborative tactic for the upcoming elections; it is a strategy of the state government to hide behind the garb of false reports and cover up for their negligence," he said. Accusing the Punjab chief minister of making a "joke" out of the whole education system in the state, he said the report has been released to "ridicule" the system further. "... Modiji has released this report to hide his (Singh's) inadequacies and bless him for the upcoming elections. Following the release of this report, all that the Punjab government has done is release advertisements and hide behind this farce to cover up its inadequacies," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/secret-friendship-between-modi-and-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-manish-sisodia-996669.html
12-06-2021||National Politics||Politics, not Indians, comes first for PM Modi: Priyanka slams govt's Covid response||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi on Saturday launched a scathing attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, alleging that Indians do not come first for the PM, politics does and that truth does not concern him, propaganda does. As part of her "Zimmedaar Kaun (who is responsible)" campaign, in which she has been asking questions of the government over its handling of the pandemic, the Congress general secretary focused on the "crisis of leadership" and claimed that the whole world has witnessed the prime minister's “incompetence at governance” during the pandemic. “He (the prime minister) simply retreated and waited for the worst to pass. The Prime Minister of India has behaved like a coward. He has let our country down,” Priyanka Gandhi said in her statement posted on her Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. The prime minister's vast capacity for vanity has been exposed, she claimed. “Indians do not come first for him. Politics does. Truth does not concern him, propaganda does," Priyanka Gandhi alleged and asserted that the time has come for the people to ask the prime minister 'Zimmedaar Kaun (Who is responsible)'. Good governance in a crisis is about confronting the truth, seizing responsibility, and taking action, she said. "Unfortunately, the Modi government did none of these. Instead, from the beginning of the pandemic, it made every attempt to hide the truth and to shirk responsibility," the Congress general secretary alleged. "As a consequence, when the second wave hit us with unprecedented force, the government lapsed into a state of inaction. This inaction enabled the virus to spread with far greater ferocity and cause untold suffering," she said. Priyanka Gandhi also listed a series of measures that the prime minister should have taken in the wake of Covid spread. “If only the Prime Minister had acted upon the countless warnings he had been given by experts from India and around the world and if only he had listened to the recommendations of his own ‘Empowered Group’, or even to the Parliamentary Committee on Health, we would not have faced the horrendous shortage of beds, oxygen and medicines that we did,” she claimed. "Had he cared about those who looked towards him for leadership, he would not have reduced the number of dedicated Covid beds between the first and the second wave. He would have ordered the tankers required to transport oxygen and prepared for the diversion of industrial oxygen to hospitals,” Priyanka Gandhi asserted. She hit out at the prime minister, saying that he exported millions of doses of life-saving drugs without ensuring provisions for Indian lives first. “Had the Prime Minister prioritised the people of India above his own PR and image building, we would not have the shortage of vaccines we have today,” Priyanka Gandhi said. “Had he woken up from his slumber and ordered vaccines in the summer of 2020 instead of waiting till January 2021, he could have saved countless lives,” she claimed. Instead of distributing free vaccines across the world to boost his own image, had he paused for a moment and protected his countrymen first, the people would not be standing in line today grappling with a convoluted registration system designed to slow down the vaccine process, she said. “We could have vaccinated a very significant proportion of our population by now, considering we are one of the largest vaccine producers in the world,” she argued. She also slammed Modi for not taking opponents along in this battle for Indian lives, saying he could have engaged with experts, critics, allies and the opposition fearlessly. “He could have used the media as a disseminator of life-saving information about Covid, rather than as a propaganda tool to promote his own image,” Priyanka Gandhi alleged. In her statement, she also accused the prime minister of putting politics before human lives, saying he should have helped support the states in their heroic battle against Covid-19. “As the leader of a nation deep in crisis, he would have sent his colleagues in the states resources, cleared their dues and strengthened their efforts instead of appearing on TV repeatedly to whine and complain about them in a pathetic attempt to abdicate his own responsibilities,” she said, in a sharp attack at the PM. Had the prime minister been an informed and competent leader he would have planned, strategised and prepared for the inevitable second wave, the Congress general secretary said, adding that he would not have set aside the tools of science and modernity and transported us back through thaali-banging and lamp lighting rituals into the darkness of bygone centuries. "Indeed, had the Prime Minister been the man his admirers believed him to be, had he had the mettle of a statesman, or the compassion and bravery of a true leader, he would have come forward and comforted his countrymen when they most needed reassurance and succor," she said. He did none of this, Priyanka Gandhi added, slamming the prime minister's leadership during the Covid crisis. Quoting the lines written by the celebrated poet Nirala in his novel ‘Kulli Bhaat’, in which he describes the grim scenes that unfolded during the Spanish Flu epidemic one hundred years ago, she said they are eerily prescient, even more so now because "we live in modern times, when such scenes of collective turmoil caused by an abdication of governance ought to be a thing of the past". The Congress has been critical of the Centre's handling of the Covid situation in the country, but the government has dismissed the criticism of the Opposition party, accusing it of politicising the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/politics-not-indians-comes-first-for-pm-modi-priyanka-slams-govts-covid-response-996671.html
12-06-2021||National Politics||Congress's appeasement policy cause for all problems: Prahlad Joshi||During the Congress region, terrorism could not be checked and measures to solve other problems could not be fruitful, due to its appeasement policy itself, he said. Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi should clarify whether Digivijaya Singh's statement is his individual view or the party's stand, Joshi added. Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar termed Singh's remark as foolish. Due to the vote bank politics of the Congress, terrorist activities took place in J&K, and development took the backseat. Abrogation of Article 370 is promoting development of that region, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congresss-appeasement-policy-cause-for-all-problems-prahlad-joshi-996710.html
12-06-2021||National Politics||Congress alleges Centre's 'incompetence' responsible for India's woes during second Covid-19 wave||The Congress on Saturday alleged that the country paid the price of the Modi government's "incompetence" during the second wave of Covid-19. "When the Modi government should have finalised public health policy to take on the coronavirus on a war footing, it was busy saving the illusory image of the prime minister," it alleged on its Twitter handle. "We lost our brothers and sisters due to this government's incompetence, we will never forget," the Congress tweeted as the opposition party and its leaders targeted the Centre over the handling of the pandemic with the hashtag "ZimmedarKaun" (who is responsible) and raised the issue of shortage of beds, oxygen and medicines when India was at the crest of the second wave. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the public knows who is sitting silently even after the pandemic, inflation and unemployment. "Every person in the country knows the one who is sitting silently even after seeing all -  the pandemic, inflation and unemployment," he tweeted  Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra claimed that the world witnessed the prime minister's “incompetence at governance” during the pandemic. “He (the prime minister) simply retreated and waited for the worst to pass. The Prime Minister of India has behaved like a coward. He has let our country down,” she said in her statement posted on her Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts. The prime minister's "vast capacity for vanity" has been exposed, she alleged. “Indians do not come first for him. Politics does. Truth does not concern him, propaganda does," Priyanka Gandhi alleged and asserted that the time has come for the people to ask the prime minister "Zimmedaar Kaun". The Prime Minister of India has behaved like a coward. He has let our country down. Indians do not come first for him. Politics does. Truth does not concern him, propaganda does. In another tweet, Rahul Gandhi called for further strengthening the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) saying the weaker sections of society have benefited the most from it due to the financial crisis after the lockdowns in the country. "The weaker sections of the country are getting relief from MGNREGA this time too. It is necessary to further strengthen this scheme to deal with the financial crisis caused by the lockdown," he said. "Whichever government is there, the people belong to India and public interest is our responsibility," he also said. The Congress has been touting MGNREGA as the previous UPA government's flagship scheme aimed at benefiting the rural poor by providing them social security and a guarantee of work. Rahul Gandhi also tweeted on World Day Against Child Labour and said the children are the future and deserve education and smiles. "Children are the future. They deserve education, health and smiles. Let's make every day #WorldDayAgainstChildLabour," he said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-alleges-centres-incompetence-responsible-for-indias-woes-during-second-covid-19-wave-996727.html
12-06-2021||National Politics||Won't allow restoration of Article 370, let them take 100 rebirths: BJP J-K chief||In a scathing attack on the Congress over its senior leader Digvijay Singh's remarks on Article 370, Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina said on Saturday that his party will not allow the Congress leaders' "conspiracy" against India to succeed even if they take “100 rebirths".             Raina accused the opposition party of being hand-in-glove with Pakistan, separatists and terrorists, and said the nation would never forgive it for “conspiring and back-stabbing Bharat Mata ”.            “The script was originally written by Gandhis and directed from Pakistan,” he said on remarks by Singh in a clubhouse conversation that the revocation of Article 370 and stripping Jammu and Kashmir of statehood was an "extremely sad" decision and his party will have a "relook" at the issue. He said the people of Jammu and Kashmir are happy over the revocation of Article 370 as it was the main reason for Pakistani ideology to take roots and strengthen separatism. It gave birth to terrorism which has bled the region, Raina said. "The Article was responsible for the grave injustice with various communities including Gujjars and Bakerwals, Pahari speaking people, women and West Pakistani refugees,” the BJP leader said.        He said its revocation on August 5, 2019 fulfilled the dream of 'Ek Nishan, Ek Vidhan and Ek Pradhan' and alleged that the Congress is feeling the pain and is, therefore, "conspiring" which is evident from the statement of its senior leader.         “Let them take 100 rebirths, their conspiracies against the nation will not succeed. We have Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, and every BJP worker is like a soldier, ready to sacrifice his life for the nation and the tricolour. "We will not allow Sonia Gandhi, Rahul and Singh to implement Pakistani agenda in J-K,” Raina said.          He said the Congress leaders are enjoying facilities in India and even fighting elections but their hearts “beat for Pakistan”. "The whole nation is watching the Congress and its leadership and will never forgive the party for being puppets in the hands of Pakistan,” he said.         Meanwhile, right-wing outfit Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) also reacted sharply to the purported remarks of the Congress leader and requested the Centre and the J-K Government to keep an eye on “elements who, on the behest of their separatist friends and in order to gain some limelight, issue such sadistic statements hurting the sentiments of nationalist citizens.” “This pro-Pakistan agenda of terrorists can never be fulfilled as Congress or Digvijaya-minded people are never going to regain political power in India,” J-K VHP president Leelakaran Sharma said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/wont-allow-restoration-of-article-370-let-them-take-100-rebirths-bjp-j-k-chief-996732.html
12-06-2021||National Politics||UP’s health services in bad shape, BJP only concerned about staying in power: Akhilesh||Health services in Uttar Pradesh are in a very bad shape due to the neglect of the BJP government which has given private hospitals an opportunity to loot people during the Covid crisis, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav alleged on Saturday. In an apparent reference to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's New Delhi visit on Friday, Yadav said BJP leaders are only concerned about staying in power. "There is no control of the government on private hospitals. The black marketing of medicines and injections continues unabated. Corona curfew and lack of oxygen has added to the woes of the people,” the SP chief was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the party. Yadav said the condition of the health system is such that a serious patient was carried on a cot for eight kilometres to the hospital in Tilovgaon village in Mirzapur. Under the BJP rule, serious patients are not even getting ambulances, he claimed. The SP government had started the 108 ambulance service but it was ruined by the BJP. There have also been shameful incidents like the one involving a patient being taken to a hospital in Kanpur on a handcart and a garbage truck used to carry a dead body, the former chief minister said. "Private hospitals have left no stone unturned to forcibly rob patients during the Corona crisis. Patients were allowed to die by shutting off oxygen at Paras Hospital in Agra," he claimed, stressing the rates fixed by the government for treatment and sale of essential medicines were not followed anywhere. Attacking the chief minister, Yadav said: "The chief minister was busy in talks with his top leadership in Delhi and people were suffering in the state. Instead of connecting with the pain and suffering of the people, BJP is busy only in staying in power. This is the democracy of BJP.” Adityanath had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his residence on Friday. Later, he also met Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president J P Nadda. On Thursday, the chief minister had a meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-s-health-services-in-bad-shape-bjp-only-concerned-about-staying-in-power-akhilesh-996734.html
12-06-2021||National Politics||Allies should get respectable share in Union government: JD(U)||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's Janata Dal (United), the second-largest constituent of the BJP-led NDA, on Saturday asserted that alliance partners ought to have a "respectable" share in the Union council of ministers. A statement to this effect was made here by RCP Singh, a close aide of Kumar, amid buzz on Cabinet expansion at the Centre. Singh had succeeded Kumar as the JD(U) national president after the chief minister relinquished the top party post much ahead of the expiry of his tenure earlier this year. "We are a part of the NDA.....all constituents deserve a respectable share (in the Narendra Modi government", Singh told journalists in reply to a query. Asked whether the JD(U), which has 16 MPs in the Lok Sabha, would "demand" a respectable share for itself in the expected expansion of the Union Cabinet, Singh, the party's leader in the Rajya Sabha, quipped, "Where is the question of demanding? It is a matter of understanding. It has to be natural".  The JD(U) chief's statement comes amid speculations of a reshuffle in the Union Cabinet. The party, after the exit of 18 MP-strong Shiv Sena, has become the largest of BJP's allies in Parliament. JD(U) has five MPs in Rajya Sabha. Notably, after the NDA returned to power with a thumping majority in 2019, speculations were rife that the party would join the new government. However, Kumar put his foot down, unhappy over the BJPs assertion that since it had secured a majority on its own, coalition partners would have to be content with "token" representation of one member each. However, in the recent past, the BJP appears to be on shakier ground, having suffered a humiliating defeat in the high-stakes West Bengal assembly polls which came months after the saffron party lost one of its oldest allies, Shiromani Akali Dal, which pulled out in protest against the farm bills. The JD(U) has been sore over the ambivalence shown by the BJP towards the LJPs current young president Chirag Paswan, whose politics of brinkmanship had badly damaged the chief minister's party in the Bihar assembly polls last year. It was widely speculated that Chirag enjoyed the tacit approval of the BJP, which ended up with a larger tally than the JD(U) but chose to stick with Kumar as chief minister citing promises to the effect having been made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Nonetheless, with Chirag swearing by his loyalty towards Modi, and BJP ill-affording to estrange Nitish Kumar at this stage, accommodating the two fierce opponents could be an uphill task for the saffron party at a time when it might like to put up a more inclusive and less aggressive face.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/allies-should-get-respectable-share-in-union-government-jdu-996735.html
12-06-2021||National Politics||PM Modi behaved like a coward during Covid crisis: Priyanka Gandhi||Stepping up attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his Covid-19 response, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday accused him of being a “coward” and retreating in the background till the second wave began to ebb away. “He simply retreated and waited for the worst to pass. The Prime Minister of India has behaved like a coward. He has let our country down,” Priyanka said as part of her ‘Zimmedar Kaun’ campaign seeking accountability from the prime minister. She said good governance in a crisis is about confronting the truth, seizing responsibility, and taking action. “Unfortunately, the Modi government did none of these. Instead, from the beginning of the pandemic, it made every attempt to hide the truth and to shirk responsibility,” the Congress general secretary alleged. Priyanka listed a series of measures that the prime minister should have taken in the wake of Covid spread. “If only the Prime Minister had acted upon the countless warnings he had been given by experts from India and around the world and if only he had listened to the recommendations of his own ‘Empowered Group’, or even to the Parliamentary Committee on Health, we would not have faced the horrendous shortage of beds, oxygen and medicines that we did,” she claimed. "Had he cared about those who looked towards him for leadership, he would not have reduced the number of dedicated Covid beds between the first and the second wave. He would have ordered the tankers required to transport oxygen and prepared for the diversion of industrial oxygen to hospitals,” Priyanka said. She also slammed Modi for not taking opponents along in this battle for Indian lives, saying he could have engaged with experts, critics, allies and the opposition fearlessly. “He could have used the media as a disseminator of life-saving information about Covid, rather than as a propaganda tool to promote his own image,” Priyanka said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-behaved-like-a-coward-during-covid-crisis-priyanka-gandhi-996767.html
12-06-2021||National Politics||School education: AAP's accusation 'atrocious', says Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday described it as "atrocious" the Aam Aadmi Party’s accusation that he has a "secret" friendship with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The chief minister said this reacting to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia's statement after Punjab was ranked number one in the Performance Grading Index (PGI) 2019-20 for school education by the Centre. Claiming that Punjab’s government schools have poor facilities for students and parents prefer to send their children to private ones, Sisodia on Saturday suggested that Punjab secured the top position as CM Amarinder Singh has a "secret" friendship with PM Modi. In a hard-hitting reply to the allegation, the CM said the AAP leadership is so "obsessed" with electoral politics that it saw poll conspiracies even in something as basic as school education. The fact is that AAP, which "failed" to make a dent in Punjab's political arena over the past over four years, beginning with its poor performance in the 2017 elections, can see the rout which it is facing in the 2022 Assembly elections, he said in a statement. "Come to Punjab and I will show you around our schools," said Amarinder to Sisodia, adding that the revamp of the state's schools was an exercise undertaken by his government as a top priority and the ranking released by the Union Education Minister recently reflected the success of those efforts. "If you are really interested in improving the education system of Delhi, maybe you should do a 'jugalbandi’ with me and I will teach you how to manage things better," the chief minister said in a derisive response to Sisodia's charge. From a ranking of 22 on the earlier index when he took over as the chief minister, Punjab's school education has undergone a massive transformation, said Amarinder Singh. "Your political dialogues cannot undermine this success," he said, terming Sisodia's comments as an obvious case of "sour grapes" since the NCR Delhi stood sixth in the list. Expressing shock at the AAP leader's "shameful" attempt to give political colour to the "excellent outcomes" of the hard work and commitment of thousands of school teachers, administrators and officials, Amarinder Singh said it is evident that Arvind Kejriwal's party is used to seeing everything from the telescope of politics. Little wonder then that Delhi continues to be deprived of even basic amenities like education, health, safe drinking water even after six years of the Kejriwal rule, he said. Pointing to the "sad and sorry spectacle" of people gasping for breath at the peak of the second surge of Covid in Delhi, the CM said the much-touted Kejriwal model of governance is nothing but a hype created by the media, which was benefitting from the massive advertising budgets of the AAP government in the national capital. From the highly publicised Mohalla clinics to the school education system, the entire model of the Delhi government has been thoroughly "exposed" for nothing more than a hollow claim being perpetuated by AAP's media and social-media machinery, he said. Kejriwal was so busy promoting his image that he seemed to have forgotten to make any investments on the ground, said Amarinder Singh. The chief minister claimed his government had, in contrast, invested in the development of key sectors like education and health in a consistent manner over the past four years. As many as 14,000 schools have been converted into smart schools as part of a focused strategy, comprising launch of pre-primary education, best-in-class digital education infrastructure, innovative teaching methods, administrative reforms, transparency in recruitment and transfer of teachers, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/school-education-aaps-accusation-atrocious-says-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-996769.html
12-06-2021||National Politics||SAD-BSP alliance is 'anti-Punjab and unholy', says AAP||Punjab's main opposition party AAP on Saturday dubbed the alliance between the SAD and the BSP as “anti-Punjab and unholy”, alleging that it was formed on the directions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “obstruct” the way of the Aam Aadmi Party in the state. AAP's Punjab affairs co-incharge and Delhi MLA Raghav Chadha said that the “anti-Punjab” parties were "appalled" by the "love" shown by the people to the Aam Aadmi Party in Punjab. He claimed that to prevent the AAP from forming a government in the forthcoming assembly elections, there were now formal and informal alliances by parties that were "looting and harassing" Punjab. Chadha alleged that the formal alliance was of SAD and BSP, while the informal alliance was of the Amarinder Singh-led Congress, SAD, BSP and BJP. He also alleged that the SAD and the BSP were “puppet” parties of the PM while Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh considered Modi as his “boss”. Chadha was accompanied by Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema, MLAs Baljinder Kaur and Baldev Singh and party's general secretary Harchand Singh Barsat. It was highly reprehensible that the Bahujan Samaj Party which claims to be a party led by Dalits was working closely with the Akali Dal which “perpetrated atrocities” on Dalits, the AAP alleged. The Shiromani Akali Dal and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) formed an alliance on Saturday for the 2022 Punjab Assembly election, rejoining hands after a gap of 25 years. Under the tie-up, the BSP led by former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati will fight 20 of the 117 Assembly seats in Punjab, while the rest will be contested by the SAD, said Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal while announcing the alliance here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sad-bsp-alliance-is-anti-punjab-and-unholy-says-aap-996784.html
12-06-2021||National Politics||Opposition's planning doesn't matter, PM Modi will win again in 2024 Lok Sabha elections: Fadnavis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will come to power again after the 2024 elections and the new government will be formed under his leadership notwithstanding the political strategies the Opposition may plan, senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said on Saturday, a day after poll strategist Prashant Kishor met NCP chief Sharad Pawar at the latter's residence in Mumbai. Speaking to reporters here, the Leader of Opposition said PM Modi's victory in the next polls is certain given that he "rules the heart of the people". “There are no restrictions on who meets whom. The Opposition or the ruling party (read Shiv Sena) can devise various strategies at their levels. I only want to say one thing whatever the strategy one plans, Modiji is here today and will be in 2024 also. The new government will be formed again under the leadership of Modiji in 2024 though people can plan various strategies (against the BJP and the PM),” the former Maharashtra chief minister said when asked about the recent meeting between Prashant Kishore and the NCP chief. When queried on reports about a letter purportedly written by Naxals asking the Maratha community to beware of leaders using them, Fadnavis said, “I feel the government should take serious cognizance of such letter because the Naxal ideology tries to create dissatisfaction against the government or the system in the minds of the people. First of all, it should be found out if the letter is genuine or otherwise, and if it is found to be genuine, then it should be taken seriously". According to sources in the NCP, Pawar and Kishor talked for about three hours during which the prevailing political situation was discussed. It was Kishor's first meeting with Pawar after the victory of the DMK and the TMC in the assembly elections in Tamil Nadu and West Bengal respectively. He had helped craft the election strategy for these parties in the assembly elections. After the assembly poll results, the election strategist had said that he was "quitting this space". The NCP is in power in Maharashtra in alliance with the Shiv Sena and Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/oppositions-planning-doesnt-matter-pm-modi-will-win-again-in-2024-lok-sabha-elections-fadnavis-996794.html
12-06-2021||National Politics||Insensitive: Oppn slams GST on Covid essentials; Congress, Trinamool FMs give dissent notes||Congress also described the GST Council decision to slash tax rate on drugs such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab as a case of “relief denied”. “Post the mayhem & deaths, the belated wake up call is empty lip service,” AICC General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said. As Justice delayed is justice denied,Relief delayed is also relief denied ! As lakhs died between Feb-May 2021, Modi Govt-FM-GST Council ignored repeated pleas to reduce GST rates. Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal said the imposition of GST on Covid preventive materials, starting with GST on vaccines and items like masks, PPEs, hand sanitizers, Medical Grade Oxygen, testing kits, ventilators, Bipap Machine, and pulse oximeters among others reflect an insensitiveness and lack of compassion. He said Finance Ministers of Congress-ruled states submitted dissent notes and also protested their exclusion from the Group of Ministers set up by the GST Council. West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra also termed the imposition of GST on Covid-related items as an “anti-people” move. “Since my voice was ignored, I have recorded my dissent by letter,” Mitra said. GoI led the anti-people move & IMPOSED GST on VACCINE, MASK,hand sanitizer, OXYGEN, PPE, oxymeter, Covid test kit, Remdesivir, RT PCR machine..Since my voice IGNORED, I have recorded my DISSENT by letter. Unprecedented. Slow death of the only body of cooperative federalism.   Badal also asked Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to start the process for appointment of the Vice Chairperson to the GST Council and establish a GST Secretariat with powers to adjudicate on a dispute resolution mechanism. Rajasthan Minister Shanti Dhariwal slammed the GST Council decision to provide GST relief on some medicines till September 30. Dhariwal said experts believe that the third wave of the pandemic may come in September-October, therefore, the exemption should be extended till March 31, 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/insensitive-oppn-slams-gst-on-covid-essentials-congress-trinamool-fms-give-dissent-notes-996797.html
12-06-2021||National Politics||India couldn't become Hindu Rashtra due to 'coward' Nehru: BJP MLA||In controversial remarks, BJP’s Bairia MLA Surendra Singh here on Saturday said it was due to the leadership of "coward" Jawaharlal Nehru that India could not be declared a Hindu Rashtra at the time of the Independence. Alleging that it was the Congress' "dirty thinking" that led to the Partition, Singh said had Nehru not been the prime minister, India would have been declared a Hindu nation. "Two nations were formed based on two cultures. But it was because of the leadership of 'buzdil' (coward) Nehru that India was not declared a Hindu Rashtra at the time of the Independence," the BJP MLA said in a statement. He also said if Sardar Patel had become the prime minister in place of Nehru, India would have become a Hindu Rashtra. Digvijaya Singh had allegedly commented in an audio chat on social media that his party will have a "relook" at the Article 370 revocation and Jammu and Kashmir's lost statehood if it returns to power. Congress leaders, including former PM Indira Gandhi, remained silent when Brahmins were being displaced from Kashmir, Surendra Singh said and claimed that Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi belong to a foreign culture and the party does politics with pro-Muslim sentiment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-couldnt-become-hindu-rashtra-due-to-coward-nehru-bjp-mla-996799.html
12-06-2021||North and Central||Allahabad HC denies anticipatory bail to Azam Khan||The Lucknow Bench of the Allahabad High Court on Friday rejected the anticipatory bail plea of Samajwadi Party MP Mohd Azam Khan in connection with appointment of 1,300 engineers, clerks and stenographers at Uttar Pradesh Jal Nigam during the previous regime. The recruitment was carried out when Khan was the Urban Development Minister. Khan is currently undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Lucknow after he tested positive for coronavirus. Passing the order, Justice Rajeev Singh said Khan is already in judicial custody in the case as he was served a warrant on November 19 last year in the Sitapur jail and as such the anticipatory bail plea was not maintainable. The bail plea was moved by Khan's lawyers Kapil Sibbal and IB Singh. Additional Government Advocate Santosh Kumar Mishra opposed the bail plea, arguing that the court concerned had sent a warrant to Khan in the Sitapur jail and it was served on him the next day. So, he is already deemed to be in judicial custody in the case, hence, his anticipatory bail plea is not maintainable, the lawyer said. At this, Khan's lawyers submitted that if he is deemed to be in judicial custody, he must be entitled to default bail because the charge sheet in the case was filed on May 25 this year, after 90-day period from November 19. The court said Khan may move the appropriate court for default bail and that the same cannot be considered by the HC at this stage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/allahabad-hc-denies-anticipatory-bail-to-azam-khan-996554.html
12-06-2021||North and Central||Fire breaks out at clothing store in Delhi's Lajpat Nagar||A fire has engulfed a garments shop in the Central Market of Delhi's Lajpat Nagar area. 30 fire tenders are dousing the blaze, according to a report by news agency ANI. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-at-clothing-store-in-delhis-lajpat-nagar-996625.html
12-06-2021||North and Central||Ladakh reports lowest daily rise in Covid cases in over 2 months||The twin districts of Leh and Kargil had recorded over 9,000 positive cases and 67 Covid-related deaths since April, pushing the overall death toll in the region to 197 -- 143 in Leh and 54 in Kargil. However, the number of new infections started declining from June 6 when the figure came down to double figures. Out of the 31 new cases, the officials said, 20 persons tested positive in Leh taking the infection tally in the district to 16,113, while 11 cases were detected in Kargil pushing the district tally of infections to 3,393 since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. Eighty-eight patients -- 63 in Leh and 25 in Kargil -- were discharged after recovery, taking the number of cured patients to 18,513, which accounted for 94.91 per cent of the total cases, they said. They said the active cases have now dropped to 796 -- 653 in Leh and 143 in Kargil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-reports-lowest-daily-rise-in-covid-cases-in-over-2-months-996629.html
12-06-2021||North and Central||Chances of a third Covid-19 wave 'quite real': Arvind Kejriwal||The chances of third wave of Covid-19 were “quite real”, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday, even as he inaugrated 22 new oxygen plants at nine hospitals across the capital. He said these plants have a total production capacity of 17.3 MT, and they will strengthen the preparations to fight Covid. As many as 17 more oxygen plants will be started by July, he said. Kejriwal said the indications of a third wave were coming from Britain where Covid-19 cases were on the rise despite “45% of its population” being vaccinated. He said Delhi government was also procuring oxygen tankers to aid the fight against a third wave.    Delhi needs 150-200 MT of medical oxygen for non-Covid purposes, apart from some amount of industrial oxygen, Kejriwal said adding that oxygen requirement had increased to 700 MT per day in April-May. A total of 27 PSA oxygen plants, including the 22 inaugurated Saturday, have been made operational in Delhi. Apart from these, six plants have already been started by the Central government and seven are going to begin soon, the chief minister said. Of the 22 PSA plants inaugurated Saturday, 17 have been given by HCL Technologies and four by Maruti Udyog. HCL will be supplying five more plants soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chances-of-a-third-covid-19-wave-quite-real-arvind-kejriwal-996634.html
12-06-2021||North and Central||2 cops, as many civilians killed, 3 injured in Sopore militant attack||At least two cops and as many civilians were killed and three others injured after militants opened fire on a joint police and CRPF party in Sopore town of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Saturday. Reports said the militants attacked a joint team of J&K police and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in the congested Arampora area of Sopore, 54 kms from Srinagar. At least seven persons, including four policemen and three civilians, were injured in the attack, police said. The injured were rushed to a nearby hospital, where four of them — two cops and two civilians — were declared brought dead. The condition of two other injured is stated to be critical and they have been shifted to Srinagar for specialised treatment, health officials said. Reports said immediately after the attack, security forces cordoned off the area and a massive manhunt was launched to nab the attackers. Earlier on March 29, two municipal councillors and a policeman were killed in a militant attack outside the municipality office in Sopore. Police later claimed that the Pakistani militant involved in the killings was killed in an encounter with security forces along with his accomplices on May 4 in the Nathipora area of the town. National Conference leader Omar Abdullah on Saturday condemned the militant attack on security forces in Sopore town of Baramulla district. "Terrible news coming in from Sopore. Such attacks must be condemned without reservation. Prayers for the injured & condolences to the families of the deceased," Abdullah said in a tweet. The former chief minister was reacting to the militant attack on security forces in Sopore that has left two police personnel and two civilians dead and several others injured. (With inputs from PTI) Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-cops-as-many-civilians-killed-3-injured-in-sopore-militant-attack-996648.html
12-06-2021||North and Central||Over 1,200 people in Delhi fined for flouting Covid guidelines||According to data shared by Delhi Police Additional PRO Anil Mittal, of the 1,260 challans issued on Friday, 1,068 were for face mask violations and 192 for not adhering to social distancing norms. As many as 1,29,590 challans have been issued by police from April 19 to June 11, the data showed. Police said, 1,09,075 challans were issued for mask violations, 18,790 for flouting social distancing norms, 1,532 for holding large public gatherings and congregations, 72 for spitting and 121 for consumption of liquor, pan and tobacco, it stated. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had last week announced various relaxations in the ongoing lockdown that was imposed on April 19, saying Covid situation was improving and the economy of the city needed to be revived. The Delhi government allowed all standalone and neighbourhood shops to function, including liquor vends. However, establishments like cinemas, theatres, restaurants (except home delivery and take away), bars, gyms, spas, barber shops, salons and beauty parlours remain closed till further orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-1200-people-in-delhi-fined-for-flouting-covid-guidelines-996652.html
12-06-2021||North and Central||HCL sends 17 imported ready-to-use oxygen plants to Delhi||IT firm HCL Technologies on Saturday announced that it has provided 17 ready-to-use imported oxygen plants to the Delhi government. These plants are aimed at ensuring oxygen support to Covid-19 patients across various hospitals in the national capital as well as enabling the Delhi government to be adequately prepared for a possible third wave of the pandemic, it said. These plants were inaugurated by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Health Minister Satyendar Jain and HCL Technologies Chairperson Roshni Nadar Malhotra in a virtual ceremony. The oxygen plants have been imported from France and are now deployed across seven hospitals in the city, the company said in a statement. The total combined capacity of the 17 plants is 7,300 litres per minute (LPM). The 17 plants are part of the total 21 ready-to-use Oxygen plants that HCL has committed to provide to the state government. The remaining four plants have also arrived in Delhi and will be installed over the next few days, the company added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hcl-sends-17-imported-ready-to-use-oxygen-plants-to-delhi-996655.html
12-06-2021||North and Central||AIMPLB moves Allahabad HC over demolition of Gareeb Nawaz Masjid||The All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) has moved the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court over the demolition of the century-old Gareeb Nawaz Masjid in Barabanki, the advocate for the board said on Saturday. The mosque in Barabanki's Ram Sanehi Ghat tehsil was pulled down on May 17 as it was an illegal residential building, the authorities had said. "The All India Muslim Personal Law Board on Friday moved the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court over the demolition of the century-old Gareeb Nawaz Masjid in Barabanki's Ram Sanehi Ghat tehsil seeking quashing of the orders of the sub-divisional magistrate of Ram Sanehi Ghat dated April 3, 2021 ordering demolition of the mosque," Saud Rais, advocate for AIMPLB told PTI on Saturday. A petition has also been moved by Sunni Central Waqf Board, he said. "The petitions have sought for the following relief from the court to quash the order passed on April 3, by SDM of Ram Sanehi Ghat tehsil, to direct the local authorities to restore the mosque which has been demolished and allow the committee of management to reconstruct the mosque over the land in question, and to direct the discontinuation of the use of the place of Masjid, the waqf land and property as inaugurated as ‘Swatantrata Sangram Samarak Bal Udhayaan’ and direct removal of illegal trespass," Rais said. He added, "The petitions also sought to direct the state of Uttar Pradesh to pay a sum of Rs 25 lakh to the petitioner for defraying expenses for reconstruction of the said mosque, and to direct the state of Uttar Pradesh to take appropriate action against the then SDM of Ram Sanehi Ghat, Barabanki." Following the orders of the court, the old mosque located adjacent to the tehsil premises and opposite to the residence of the SDM was demolished amid heavy security by the authorities. The mosque was registered in the records of the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board. The AIMPLB and the UP Sunni Central Waqf Board had earlier demanded a judicial probe into the demolition. "The century-old Garib Nawaz mosque in Ram Sanehi Ghat tehsil was demolished by the administration without any legal justification in the presence of police," AIMPLB working general secretary Maulana Khalid Saifullah Rehmani had said in a statement. Barabanki District Magistrate (DM) Adarsh Singh, however, had said the structure was illegal, and the tehsil administration got its possession on March 18. He said the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court had disposed of a petition filed in this connection on April 2, which proved that the construction was illegal. The DM said a case was then filed in the court of the SDM of Ram Sanehi Ghat and its orders were complied with on May 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aimplb-moves-allahabad-hc-over-demolition-of-gareeb-nawaz-masjid-996670.html
12-06-2021||North and Central||In Uttar Pradesh, villagers pray to 'Corona Mata' to banish Covid-19||In Uttar Pradesh, villagers have erected a shrine to "goddess corona" and are offering her prayers in the hope that divine intervention can banish the deadly Covid-19. Devotees in Shuklapur village in the state have been offering prayers, holy water, and flowers at the bright yellow shrine where they have placed their idol of "Corona Mata" since they erected it this week. "Maybe with her blessings the villagers, our village, and everyone else get some relief," one villager, who gave her name as Sangeeta, said on Friday. India was hit hard by a surge of coronavirus infections in April and May but there are signs the worst could be over. Authorities reported 84,332 new cases on Saturday, the lowest daily tally in more than two months, the Health Ministry data showed. Covid-19 has killed 367,081 people in India, according to government data. The Shuklapur villagers' prayers have not been fully answered - there are still some cases in the district - but the numbers are also sharply lower than they were at the height of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-uttar-pradesh-villagers-pray-to-corona-mata-to-banish-covid-19-996689.html
12-06-2021||North and Central||A purple revolution in J&K's Bhaderwah helps farmers||Despite the Covid-19 induced lockdown, around 1,000 families associated with exotic lavender farming here have not only made themselves self-reliant but also emerged as job providers during the pandemic time. Lavender farmers have also become a source of inspiration for those still practising traditional farming, according to a grower. The families from different villages of Jammu and Kashmir's additional district Bhaderwah under Union Government's Aroma Mission switched from maize cultivation to growing of aromatic plants and they are happy over their decision in the backdrop of ever increasing demand of lavender oil in the international market, which earned them good fortunes. At the time of the pandemic and prolonged lockdowns, the farmers were providing jobs to hundreds of labourers, thus becoming a true symbol of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat', officials said. "I worked with a multinational company in Delhi for four years before losing my job due to the pandemic last year…I packed my bags and returned to my native village dejected after finding it difficult to get another job,” 28-year-old Anish, a resident of Tipri village, told PTI. However, he said his decision to return and join his family in growing Lavender revolutionized his life as he became a job provider from a job seeker a year ago. "I am more confident today than ever before as not only my savings have increased but it gave me immense satisfaction that I am giving jobs to others,” he said, thanking the scientists of IIIM Jammu for mobilising farmers of this far flung area. Farmers from Tipri, Lehrote, Khellani, Manwa, Chinta, Trabbi, Koundla, Sharora, Chattra, Dandi, Bhalla and some parts of Athkhar, who have started harvesting their produce of lavender flowers, are expecting a bumper crop this year and opined that switching to lavender farming has come as a major relief for them during these testing times of corona pandemic. "When we switched from growing traditional maize crops to aromatic lavender farming 10 years ago, we were discouraged even by our relatives and friends but today all of them look at us as an inspiration. During current crisis of pandemic when everybody is worried about losing jobs and businesses, lavender farmers are not only making good fortunes for themselves but also providing jobs to at least 3,000 others during these testing times," Toufeeq Bagban, a young entrepreneur, said. "Growing of lavender not only helped us survive during the hard times of pandemic but it's strong aroma also kept Corona at a bay and it's proof is that not a single positive case was reported from any of the villages where there are lavender fields," Sarpanch, Neota-Karyan, Om Raj, believes. The progressive farmers of Tipri village, where all the residents have switched to lavender farming and have become the leading producer of lavender flowers, demand road connectivity to transport their produce to the distillation units. "No doubt lavender farming has changed our fortunes but we have to carry our produce on our back to the distillation centre at Dradhu which is 7 km away from the village for extraction of oil," Anjali Devi, a local resident, said. She said it is not only very cumbersome to transport the produce on backs in sweltering heat, but the non-availability of a motorable road is a major disadvantage for the residents. Scientists from CSIR- IIIM (Council Of Scientific And Industrial Research - Indian Institute of Integrative Medicines) attribute the success story of lavender farming in Bhadarwah to joint efforts of farmers and subject matter specialists, assuring that they are ready to go an extra mile to help the villagers. "We have been providing farmers, residing in the slopes of Bhaderwah valley, with technical and logistics support residing and it is because of joint efforts that lavender farming in this scenic Valley is a huge success story and has turned out to be a purple revolution," Senior Scientist, CSIR-IIIM Jammu, Sumeet Gairola, said. He said Director CSIR-IIIM, Jammu, D Srinivasa Reddy, aims to increase the area under cultivation of lavender and other aromatic crops throughout the Union Territory. "In 2021, despite Coronavirus pandemic CSIR-IIIM provided three lakh lavender plants free of cost to the farmers of Doda and Kishtwar districts," Gairola said, adding Under CSIR-Aroma Mission end to end technology on cultivation of high value aromatic crops such as Lavender, Rosemary, Damask Rose, Roman and German Chamomile, Rose Scented Geranium, Clary Sage, Jammu Monarda, Rosa Grass and Lemongrass is being provided to the farmers. He said these crops have very high market demand and potential to multiply income of farmers of the region. "CSIR-IIIM is also providing training on cultivation, processing, value addition and marketing of aromatic crops to the progressive farmers and young entrepreneurs for development of the aroma industry in the UT. So far CSIR-IIIM has installed 14 distillation units at different parts of Jammu division including six at Doda district," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/a-purple-revolution-in-jks-bhaderwah-helps-farmers-996708.html
12-06-2021||North and Central||'Corona Mata' temple in Uttar Pradesh demolished, one arrested||As the number of 'devotees' seeking ''divine protection'' from Covid-19 swelled, the administration demolished the newly constructed 'Corona Mata' temple in Uttar Pradesh's Pratapgarh district. The police have arrested one Nagesh Kumar Srivastava, who had got the temple constructed, sources said on Saturday. The 'Corona Mata' temple was constructed at Juhi Sulkulpur village in the district a few days back to ''ward off the virus''. Sources said that the crowds from the nearby villages and districts started flocking the temple and people also started singing 'bhajans' (religious hymns) and doing 'arti' (a ritual) there. As per the sources, the decision to construct the temple was taken after three villagers died from Covid-19 last month. The villagers condemned the demolition and said that the 'Corona Mata' could have protected them and others from the dreaded Covid-19. There are reports of people resorting to superstitious practices to ward off the Covid-19 in other places. In several UP districts, including Varanasi, Kushinagar and Mau, people have organised 'bhajans', special pujas and havana (a ritual by fire) at temples to keep Covid-19 at bay. Reports said that the people, especially the women, have been offering 'dhar' (a mixture prepared with water, flowers and some other articles) at the temples of 'Dih Baba' (local deity) and goddess 'Kali' at several villages in Mau district. Special pujas have also been organised at the ghats of river Ganga in Varanasi in which dozens of women from the nearby areas have taken part, reports said. A senior government official said that he has received information about the pujas and added that stern action will be taken against those found to be spreading misleading information about Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/corona-mata-temple-in-uttar-pradesh-demolished-one-arrested-996709.html
12-06-2021||North and Central||Gurugram schoolboy killing: SC seeks CBI response on bail plea by juvenile, citing Covid-19 fears||The Supreme Court has asked the CBI to respond to a bail plea by a juvenile, then a Class XI student of a prestigious school at Gurugram, arrested for killing a seven-year-old fellow student in 2017. The juvenile sought release from the Observation Home in Karnal, saying his life was in danger as several fellow inmates had tested positive for Covid-19. A bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and M R Shah issued a notice to the CBI and sought an affidavit by July 1. The court passed its order after hearing senior advocate Manan Kumar Mishra and advocate Durga Dutt on behalf of the juvenile, identified as 'Master Bholu' in case records. The petitioner challenged the April 28 order by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which adjourned his plea to July 27 without appreciating the urgency in the matter in "utter violation of the Right to Life of the petitioner in the present alarming situation amid Covid-19 pandemic". He maintained that he had already suffered incarceration for about three years and six months in the observation home where, out of 200 inmates, 25 had tested positive for Covid-19 in May this year. His plea contended that the High Court failed to consider that the pandemic was intensifying in the country with a probability of a 'third wave', which would directly affect children and adolescents. He also pointed out that the investigation in the matter has long been over with the filing of a charge sheet by the CBI on February 5, 2018, along with citing 127 witnesses. As the top court on November 19, 2018 passed an order of status quo on issue whether he was to be treated as a juvenile or adult, there was no likelihood of trial being taken up in near future, he claimed. The CBI, in its charge sheet, had alleged that the teenager had murdered the student on September 8, 2017 in a bid to get exams postponed and a scheduled parent-teacher meeting cancelled. The victim's body, with the throat slit, was found in the washroom of the school at the Bhondsi area of Gurugram. The CBI had taken up the case from Haryana Police following a nationwide uproar over the killing. It had given a clean chit to school bus conductor Ashok Kumar, who was initially arrested by the state police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gurugram-schoolboy-killing-sc-seeks-cbi-response-on-bail-plea-by-juvenile-citing-covid-19-fears-996743.html
12-06-2021||North and Central||Pilot camp restless over not getting due in Rajasthan govt, closing ranks to press demands||Tensions simmered within the Congress in Rajasthan on Saturday with the Sachin Pilot camp getting increasingly restless over allegedly not being given their due in the government, and were seen closing ranks for pressing their demands strongly. An All India Congress Committee (AICC) panel formed to sort out differences between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and the Pilot camp is yet to come up with a solution. AICC in-charge of the state Ajay Maken on Friday had said, "Vacant positions in the Cabinet, Boards and Commissions would be filled soon and we are in talks with all." When asked if senior party leader Pilot is angry, Maken had said, "I am speaking to Pilot ji on a regular basis. Had he been angry, he would not be speaking to me." Leaders close to Pilot, who is in Delhi for the weekend, said they are losing patience over the long wait for getting their due and claim they are being "pressured" by Chief Minister Gehlot to leave Pilot's side. However, they asserted that they will fight "for their rights" within the party framework. According to sources within the Pilot camp, the former Rajasthan deputy chief minister is regularly in touch with Maken for ironing out issues and for redressal of grievances. When reached out for a comment and asked if he would meet senior Congress leaders here, Pilot refused to comment. Sources close to Pilot said the delay in the redressal of grievances as promised by the party high command was irking the leaders associated with him, and alleged that the chief minister is refusing to give them their due. The Congress government in Rajasthan was on the verge of collapse after Pilot along with 19 disgruntled MLAs raised a banner of revolt last year. Hectic consultations with rebel leaders led by Pilot helped the Congress save its government and its state unit from a division. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had set up a three-member panel of Maken, AICC general secretary organisation K C Venugopal and senior party leader Ahmed Patel to iron out differences within the state leadership. Pilot on Friday rejected a claim made on a television show by BJP leader Rita Bahuguna Joshi that she had spoken to him about the possibility of joining the BJP. "Rita Bahuguna Joshi said she spoke to Sachin. She might have spoken to Sachin Tendulkar (the cricketer). She doesn't have the courage to speak to me," the Congress leader had told reporters in Jaipur during his party's protest over fuel prices. Also, Congress MLA Hemaram Choudhary met Pilot in Jaipur on Friday morning, his first public visit to the state capital after sending in his resignation to Speaker P C Joshi on May 18. Pilot loyalist P R Meena on Friday called for an expansion of the Gehlot ministry. "The party high command should take a decision at the earliest because everyone is waiting," he said. Meena had asserted that he is strongly with Pilot and "would even die" for him. On Thursday, over a dozen Congress leaders had met Pilot at his Jaipur home, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pilot-camp-restless-over-not-getting-due-in-rajasthan-govt-closing-ranks-to-press-demands-996774.html
12-06-2021||North and Central||Guns can’t resolve any issues, dialogue is the way forward: Mehbooba Mufti on Sopore attack||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday condemned the attack on security forces in Sopore town in Jammu and Kashmir wherein two policemen and as many civilians were killed, saying guns cannot resolve any issues and dialogue was the way forward. “We condemn such attacks. They will not resolve the issue of Jammu and Kashmir,” Mehbooba told reporters in Baramulla district of north Kashmir. The former chief minister of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir said such attacks defame the people of Kashmir. “Neither New Delhi's guns, nor the guns picked up by the youth here, will resolve the issue. In fact, it complicates the issue. Such attacks defame the people of Kashmir and only result in more force being used here in the name of terrorism. I believe dialogue is the solution to every issue,” she said. Militants fired upon a joint party of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and police near Main Chowk Sopore in north Kashmir district around Saturday noon, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/guns-can-t-resolve-any-issues-dialogue-is-the-way-forward-mehbooba-mufti-on-sopore-attack-996782.html
12-06-2021||North and Central||'Akhand Bharat' map in Madhya Pradesh sets off row||A map of 'Akhand Bharat' (undivided India) installed by the Indore civic body on a busy road has created controversy, with the opposition Congress in Madhya Pradesh asking whether it was in line with India's foreign policy. The mural-like installation at Footi Kothi Crossing was put up by the civic traffic department two years ago, an official said. It covers the entire subcontinent including Pakistan and Bangladesh, and shows topographical features but not the existing national boundaries. Madhya Pradesh Congress spokesperson Aminul Khan Suri in a press statement on Friday said the Union government should clarify if the map was in line with India's foreign policy and an "indication of things to come". "Wouldn't it affect relations with neighbouring countries?" he asked. He also sought action against Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) officials who allowed the map to be installed in a public place. IMC Regional Officer Yogendra Gangrade said the mural was installed by the traffic department two years ago, but for some reason it was not unveiled. Someone removed the cover on it a couple of months ago, he said, adding that he did not have more details. Indore MP and BJP leader Shankar Lalwani said the map reflected history. “When India was Akhand (undivided), the neighbouring countries were part of it. Our boundaries had spread far and wide. Keeping these historical facts in mind someone has installed it," the MP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akhand-bharat-map-in-madhya-pradesh-sets-off-row-996810.html
12-06-2021||North and Central||Centre allocates whopping Rs 10,870.5 crore to UP under Jal Jeevan Mission||The Centre has allocated a whopping Rs 10,870 crore to Uttar Pradesh under the Jal Jeevan Mission for 2021-22, the highest allocation so far to any state, the Ministry of Jal Shakti said on Saturday. The amount is more than four times what was allocated to the poll-bound state last year. The northern state will go to polls in 2022. Uttar Pradesh has assured to achieve the goal of providing water to every rural household by 2024, the ministry said. "The Union government has increased the Central allocation for the implementation of Jal Jeevan Mission to Uttar Pradesh to Rs. 10,870.50 crore. In 2019-20, the Centre allocated Rs 1,206 crore, which was increased to Rs 2,571 crore in 2020-21. Thus, this year, the central allocation for implementation of Jal Jeevan Mission in Uttar Pradesh has increased four-fold,” the ministry said. The ministry had last week announced Rs 6,998.97 crore to West Bengal, the second-highest allocation to a state under the Jal Jeevan Mission. Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh have been allocated Rs 3,410 crore and Rs 5,117 crore, respectively. The northeastern states have been allocated a total of Rs 9,262 crore. Under the Jal Jeevan Mission, Maharashtra has been allocated to Rs 7,064.41 crore, while Chhattisgarh got Rs 1,908.96 crore. The Jal Jeevan Mission aims to provide tap water connections to all rural households by 2024. The Union budget for 2021-22 has earmarked Rs 50,000 crore for this ambitious scheme. Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, during his last meeting with Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, had assured to provide all assistance to the state under the Jal Jeevan Mission. Adityanath had also assured that his government would ensure tap water connection to every rural home by 2024 as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the announcement of the scheme on August 15, 2019. In Uttar Pradesh, there are 2.63 crore households in 97,000 villages, out of which, now 30.04 lakh (11.3 per cent) households have tap water supply. Only 5.16 lakh (1.96 per cent) households had tap water supply before the scheme. In the last 21 months, under the Jal Jeevan Mission, the state has provided tap water supply to 24.89 lakh (9.45 per cent) households. Despite this, there are about 2.33 crore households without tap water supply in Uttar Pradesh, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-allocates-whopping-rs-108705-crore-to-up-under-jal-jeevan-mission-996814.html
12-06-2021||Opinion||Backwards, not Brahmins, turn elections in UP||Former finance minister Arun Jaitley managed Uttar Pradesh assembly polls for the BJP many times over. He often described the UP polity as a fluid mass of influential squires and local strongmen who float about in search of the best available option to win the next elections. In a milieu where winnability and not party loyalty becomes the touchstone in candidate selection, party-hopping is an asset. Diversity, if anywhere, is abundantly displayed in the curriculum vitae of serious ticket seekers. Political opportunism is not a drag. So former union minister Jitin Prasada's leap of faith into the BJP should not come as a surprise. For the scion of the former principality of Shahajahapur, though, this would be the first errand outside the Congress fold.  Prasada is now a member of a new parivaar, a family which is perpetually in the election mode. Bengal elections are over. The second wave of Covid-19 has abated. The next big test is UP. Prasada's BJP induction thus marks the beginning of the election season in UP. Hear the bugles trill, see the flag is flung.  After a series of meetings between the BJP and RSS top brass, a course correction seems to have been worked out by the ruling dispensation ahead of the Uttar Pradesh elections. No shakeup at the top is expected.  But the BJP is battle-ready with a plan of action to consolidate its position - both politically and through the distribution and delivery of aid. To salvage public perception battered by the ravaging pandemic, the Yogi government is working on three fronts. It has already distributed free ration to the poor and rolled out Rs 1,000 financial aid to daily wagers. A massive inoculation drive to avoid another Covid wave is in the works. Many more schemes are probably in the offing. But would all this be enough to salvage the trail of death and despair?  Herein the import of political management assumes importance. The performance of a political party in an election - apart from other factors- is critically dependent upon its ability to build social coalitions to mop up a majority votes in the first past the post system. Both in the 2017 Assembly polls and 2019 LS elections, BJP got twice as many or more votes than any of its nearest competitors. A considerable gap in the votes polled separated it and the Samajwadi Party-Bahujan Samaj Party alliance in the last elections. The massive lead was due to the BJP's ability to stitch a social alliance between its core upper caste-middle class base and the intermediary castes, constituting more than 50 per cent of the state's electorate.  Within this segment, the mobilisation of non-Yadav backward proprietorial castes like Kurmis and Lodhs helped BJP reach a threshold to challenge both the Samajwadi Party (SP) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).  The top-up, or incremental vote, which led to an exponential conversion of votes into seats, came from most backward communities and non-Jatav schedule caste votes, which were part of the BSP's coalition umbrella.  The recently concluded panchayat polls indicate the SP would be the primary challenger to the BJP in the 2022 UP elections.  The Congress is losing steam, and BSP's Mayawati has performed the role of an advisor than that of an opposition party.  Akhilesh Yadav's ability to mount a challenge on the BJP would depend on his ability to create an umbrella coalition of sub-castes within the non-proprietary backward and schedule castes communities. Kanshi Ram first initiated this experiment in the heartland politics. The former BSP chief mobilised most backward castes (MBCs) like Kushwaha, Maurya, Bind, Nishaad, Koeri, Mallah, Rajbhar, Nenua Chauhan, which form small yet coherent social blocks categorised as per their vocation in the jajmani system. This formula was later well understood and subsequently emulated by Nitish Kumar in Bihar, who sought to stitch a social alliance of Dalits, MBCs and Maha-Dalits with other non-Yadav OBCs. In UP, however, this amorphous group has slowly galvanised around the BJP. The party has made a sustained effort to mobilise these communities. It made Keshav Maurya the deputy CM in 2017. The BSP's most vocal MBC leader Swamy Prasad Maurya is with the BJP. No political party in UP has ever given a gubernatorial assignment to a community leader. Baby Rani Maurya is now the governor of Uttarakhand.  The impact on the ground is for everyone to see. In the last Lok Sabha elections, Akhilesh Yadav's cousin and sitting MP Dharmendra Yadav lost from Badaun, which the SP had been winning since 1996. The constituency has a high percentage of Yadav and Muslim voters.  The BJP won this seat in the last Lok Sabha elections by fielding Swamy Prasad Maurya's daughter Sanghamitra. And Dharmendra Yadav lost this seat despite contesting as a joint candidate of the SP-BSP alliance because a large section of non-Yadav OBCs shifted towards the BJP. Dalits had BR Ambedkar, but MBCs never had an icon. In 2007, a large section voted for the BSP. In 2012, the SP was able to wean away a section. Repulsed by Jatav domination in the BSP and Yadavs in SP, these communities have since 2014 sought a larger share in the pie. The BJP tapped into the aspirations of the MBCs seeking to draw parity with upwardly mobile communities like Kurmis and Yadavs, the biggest beneficiaries of the Mandal disruption. In the last five years, though, some of these social groups of parties representing them find themselves estranged by the BJP. The Apna Dal, which has a support base among the Kurmis east of Lucknow, does not have any representation in the union council. Its leader Anupriya Patel has since maintained a studied silence.  Om Prakash Rajbhar has walked out of the NDA in UP. Chandrashekhar Azad Ravan is flexing his muscles in western UP.  The Rashtriya Lok Dal and other sub-regional players are trying to find their feet after the farmer agitation. The Aam Admi Party is attempting to make a foray as well. It offers to lend some heft among the upper-castes and middle castes if it finds space in a non-BJP coalition. All these parties and other small players are waiting on the sidelines to decide their future course of action. They will wait for another couple of months to figure out which way the wind is blowing. By October, we will get a clearer picture of who is with whom. Jitin Prasada's entry is aimed to send a message to BJP core voters, that is, Brahmins. The real battle for the state, however, will be fought on a different turf. Backwards remain the building block in UP politics, and their mobilisation is the key to success in state politics. Will the Samajwadi Party offer an alternative, inclusive and better power-sharing formula to the non-Yadav backwards and a section of Dalits. One caught a glimpse of Akhilesh Yadav's intent earlier this year when the SP chief promised to re-instate reservation in promotions for Scheduled Castes employees if his party were to return to power. The SP will have to be more inclusive in words and deeds to shed the tag of being a caste-centric party. (The writer is an independent journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/backwards-not-brahmins-turn-elections-in-up-996581.html
12-06-2021||Right in the Middle||T S Shanbhag: The 'premier' bookseller||Soon after I graduated from college, I was offered an internship at a private firm which I accepted more because of the central location and remuneration rather than future career prospects. It was a bright, airy, ground floor, glass-fronted office with a great view. Next door was a bookshop. One morning, a swanky car screeched to a halt in front of our office and a good-looking man got out and walked into the bookshop. He looked familiar. Curiosity got the better of me and I casually ambled across to the bookstore. The owner, a genial-looking balding man, sitting amid stacks of books and papers on his table gave me a warm, welcoming nod. I politely reciprocated and pretended to browse, stealing a glance intermittently at the handsome man, who was quietly browsing. Soon he picked up some books, went to the owner, exchanged quick pleasantries, paid up and got into the waiting car. As I was leaving, the owner asked me if I was looking for a specific title. I candidly confessed why I came by. He told me the man was actor Kamal Hasan. "Did you want his autograph," he queried. I said perhaps not but I wouldn’t have minded a quick conversation with him. He added that Kamal, a book lover, visited the book shop whenever he was in Bangalore. That was the first time I met Mr Shanbhag, the owner of Premier Bookshop. In the short time, I worked next door and as a habitue to Premier, Mr Shanbhag endeared himself to me with his amiable persona. Curiously enough, we discovered that he and my parents hailed from the same place, Kundapur in Mangalore, and often chatted about this coastal place. After I quit that office, I frequently dropped by Premier to buy books and avail generous discounts he offered until I moved overseas to work. I recall vividly how I once spotted Bollywood actor Sarika browsing but didn’t find Kamal in the shop. The last time I met Mr Shanbhag was on a visit to Bangalore in 2008. I bought some books, had a long conversation and left, assuring him of dropping by on my next visit. That was not to be. In 2009, Premier shut shop. I felt sorry and disappointed. Now, more than a decade later, I got news of Mr Shanbhag’s demise on May 4. Covid-19 claimed another life, a much-respected man I knew. It saddened me but soon I felt light as fond memories flooded my mind— of his benevolent smile, his knowledge of books and personally digging up a book I was looking for from heaps, of the many unhurried moments of browsing and flipping through magazines, of running into our college English lecturer Mr Govinda Rao and indeed of Premier, the higgledy-piggledy bookshop with its eclectic collection that became a haven for bookworms in Bangalore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/t-s-shanbhag-the-premier-bookseller-996525.html
12-06-2021||Second Edit||Welcome Madras HC ruling||The Madras High Court’s order on Monday on the rights of the LGBTQIA+ community and on the government and society’s responsibility to respect them is remarkable in many ways. If the landmark Supreme Court judgement of 2018 decriminalised homosexuality, the single judge order now has built on it conceptually and in practical terms. Justice N Anand Venkatesh linked the right of LGBTQIA+ persons to sexual autonomy to the right to privacy of citizens and gave it a stronger footing. It follows that sexual minorities of any kind should have the freedom to choose the way they want to live, and socialise and communicate the way they want to, without interference. If society is found wanting in its response and interfering, it is the duty of the government to ensure that the rights are respected. The court laid down a comprehensive set of guidelines for handling matters concerning same-sex couples, prescribed don’ts and underlined the need to sensitise society on their rights. It prohibited attempts to “medically cure” persons from the LGBTQIA+ community through ‘conversion therapy’ and said that professionals involved in any form of ‘conversion’ practices would face penalties, including revocation of their licences. Such traumatic procedures violate the sense of identity and dignity of the persons of the community. The court issued the guidelines on a petition filed by a lesbian couple who had fled their homes, seeking protection. It ordered protection for them and directed the police to close ‘missing persons’ complaints if an enquiry confirms them to involve consenting adults of the LGBTQIA+ community. Other directions include provision of shelters and short-stay homes for trans-persons, holding sensitisation programmes for all sections of society, making changes in school and college curricula, building gender-neutral washrooms and a number of other measures that will help to remove the prejudices and discriminatory practices against LGBTQIA+ individuals.  It is worth noting that when the hearings started, the judge felt that he lacked the knowledge needed to judge the case. So, he decided to educate himself on the subject by talking to psychologists and other experts and interacting with members of the LGBTQIA+ community. He said that “whatever they said sounded very natural and made me question myself as to where the conflict actually arises.” His conclusion was that the problem lay more with society than with the law. That would also mean that society can solve the problem only by accepting the varied spectrum of sexuality as right and normal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/welcome-madras-hc-ruling-996530.html
12-06-2021||South||Kerala CM Vijayan announces 100-day plan to help tide over Covid-triggered economic slowdown||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday announced a 100-day action plan to help the state tide over the economic slowdown triggered by the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The plan will focus on increasing agricultural production, generating quality employment and augmenting health infrastructure, among other things, and would be implemented between June 11 and September 19. The aim is to enable the building of a knowledge-based economy with a focus on science and technology and skill development, Vijayan told reporters here. "The emphasis will be on policies and schemes to advance the achievements of health, education and social security, accelerate economic growth and create quality employment. "Utmost importance will be given to poverty alleviation, elimination of economic and social inequalities, implementation of eco-friendly development perspective and adoption of modern solid waste management practices conducive to a healthy urban life," he said. In addition to increasing agricultural production, the chief minister said, the production of non-toxic food is also a priority. Vijayan said loans worth Rs 5,898 crore have been sanctioned by international financial institutions such as World Bank, German bank KFW and Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) for the Rebuild Kerala Initiative (RKI). "After the state's share is added, Rs 8,425 crore will be available for RKI projects. In the next 100 days, nine road projects worth Rs 945.35 crore will be started using the RKI funds," he said. In addition, the Public Works Department (PWD) will complete projects worth Rs 1,519.57 crore in these 100 days, he said. A government release said the 100-day action plan includes projects worth Rs 2,464.92 crore through the PWD, the RKI and the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board. "K-DISC (Kerala Development And Innovation Strategic Council) is completing an ambitious project of providing employment to 20 lakh educated people in the state. All local self-governments will prepare a draft plan to create employment for five persons out of 1,000 people," it said. Approximately 77,350 direct and indirect job opportunities will be created in 100 days under various departments, including 10,000 jobs each in the industries and commerce department, 2,000 in Kudumbashree, and 7,500 in the transport department, among others, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-vijayan-announces-100-day-plan-to-help-tide-over-covid-triggered-economic-slowdown-996577.html
12-06-2021||South||Crowd-funding helps Hyderabad child with rare disorder get world's 'costliest' medicine||The generosity of nearly 65,000 people has helped get the life-saving gene therapy treatment for a three-year-old boy from the city, who has been diagnosed with a rare and life-threatening genetic disease. Zolgensma, labelled as the "world's most expensive drug," was imported from the US with the donations and administered to little Ayaansh Gupta on Wednesday, at a private hospital in the city. The treatment has given a new lease of life to the child, who was diagnosed with spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) when he was one year old. "This is an extremely rare condition which causes muscle weakness.. the child will be unable to move his hands or legs, sit, stand or even walk. In fact, eating food is also difficult," said the boy's father Yogesh Gupta, working in a private firm here. The condition is also life-threatening and the doctors said that my child's life expectancy was three to four years, he told PTI. It was, therefore, important to treat the child right on time. At first, it seemed impossible for the boy's parents to raise Rs 16 crore for one dose. But then the couple decided to do it through appeals on social media. In February this year, they started a crowdfunding campaign to save their son's life and family friends also extended their support. In three months, they managed to raise enough money to pay for the treatment. Many celebrities, including Virat Kohli, Anushka Sharma, Anil Kapoor, Ajay Devgan and several from the TV industry came forward to help the couple. "Around 65,000 people made donations. It was made possible on May 22," Gupta said. A family friend reached out to an MP, who raised the issue of cost of the medicine in Parliament following which the central government gave tax exemption to the tune of Rs six crore. With the medicine being administered, Gupta expressed hope that his kid's condition would improve in the coming months. The child was discharged from the hospital and follow-up treatment would continue, he said. The boy's father thanked all the 65,000 donors who helped them mobilise funds for the expensive treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/crowd-funding-helps-hyderabad-child-with-rare-disorder-get-worlds-costliest-medicine-996677.html
12-06-2021||South||Interested women will be trained to become priests: P K Sekarbabu||The Tamil Nadu government will provide necessary training to women who are interested in becoming priests and take steps to appoint them in temples managed by it, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR & CE) Minister P K Sekarbabu said here on Saturday. He also said steps will be taken to ensure that the rituals and poojas are done in Tamil temples under the control of the HR & CE department. Sekarbabu said the new DMK government will implement a GO passed by the late M Karunanidhi in 2006 that allows non-Brahmins who have undergone training to be appointed as priests in Tamil Nadu. “We will take steps to provide training to women who are interested in becoming priests and make them one. We will take this proposal to the Chief Minister (M K Stalin) and get necessary approvals,” the minister told reporters, in response to a question. He was interacting with the media after a review meeting with officials from the HR & CE Department, which has been making headlines ever since the DMK government assumed office on May 7. On the poojas and rituals in Tamil instead of Sanskrit, the minister said efforts would be taken to recite mantras in Tamil in all temples under the government control. He added that 47 A-list temples in the state already have the facility and the names of the priests who can conduct pooja and rituals in Tamil will be displayed prominently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/interested-women-will-be-trained-to-become-priests-p-k-sekarbabu-996746.html
12-06-2021||State||Actor Upendra adopts elephant||Actor Upendra adopted an elephant at Sri Chamarajendra zoo, in Mysuru. Upendra adopted African elephant after actor Darshan Thoogudeepa called for contributions to zoo animals. Upendra has said, he joined hands for the good cause called by Darshan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/actor-upendra-adopts-elephant-996608.html
12-06-2021||State||KCCI urges govt to direct power entity to charge lower tariff||The Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry has appealed to the State Government to consider the plight of the MSMEs and direct the power entity to charge a lower tariff than what is prescribed by the tariff regulations. Such proactive measures are required to sustain the economic activities. KCCI President Isaac Vas said that the MSMEs have borne the major brunt of the pandemic and the lockdown. Due to the continuous lockdown during the first wave and once again from April 23 till date, there is no revenue for MSMEs. However, MSMEs have no other choice than to pay various expenses, including salary, interest on debts, rent, security, and other expenses which are fixed in nature. As there is no work for the majority of the workers, the purchasing power is also affected. During such difficult times, an increase in the electricity tariff is like rubbing salt to the wounds. The government should have been considerate to reduce the tariff during these challenging times, he said. The tariff fixing method as per the regulations may be appropriate during normal business times. However, during the pandemic and the high increase in all costs, an increase in power tariff would hit a severe blow to the MSMEs. The tariff regulation permits a Return of Equity of nearly 20 per cent. When the MSMEs are collapsing, it would be illogical to charge 20% on return on equity. The government should have suitably modified the electricity tariff regulations to be suitable during the pandemic times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kcci-urges-govt-to-direct-power-entity-to-charge-lower-tariff-996613.html
12-06-2021||State||Lockdown: Garage owners face shortage of spare parts||With the Dakshina Kannada district administration allowing authorised vehicle service centres and garages to function from 6 am to 12 noon from Saturday, the vehicle owners are heaving a sigh of relief. The garages and vehicle service centres had remained closed since April 23 following the lockdown enforced in the district to contain the spread of Covid-19. The garage owners said that they are facing a shortage of spare parts to repair the vehicles that were brought to the garage. Several vehicle owners had arrived in garages in Mangaluru to get their vehicles repaired. Amit and Jagadeesh, owners of vehicle service centres in Mangaluru, said, “even during the lockdown, we were getting calls from our customers to help repair their vehicles. If it was a minor repair work -- like tightening the chain of the bikes -- it was carried out by visiting the customer’s place during the lockdown. However major repairs could not be carried out due to the closure of service stations. We are facing an acute shortage of spare parts as shops selling automobile spares have remained closed,” they said. The garage owners could not visit far-away places to repair the vehicles due to the lockdown. “Customers who are hired by food delivery apps have been contacting us regularly to repair their two-wheelers during the lockdown.” The majority of the garages that remained open on Saturday morning had their hands full with orders to repair the two-wheelers. Several two-wheelers were parked outside the garage to be repaired. “The chain of my bike has developed some problems. I was waiting for the garage to open to get it repaired. I was using the same bike with much difficulty to ride to my workplace,” said Raju, an employee of a private firm. In the meantime, a few garage owners have increased the service charges after petrol prices increased over the last few weeks. “Those who were engaged in fixing punctured tyres have also started charging more now. Earlier, they used to charge Rs 400 for repairing the punctured tyre. Now it has been hiked,” said a two-wheeler owner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/lockdown-garage-owners-face-shortage-of-spare-parts-996640.html
12-06-2021||State||Change of CM would create wave stronger than Covid: Seer||Malnad Mutts Parishat President Mallikarjuna Murugharajendra warned that Karnataka would witness a wave stronger than the second wave of Covid if there is a change of leadership in the state.  Speaking to media persons after honouring Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa during his visit to Shivayogashrama at Kalenahalli in the taluk here on Saturday, he said nobody must talk of change of chief minister in the state. Yediyurappa is giving good administration braving all odds including Covid-19. Besides, BJP leader has given grants to mutts of all castes, Nobody should hinder his administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/change-of-cm-would-create-wave-stronger-than-covid-seer-996656.html
12-06-2021||State||Gowda flags off IFFCO 'nano urea' dispatch to K'taka; promises land for plant in Bengaluru||Fertilizers Minister D V Sadananda Gowda on Saturday flagged off a dispatch of 'nano urea' fertilizer to Karnataka and promised awarding a piece of land to fertilizer cooperative major IFFCO for setting up a plant in Bengaluru for nano urea production. On May 31, Indian Farmers Fertilizer Cooperative Ltd (IFFCO) introduced the world's first 'nano urea' in liquid form for farmers worldwide, and its production has commenced from the current month. The cooperative had earlier dispatched nano urea to Uttar Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. According to IFFCO, the use of nano urea by farmers will not only improve soil health and crop productivity but will also reduce the use of chemical fertilizers. “It is a momentous occasion for India where IFFCO is working towards realizing Prime Minister's dream of Aatmanirbhar Bharat and Aatmanirbhar Krishi… We will give you a site (land) near airport in Bengaluru from where IFFCO can produce nano urea from Karnataka,” an official statement quoted Gowda having said after flagging off the dispatch virtually. IFFCO had requested the minister to award land for a plant in Karnataka where nano urea and nano DAP (di-ammonium phosphate) could be produced for the southern India. The Kalol plant in Gujarat is dispatching one truck with 15,000 bottles of nano urea per day and soon the plant would dispatch 10 trucks every day,  IFFCO Managing Director U S Awasthi said. He further said the Kalol plant is producing 6,750 tonne equivalent of urea per day, which would result in saving Rs 35,000 crore of the government's subsidy burden and would help farmers earn additional Rs 35,000 crore. The plant has started trails of nano urea and nano DAP from this Kharif crop season staring June and IFFCO is very hopeful of the success. After this, the plant would produce both nano urea and nano DAP, Awasthi added. Karnataka Agriculture Commissioner Brijesh Kumar Dikshit, IFFCO Chairman B S Nakai and Vice Chairman Dileep Sanghani were present during the event. IFFCO said it was in the process of constructing plants at its Kalol unit in Gujarat and also at Aonla and Phulpur in Uttar Pradesh in Phase- I by year 2021-22. The total annual production capacity would be initially 14 crore bottles of 500 ml, which will further be raised to 18 crore. In Phase-II, four more plants will be commissioned by year 2022-23, producing another 18 crore bottles. These non-subsidised bottles will be sold to farmers, without any subsidy, at a price 10 per cent lower than the price of 45 kg urea bag, it said. Farmers can easily use nano urea. One 500 ml bottle of nano urea is sufficient for spraying two times over an acre of field. Now, instead of carrying a 45 kg bag of urea on shoulder, farmers can easily carry a 500 ml bottle of IFFCO nano urea to the fields, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gowda-flags-off-iffco-nano-urea-dispatch-to-ktaka-promises-land-for-plant-in-bengaluru-996777.html
12-06-2021||State||Daily wage staff under government entitled to 100% dearness allowance: Karnataka HC||The High Court has said that employees coming under the Karnataka Daily Wage Employees Welfare Act, 2012, are entitled to Dearness Allowance (DA) at 100 per cent. The order said that day wage employees, working in various departments and establishments of the government, are also entitled to Earned Leave (EL). “The soul of the Act being grant of a better wage, social security on cessation of long public service to a daily wage employee, cannot be reduced to a ‘rope of sand,” Justice M Nagaprasanna noted in the order. The petitions were filed by associations of daily wage employees. The primary challenge in the petitions were rules 4 (3) and 4 (4) of the Karnataka Daily Wage Employees Welfare Rules, 2013 and government orders dated July 12, 2017 and January 10, 2020. The dearness allowance guaranteed under the Act was curtailed to 75 per cent in 2014, and subsequently increased to 90 per cent by another order on January 1, 2020. Prior to this, a circular was issued in July 2017, denying earned leave to the employees coming under the Act. The circular also said leave encashment already allowed in the past should be recovered.   The court said that both the orders are enuded of their value as they run counter to the Act and said the ‘recovery’ clause is ‘absolutely unsustainable.’ “It is trite that a benefit that is conferred under the Act cannot be curtailed or taken away by issuance of Government orders. Therefore, in my considered view, the benefit of admissible Dearness Allowance that is conferred on the employees under the Act, would be 100 per cent and cannot be curtailed under Government orders,” the court said. Meanwhile, the court said it is illegal of the government to take away the benefit of ex-gratia on the premise that employees under the Act have been brought under a more beneficial legislation, Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. The court allowed the petitioners to place a representation and directed the authorities to pass appropriate orders within six months, keeping in mind the observations made by the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/daily-wage-staff-under-government-entitled-to-100-dearness-allowance-karnataka-hc-996806.html
12-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddalingaiah’s poetry spoke for Dalits||Acclaimed poet, playwright, researcher and academician Siddalingaiah, who gave the Dalit movement in Karnataka a new dimension with his fierce poetry and plays, passed away on Friday evening in Bengaluru. The 67-year-old litterateur had tested positive for Covid-19 last month and was admitted to Manipal Hospital on HAL Airport Road.  Siddalingaiah and his wife had tested positive for Covid infection on May 2 after experiencing cough and breathing problems in the last week of April. Initially, he was treated at Rangadore Hospital and subsequently shifted to Manipal Hospital where he was treated in the ICU. Over the last few days, Siddalingaiah was ailing with Covid pneumonia and died of multi-organ failure on Friday. He is survived by his wife, son and a daughter. The soft-spoken writer was born in 1954 at Manchanabele in Magadi taluk of Ramanagara district. A gold medallist from Bangalore University, Siddalingaiah had completed his research under Rashtrakavi Prof G S Shivarudrappa. Alongside his literary activities, Siddalingaiah was known for his powerful voice against the oppression of Dalits. He was one of the co-founders of the prominent Dalit organisation—Dalit Sangharsh Samiti (DSS) along with Prof B Krishnappa, litterateur Devanuru Mahadeva and K B Siddaiah in 1974. With his debut anthology of poems ‘Hole Madigara Haadu’ in 1975, Kannada literature was introduced a new genre of Dalit-Bandaya writings. His poems ‘Ikkarla, Odirla’ (Bash up and kick up) achieved cult status at the peak of the Dalit movement in Karnataka while explaining the anguish of the downtrodden. ‘Nanna Janagalu Mattu Itara Kavitegalu, Kappu Kaadina Haadu, Meravanige are some of his popular collections of poetry that are celebrated even now by young activists. His autobiography ‘Ooru Keri’ translated into English, Malayalam, Tamil, Bengali, Telugu and Hindi won critical appreciation for its insight into the plight of Dalits and struggle for their rights. Known for organisational and academic skills, Siddalingaiah was nominated as Member of the Legislative Council for two consecutive terms from 1988 to 2001 and later served as the chairperson of Kannada Development Authority (KDA) and Kannada Books Authority. He had even served as the professor and Head of the Kannada department of Bangalore University and director of Kannada Study Centre. He was presented with several prominent awards including Rajyotsava award, Karnataka Sahitya Akademi award, Satyakama award, Dr B R Ambedkar award, Nadoja award, Babu Jagajivanram award, Nrupatunga award and Pampa award. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and his Cabinet colleagues and many others have condoled death the demise of Siddalingaiah. “Dr Siddalingaiah will be remembered for his prolific writings, poetry and contributions towards social justice. Saddened by his passing away. My thoughts are with his family and many admirers in this hour of sadness,” the Prime Minister tweeted. The government said noted poet Siddalingaiah’s last rites will be performed with state honours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddalingaiah-s-poetry-spoke-for-dalits-996535.html
12-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Flawed system of Covid-19 vaccine distribution hurting poor and needy, say mid-sized hospitals||In Jigani and Bommasandra industrial areas, where there are over 30,000 labourers, mostly floor workers, and garment workers, including at least 15,000 women and their families, people are unable to get vaccinated as small and mid-size hospitals in their neighbourhoods don't have stocks of the jabs. Workers of these industries are approaching small hospitals but since manufacturers require hospitals, small or big, to buy in large quantities, smaller ones are unable to procure them. ACE Suhas Multi-Speciality hospital in Jigani, Bommasandra, is a 50-bedded hospital. "The mid-sized hospitals have not been given vaccine doses even after repeated communication made through different channels. There is a flaw in the distribution system and the government needs to take stock of this situation," said Dr Jagadish Hiremath, intensivist and medical director of ACE Suhas at a press conference here on Friday. “We started the vaccination drive for a few thousands when the government initially gave vaccines to all hospitals on a daily basis. After that we had requested 15,000 doses of Covishield and around 3,000 doses of Covaxin. Neither of the manufacturers responded to us. We have been sending emails since April and there has been no response,” he added. "Our hospital is located in Jigani, Bommasandra industrial area, where there are over 30,000 labourers. These are floor workers. If we account for garment workers too, we have at least 15,000 women and their families approaching us. Who is going to help these people get vaccinated? Their employers are approaching us and we are not able to vaccinate. We don’t have the financial power to buy vaccines in large quantities like big corporate hospitals, but we can at least store 10,000 doses,” he said. Dr YL Rajashekar, Secretary, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) said, "Effective June 21, all private hospitals will buy vaccines from the State government. PHANA had demanded this." The revised guidelines say, "States/UTs would aggregate the demand of private hospitals keeping in view equitable distribution between large and small private hospitals and regional balance. Based on this aggregated demand, the Government of India will facilitate supply of these vaccines to the private hospitals and their payment through the National Health Authority’s electronic platform." Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/flawed-system-of-covid-19-vaccine-distribution-hurting-poor-and-needy-say-mid-sized-hospitals-996621.html
12-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to have geofencing system in all hospitals: Health minister K Sudhakar||Karnataka Medical Education and Health Minister K Sudhakar said that the government intends to implement a geofencing system to record attendance of staff serving in general hospitals across the state. He was speaking at a meeting with medical officers and staff of Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences, (SIMS)on Saturday. He said it would help to monitor entry and exit of staff during working hours. He regretted that the government has to direct doctors to discharge their duties promptly during working hours after choosing the filed of medicine voluntarily as their profession. At present, senior doctors are paid salary of Rs 2 to 3 lakh. There is a huge respect for the profession of doctors in the society. They have the onus of retaining it. "It is shocking that 24% of Covid-patients died in two days after getting admitted to the hospitals in the district. A team of experts from Bengaluru would be asked to visit the district to study the incident in detail so that suitable steps could be taken to reduce the mortality rate of Covid-19 patients He also directed doctors to examine physical and mental health of Covid-19 patients while admitting them to the hospital for treatment. Besides, they must be discharged only after the concerned doctors have allowed it. The minister said all wards in the district McGann teaching general hospital must have surveillance cameras including intensive care unit. Doctors must discharge their duties promptly to reduce the mortality rate in the district. He said the government intends to set up paediatric intensive care units with 100 beds in each district general hospital in the state. In case of shortage of staff to work in these units, the government would ensure more are recruited. Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences Director O S Siddappa, McGann Hospital Superintendent Sridhar, District Health Officer Rajesh Suragihalli, doctors and staff of the hospital were present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-have-geofencing-system-in-all-hospitals-health-minister-k-sudhakar-996761.html
12-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's active Covid cases fall below 2 lakh; state reports 9,785 cases||Active Covid-19 cases in Karnataka fell below two lakh, as the state on Saturday reported 9,785 new infections and 144 fatalities, taking the caseload to 27.57 lakh and toll to 32,788. The day also saw 21,614 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases. Out of 9,785 new cases reported on Saturday, 2,454 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 5,398 discharges and 21 deaths. Cumulatively 27,57,324 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 32,788 deaths and 25,32,719 discharges, the Health department said in a bulletin. The total number of active cases in the state is 1,91,796. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 6.61 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 1.47 per cent. Out of 144 deaths reported on Saturday, 21 were from Bengaluru Urban, Msyuru (20), Belagavi and Dharwad (10), Ballari (9), Bengaluru Rural and Hassan (8), followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 2,454, Shivamogga 715, Hassan 624, Dakshina Kannada 618, Belagavi 443, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 11,95,340, followed by Mysuru 1,56,545 and Tumakuru 1,11,503. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 10,91,260, followed by Mysuru 1,41,300 and Tumakuru 1,02,585. Cumulatively a total of 3,15,11,642 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,48,027 were done on Saturday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-active-covid-cases-fall-below-2-lakh-state-reports-9785-cases-996775.html
12-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Mysuru children healthy, fit, after Covaxin trial jabs||Children aged between 12 and 18 years, who were administered Covaxin and Covid vaccines on June 6 as part of the clinical trial, are healthy, fit and fine. Out of the 53 selected children, 30 were administered with the vaccine at Cheluvamba Hospital, a constituent hospital of Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute (MMC&RI). The health condition of all the children is stable, said MMCRI Dean and Director Dr C P Nanjaraj. "We have been closely monitoring them, through telephonic conversation with their parents. No complications have been reported,” he said. The children will be under observation for 208 days. However, the authorities will administer the vaccine to another 20 children between 12 and 18 years. Likewise, children between 6 and 12; 2 and 6 years will be administered the vaccine, he said. MMC and RI is the only hospital in Karnataka selected for the paediatric trials of the Covid vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mysuru-children-healthy-fit-after-covaxin-trial-jabs-996788.html
12-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||42 children orphaned due to Covid-19 in Karnataka, says Nodal officer||The state government has identified 42 children orphaned by the Covid-19 pandemic. As of now, these children are with their close relatives and measures are being taken to extend the facilities announced by the government for them. The children hail from 31 different families, and 20 orphans were the only children of their parents. The children are from 19 different districts of the state. Four children were orphaned in Raichur and three each in Bagalkot, Bidar, Chikkaballapur, Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad, Kodagu and Kolar districts. Bengaluru Urban, along with Belagavi, Ramanagara, Gadag and Hassan had two cases each. Nine districts had one case each, while no cases were reported in 11 districts, according to data compiled by the government till June 10. Speaking to DH, KP Mohan Raj, Inspector General of Registrations and Commissioner of Stamps - who is nodal officer for rehabilitating such children - said all of them were currently staying with their extended family members. “Last week, there was a video conference held with district officials to ensure that the facilities announced by the government reach children,” he said. According to sources, the children hailed from different economic backgrounds. Apart from close relatives, the Child Welfare Committees are also overseeing the welfare of such children. The state government has announced the ‘Chief Minister’s Bala Seva Scheme’ under which children orphaned due to Covid-19 will be offered financial assistance of Rs 3,500 per month. The amount will debited to the caretaker of the child. The government has also offered free education, and laptops for these children who have passed 10th standard, apart from other initiatives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/42-children-orphaned-due-to-covid-19-in-karnataka-says-nodal-officer-996790.html
12-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Loan for fees: Private schools roping in moneylenders, says education minister Suresh Kumar||The unholy nexus of the school managements and the moneylenders at several places are fleecing the hapless parents in the name of school fees, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar lamented. "A few private school managements have roped in moneylenders to extend loans to parents so that they could pay school fees. It's a shame that some schools have gotten into this business. I have received several complaints in this regard. This is indeed a disturbing development," the minister told reporters here. "This unfortunate development has angered Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. The chief minister has said that notices would be served on such errant schools," Suresh Kumar said. Replying to a query on the stalemate between the private school managements and the parents over the school fee, the minister said, "On the one hand many parents are facing financial crisis, on the other hand private schools are finding it tough to pay their teaching and non-teaching staff. There is a need to balance both the issues. A few private schools have approached the court over the 70 per cent fee cap fixed by the government last year. The situation is no different this year. School management and the parents should talk and settle the issue," the minister suggested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/loan-for-fees-private-schools-roping-in-moneylenders-says-education-minister-suresh-kumar-996792.html
12-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Panel to submit report on third Covid-19 wave soon: Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday said the Dr Devi Shetty-headed expert committee, constituted to prepare for the possible third Covid wave, would submit its report soon and that the state government was taking necessary measures to overcome the impending crisis.  Speaking to media persons after holding a meeting on Covid-19 with officials here, he said,  “The panel is expected to submit its report in three to four days. The government would take suitable steps, based on the report, to tackle the possible third wave.”  He also claimed that the government is augmenting medical infrastructure in the state. “For the first time, 1,780 doctors have been appointed and Shivamogga district will get 83 doctors, the CM said He has directed Health Minister K Sudhakar to visit the district again to reform the health sector.  Shivamogga district witnessed a rapid surge in the Covid cases and deaths in the second wave. As on June 11, the district has 5,617 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/panel-to-submit-report-on-third-covid-19-wave-soon-yediyurappa-996793.html
12-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Congress women leaders seek action against threat calls to media panelist||Congress media panelist Bhavya Narasimhamurthy has been getting threat calls. Her Facebook account was hacked and there is an organised attempt to harass her, Karnataka Pradesh Mahila Congress leaders said on Saturday, urging the state government and the police to find out who was behind it and take action against the miscreants.  Bhavya said she was getting such calls from June 9, from 50 different numbers. This is an organized attempt and cannot be one person’s effort, she said. Bhavya has already given a police complaint against these calls and is awaiting action. Mahila Congress president Pushpa Amarnath urged the government and the police to identify fake IDs from which threats were being made. Calling out the general trend of women leaders being defamed on social media, the Congress leaders sought an end to such a culture.  This is unfortunate especially when only few women enter politics. Even Sonia Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi are spoken ill about. Such defamation happens on social media, the women leaders said. Congress MLA Sowmya Reddy and Pushpa alleged that this was a political ploy from one political party, to force women into silence. Demanding that the government find out who was behind this, the leaders said they would launch a struggle. “I will bring this up in the Assembly too,” Sowmya said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-congress-women-leaders-seek-action-against-threat-calls-to-media-panelist-996807.html
12-06-2021||West||Palghar now under level-II of unlock plan as Covid-19 situation improves||The district is currently under level-III and the revised easing of curbs under level-II will come into effect from Monday. The government on Friday announced the weekly positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy figures all the administrative units in the state. It had last week fixed the five levels of restrictions based on these two parameters. Palghar collector Manik Gursal on Friday notified that the entire district, including the Vasai Virar Municipal Corporation (VVMC) limits, improved to level-II from the existing level-III in terms of the restrictions. Under level-II category, the positivity rate is five per cent and oxygen bed occupancy is between 25 per cent and 40 per cent. Meanwhile, Thane collector Rajesh Narvekar said that the district will continue to remain under level-III of the unlock plan, except the civic limits of Thane, Navi Mumbai and Kalyan, the decision about which will be taken after the analysis of figures. The levels of these three corporations will be announced after a meeting of the disaster management team. The positivity rate under level-III ranges between five and 10 per cent and the oxygen bed occupancy is above 40 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/palghar-now-under-level-ii-of-unlock-plan-as-covid-19-situation-improves-996612.html
12-06-2021||West||Maharashtra: Close shave for two as boulder falls on car as they step out for tea||Two persons had a narrow escape as a boulder fell on their car just after they stepped out of it to have tea in Malshej ghat mountain pass located on the borders of Thane and Ahmednagar districts, officials said on Saturday. The incident occurred on Friday, in which the vehicle was completely damaged, they said. "The two occupants of the car had stepped out to have tea when a boulder came crashing down on their vehicle. They saw it happen in front of them," an official said. The incident affected the traffic movement for some time, but a highway rescue team rushed to the spot and cleared the road for vehicles going towards Ahmednagar, he said. Malshej ghat is prone to landslides during monsoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-close-shave-for-two-as-boulder-falls-on-car-as-they-step-out-for-tea-996615.html
12-06-2021||West||Heavy rains lash Mumbai; authorities gear up in view of IMD's alert||Heavy rains lashed Mumbai in 24 hours till Saturday morning, although no major water logging was reported and local trains as well as city buses largely ran as per their normal schedule, officials said. Mumbai had got some respite from rains on Friday morning after a downpour on two previous days brought the city to a halt. However, after a brief break, the city continued to get heavy rains throughout the day. A Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said that the island city recorded an average rainfall of 79.66 mm, while the western and eastern suburbs received 92.68 mm and 89.30 mm rainfall, respectively, in the last 24-hours ending 8 am on Saturday. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), rainfall between 65 to 115 mm in 24 hours is termed as "heavy", 115 to 204 mm as "very heavy" and above 204 mm in 24 hours is considered "extremely heavy". The IMD has issued an orange alert for Mumbai for Saturday and a red alert for Sunday. Mumbai and Thane districts would "very likely receive heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places (on Saturday)," it has earlier said. After the IMD’s forecast, the BMC also issued a "high alert" to all the agencies considering "very heavy rainfall" in the next two days. All civic control rooms as well as those operated by other agencies have been issued the "high alert" directive, including power utility firms like BEST and Adani, while the Coast Guard, the Navy and NDRF have been asked to remain on standby to render help if required, another official said. Despite the rains on Friday, the BEST buses and suburban local services of Central Railway and Western Railway are running as per their normal schedule, and no major untoward incident was reported, the BMC official said. On Saturday morning, rains took a break in most parts of the city and suburbs. No major water logging was reported in the low-lying areas. The flow of traffic on the city roads is smooth, he added. According to the BMC, a high tide of 4.34 metres is expected at 1.32 pm and a low tide of 1.89 metres at 7.27 pm on Saturday. The south-west monsoon had arrived in the city with a bang on Wednesday as heavy rains caused flooding on roads and rail tracks, disrupting suburban train services. The first rains of this year's monsoon season in Mumbai had also caused water-logging in various parts of the city on that day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rains-lash-mumbai-authorities-gear-up-in-view-of-imds-alert-996628.html
12-06-2021||West||Armed with college degrees, these Maharashtra youth are working as drain cleaners||Lack of jobs due to the Covid-19 pandemic has forced some young men who have college degrees to work as `nullah' (drain) cleaners in the Mumbra area near here. But they are not ashamed. No work is inferior and they have to support their families, said one of them. A group of around 20 persons from Diva in the district has been hired by a private contractor for nullah cleaning which is undertaken every year to prevent flooding during the monsoon. Among them are some well-educated young men. Sameer (full name not disclosed), who said he is a "double graduate", is working with the contractor for the last three months. "There are no jobs outside. Companies have closed due to the pandemic. One needs a job for earning livelihood and to take care of the family," he told a local news channel. Anil, another worker, said he is an "IT engineer". Some of them had white collar jobs which they lost during the pandemic. To save on transport costs, they walk from Diva to Mumbra, a distance of over 10 km, everyday for work. As they needed income, one of them approached an agent of the civic contractor who undertakes pre-monsoon works a few weeks ago, and expressed willingness to join his team of labourers. The corporator of the ward in Mumbra where the work is underway said she felt sympathy for them as they had lost their regular jobs. “I salute them for their work,” she added. One should not look down upon any work. After all we have to survive and support the family. What if we are post graduates or double graduates? Our degrees are not going to help us at present," said another man. "This job will last for a couple of weeks. Then we will have to look for another source of income," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/armed-with-college-degrees-these-maharashtra-youth-are-working-as-drain-cleaners-996758.html
12-06-2021||West||Goa Police solves child-kidnapping case in 24 hours, earns kudos from CM||Police in Goa claimed to have cracked a child-kidnapping case within 24 hours after a one-month old boy was allegedly kidnapped from the state's top government hospital, the Goa Medical College near Panaji late on Friday. The child is reportedly safe and the accused person has been arrested from a North Goa village, police said. A joint police task force had launched a massive manhunt to trace the alleged kidnapper, a middle-aged woman, who was seen with the child at various locations in North Goa on footage of CCTV cameras along the route. The police action followed a complaint filed by the mother of the child who hails from Odisha, shortly after the child went missing from the hospital premises. Police on Saturday claimed that the child is safe and the alleged kidnapper had been arrested from Saleli village in North Goa district. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant tweeted congratulations to the Goa Police for the prompt arrest. "I congratulate Goa Police for successfully leading one of the biggest manhunts in the State and safely rescuing a 1 month old child within 24hrs. Safety & security of the citizens is the top priority of our Government," the Chief Minister tweeted. Earlier on Saturday, the leader of opposition Digambar Kamat and Health Minister Vishwajit Rane were involved in a slanging match over the kidnapping, with Kamat alleging that the kidnapping of a young child proved that there was a law and order breakdown in the state. "Shocked to hear about the kidnapping of a one month old boy from Goa Medical College Hospital. Once again it is proved that even hospitals are not safe in Goa. Law and order situation is at an all time low under the BJP government," Kamat, a former Chief Minister had said. Rane responded by calling Kamat's allegations baseless. "I would like to bring to attention that the kidnapping incident reported at the GMC has been incorrectly reported. The child was neither a patient at GMC, nor does it have anything to do with a security lapse. It is a baseless allegation and the facts of the incident are totally different," the Health Minister had tweeted in response.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-police-solves-child-kidnapping-case-in-24-hours-earns-kudos-from-cm-996771.html
12-06-2021||West||Mumbai Metropolitan Region cross 30,000 Covid deaths||The Mumbai metropolitan region crossed the 30,000-mark of Covid-19 deaths on Saturday even as the Maharashtra government continued to reconcile figures and update the portal, shooting up the casualty numbers. During the day, the MMR recorded 84 deaths and 2,267 cases, taking the progressive total to 30,236 and 15,61,266, according to the Public Health Department. Compared with the peak 2,619 deaths declared on Friday, the state has revealed the second highest 1,966 fatalities on Saturday - comprising 360 new deaths, and 1,606 earlier deaths – which pulled up the toll from 1,06,367 to 1,08,333. Maharashtra is the worst-affected state in terms of casualties and infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-metropolitan-region-cross-30000-covid-deaths-996795.html
12-06-2021||West||Kejriwal to visit Gujarat to inaugurate AAP headquaters, induct new faces||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party's national convener Arvind Kejriwal is likely to visit Ahmedabad on June 14 to inaugurate the party's state headquarters and induct new faces to the party, officials said on Saturday. Kejriwal's visit, the second this year, is set to give impetus to the party trying hard to recruit workers across the state in a bid to prepare for the 2022 Assembly election. "He (Kejriwal) is coming on June 14 to inaugurate the state office in Ahmedabad," said Tuli Banerjee, state media in-charge. She said that it took almost a year to get a property on rent to run it as the party's state office. "For the past one year, we were trying to get a space to run as our main office. There are instances when the landlord backed out at the last moment fearing repercussions from the ruling party. We somehow managed to get this place," Banerjee told DH. Earlier in February, Kejriwal had visited Surat after his party won 27 seats in Surat Municipal Corporation for the first time, decimating the Congress which failed to open an account. AAP is now in opposition in Surat corporation which has been a stronghold of the ruling BJP. AAP officials said that few prominent faces are likely to be inducted into the party in Kejriwal's presence. Ever since its victory in Surat corporation polls, AAP has been making efforts to recruit workers across the state in its preparation for the 2022 Assembly polls. In Surat district alone, several hundred BJP workers joined AAP, leaving the BJP red-faced. Incidentally, BJP is holding a legislative party meet on June 15 where each office bearer and legislator has been asked to remain present. Party officials have said that these legislators will be briefed about the government's performance during the second wave of coronavirus pandemic and other measures taken to help people. Party insiders said that some "dissenting voices" have emerged during the peak of the second wave. Besides, there is resentment against the party leaders among the public due to "large scale deaths of Covid-19 patients, lack of medical infrastructure and absence of leaders on grassroots to help the public."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kejriwal-to-visit-gujarat-to-inaugurate-aap-headquaters-induct-new-faces-996813.html
