13-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru joins Bengaluru as Covid-19 cases in urban areas outnumber tally in rural areas||In the past 14 days, Mysuru is the only district in Karnataka apart from Bengaluru Urban where active Covid-19 cases in urban areas (6,741) surpassed those in rural areas (5,731). In all other districts, rural areas have seen more infections than urban centres. Mysuru bucked the trend in total positive cases too — over the past two weeks, its urban areas saw 8,877 cases while it was 7,214 in rural areas. Five urban areas from the district are among the top 20 worst-hit towns in the state, according to the latest state war room report. Saraguru, Periyapatna, HD Kote, Nanjangudu and T Narasipur reported 129, 525, 400, 1,028 and 295 cases respectively in the past four weeks. This week-on-week increase shown by urban areas, as per the war room, is well above 100 per cent: 185 per cent (Saraguru), 144.4 per cent (Periyapatna), 123.1 per cent (HD Kote), 109.6 per cent (Nanjangudu), and 105.7 per cent (T Narasipur). Dr Shivaprasad, surveillance officer of Mysuru district, said since cases from Chamundeshwari and Varuna constituencies are accounted for in Mysuru's tally, urban areas show more cases. "There are some from semi-urban areas who get tested in private labs in Mysuru city and hence their cases get reflected in the corporation limits. Also, there are many who travel to and from Bengaluru who test positive in Mysuru," he said. As of June 11, 3.05 per cent of Mysuru district have been vaccinated as per the war room. Over the past four weeks, the district reported 38,492 cases, with a week-on-week increase in cases by 77.7 per cent. Dr Bagadi Gautham, Deputy Commissioner, Mysuru district, said, "There are many patients in home isolation in urban areas and we believe they're coming out and spreading the infection. We are trying to get more patients into Covid Care Centres and district hospital now that beds are available." In the past 14 days, while 5,456 people were in home isolation in the urban areas of the district, 4,394 were at home in rural areas. "Also, population density in urban Mysuru is more than rural Mysuru and hence the likelihood of transmission is higher here. Even around Mysuru municipal corporation limits, the population is higher and denser. There are many gram panchayats whose cases are counted as Mysuru's. These areas are considered a continuum of Mysuru," he said. "On Saturday, the district reported 423 cases (482 as per the state's daily bulletin), which is one-third of yesterday's cases. The state has asked us to ramp up RT-PCR tests in urban areas. In a week's time, we're hoping the cases will come down," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-joins-bengaluru-as-covid-19-cases-in-urban-areas-outnumber-tally-in-rural-areas-996861.html
13-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rains lash parts of Dakshina Kannada||Intermittent rain lashed various parts of Dakshina Kannada on Sunday. Indian Meteorological department has issued warning of heavy rainfall accompanied by Thunderstorm and lightning upto 8.30 am on June 17. The sky has remained overcast in the district. Following the lack of storm water drains, roads like Kadri-Kambala, KS Rao Rao and other areas have been inundated in Mangaluru. The fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea for fishing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rains-lash-parts-of-dakshina-kannada-996947.html
13-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mentally unstable man beaten to death by cops in Karnataka; 8 suspended||A 50-year-old mentally unstable man in this city was beaten to death, allegedly by policemen, for violating lockdown norms last week, following which eight of them have been suspended, a senior police officer said on Sunday. The policemen were booked on a complaint by the man's brother Robin D'Souza, based on which a case was registered against them, Inspector General of Police, Karnataka Southern Range, Praveen Madhukar Pawar, told reporters. He said the Deputy Superintendent of Police of Virajpet had furnished a report against eight policemen, based on which they have been suspended. "An inquiry is being conducted by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate. As per the National Human Rights Commission guidelines, we are handing over the case to the CID," Pawar added. Family members said that Roy D'Souza, who was mentally unstable, was living with his mother, while his brother Robin was in Bengaluru. Roy ran away from his house late at night on June 8. The policemen found him wandering about, questioned him for violating the lockdown norms and thrashed him, they said. Early on June 9, his mother was summoned to the police station, where she found Roy lying unconscious, the family said. He was rushed to a local private hospital and from there to the district hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries. Learning about it, Robin rushed to Madikeri and lodged a complaint with the Superintendent of Police, Kshama Mishra, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mentally-unstable-man-beaten-to-death-by-cops-in-karnataka-8-suspended-996993.html
13-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||1.2 lakh people join online campaign to 'bring back Rohini Sindhuri'||'Bring back Rohini Sindhuri,' an online signature campaign on www.change.org has received an overwhelming response crossing 1.2 lakh from the netizens.  The campaign, launched by Concerned Citizens of India last Friday on the online signature platform, is being widely circulated on social media. It has requested more people to join the campaign to bring back the IAS officer as the deputy commissioner of Mysuru. They claimed that Sindhuri was transferred in an unceremonious manner due to the pressure exerted by the politicians as she had taken a stand against the land mafia in the district and demanded a probe. The people of Mysuru should know the facts and put an end to the corruption. The probe should be conducted and led by Sindhuri, says the campaign. People have been urged to support the campaign wholeheartedly. Besides, groups have been formed on Facebook, supporting Sindhuri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/12-lakh-people-join-online-campaign-to-bring-back-rohini-sindhuri-997130.html
13-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hundreds of trees felled without nod for road to waterfall||Hundreds of trees were felled in a hush-hush manner during the lockdown to build a road to Kumbraal waterfall in the protected area of the taluk. Dehalli Gram Panchayat carried out the tree felling and road work in the night despite the warning issued by the Forest department to not cut trees. Many valuable trees like shisham and teak have been razed in the name of development. Trunks and tree debris on either side of the 1-km road are the telltale signs of indiscriminate felling of trees. Some trees were buried underneath the road while a few dumped in the backwaters of Kali river. There are many waterfalls in the Yellapur forest. The entire forest will vanish if the authorities start laying roads to the falls, said locals.  A three-feet mud road was enough for trekking. Also, the waterfall dries up in summer and comes alive only during the monsoon. It is unfortunate that about 500 full-grown trees were felled for the road that was not needed, said Manjunath Menasumane, former president of Gram Aranya Samithi. Without permission Meanwhile, Range Forest Officer Balasubramanya has alleged that the GP authorities had felled trees for a road without taking due permission from the Forest department. “We had warned the GP authorities a month back when they started the road work. We had stopped the work then by placing thorny shrubs on the stretch. But they resumed work during the lockdown and laid a road overnight,” the RFO told DH. When contacted, Dehalli GP president Shripati Muddepal said there’s no need for the Forest department’s permission for the road works in GP limits. A trekking trail is being developed to have a proper access to the waterfall. Only five to six trees were felled, the GP president said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hundreds-of-trees-felled-without-nod-for-road-to-waterfall-997141.html
13-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Adi Shankara statue to be installed in Kedarnath getting ready in Mysuru||A 12.5-foot statue of Adi Shankaracharya, to be installed at Kedarnath in Uttarakhand, from where the philosopher left for his heavenly abode, is getting ready in the city. City-based sculptor Arun Yogiraj is busy giving final touches to the statue. The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) gave contract to Arun to sculpt the statue. He inherited the craft from his father. Arun says he is proud to sculpt the statue of Shankaracharya. The PMO had collected models by sculptors from across the country before awarding the contract to Arun.  The sculptor has brought stone weighing 120 tonnes, to give shape to the statue that will weigh 35 tonnes when ready. He has been working on the statue since September 2020. Shankaracharya’s samadhi was destroyed in the 2013 flash floods that hit Kedarnath and is now being restored by the JSW Group. The company has taken up the reconstruction of the samadhi at Kedarpuri in Uttrakahand. It has also taken up the reconstruction and restoration of the Adi Shankaracharya Kutir along with a museum and other infrastructure facilities. The statue will be installed at the Shankaracharya study chair and museum at the Shankaracharya Samadhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/adi-shankara-statue-to-be-installed-in-kedarnath-getting-ready-in-mysuru-997145.html
13-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||No need to read too much into BSY's visit to Mutts: Shettar||Karnataka Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said on Sunday that there was no need to read too much into Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and his son B Y Vijeendra's visit to Lingayat Mutts in the state.  Speaking to media persons, he said there is no need to read their visits as political posturing against the High command. "Yediyurappa and his family members used to visit  mutts before and they are doing the same even now. One need not read it as mustering of support from Mutt heads," he said.  The party has made it clear that there is no discussion either at the state or High Command level to change the chief minister. Yediyurappa will continue to be our chief minister for the next two years, he added.  However, he refused to comment on whether Yediyurappa will lead the party in the 2023 Assembly polls. Elections are too far and the party will take a call on that before elections, he said. Shettar also refused to comment on the MLAs who are camping in Delhi. "I don't want to comment on people and their Facebook message claiming themselves to be CM candidate," he said referring to Hubballi Dharwad West MLA Arvind Bellad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-need-to-read-too-much-into-bsys-visit-to-mutts-shettar-996984.html
13-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Days after ruling out leadership change, BJP leader Arun Singh to visit Karnataka||BJP General Secretary Arun Singh is arriving on Wednesday, days after ruling out replacing Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa amid speculation in some quarters about leadership change. "Arun Singh would be in Karnataka for two to three days. It is his duty to hold meetings and take stock of the situation, for which he is coming here. I welcome him and I will be here to cooperate with him," Yediyurappa told reporters on Sunday. According to party sources, Singh is likely to hold meetings with Ministers, MLAs and the party's core committee members during his visit. On June 10, Singh said: "Yediyurappa is the Chief Minister, he is doing a good job and will remain the Chief Minister. He has done a good job during the Covid situation, all the Ministers and the party -- everyone has done a good job." Singh had also said that no discussions have happened at the party's central leadership level, regarding seeking resignation from the Chief Minister as he termed talks about replacing CM, and also state party president Nalin Kumar Kateel as "rumour" and "imaginary". A day later, Yediyurappa said Singh's statement ruling out his replacement, has given him "more strength" and that he will work for the development of the state during the remaining two years of the term. Speculations have been rife for some time now that efforts were on by a section of the ruling BJP to unseat Yediyurappa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/days-after-ruling-out-leadership-change-bjp-leader-arun-singh-to-visit-karnataka-997051.html
13-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Sulking Karnataka BJP MLAs seek another central observer||Prior to the visit by BJP national general secretary and Karnataka in-charge of party affairs, Arun Singh, to Bengaluru this week, attempts are afoot by a section of BJP leaders to send another observer along with Singh. The faction of disgruntled BJP legislators, according to sources, have stepped up their efforts to impress the high command on the requirement of another observer to report party and government affairs to the national leadership. The demand came in the wake of allegations by the faction that Singh favoured Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and did not communicate the true state of affairs in Karnataka to party leadership. Hubli-Dharwad West MLA Arvind Bellad, who appears to have taken over as the face of the disgruntled faction from another MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal, is in Delhi awaiting an appointment from BJP leaders, including national president J P Nadda. He had recently visited the national capital with Tourism Minister C P Yogeeshwar, as speculations remained rife over the continuation of Yediyurappa as chief minister. Singh had recently put an end to such speculations, maintaining that Yediyurappa would continue to head the government till 2023. In Delhi, Singh declined to meet Bellad last week and have asked the MLA to meet him in Bengaluru during his three-day visit from Wednesday, June 16. Bellad, meanwhile, met BJP general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh. The MLAs demands include convening a legislature party meeting to air their grievances. According to sources, the high command was not keen on sending another observer. Singh was likely to pull up leaders for making public comments that was putting the party and the government in an embarrassing situation. As if hinting at the same, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa told reporters in Shivamogga on Sunday that all issues would be sorted following his visit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/sulking-karnataka-bjp-mlas-seek-another-central-observer-997138.html
13-06-2021||National||PM Modi moots 'One Earth, One Health' mantra at G7 summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday virtually took part in an outreach session of the G7 summit and articulated the “One Earth, One Health” mantra for global cooperation to fight the Covid-19 pandemic as well as future pandemics. He sought G7's support for the proposal moved by India and South Africa at the World Trade Organisation for temporarily waiving the Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) protection on Covid-19 vaccines and drugs. He called for global unity, leadership and solidarity and emphasised the special responsibility of democratic and transparent societies to prevent future pandemics. Modi virtually joined the G7 leaders, who assembled at Cornwall in South West England for a summit of the bloc. India, however, is not a member of the G7, which comprises Japan, Italy, France, Germany, Canada, the United States and the United Kingdom, with the European Union being a ‘non-enumerated’ member of the bloc. The Prime Minister was however invited by his counterpart in the UK, Boris Johnson, to attend the outreach session held on the sideline of the summit. A source in New Delhi said that Modi’s mantra for “One Earth, One Health” received support from the other G7 leaders, with German Chancellor Angela Merkel specifically referring to it during her speech. Modi highlighted India's ‘whole of society’ approach to fight the pandemic, synergising efforts of all levels of government, industry and civil society. He referred to India’s successful use of open-source digital tools for contact tracing and vaccine management and conveyed India's willingness to share its experience and expertise. He also expressed India's commitment to support collective endeavours to improve global health governance, sources said. French President Emmanuel Macron stressed on ensuring uninterrupted supply of raw materials to help augment production of Covid-19 vaccines in India. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison extended support of his government to the proposal mooted by India and South Africa at the WTO for temporary patent waiver for the Covid-19 vaccines and drugs. Morrison also attended the G7 outreach session as a “special invitee”. Modi was expected to speak on the themes of “Building Back Stronger”, “Building Back Together” and “Building Back Greener” during the outreach sessions of the G7 summits on Saturday and Sunday. In view of the second Covid-19 wave in India, the Prime Minister last month dropped his plan to travel to the UK to attend the summit. Atal Behari Vajpayee was the first Indian Prime Minister to participate in the Outreach Session of the G7 Summit in 2003. India was invited to the annual G7 Summit Outreach Sessions and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh participated the conclaves from 2005 to 2009. Modi attended the G7 ‘Biarritz Summit’ hosted by Macron in 2019 as “a Goodwill Partner”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-moots-one-earth-one-health-mantra-at-g7-summit-996833.html
13-06-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on June 13||India's daily Covid-19 infections dip further on Sunday with 80,834 new cases, the lowest since March 31. As many as 3,303 deaths were reported as the recovery rate from the virus stood at 95.26%.  Coronavirus in India Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  2,94,39,989 as of June 13, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  3,70,384 as of June 13, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> Total Vaccination: 25,31,95,048 No. of people discharged: 2,80,43,446 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-june-13-996905.html
13-06-2021||National||Fact-check: UP CM presents study incorrectly attributed to Harvard to PM Modi, Amit Shah, JP Nadda||There have been reports of a growing political tussle between the central government and the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh, which goes to poll next year. Speculations of a rift are circulating amid PM Modi’s mishandling of Covid-19 and Adityanath facing flak over the rising number of dead bodies found in Ganga. UP CM has dismissed rumours of BJP’s unhappiness with his leadership. On June 10, he met Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi. A photograph from the meeting shows Adityanath handing over a book to him titled "Covid-19 & The Migrant Crisis Resolution: A Report On Uttar Pradesh." The next day, Adityanath presented the book to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind and BJP President JP Nadda. The photo with Nadda shows an English version of the same report – ‘Covid-19 & The Migrant Crisis Resolution: A Report On Uttar Pradesh’. The Study Is Not by Harvard The book handed over by Adityanath to the Home Minister is the Hindi translation of the study ‘Covid-19 & The Migrant Crisis Resolution: A Report On Uttar Pradesh’. The cover page of the book has two logos – Institute For Competitiveness (IFC) and Microeconomics of Competitiveness (MOC), an affiliate network of Harvard Business School. Back in April, the same study was hailed by certain news outlets as Harvard University lauding the Yogi Adityanath government for handling the migrant crisis more effectively than other states. Alt News had revealed that the study was not prepared by Harvard University but IFC. The study was shared on a WhatsApp group ‘State Media 1’ where the UP government communicates with journalists. This time as well, the study was misrepresented as a Harvard study and shared on the same group. Amit Kapoor, honorary chairman at IFC, had told Alt News over an email conversation, “It is not accurate to refer to a study by an MOC affiliate as a Harvard study.” Kapoor also informed, “Contrary to media reports our study doesn’t conclude UP government handled the migrant crisis more effectively than other states. The document is not a comparative statement on the handling of the crisis by different states. It is documentation pertaining to the effort of the Uttar Pradesh government and extracting insights from the same.” “The document was for internal consumption and was not intended to be made public. In addition, as you note, the study/ document was not projected as a Harvard study anywhere in the document, rather as a work of the Institute For Competitiveness. The interpretation was unexpected. The logo from the report will be removed to correct the interpretation and to not project anything wrong,” he continued. But after the study handed over to the Prime Minister, the President and the Home Minister still carried the logo, Alt News contacted Kapoor for clarification. “As stated earlier, the report was meant for internal use and not to be released in public. To your question, IFC did remove the MOC network logo from the report, which I am also attaching in the email. This report had not yet been released by Institute For Competitiveness in the public domain and the document is for limited internal circulation. These reports being shared have not been printed or published by Institute For Competitiveness.” It is noteworthy that the document does not carry a disclaimer stating that it is only meant for internal use. Below is the recent copy of the study (right) shared by Kapoor which shows that the MOC logo has been taken down.  What Did the Johns Hopkins Study Say? A news agency reported that another “similar study” by Johns Hopkins was also presented to the Prime Minister. Two months ago, several media organisations wrongly hailed Uttar Pradesh as a topper in Covid management citing a report by Johns Hopkins. Dr David Peters, a professor at the Johns Hopkins Department of International Health, who is one of the authors of the study, had refuted claims made by Indian media. “The case study covered activities in UP from January 30, 2020, to January 15, 2021, and aimed to document the range of actions taken in Uttar Pradesh in response to Covid-19 and to identify lessons for how to respond in resource-constrained settings. As you can see in the report itself, the case study did not make comparisons to other countries or states, nor make claims about which states or countries are top performers,” he told Alt News. In the month of April, two studies were incorrectly projected by the media as studies by Harvard University and Johns Hopkins University lauding the UP government for managing the migrant crisis and Covid-19 better than other states. These claims were further amplified on social media and WhatsApp. The study that was falsely attributed to Harvard especially gained a lot of traction with even prominent journalists tweeting about it. However, neither the claims nor the attribution was correct. Despite clarifications published two months ago, UP CM Yogi Adityanath presented these studies to the Home Minister, the President and the Prime Minister. The false claims were also repeated on a WhatsApp group where the UP government communicates with journalists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-up-cm-presents-study-incorrectly-attributed-to-harvard-to-pm-modi-amit-shah-jp-nadda-996906.html
13-06-2021||National||DH Toon | India-China trust levels remain low||On June 15 afternoon last year when Col B Santosh Babu led his men to Patrolling Point 14 in the Galwan Valley, his aim was to check whether soldiers of the People’s Liberation Army of China were complying with what their superiors had agreed upon at a Corps Commander’s meeting 10 days’ ago. As per the agreement reached between the two sides, the PLA troops were to dismantle a make-shift bunker set up on the Indian soil near the Galwan river and return to their post 1.5 km away to the east. Babu’s job was to ensure compliance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-india-china-trust-levels-remain-low-996914.html
13-06-2021||National||With 80,834 new Covid-19 cases, India sees lowest spike since April 2||India reported 80,834 fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest after 71 days, while the daily positivity rate further dropped to 4.25 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. With the fresh cases, the country's tally of cases has climbed to 2,94,39,989.   The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,70,384 with 3,303 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases further declined to 10,26,159 comprising 3.49 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 95.26 per cent.    A net decline of 54,531 cases has been recorded in the Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 19,20,477 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 37,62,32,162 while the daily positivity rate has further dropped to 4.25 per cent . It has been less than 10 per cent for 20 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate fell below 5    per cent and was recorded 4.74 per cent.  Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 31st consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,80,43,446, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.26 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 25,31,95,048 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive.   India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 3,303 fresh fatalities include 1,966 from Maharashtra, 374 from Tamil Nadu, 171 from Kerala and 144 from Karnataka. A total of  3,70,384 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,08,333 from Maharashtra, 32,788 from Karnataka, 29,280 from Tamil Nadu, 24,800 from Delhi, 21,735 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,812 from West Bengal, 15,503 from Punjab and 13,311 from Chhattisgarh. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-80834-new-covid-19-cases-india-sees-lowest-spike-since-april-2-996922.html
13-06-2021||National||Why this ‘anarth’? Jairam Ramesh slams PM Modi over his 'One Earth, One Health' remark at G7 address||Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Sunday slammed PM Narendra Modi for allegedly taking "one stance for the world, another in India" on licensing of Covid-19 vaccines. Addressing G7 countries yesterday, Modi sought the bloc's support for the proposal by India and South Africa at the WTO for temporarily waiving the Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) protection on Covid-19 vaccines and drugs. He termed it 'One Earth, One Health'. "In Supreme Court, His govt takes a completely different stance. Does not invoke compulsory licensing," Ramesh tweeted, referring to a proposal by the Opposition that calls for compulsory licensing of Covid-19 vaccines and drugs to boost manufacturing in the country. To G7, He says— ‘One Earth, One Health’, asking for patent waiver for COVID-19 vaccines. In Supreme Court, His govt takes a completely different stance. Does not invoke compulsory licensing In May, the Modi government opposed compulsory licensing of the Covid-19 vaccines and medicines, saying it won't help boost manufacturing as raw material supply was an issue. "One stance for the world, another in India. Why this ‘anarth’?" the Congress leader wrote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-this-anarth-jairam-ramesh-slams-pm-modi-over-his-one-earth-one-health-remark-at-g7-address-996929.html
13-06-2021||National||Children orphaned in pandemic stare at uncertain future, scramble for aid||Losing a loved one is never easy but if one were to compare, there would not be a loss that could quite match the severity of losing one's parents, especially for dependent children. The death of a parent strips away the child of not just the emotional blanket of comfort, but also in several cases takes away the financial support, leaving their futures in a lurch. Ten-year-old Shatakshi Sinha is one of them. The sole breadwinner of the family, her 57-year old-husband -- an editor at a Hindi publishing house -- was gone almost in a night's span, without even getting a chance at proper treatment, and now she is at a loss for ideas to secure her daughter's future. "He had low grade fever and a slight cough, which actually got better in a few days, but one morning he suddenly collapsed. Although we managed to revive him then… after scrambling for an ambulance and a bed for hours, by the time we reached the hospital, we had lost him," Kalpana said. "I remember my little daughter running after the ambulance, pleading with me to take her along," she added, barely managing to keep it together. The challenge with Shatakshi's situation now is that even though she still has a mother to take care of her, the financial support has gone. "I have always been a housewife. How am I suddenly supposed to start working? Honestly, I don't even know what I can do. And even if I do find a job, where will I keep my daughter while I am away. We live in times where no one can be trusted," Kalpana said. However, she has filled in a form seeking free education at her daughter's school under the Delhi government's scheme instructing schools to waive the fees for children who have lost their parents to Covid-19, but she hasn't heard anything yet. The story of Gaurang (13) and Daksh Gupta (6), who live in Uttam nagar, is not very different. Their father, again the only earning member in the family, was an e-rickshaw driver making a living one day at a time, but his death has pushed the family to the depths of hopelessness. Life was already a challenge with dipping incomes due to the lockdown. The boys' parents had decided to take the younger son out of school, and shift the older one to a government one to make managing finances a little easier, but before anything could happen, tragedy struck. "My younger son keeps asking about his father, and I do not have an answer. The little one was really close to him... the elder boy has become indifferent. "I don't know what to take care of. My children, their futures, or myself. I am so clueless and scared," said Madhu Gupta, the mother. Like Kalpana, Madhu too has applied at her older son's school for his education to be made free, but nothing has come out of it yet. A lot of this cluelessness, the widows said, was also because they have nowhere to turn to for guidance. Relatives helped for a few days after the deaths, but not anymore. In another tale of the cruel twist of fate, three siblings -- aged nine, 11 and 13 -- lost both their parents to Covid-19 in the first week of May. To make things worse, their landlord refused to let their tenancy continue unless they paid rent. Thankfully, their uncle, a welder, came to their rescue and took the three children in. "They are my sister's children and I love them. I want to ensure they get an education and have a bright future, but there is only so much that I can do. "I do not earn enough to fend for three children. I want the best for them, but I will need help," said Mohammad Asif, who also has to take care of his seven-month pregnant wife. In an attempt to provide help to caretakers like Asif, and non-earning single parents like Kalpana and Madhu, Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA), an NGO led by Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi has been identifying children rendered orphans during the pandemic for almost a year now. They recently launched a distress helpline asking people to report orphaned children when the death toll increased drastically during the second wave. Kalpana said she managed to get in touch with a BBA volunteer who assured her help, and is hoping to hear from them soon. Earlier this month, the organisation also sought the Delhi High Court's assistance to get information on the number of children who have been orphaned during the pandemic in the capital. "While our workers have been trying to locate and provide relief to such children by giving them food and shelter wherever necessary, it is important to understand that our organisation too has limitations. "We have got in touch with state government authorities to provide these children with long-term support. It is the primary responsibility of the government to care for these children," said Manish Sharma, Director, Bachpan Bachao Andolan. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/children-orphaned-in-pandemic-stare-at-uncertain-future-scramble-for-aid-996932.html
13-06-2021||National||Himanta Biswa Sarma believes regional parties cannot come together against BJP — Here's why||Amid talks of regional parties emerging as strong Opposition to the BJP at a national level, the newly-appointed Chief Minister of Assam, Himanta Biswa Sarma, has dismissed such a possibility, saying the parties cannot come together because they compete against each other.  Several regional parties, like the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra and the Trinamool in Bengal, have voiced confidence in raising a nationwide alliance against the BJP in Lok Sabha polls. Earlier in the week, a three-hour-long meeting between NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and political strategist Prashant Kishor sparked speculations in political circles. A spokesperson for the Shiv Sena, after the meeting, said there is a need to have a "wider alliance" of political parties against the ruling BJP ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls.  Thumping victories by the DMK and TMC, parties helped by Kishor, at the state levels have also threatened BJP's might at the polls. Earlier in the week, Mukul Roy returned to TMC after a stint at the BJP, sparking fears of a bigger exodus of BJP leaders to the Trinamool camp.   Modi government's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and the earlier vaccine policy, which was largely seen as the states being left to fend for themselves, pit the regional parties against the BJP.  However, Sarma says the coming together of the regional players does not affect the might of BJP at the Centre. "You will see the rise of a leader here and there but when you come to the bigger national picture, the people of India will always vote for a party that will safeguard the integrity and sovereignty of the nation," he told the publication.  He also claimed that Modi's biggest achievement was liberals contending that the Congress is no longer an alternative, regional parties are. "So I think we agree that Congress-mukt Bharat is a reality and people have now started talking about the coming together of regional political parties," he said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/himanta-biswa-sarma-believes-regional-parties-cannot-come-together-against-bjp-heres-why-996933.html
13-06-2021||National||Discoms' outstanding dues to gencos fall 11.2% to Rs 81,628 cr in April||Total outstanding dues owed by electricity distribution utilities or discoms to power producers fell 11.2 per cent to Rs 81,628 crore in April 2021 from a year ago. Distribution companies (discoms) owed a total Rs 91,915 crore to power generation firms in April 2020, according to portal PRAAPTI (Payment Ratification And Analysis in Power procurement for bringing Transparency in Invoicing of generators). However, outstanding dues of discoms towards electricity producers have been increasing year-on-year as well as month-on-month for years showing perennial stress in the power sector till February this year. It has started tapering off from March 2021. Total dues in April increased sequentially compared to Rs 78,841 crore in March this year. Total outstanding dues of discoms had dipped 3.4 per cent in March this year from Rs 81,687 crore in the same month last year. The PRAAPTI portal was launched in May 2018 to bring in transparency in power purchase transactions between generators and discoms. In April 2021, the total overdue amount, which was not cleared even after 45 days of grace period offered by generators, stood at Rs 68,732 crore as against Rs 76,117 crore in the same month a year ago. The overdue amount stood at Rs 67,656 crore in March this year. Power producers give 45 days to discoms to pay bills for electricity supply. After that, outstanding dues become overdue and generators charge penal interest on that in most cases. To give relief to power generation companies (gencos), the Centre enforced a payment security mechanism from August 1, 2019. Under this mechanism, discoms are required to open letters of credit for getting power supply. The Centre had also given some breathers to discoms for paying dues to gencos in view of the COVID-19-induced lockdown. The government had also waived penal charges for late payment of dues. In May, the government announced Rs 90,000 crore liquidity infusion for discoms under which these utilities would get loans at economical rates from Power Finance Corporation (PFC) and REC Ltd. This was a government initiative to help gencos remain afloat. Later, the liquidity infusion package was increased to Rs 1.2 lakh crore and further to Rs 1.35 lakh crore. Under the liquidity package, over Rs 80,000 crore has been disbursed. Discoms in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Tamil Nadu account for the major portion of dues to gencos, the data showed. Overdue of independent power producers amounted to 53.04 per cent of the total overdue of Rs 68,732 crore of discoms in April 2021. The proportion of central PSU gencos in the overdue was 30.52 per cent. Among the central public sector gencos, NTPC alone has an overdue amount of Rs 5,167.11 crore on discoms, followed by Damodar Valley Corporation at Rs 5,156.34 crore, NLC India at Rs 3,416.18 crore, NHPC at Rs 2,261.05 crore and THDC India at Rs 1,134.17 crore in April 2021. Among private generators, discoms owe the highest overdue of Rs 18,608.11 crore to Adani Power followed by Bajaj Group-owned Lalitpur Power Generation Company at Rs 4,817.12 crore and SEMB (Sembcorp) at Rs 2,364.56 crore in the month under review. The overdue of non-conventional energy producers like solar and wind stood at Rs 11,296.24 crore in April, 2021. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/discoms-outstanding-dues-to-gencos-fall-112-to-rs-81628-cr-in-april-996937.html
13-06-2021||National||Delhi to ease Covid-19 curbs from June 14: What's allowed, what's not||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that all activities, except some, will be allowed in the national capital from 5 am on June 14. Other activities will also be allowed in a restricted manner as part of the easing of the Covid-19 lockdown. Here are the activities that will be allowed, restricted or continue to be disallowed in Delhi from June 14: 1. Schools and educational institutions will continue to remain closed in the national capital. 2. All shops in markets, malls will be allowed open from tomorrow in Delhi. 3. Restaurants will allowed to open with 50 per cent capacity. 4. Weekly markets in Delhi will also open from tomorrow. However, only one market will be allowed in each zone. 5. Social, political, cultural gatherings will continue to remain prohibited. Kejriwal said that if a spike in Covid-19 cases is observed in next week, restrictions will again be imposed on markets and restaurants in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-to-ease-covid-19-curbs-from-june-14-whats-allowed-whats-not-996946.html
13-06-2021||National||Railways Minister Piyush Goyal offers prayers at Lord Venkateswara temple||Railways Minister Piyush Goyal on Sunday offered worship at the ancient hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara at nearby Tirumala. Goyal and his wife and family members, arrived last night on a one-day spiritual visit and offered prayers to Lord Venkateswara early this morning, a temple official said. After his worship, Piyush Goyal was honoured with a sacred silk cloth and a holy memento by TTD Additional Executive Officer A Venkata Dharma Reddy, the official said. Goyal had visited the hill temple in March this year, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-minister-piyush-goyal-offers-prayers-at-lord-venkateswara-temple-996959.html
13-06-2021||National||Who is Aisha Sultana, Lakshadweep activist facing sedition charges?||Who is Aisha Sultana? Aisha Sultana is an actor, activist and filmmaker from Lakshadweep. She is a native of Chetlat island of the Union Territory. With the Malayalam movie ‘Flush’, Sultana had made her debut as a director. She has also worked as an associate director of another Malayalam film 'Kettyolaanu Ente Malaakha’. Often being vocal about social issues of Lakshadweep, Sultana is seen actively protesting against the recent political crisis in the UT. Why is a sedition case filed against Aisha Sultana? The case was registered with charges of sedition (IPC 124A) on the basis of a petition filed by BJP Lakshadweep president Abdulkhader Haji.  She allegedly made the remark during a discussion on a Malayalam news channel regarding the current resentment and protests in Lakshadweep over proposed legislation and reform measures. What happened after that? After the complaint, Sultana posted a statement on Facebook saying that her remark was not against the Centre but she used the word ‘bio-weapon’ for Lakshadweep’s administrator Praful K Patel. “I had used the word bioweapon in the TV channel debate. I have felt Patel as well as his policies as a bioweapon. It was through Patel and his entourage that Covid-19 spread in Lakshadweep. I have compared Patel as a bioweapon, not the government or the country…. You should understand. What else should I call him…” While BJP workers in the Union Territory protested against the filmmaker's alleged remark, the party workers in Kerala have also filed complaints against Aisha.  However, some actors and politicians have expressed solidarity with Aisha and opposed the sedition charge against her. K Bahir, the spokesperson of Lakshadweep Sahitya Pravarthaka Sangam, told, “It is not proper to depict her as anti-national. She had reacted against the inhumane approach of the administrator. It was Patel’s interventions that made Lakshadweep a Covid-affected area. The cultural community in Lakshadweep would stand with her.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-is-aisha-sultana-lakshadweep-activist-facing-sedition-charges-996970.html
13-06-2021||National||Rajnath Singh approves budgetary support of nearly Rs 499 crore for innovations in defence sector||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has approved budgetary support of nearly Rs 499 crore for research and innovation in the defence sector for the next five years. The Defence Ministry on Sunday said the funds will be used to provide financial support to nearly 300 start-ups, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and individual innovators with a larger goal of ensuring self-reliance in the defence sector. The scheme is in sync with the government's push to cut imports of military hardware and weapons and make India a hub for defence manufacturing. "Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has approved the budgetary support of Rs 498.8 crore to Innovations for Defence Excellence (iDEX)-Defence Innovation Organisation (DIO) for the next five years," the ministry said in a statement. It said the iDEX–DIO has the primary objective of self-reliance and indigenisation in the defence and aerospace sector. The ministry said the setting up of the iDEX framework and establishment of the DIO by the Department of Defence Production (DDP) is aimed at creating an ecosystem to foster innovation and technology development in the defence and aerospace sector.  "The scheme, with budgetary support of Rs 498.8 crore for the next five years, is aimed at providing financial support to nearly 300 start-ups/MSMEs/individual innovators and 20 partner incubators under the DIO framework," the ministry said. It said the DIO will enable the creation of channels for innovators to engage and interact with the Indian defence production industry. "The scheme aims to facilitate rapid development of new, indigenised and innovative technologies for the Indian defence and aerospace sector to meet their needs in shorter timelines," it said. In the last couple of years, the government has unveiled a series of reform measures and initiatives to make India a hub of defence manufacturing. Last August, Defence Minister Singh had announced that India will stop the import of 101 weapons and military platforms like transport aircraft, light combat helicopters, conventional submarines, cruise missiles and sonar systems by 2024. A second negative list, putting import restrictions on 108 military weapons and systems such as next-generation corvettes, airborne early warning systems, tank engines and radars, was issued this week. In May last, the government announced increasing the FDI limit from 49 per cent to 74 per cent under the automatic route in the defence sector. India is one of the largest importers of arms globally. The government now wants to reduce dependence on imported military platforms and has decided to support domestic defence manufacturing. The ministry has set a goal of a turnover of $25 billion (Rs 1.75 lakh crore) in defence manufacturing in the next five years that included an export target of $5 billion (Rs 35,000 crore) worth of military hardware.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-approves-budgetary-support-of-nearly-rs-499-crore-for-innovations-in-defence-sector-996975.html
13-06-2021||National||Uttarakhand to send man-eater leopards to rescue centres in other states||The Uttarakhand forest department is preparing to send man-eater leopards trapped alive to rescue centres in different states as the two rescue centres in Nainital and Haridwar districts are getting crowded, a top official said on Sunday. "The Central Zoo Authority has given its approval to the move in principle and the process of shifting trapped man-eater leopards to rescue centres in different states will begin in a phased manner after obtaining a formal permission from the state government," Chief Wildlife Warden J S Suhag told PTI. The move is meant to unburden Uttarakhand's two rescue centres which are getting crowded, he said. While the rescue centre at Chidiyapur in Haridwar district is full to capacity with eight leopards there, the one at Ranibagh in Nainital district has three felines against its capacity to accommodate four, Suhag said. Leopards are trapped alive in different parts of the state in large numbers each year and lakhs of rupees are spent on their maintenance, he said. Man-eater leopards trapped alive are usually sent to zoos or kept in makeshift open enclosures under the supervision of forest department personnel. The idea to shift them to rescue centres in other states was born when it was realised that many of them have enough vacant space for them. "The rescue centre at Jamnagar in Gujarat, for instance, has a capacity to accommodate 50 leopards but it has only four. Once the state government gives its consent, we plan to send six man-eater leopards to the rescue centre at Jamnagar in the first phase," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-to-send-man-eater-leopards-to-rescue-centres-in-other-states-996997.html
13-06-2021||National||Direct link between malnutrition and diseases: UN's WFP India country director||Underlining that there is a direct link between malnutrition and diseases, India country director of UN World Food Programme Bishow Parajuli suggested safeguarding and promoting access to nutritious, safe, and affordable diets and investing in improving maternal and child nutrition to protect children's right to nutrition in the Covid-19 pandemic. India has been battling high prevalence of malnutrition among its population, especially children, with National Family Health Survey (NFHS)-4 (2015-16) data showing that 35.7 per cent children below five years are underweight, 38.4 per cent are stunted and 21 per cent are wasted in the country. Even NFHS-5 which was conducted in 22 states and union territories presented a grim scenario and showed a rise in malnutrition. In an interview with PTI, the World Food Programme India's country director said malnutrition is particularly lethal in combination with infectious diseases such as ARI, malaria, measles, diarrhoeal diseases -- the major killer diseases affecting children. Responding to a question if malnutrition can become a comorbidity for children infected with Covid-19, he said in general, there is a direct link between malnutrition and diseases like coronavirus disease. "Malnutrition can make a person more susceptible to infection through a lowered immune response, and infection further contributes to malnutrition resulting in a vicious cycle of repeated infections, reduced immunity, and deteriorating nutritional status. It is known that malnutrition magnifies the effect of disease and a malnourished person has more severe disease episodes, more complications, and spends more time ill for each episode," he said. There have been speculations that the third wave of Covid-19 may impact children more. However, the available evidence show that children are as much affected as adults. "It is, however, important that parents and caregivers of children get vaccinated so that they act as a protective ring around the children till such time vaccination is not opened up to young children," he said. Noting that even though many programmes are still in place, the country director said to mitigate the impact of the crisis on families and society and to protect the nutrition of the most vulnerable families and individuals, further action is urgently needed from national and state governments. He suggested five urgent actions to protect children's right to nutrition in the Covid-19 pandemic -- safeguarding and promoting access to nutritious, safe, and affordable diets, investing in improving maternal and child nutrition through pregnancy, infancy, and early childhood, re-activating and scaling-up services for the early detection and treatment of child wasting, maintain the provision of nutritious and safe school meals for vulnerable children and expand social protection to safeguard access to nutritious diets and essential services. Elaborating on WFP's work on fortification and take-home ration (THR), he said WFP is collaborating with Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Odisha to design nutritious take-home rations aligned to both ICDS norms and global guidelines for such products for young children and pregnant/lactating women; set up THR production units where the same is produced by women's self-help groups following industrial quality assurance and control protocols; capacity building of women's self-help groups and establish the link between THR and social behaviour change communication. "This intervention, though focused on nutrition, is also known to empower women, generate livelihoods whilst at the same time trigger rural economies," he said. The collaboration was done after WFP found that the nutritional value of the THR is limited due to high percentage contribution to energy from sugar, poor quality proteins, and low levels of fats/ micronutrients though the products may be aligned to the norms of energy and proteins established by the government. "It was also noticed that quality control protocols were poorly followed and the THR did not find a mention in the nutrition health education sessions conducted by the front line functionaries despite huge spending by the Government on THR. All of this led to the limited acceptability of the products in the community," he said. Responding to a question on impact on children's nutrition over unavailability of mid-day meals due to closure of schools, he said during the period January-March 2021, MDM was found to be functional in various forms in nearly all states and UTs. "Seven states are providing hot cooked meals. However, in four states, the government is using a mixed approach where a hot cooked meal is served to upper primary students while FSA (Food Security Allowance) is provided to primary students as schools continue to remain closed for these children. In one State, schools are providing hot cooked meals to elementary students attending classes and also providing FSA to absent students," he said. In the remaining 24 States, he said FSA is being provided. "In eight of the 24 States, both dry food rations and the cooking cost is being provided while in the remaining 16 states only dry food rations are being provided which may vary from only grains to a more nutritious food basket consisting of grains, pulses, oil, potatoes, eggs, salt, condiments, etc," Parajuli said. He added that only in one State that the MDM was not found functioning in any form. Welcoming the Centre's decision to extend the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana that entitles each beneficiary 5 kg of free food grain every month until November, he said there are increasing concerns that some of the most deserving families are having difficulties accessing the support. "Additionally, like the last time the scheme should include pulses as it would also provide nutritional diversity in the diet," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/direct-link-between-malnutrition-and-diseases-uns-wfp-india-country-director-996998.html
13-06-2021||National||Pradhan says Congress-ruled states should cut tax on petrol, diesel||With petrol and diesel prices climbing to record high, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Sunday asked Congress governments in Rajasthan and Maharashtra to cut sales tax if the party was concerned about fuel price burden on common man, but did not say if BJP-ruled states like Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, where petrol has crossed Rs 100 mark, would do the same. Petrol and diesel have risen to an all-time high across the country after fuel rates rose by Rs 5.72 to Rs 6.25 per litre in less than six weeks. This is due to a combination of rising international oil prices and record high central and state taxes. Talking to reporters on the sidelines of an event organised to inaugurate oxygen plant set up by Indraprastha Gas Ltd at Maharaja Agrasen Hospital, he said central and state governments need additional money from the taxes on petrol and diesel to meet expenses for fighting pandemic as well as development work. "I accept that fuel prices are pinching consumers," he said, adding the government is spending Rs 1 lakh crore on providing free food grains to poor this year alone besides spending money on vaccines and healthcare infrastructure. Asked about Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's repeated attacks on the Modi government for skyrocketing fuel prices, Pradhan said, "Why is fuel expensive in Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Punjab (which are ruled by the party)?" "If Rahul Gandhi is concerned about the poor being hit by fuel prices, he should ask chief ministers of Congress-ruled states to cut taxes. He should ask (Maharashtra Chief Minister) Uddhav Thackeray to reduce taxes," he said. He, however, did not say if BJP-ruled states like Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, which too have seen petrol price cross Rs 100 a litre mark due to local taxes, would follow suit. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. And because of this, petrol retails at over Rs 100 per litre mark in seven states and union territories -- Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Ladakh. Of these states, Congress is in power in Rajasthan and is a coalition partner with Shiv Sena and NCP in Maharashtra. BJP rules Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka and Ladakh too is under central rule. Andhra Pradesh has YSR-Congress in power while TRS rules in Telangana. Rajasthan levies the highest value-added tax (VAT or sales tax) on petrol and diesel in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka. While international oil prices have crossed $72 per barrel in anticipation of demand recovery following the rollout of vaccination programme by various countries. Last year when rates collapsed to two-decade low, the union government instead of passing on the benefit to consumers raised excise duty to record high. The excise tax on petrol was Rs 9.48 per litre when the Modi government took office in 2014, and that on diesel was Rs 3.56 a litre. Excise duty on petrol now is Rs 32.90 per litre and makes up for 34 per cent of retail selling price. The duty of Rs 31.80 a litre makes up for 36.5 per cent of retail diesel rates. Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan near the India-Pakistan border was the first place in the country to see petrol hit Rs 100 a litre mark in mid-February and on Saturday it also earned the distinction of diesel crossing that psychological mark. Petrol in the city is sold at Rs 107.22 a litre -- the highest rate in the country, and diesel comes for Rs 100.05. Premium or additive laced petrol in the town sells for Rs 110.50 a litre and same grade diesel at Rs 103.72. In Delhi, petrol has hit an all-time high of Rs 96.12 a litre, while diesel is now priced at Rs 86.98 per litre. Mumbai on May 29 became the first metro in the country where petrol was being sold at over Rs 100 a litre. Petrol now costs Rs 102.30 a litre in the city and diesel comes for Rs 94.39. Petrol and diesel prices have been raised on 23 occasions since May 4, when state-owned oil firms ended an 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during assembly elections in states like West Bengal. In 23 increases, petrol price has risen by Rs 5.72 per litre and diesel by Rs 6.25 a litre. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pradhan-says-congress-ruled-states-should-cut-tax-on-petrol-diesel-997006.html
13-06-2021||National||Railways’ earnings from platform ticket sales dip by 94% in FY 20-21||The railways’ earnings from platform tickets took a severe hit in 2020-21 with revenue from sale dipping by about 94 per cent as compared to the previous year due to restrictions imposed on entry into stations because of the coronavirus crisis, an RTI has found. In a reply to an RTI query from Madhya Pradesh-based Chandra Shekhar Gaur, the railways said it earned Rs 10 crore till February in 2020-21 through sale of platform tickets. In 2019-2020, the railways netted Rs 160.87 crore which was the highest-earning from platform tickets for the national transporter in the last five years, the RTI has found. The railways took the step to restrict overcrowding at railway stations even before the nationwide lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in March 2020. With the divisional railway managers empowered to decide on the rate of platform tickets and the decision on whether to restrict entry, several railway zones completely denied entry and allowed only valid ticket holders entrance for most of the year. Later, a decision was also taken to increase the prices of platform tickets from Rs 10 to Rs 30 and even Rs 50 in certain zones in an effort to dissuade people from entering stations. The railways, however, maintained that the rise in prices of tickets was temporary and a measure to counter the pandemic. Revenue from platform tickets has lingered around the Rs 131 crore mark except 2018-2019 when it shot up to Rs 139.20 crore. In 2019-20, it touched the Rs 160 crore mark, but dipped severely to Rs 10 crore in 2020-21 until February this year. With the easing of restrictions, the Northern Railways -- the largest zone of railways -- on Saturday announced that they have decided to restart the sale of platform tickets at eight major stations in the Delhi Division. The rates of the platform ticket have been enhanced to Rs 30 per ticket in order to prevent unnecessary crowding at the station, it said. The eight stations where passengers can avail of the platform ticket facility include New Delhi, Delhi Junction, Hazrat Nizamuddin, Anand Vihar Terminal, Meerut City, Ghaziabad, Delhi Sarai Rohilla and Delhi Cantt railway stations.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-earnings-from-platform-ticket-sales-dip-by-94-in-fy-20-21-997014.html
13-06-2021||National||Lord Balaji temple in Jammu to be constructed in two phases in 18 months: L-G Sinha||Describing the 'Bhoomi Pujan' ceremony of Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple here as a "historic and proud day" for Jammu and Kashmir, Lt Governor Manoj Sinha on Sunday said the temple is expected to be constructed in 18 months in two phases at a cost of Rs 33.22 crore. Sinha said the construction of the temple would open up opportunities across sectors and would certainly change the economy of the region. In a series of tweets, the office of the Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor said the much-awaited 'Bhoomi Pujan' ceremony of Sri Venkateswara Swamy Temple by Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) was held at Majeen here. “Took part in Bhoomi Pujan and unveiled the plaque to mark the laying of foundation stone in presence of Union MoS Dr Jitendra Singh, Union MoS G Kishan Reddy, Chairman TTD Board and other dignitaries,” Sinha said.  He expressed sincere gratitude towards TTD Board and the Union government for fulfilling the long pending wish of people of J&K and north India for establishing the temple of Lord Balaji on the land of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi. "It is a historic and proud day for J&K. Lord Balaji's divine blessing is a state of inner celebration. Ved Pathshala in the second phase will strengthen the foundation of Indian culture,” the Lt Governor said. He said the construction of the temple would also open up opportunities across sectors and it will certainly change the economy of the region. Spread over 62 acres, the temple is expected to be completed in 18 months in two phases, costing Rs 33.22 crore, giving a major push to pilgrimage and religious tourism in Jammu, the Lt Governor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lord-balaji-temple-in-jammu-to-be-constructed-in-two-phases-in-18-months-l-g-sinha-997030.html
13-06-2021||National||No clarity on vaccine procurement: Private hospitals; seek proper guidelines||Several private hospitals across the country said they have no clarity on procuring Covid-19 vaccines under the new policy announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and that it has led to the vaccination being put on hold at their centres. The hospitals have sought a proper mechanism and a single-window system to be put in place for procurement of vaccine doses. They also claimed that they had approached the vaccine manufacturers -- Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India (SII) -- and also state governments, but to no avail. Meanwhile, in a recent communication to the Union health ministry, Prakash Kumar Singh, director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at SII, is learnt to have written, “As per your direction, we are not accepting any further orders/payment from any private hospital in the country. We await your further direction with regard to roadmap for future supplies to private hospitals.” Elaborating the problems faced by private hospitals, S C L Gupta, medical director, Batra Hospital said, "The problem is that there is no clarity on how we will be procuring the vaccines. When we ask the state government officials, they say wait till June 21 stating that the policy is not yet clear. “The central government also has asked us to wait. We have approached the companies too, but they are also not clear on the methodology of procurement,” he said. In the whole process, Gupta said, vaccination of people is getting delayed. "With fear of a possible third wave hitting India, we want to vaccinate as many people as possible. Also several people and many of our healthcare workers who have taken the first dose are waiting for their second dose," he said. P K Bhardwaj, Chief Executive Director and Head of Department of Surgery, Saroj Hospital also said that nothing has been clearly spelt about procurement by private hospitals and how much vaccines will be given to each private hospital. The vaccinations at most of the private hospitals are on hold and the public, especially those patients who need to get the second doses, are at the receiving end. "The government should soon come out with transparent and clear guidelines so as to avoid any further delay in this crucial exercise of inoculating people against the deadly virus," Bhardwaj, who is also secretary of the Delhi Voluntary Hospital Forum, said. Sarvesh Saran Joshi, president, Rajasthan Doctors' Association and also managing director of Shekhawati Hospital, Jaipur said, "We have spoken to manufacturers of both Covishield and Covaxin and they said the government has asked them not to supply the vaccines directly to private hospitals. So, the majority of medium to small hospitals are suffering the most." Jitendra Saraf, director, Sita Memorial Multispeciality Dental Clinic, Raipur said when he approached the state government officials, they said they are yet to receive proper guidelines on how private hospitals would be procuring the jabs. "We have been writing to both Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute, but there is no response from them," Saraf, also a member of the Indian Dental Association, said. Some of the private hospitals also flagged the service charge for vaccination being capped at Rs 150, saying it may not be feasible for them to to organise sessions outside their own centres at that rate. "At a service charge of Rs 150, we can provide vaccination only at our centre. We had started to go to RWAs and private sector companies, but now organising such sessions at this rate will not be possible. Capping the price at Rs 150 will also impact the entire vaccination drive. So a mechanism needs to be worked for this too,” Gupta said. Organising outside camps requires additional resources and manpower, and holding such sessions at Rs 150 is not feasible, another private hospital said. Under the revised guidelines which will come into effect from June 21, the Centre will procure 75 per cent of the Covid-19 vaccines being produced by manufacturers. Domestic vaccine manufacturers are given the option to also provide jabs directly to private hospitals which would be restricted to 25 per cent of their monthly production. According to the guidelines, states/UTs will aggregate the demand of private hospitals keeping in view equitable distribution between large and small private hospitals and regional balance. Based on this aggregated demand, the central government will facilitate supply of vaccines to private hospitals and their payment through the National Health Authority’s electronic platform.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-clarity-on-vaccine-procurement-private-hospitals-seek-proper-guidelines-997031.html
13-06-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Congress needs widespread reforms to show it's no longer in inertia, says Kapil Sibal||In your evening news brief, Congress needs widespread reforms to show it's no longer in inertia, says Kapil Sibal; Karnataka minister Jagadish Shettar says no need to read too much into B S Yediyurappa visit to Mutts and Union minister Pradhan says Congress-ruled states should cut tax on petrol, diesel. The Congress must bring widespread reforms across all levels of the organisation to show it is no longer in a state of inertia and to present itself as a viable political alternative to the BJP, party veteran Kapil Sibal said on Sunday. Sibal, who was among the G-23 leaders whose letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi last year demanding a meaningful overhaul of the party had triggered a storm, hoped the organisational polls, recently postponed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, will “happen sooner than later”. Karnataka Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said on Sunday that there was no need to read too much into Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and his son B Y Vijeendra's visit to Lingayat Mutts in the state. Speaking to media persons, he said there is no need to read their visits as political posturing against the High command. "Yediyurappa and his family members used to visit  mutts before and they are doing the same even now. One need not read it as mustering of support from Mutt heads," he said. With petrol and diesel prices climbing to record high, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Sunday asked Congress governments in Rajasthan and Maharashtra to cut sales tax if the party was concerned about fuel price burden on common man, but did not say if BJP-ruled states like Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, where petrol has crossed Rs 100 mark, would do the same. Petrol and diesel have risen to an all-time high across the country after fuel rates rose by Rs 5.72 to Rs 6.25 per litre in less than six weeks. This is due to a combination of rising international oil prices and record-high central and state taxes. Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-congress-needs-widespread-reforms-to-show-its-no-longer-in-inertia-says-kapil-sibal-997040.html
13-06-2021||National||Agra's 'kaanji bade wale baba', whose video went viral during lockdown 2020, dies of cancer||Agra's 'kaanji bade wale baba', who received sympathy and assurance of help after a video showing his financial troubles during the lockdown went viral, has died in penury battling cancer. The 90-year-old Narayan Singh had been running his 'kaanji bada', a dish made up of 'moong dal' and served with mustard chutney, stall in the Kamla Nagar locality in Agra for 40 years. His son Pinky said his father had been very ill with cancer for the past four months and died Saturday during treatment at a private hospital. Singh became famous on social media after a food blogger shared his video in October appealing to locals to visit his stall to raise his income which dried up due to the coronavirus lockdown. The clip went viral as it came just days after a major outpouring of support for another elderly couple who ran 'Baba Ka Dhaba' in Delhi after their video surfaced online. Singh received support from locals, netizens, prominent city residents, politicians and government officials. Pinky, who works as a painter, said his father was forced to shut his stall for the past four months as his health conditions deteriorated. "He was struggling with cancer for the past six months and was undergoing treatment at a private hospital. He died on Saturday. Now, only I and my sister-in-law Babli (40) are left in the family," he told PTI. He said his family spent their entire savings as well Rs 18,000 they received after the video went viral for his treatment. "We do not have an Ayushman Health card so we had to bear the expenses of the treatment, We also have to borrow money from our relatives to run the family and for the treatment of my father," he said. "When my father became popular on social media, several people including local leaders, officials, dignitaries visited the stall and assured financial help. But, nobody turned up after that," he rued. Babli said, "Agra mayor Naveen Jain visited the stall and promised to provide a stall to us, but nothing was given. Other officials came too, but no help was provided." She said they are facing difficult times now and need help. "We are struggling financially after the pandemic. We appeal to officials and local leaders to help us in our time of need. Help us to run the stall." She said she will now run the stall in his name. "I used to prepare the 'kaanji bade' for the customers." When contacted, Agra Mayor Naveen Jain said, "On the request of the family, the street light where he used to run his cart was repaired. But, now we will provide the family with a stall at a new place, so that they can continue their business."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/agras-kaanji-bade-wale-baba-whose-video-went-viral-during-lockdown-2020-dies-of-cancer-997048.html
13-06-2021||National||US embassy to give visa interview slots for Indian students from Monday||The US mission in India is "actively working" to accommodate as many student visa applicants as possible in July and August, and facilitating their legitimate travel remained a top priority for it, a senior American diplomat said on Sunday. Don Heflin, the Minister Counselor for Consular Affairs at the US embassy, also said that the US-bound students will not require any proof of Covid-19 vaccination to enter the country. They will need a negative report of their Covid-19 test taken within 72 hours prior to their departure. There has been growing anxiety among a sizeable number of Indian students aspiring to fly to the US for higher studies in view of certain restrictions in getting visa appointments due to the coronavirus pandemic. The embassy will start giving visa interview slots for Indian students from Monday. "We recognise the stress and anxiety this has caused to students and their families, and we are actively working to accommodate as many student visa applicants as possible in July and August. Facilitating legitimate student travel to the United States remains a top priority for the US Mission to India," Heflin told PTI in an interview. The official was asked about the rising uncertainty among the Indian students wanting to travel to the US, which had imposed fresh travel restrictions in May. "Students returning to academic programmes that resume on or after August 1 may travel to the United States up to 30 days before the programme resumes. There is no National Interest Exception required in this situation," he said. "We recommend continuing students discuss their specific resumption plans with their respective universities to develop a travel timeline," Heflin said. The National Interest Exceptions (NIE) allow travel to the US for persons whose entry is considered of national interest. "We intend to start an intensive two months of interviewing student visa applicants on July 1. We will plan to open as many appointments as we can safely accommodate, based on local pandemic conditions across India," Heflin said. "Student visa applicants do not need an expedited appointment to schedule their visa interview. On June 14, we will open July and August appointments for students," he added. Asked about apprehensions relating to vaccination, the official said proof of vaccination is not required to enter the United States. "Please note that proof of a negative Covid-19 test result, taken within 72 hours of your flight's departure, is required to board a flight and for entry into the United States. "While proof of vaccination is not required to enter the United States, individual schools or institutions may set their own requirements. The US education system operates independently from the federal government, and students should consult closely with their host institution to ensure compliance with individual vaccination requirements," he added. Heflin said there are more than 4,500 accredited universities in the US that operate autonomously, and the policy adopted by one school for its students and teaching community may not be the same as that for another one. Asked if an exception will be considered for a parent who wishes to accompany a student headed to the US, the official said parents travelling to the country, in that case, will be classified as tourists. "Tourist travel remains prohibited pursuant to Presidential Proclamation 10199," he said. In view of surging Covid-19 infections in India, President Joe Biden authorised a travel ban for certain nonimmigrants from India under a Presidential Proclamation that came into effect on May 4. "Presidential Proclamation 10199 only applies to non-citizens who have been physically present in India within the 14 days preceding their application for entry to the United States. The US Embassy and US Consulates do not provide advice on specific travel planning," the official said. He was asked if a student can fly to another country to apply for a US student visa, and stay quarantined there for 14 days before entering the US. "Please note that F and M-visa holders travelling from India will be able to enter the US within 30 days of a new programme start date or programme resumption date that is on or after August 1. This means that some students will be eligible to travel as early as July 2. No National Interest Exception is required in these cases," he said. Heflin said student visa applicants with a cancelled appointment will need to make a new appointment and that new student visa appointments will be made available on a first-come, first-served basis. Asked if dependents of someone having a valid H1B visa are considered for NIE waiver, he said such people, who have definite plans to travel and can demonstrate their qualification for an NIE, may contact the embassy or consulate. He said nonimmigrant visa holders, including those having H1-B and who are not subject to Presidential Proclamation 10199 based on their familial relationship to a US citizen or LPR (Lawful Permanent Resident) spouse or unmarried minor child do not need an NIE. "Such travellers should bring proof of the qualifying relationship to present to airline officials when initiating travel to the United States," he said. To a query on whether immediate family members of a US citizen can get an expedited visa if the US citizen is planning to travel soon, Heflin said expedited visa appointments are adjudicated based on the applicant's purpose of travel. "Visa applicants with an urgent need to travel to the US, for example, for lifesaving medical treatment, may apply for an expedited visa appointment... "Applicants requesting an expedited appointment must also submit evidence that they are not subject to Presidential Proclamation 10199 or may otherwise qualify for a national interest exception from these travel restrictions," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-embassy-to-give-visa-interview-slots-for-indian-students-from-monday-997059.html
13-06-2021||National||Foodgrains made available to states to cover migrant workers, Centre tells SC||The Union Government has told the Supreme Court that it has extended a scheme for allocating food grains for all the beneficiaries, who are not covered under National Food Security Act but to whom ration cards have been issued by the state governments under their own scheme at the rate of 5 kg per person per month, till March 31, 2022, or till further orders.  Under the liberalised open market sale scheme, food grains are to be supplied by the Food Corporation of India at flat rates of Rs 21/22 per kg for wheat/rice throughout the country. "Though the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Scheme was valid for only May and June, 2020, however, States have been asked on May 20, this year, that they may use the various other schemes to get additional quantities of foodgrains at subsidised rates, as per the need, from the FCI, for distribution to selected target groups, including other migrants or stranded migrants, as per locally assessed requirements," the Centre has said in an affidavit.  In a Suo Motu matter related to problems and miseries of migrant labourers, the government has listed out various schemes made to provide ration to such workers during the Covid-19 pandemic. It said following the top court's order on May 24, this year, the Department of Food and Public Distribution issued a letter a day after requesting states/UTs to avail the various relaxations to obtain any additional quantity of foodgrains they may need for providing to other migrants or stranded migrants without a ration card, from the FCI, over and above the allocation under the NFSA or the Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY).  "During this year, additional foodgrains for free of cost distribution to all the NFSA beneficiaries, at the rate of 5 kg per person per month, has been allocated to all the States/UTs for two months i.e. May and June 2021. The said foodgrains have been provided in addition to regular allocation under the National Food Security Act (NFSA)," it said. As this year, only selective, staggered, dispersed, and localised lockdowns have been imposed by authorities as per the conditions, states were asked in May to avail various schemes launched or renewed, to get additional quantities of foodgrains, as per their need, from the Food Corporation of India (FCI), for distribution to selected target groups including other migrants or stranded migrants, as per locally assessed requirements. Last May, the Centre said it had liberally allotted about eight Lakh Metric Tonne (LMT) of additional food grain covering all the States or UTs. However, most of states or UTs had not distributed the complete allocated quantity of foodgrains. By August 31, last, a total of about 2.74 Lakh MT foodgrains were distributed to nearly 2.74 crore out of the nearly 2.8 crore migrants or stranded migrants identified by the States/UTs, under the scheme. During the second wave of Covid-19, the Union Government has liberalised Open Market Sale Scheme (Domestic) policy for the year 2021-22 under which food-grains are to be supplied by FCI at flat rates of Rs 21/22 per kg for Wheat and Rice throughout the country, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/foodgrains-made-available-to-states-to-cover-migrant-workers-centre-tells-sc-997069.html
13-06-2021||National||India natural ally of G7 countries: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said India is a natural ally for the G7 countries in defending the shared values from a host of threats stemming from authoritarianism, terrorism and violent extremism, disinformation and economic coercion. In a virtual address at a session on 'open societies and open economies' at the G7 summit, the prime minister highlighted India's civilisational commitment to democracy, freedom of thought and liberty, according to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). Modi also highlighted the revolutionary impact of digital technologies on social inclusion and empowerment in India through application such as Aadhaar, Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) and JAM (Jan Dhan-Aadhaar- Mobile) trinity. In his remarks, the prime minister underscored the vulnerabilities inherent in open societies and called on tech companies and social media platforms to ensure a safe cyber environment for their users, additional secretary (economic relations) in the MEA P Harish said at a press conference. "The prime minister's views were appreciated by other leaders in the gathering," he said. Harish said the G7 leaders underlined their commitment to a free, open and rules-based Indo-Pacific and resolved to collaborate with partners in the region. India's participation at the G7 sessions reflected understanding within the bloc that resolution to "the biggest global crisis of our time" is not possible without India's involvement and support, he said, in a reference to the coronavirus pandemic. He said India will remain deeply engaged with the G7 and guest partners on all major issues, including health governance, access to vaccines and climate action. The senior MEA official also said that there was widespread support at the G7 deliberations for text-based negotiations on a proposal by India and South Africa for patent waiver on Covid vaccines. The Group of Seven (G7) comprises the UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States. As chair of G7, the UK invited India, Australia, South Korea, South Africa to the summit as guest countries. The leaders of the world's advanced economies held a summit in Cornwall in the UK from June 11-13. It is for the first time the leaders of the grouping met in person since the coronavirus pandemic began.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-natural-ally-of-g7-countries-pm-modi-997079.html
13-06-2021||National||No alliance with BJP in future: SBSP leader Om Prakash Rajbhar||Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) leader Om Prakash Rajbhar on Sunday ruled out tying up with the BJP again, accusing the ruling party in Uttar Pradesh of "deceiving" backward sections of society. The SBSP had contested the 2017 UP Assembly elections in alliance with the BJP, but later parted ways. Assembly polls in UP is slated for early next year. Speaking to PTI, Rajbhar said, "In future there will be no alliance with the BJP.... We are not in touch with any leader of the BJP, and till now no BJP leader has contacted me." He said the BJP might try to woo leaders of backward classes and dalits ahead of the Assembly polls, and cautioned them against the saffron party. He also alleged the BJP passed over backward leaders and even deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya was "ignored" in the Yodi Adityanath dispensation. "The BJP has deceived the backward section, and in the coming elections the farewell of the government is certain," he said, terming the BJP "Bharatiya Jhooth Party". In the 2017 Assembly elections, SBSP contested in eight seats and won four. Rajbhar was made a Cabinet minister, but he resigned later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-alliance-with-bjp-in-future-sbsp-leader-om-prakash-rajbhar-997080.html
13-06-2021||National||'Widespread support at G7 for TRIPS waiver at WTO'||There is widespread support among G7 members on a proposal led by India and South Africa to waive intellectual property rights for Covid-19 vaccines at the World Trade Organization (WTO), a foreign ministry official told reporters on Sunday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a videolinked address to a G7 summit in Britain on Saturday, sought support for a Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) waiver at the WTO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/widespread-support-at-g7-for-trips-waiver-at-wto-997088.html
13-06-2021||National||'Black Day' to be observed in Lakshadweep as Patel to arrive on Monday||The Save Lakshadweep forum has decided to observe a 'Black Day' on the island on Monday as administrator Praful Khoda Patel is expected to reach the island. Residents will wear black masks and badges and protest at their residences. Meanwhile, resentment is brewing among the BJP leaders over a sedition case against actor Aisha Sultana by the Kavaratti police on the basis of a petition filed by BJP Lakshadweep president Abdulkhader Haji. The complaint cited Sultana during a TV channel discussion in which she allegedly said that the Centre was using Covid-19 as a bioweapon on the people of Lakshadweep. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/black-day-to-be-observed-in-lakshadweep-as-patel-to-arrive-on-monday-997091.html
13-06-2021||National||CPI (ML) Red Star leader Sharmistha Choudhury dies of post-Covid complications||CPI (ML) Red Star leader Sharmistha Choudhury, a prominent face of the Bhangar land agitation in West Bengal's South 24 Parganas district, died here on Sunday due to post-Covid complications. She was 47 and is survived by her husband Alik Chakraborty, who had spearheaded the movement. Choudhury, a central committee member of the CPI (ML) Red Star, had recovered after contracting the disease a month ago. However, she fell ill again and was rushed to state-run SSKM Hospital here on Saturday, a senior party leader said. She died on Sunday due to post-Covid complications and intestinal ulcer, he said. CPI (ML) Liberation general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya and several others condoled her death. An alumnus of Presidency University, Choudhury was a journalist for several years before plunging headlong into activism. Residents of around a dozen villages in Bhangar, under the banner of 'Jomi, Jibika, Poribesh O Bastutantra Raksha Committee' (Committee for protection of land, livelihood, environment and ecology), had protested the TMC government's plans to set up a power station, alleging the project will cause health hazards and damage the ecology of the area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpi-ml-red-star-leader-sharmistha-choudhury-dies-of-post-covid-complications-997093.html
13-06-2021||National||CM post in MVA govt non-negotiable, will remain with Shiv Sena for 5 years: Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday said that in Maharashtra's three-party Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, the post of chief minister will remain with the Shiv Sena for the full five-year term, and it is "non-negotiable". The Shiv Sena, which was one of the oldest allies of the BJP, had forged an unlikely alliance with the NCP and the Congress after the 2019 state polls to form the MVA government, after parting ways with the BJP over the issue of sharing the chief minister's post. Talking to reporters in Nashik, Raut said, "Shiv Sena's chief minister in MVA will continue for five years. It is a commitment and there is no sharing of the post. It is non-negotiable." Reacting to state Congress president Nana Patole's remarks that the Congress will be the largest party in the state after the 2024 assembly polls, Raut said there is a viral video on social media, in which it is said that Patole aspires to be a chief minister. “There is no harm in aspiring for a post. There are several claimants in all parties. In the Congress, there are several leaders capable even of leading the country," he said. Raut said the MVA is an alliance of three ideologically different parties. "We have come together to run a government and now merged into one political outfit. All three have the right to expand their base and strengthen the organisation," he said. To a question on poll strategist Prashant Kishor’s recent meeting with NCP chief Sharad Pawar, the Sena’s Rajya Sabha member said Kishor has met several political leaders before and has worked even for Narendra Modi. “If all opposition parties come together to put up a good fight against Narendra Modi in 2024, what's wrong in that? he said. To a question on BJP leader Devendra fadnavis remarks that Modi will be re-elected in 2024, Raut responded saying, “When did we say that it will not happen. Fadnavis is just putting forth his party’s stand." Modi is the top leader of the BJP. If all opposition parties come together to put up a formidable fight against Modi, what's wrong, he asked. “Can't say what will happen in politics. In West Bengal assembly polls, media says Modi and (Amit) Shah lost and not the BJP,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cm-post-in-mva-govt-non-negotiable-will-remain-with-shiv-sena-for-5-years-raut-997096.html
13-06-2021||National||No cyber breach into NIC email system: Govt||The government on Sunday said there was no cyber breach into the email system of the government, maintained by the National Informatics Centre (NIC). Dismissing the report on the cyber breach, the Ministry of Electronics and IT said that the "email system is "totally safe and secure." "It is important to clarify that...there has been no cyber breach into the email system of the Government of India maintained by the NIC. The email system is totally safe and secure," a statement from the Ministry said. Earlier, there were reports which claimed that data breaches in organisations such as Air India, Big Basket and Domino's had exposed email accounts and passwords of NIC emails to hackers. The cybersecurity breach on external portals may not impact the users of Government email service, unless the Government users have registered on these portals using their official email address and used the same password as the one used in that email account, said the statement. "NIC Email system has put in place several security measures such as two-factor authentication and change of password in 90 days. Further, any change of password in NIC Email requires mobile OTP and if the mobile OTP is incorrect then a change of password will not be possible," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-cyber-breach-into-nic-email-system-govt-997100.html
13-06-2021||National||Goa Covid-19 curfew extended till June 21||The coronavirus-induced curfew in Goa was on Sunday extended till June 21 as the positivity rate in the state stood at 14 per cent, an official said. The curfew was first imposed on May 9 and has been extended several times since then, as the state witnessed its positivity rate reaching a high of 51 per cent before dipping gradually to the level now, he added. While essential services are exempt from the curfew, casinos, bars, restaurants, shops, river cruises, schools, colleges, educational institutions etc will remain shut, and social, sports, cultural and academic functions would be prohibited. Marriage functions have an attendance cap of 50 and they can be held after permission is taken from the district magistrate or sub-divisional magistrate, the official added. "The inter-state movement of persons is allowed for those carrying Covid negative report for a test done a maximum of 72 hours prior to entering Goa. Those entering Goa for medical emergencies are allowed after producing proof of the same. Buses are allowed to operate with 50 per cent seating capacity but occupants must be those engaged in essential services or travelling for medical purposes," the official said.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-covid-19-curfew-extended-till-june-21-997102.html
13-06-2021||National||'Project O2 for India' initiated to meet rising oxygen demand amid pandemic||The office of the Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government on Sunday said 'Project O2 for India' has been initiated to ensure supply of critical raw materials such as zeolites, setting up of small oxygen plants, and manufacturing of compressors. The second wave of Covid-19 saw an increase in demand for medical oxygen in different parts of the country, it said in a statement. While meeting the current demand, manufacturing medical oxygen also became important to ensure the country has adequate supply in the future.  "'Project O2 for India' of the Office of Principal Scientific Adviser is to enable stakeholders working to augment the country's ability to meet this rise in demand for medical oxygen. "Under Project O2 for India, a National Consortium of Oxygen is enabling the national level supply of critical raw materials such as zeolites, setting up of small oxygen plants, manufacturing compressors, final products, i.e.,oxygen plants, concentrators, and ventilators," according to the statement. The consortium is not only looking forward to providing immediate to short-term relief but also working to strengthen the manufacturing ecosystem for long-term preparedness. A committee of experts has been evaluating critical equipment such as oxygen plants, concentrators, and ventilators from a pool of India-based manufacturers, start-ups, and Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). The manufacturing and supply consortium includes Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL); Tata Consulting Engineers (TCE); C-CAMP, Bengaluru; IIT Kanpur; IIT Delhi; IIT Bombay, IIT Hyderabad; IISER, Bhopal; Venture Center, Pune; and more than 40 MSMEs, it said. The consortium has started to secure CSR/philanthropic grants from organisations like USAID, Edwards Life sciences Foundation, Climate Works Foundation, etc, it said. Hope Foundation, American Indian Foundation, Walmart, Hitachi, BNP Paribas, and eInfoChips are procuring oxygen concentrators and VPSA/PSA plants as part of their CSR efforts to aid the consortium's work.  NMDC Ltd has agreed to fund the procurement of raw materials like zeolite for the manufacturers in the consortium, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/project-o2-for-india-initiated-to-meet-rising-oxygen-demand-amid-pandemic-997108.html
13-06-2021||National||Senior Congress leaders test leadership patience in Rajasthan, Punjab||Congress veterans are keeping the party leadership on tenterhooks as it tries to put its house in order in Rajasthan and Punjab. The three-member panel on Punjab, headed by Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge, met Rahul Gandhi on Sunday to brief him about the political situation in the state that goes to polls early next year. The panel had recommended that Navjot Singh Sidhu be “suitably accommodated” in either the party or the government, leaving a final decision in the court of Congress President Sonia Gandhi. Sidhu is eying the post of the Punjab Congress President, which Chief Minister Amarinder Singh is strongly opposed to. Singh is also learnt to be reluctant on having Sidhu as the Deputy Chief Minister and at best would have him as a cabinet minister. “It depends on how much the chief minister is willing to accommodate and how much Sidhu is ready to cede,” a Congress leader said adding both the leaders have taken “maximalist positions” against each other. In Rajasthan, Sachin Pilot, who had rebelled against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot wants to ensure respectable positions for his supporters in the state government and on boards and corporations. Of the nine vacant ministerial slots, Pilot is learnt to be keen on having at least six for his supporters, which may not find favour with Gehlot who has to accommodate Independent MLAs supporting his government. The leadership’s response to the two rumblings in the two states has also raised eyebrows. It has been more than 10 months since Pilot was assured that his grievances against Gehlot would be addressed. Congress had formed a three-member panel comprising Ahmed Patel, K C Venugopal and Ajay Maken to resolve the Rajasthan crisis. However, since Patel’s death in November, the issue had been on the back burner leaving Pilot restless. In the case of Sidhu, the action was swift with the Kharge-led panel meeting within a couple of days of its formation and embarking on consultation exercise with Punjab leaders soon after. The swift action in Punjab is attributed to the impending elections next year. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senior-congress-leaders-test-leadership-patience-in-rajasthan-punjab-997111.html
13-06-2021||National||Covid-19 toll row: ICMR report calls for death audits in districts||In the ongoing row on the undercounting of the Covid-19 deaths, government medical researchers have asked district administrations to audit every death in a district to identify the gaps in surveillance, testing and diagnosis of the infection and upload the data in a dashboard to watch out for future hotspots. Such death audits would not only help identify preventable causes of death at community and hospital levels but also flag drawbacks in patient management strategies such as the availability of ambulances and treatment. For the last three days, Maharashtra is reconciling its Covid toll as it added 6,490 Covid deaths in the last 72 hours. Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat governments are also under scanner for their death tolls. Officials in the Union Health Ministry said states consistently reporting lower daily deaths have been asked to re-check their data. “It’s a well-known fact that there shall always be a difference in mortality recorded during a profound and prolonged public health crisis such as Covid-19 pandemic and well-conducted research studies on excess mortalities, usually done after the event when data on mortalities are available from reliable sources,” they said. “Absence of data dashboard is one of the weakest components of India's Covid response. District and state-level dashboards may be updated daily. Street or village level analysis can be done to identify hot spots and plan fever camps. Count all deaths (irrespective of the cause) by district every week. Analyse the data by age/gender/rural/urban, and update the same on the dashboard,” observed the NIE report. The report also presents a toolkit for the district administration to prevent any future surge, with three parameters to guide their actions — test positivity rates, weekly change in cases and hospital bed occupancy. The control strategy recommended full localised lockdowns in districts when oxygen or intensive care unit bed occupancy exceeds 75 per cent irrespective of other parameters. The report also suggested the number of doctors and nurses required to run Covid-19 facilities. For instance, every 30 beds with oxygen can be managed by two doctors and four nurses for an eight-hour shift but managing 10 ICU and ventilator beds would require two doctors and two nurses along with adequate support staff. There should also be a backup team comprising 20 per cent of the total staff. Since prolonged working hours in PPE can reduce working efficiency and lead to judgment errors, the NIE report suggested adequate rest and rotation for the posted staff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-toll-row-icmr-report-calls-for-death-audits-in-districts-997114.html
13-06-2021||National||VHP demands NIA probe in madrassa blast in NDA-ruled Bihar||The Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) Sunday demanded an investigation by the terror probe agency NIA in the recent blast in a madrassa in Bihar's Banka district which tore down the building and left one dead. The saffron outfit also raised questions on the investigations done so far by the state police and targeted the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in Bihar, asking as to why no arrest has been made yet in the June 8 incident. "After the blast in Banka, where did those running the madrassa and the mosque go? What type of explosion it was? Who were the targets?" VHP spokesperson Vinod Bansal asked in a tweet, tagging Chief Minister Kumar. He also asked as to why the state government was "running away from the questions" being raised about the incident and the police investigation. The case requires a thorough probe, he said. "The State’s Special Investigation Team is yet to achieve any breakthrough. There is no lead in the case. Nobody has been arrested in connection with the blast so far. The case should be handed over to the NIA (National Investigation Agency) for an impartial probe," Bansal told PTI. "Nitish Kumar Ji should not ignore such things for vote bank politics," he added. A high-level VHP delegation will soon visit the Banka district to collect ground report on the incident and the status of the SIT probe, he said. "The delegation will also meet the officials concerned and request the police administration and the government to ensure the security of Hindu society and put a curb on jihadis," he said. The VHP will decide its next course of action based on the ground report, he added. The powerful blast in the madrassa building in the Nautola locality in Town police station area had killed the Imam of the adjacent mosque, a senior police officer had said then. Both the madrassa and the mosque were shut at the time of the incident in view of the Covid-induced lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vhp-demands-nia-probe-in-madrassa-blast-in-nda-ruled-bihar-997116.html
13-06-2021||National||Milkha Singh's wife Nirmal Kaur succumbs to Covid-19||Nirmal Kaur, former Indian women's volleyball team captain and wife of sprint legend Milkha Singh, died at a Mohali hospital due to Covid-19 related complications on Sunday. She was 85 and is survived by her husband, one son and three daughters. "We are deeply saddened to inform you that Mrs Nirmal Milkha Singh passed away after a valiant battle against COVID at 4 PM today," a statement from the spokesperson of the Milkha family said. "A back bone of the Milkha Family, she was 85 years old. It is tragic that the Flying Sikh Milkha Singh ji could not attend the cremation which was conducted this evening itself as he is still in the ICU (of PGIMER in Chandigarh) himself." Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh condoled the demise of Kaur. "I am saddened to learn about the death of one of the iconic volleyball players who brought several laurels for the country thus making every Punjabi proud," Singh said in his message. Nirmal, who contracted the deadly virus last month, was brought to Fortis Hospital at Mohali on May 26, two days after Milkha was admitted to the same facility due to Covid-pneumonia. Milkha was discharged on the request of the family a week later but Nirmal remained at the hospital, battling the dreaded infection. Milkha was later admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of PGIMER here and he is currently "stable and continues to improve". A former Director of Sports for Women in the Punjab Government and ex-captain of the Indian national volleyball team, Nirmal had fought a valiant battle till the very end, the family spokesperson said. "The family has expressed its grateful thanks to everyone for their solidarity and prayers right through the battle which gave them the strength to face it bravely." Though she continued to be stable for many days, her condition kept deteriorating. Earlier, Nirmal had to be put on high-flow nasal cannula and non-invasive ventilation intermittently after there was a drop in her oxygen level, Fortis hospital had said in one of its previous updates. Milkha and his wife were suspected to have contracted the infection from a house help. Nirmal's son and ace golfer Jeev Milkha Singh and daughter Mona Milkha Singh, who is a doctor in the United States were in attendance during the last rites. Both Jeev and Mona had flown down to Chandigarh from Dubai and the US respectively after their parents fell ill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/milkha-singhs-wife-nirmal-kaur-succumbs-to-covid-19-997117.html
13-06-2021||National||Modi praises Yogi Adityanath amid reports of rift||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday praised Yogi Adityanath government’s initiative in Uttar Pradesh to extend emotional support, healthcare and legal aid to senior citizens amidst the Covid-19 pandemic. “Very good initiative! @myogiadityanath,” Modi said on Twitter referring to a report on the ‘Elderline’ initiative of the Uttar Pradesh government. Modi’s praise of the Uttar Pradesh government came days after a meeting with Adityanath who was facing allegations of mishandling the Covid-19 situation, even from a section of the BJP leaders. The chief minister’s visit to the national capital last week came amid speculation of a possible re-shuffle in the state cabinet ahead of the assembly elections early next year. Political circles were also abuzz about a leadership change in Uttar Pradesh, which was vehemently struck down by the BJP. Adityanath also met Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J P Nadda during his visit to Delhi last week. Modi's praise of Adityanath also came amid reports of differences between the two leaders and the BJP leadership being upset at the Uttar Pradesh government's handling of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-praises-yogi-adityanath-amid-reports-of-rift-997125.html
13-06-2021||National||India makes G7 tone down criticism against internet shutdowns; PM warns about 'vulnerabilities'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday warned about “inherent vulnerabilities” in open societies and stressed “ensuring a safe cyber environment” on social media platforms, even as he joined the leaders of the G7 nations and others in pledging to uphold “civil and political rights in both physical and digital spheres”. As the G7 summit concluded at Cornwall in South West England, the leaders of the bloc, as well as guests invited to take part in the conclave, issued a statement reaffirming their “shared belief in open societies, democratic values and multilateralism as foundations for dignity, opportunity and prosperity for all”. India was one of the four guest nations invited to take part in the conclave and it too endorsed the G7 statement on open societies, but only after making the United Kingdom – the host of the summit – drop its direct criticism of intentional internet shutdowns by the governments. PM Modi on Saturday and Sunday took part in the G7 outreach sessions virtually as he dropped his plan to travel to the UK for the conclave in view of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India. He was the lead speaker at the session on Open Societies and Open Economies on Sunday. The Prime Minister referred to India’s civilisational commitment to democracy, freedom of thought and liberty. He highlighted the “revolutionary impact” of digital technologies on social inclusion and empowerment in India and also underscored the vulnerabilities inherent in open societies and called on tech companies and social media platforms to ensure a safe cyber environment for their users. His views were appreciated by other leaders in the conclave, P Harish, Additional Secretary (Economic Relations) at the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), told journalists in New Delhi. The Modi Government was recently at loggerheads with Twitter and WhatsApp over the implementation of the new Information Technology rules. The social media companies had reservations about the new IT rules and they argued that some sections of it might be in conflict with the right of privacy and freedom of speech of the users. The leaders of the G7 nations – Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United States and the United Kingdom – as well as the European Union and four guest nations – India, South Africa, South Korea and Australia – took note of the threats posed to “freedom and democracy” by “rising authoritarianism, electoral interference, corruption, economic coercion, manipulation of information, including disinformation, online harms and cyber attacks, politically motivated internet shutdowns, human rights violations and abuses, terrorism and violent extremism”. Earlier, the Foreign and Development Ministers of the G7 nations had held a meeting on May 5 to set the stage for the summit. They had issued a joint statement, expressing concerns over “actions by states to intentionally disrupt their own populations’ access to, or dissemination of, information, knowledge, and data online”. They had noted that internet shutdowns and network restrictions had undermined civic space, online and offline and unjustifiably limit access to information and the rights of peaceful assembly, association and freedom of expression online. The Modi Government in New Delhi had drawn flak for imposing restrictions, including internet shutdowns, in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) for several weeks after the erstwhile state had been stripped of its special status and reorganised into two Union Territories in August 2019. It had also been criticised for shutting down the internet during the early days of the protests by the farmers against the new agricultural laws.  A source in New Delhi said that identifying politically motivated internet shutdowns as one of the threats to freedom and democracy in the joint statement on open societies was consistent with the position of the Government of India. Such disruptions should be seen differently from the internet shutdowns that the governments sometimes need to impose to maintain law and order and to protect people. “Open Societies and personal freedoms require careful nurturing. Must be on guard against fake news and digital manipulation,” External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had tweeted on May 5, after conveying India’s position on the issue in a virtual meeting with his counterparts in G7 nations. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-makes-g7-tone-down-criticism-against-internet-shutdowns-pm-warns-about-vulnerabilities-997132.html
13-06-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | Congress concedes another goal in Prasada's exit||Be it young or old, the Congress appears to face commitment issues from many of its members with Jitin Prasada the latest to ditch the INC. Prasada joined the BJP on Wednesday in the presence of Union Minister Piyush Goyal. With Prasada's exit, the Congress have conceded yet another goal after sidelining the group of leaders who dissented against the party leadership, calling for major reforms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-congress-concedes-another-goal-in-prasadas-exit-996919.html
13-06-2021||National Politics||Roll back fuel price hike, control prices of essential commodities: Left parties||The Left parties in a joint statement on Sunday demanded the rollback of hike in petroleum products and urged the government to control prices of essential commodities and drugs. The joint statement has been signed by Sitaram Yechury, General Secretary, Communist Party of India (Marxist); D Raja, General Secretary, Communist Party of India; Debabrata Biswas, General Secretary, All India Forward Bloc; Manoj Bhattacharya, General Secretary, Revolutionary Socialist Party and Dipankar Bhattacharya, General Secretary, Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) Liberation. Alleging that the government, instead of helping people to combat the ravages of the Covid health catastrophe, hiked the prices of petroleum products by at least 21 times after the announcement of results of the recent assembly elections on May 2, the parties said that this is leading to a "cascading inflationary spiral with the Wholesale Price Index (WPI) rising to an 11-year high." "The prices of food articles have risen by nearly 5 per cent in April. Primary commodities saw a rise of 10.16 per cent and manufactured products have risen by 9.01 per cent. By the time these commodities reach the retail markets, the consumers are charged much more. "This is happening while the economy is witnessing a deep recession, galloping unemployment, collapsing purchasing power and rising levels of hunger. Clearly, unscrupulous black-marketing and hoarding is taking place under state patronage. The Modi government must strictly crack down on such black-marketing especially of essential drugs, vital for people's survival," the statement said. The parties demanded that the government must immediately give direct cash transfers of Rs 7,500 per month for six months to all families not falling in the income tax-paying bracket . The statement further said the provisions announced by PM Modi regarding extension of PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) till Diwali of 5 kg foodgrains is "completely inadequate and does not cover the neediest." The parties demanded 10 kg foodgrains per month to all individuals including a food kit with pulses, edible oil, sugar, spices, tea and other essentials which they said should be distributed free. "Given the Covid conditions and the necessity to strictly adhere to the precautions and protocol, the Left parties call upon their state units to conduct these protests in the concrete conditions obtained in their states during this fortnight," the statement said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/roll-back-fuel-price-hike-control-prices-of-essential-commodities-left-parties-996966.html
13-06-2021||National Politics||Ravi Shankar Prasad asks Congress to make its stand clear on Digvijay's remarks on Article 370||Senior BJP leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Sunday asked the Congress leadership to make its stand clear on the purported remarks of Digvijay Singh that his party will have a "relook" at Article 370 revocation if it returns to power, saying "time of silence is over". A row erupted on Saturday over Congress leader Digvijay Singh's comments in an audio chat on social media that his party will have a "relook" at Article 370 revocation and Jammu and Kashmir's lost statehood if it returns to power, with the BJP accusing him of spewing venom against India in "collaboration" with Pakistan.  "It is now more than a day when the central leadership of the Congress is maintaining a conspicuous silence on its stand about Article 370. Does Congress want restoration of Article 370 as Digvijay Singh has indicated? Time of silence is over. Please explain your clear stand," Prasad wrote on Twitter. Singh had said, "The decision of revoking Article 370 and reducing the statehood of J&K is extremely, I would say, sad decision, and the Congress party would certainly have a relook on the issue.  Singh was responding to a question about the "way forward" on the issue "once the Modi government is gone" . While abrogating Article 370, good governance was promised both in J&K and Ladakh.  The speed with which vaccination against Covid-19 is going on even in the remotest parts of J&K and Ladakh is a sign of pro-people good governance in the region, Prasad said in another tweet. Singh's remarks to a person, who the BJP said was a journalist of Pakistani origin, were seized by its leaders on Saturday to unleash a torrent of criticism against the opposition party and demand statements from Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul Gandhi on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ravi-shankar-prasad-asks-congress-to-make-its-stand-clear-on-digvijays-remarks-on-article-370-997023.html
13-06-2021||National Politics||Congress needs widespread reforms to show it's no longer in inertia, says Kapil Sibal||The Congress must bring widespread reforms across all levels of the organisation to show it is no longer in a state of inertia and to present itself as a viable political alternative to the BJP, party veteran Kapil Sibal said on Sunday. Sibal, who was among the G-23 leaders whose letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi last year demanding a meaningful overhaul of the party had triggered a storm, hoped the organisational polls, recently postponed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, will “happen sooner than later”. In an exclusive interview to PTI, the former union minister acknowledged that at present there is no strong political alternative to the BJP but said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has lost the moral authority to rule and the Congress can present an alternative due to the current mood in the country. He also noted that while forming committees to review election losses is good, it will have no impact unless remedies suggested are implemented. Noting that the party's alliances with the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) in Assam and Indian Secular Front (ISF) in West Bengal were “not thought through”, Sibal said the Congress has failed to drive home the point that minority and majority communalism are equally dangerous for the country. He cited this as one of the reasons for the poor performance of the party in recent assembly polls. Amid defections of young leaders – Jyotiraditya Scindia and now Jitin Prasada – to the BJP, the former minister said “there is an urgent need to strike a balance between experience and youth.” He has earlier said that from “aaya ram, gaya ram politics, it has come to "prasada politics now” and asked whether Jitin will get the 'prasada' from the BJP, suggesting that leaders were moving out of the party to serve their political interests. “At present, there is definitely a void in terms of a strong political alternative. It is exactly in this context, that I had given suggestions for some reforms in my party so that the country has a strong and credible opposition. "But what comes out of it is not something for me to foretell. But I am sure, a time will come when the people of this country will decide what is good for them,” Sibal told PTI. The veteran added that India needs a resurgent Congress and the party needs to rope in the right people to drive its poll strategy so that it can build upon the failures of the government. “Victory of non-BJP parties in recent assembly elections has shown the chinks in the BJP's armour in terms of its vulnerability to losing when faced with a stronger opposition,” he said. “India needs a resurgent Congress. But for that, the party needs to show that it is active, present, aware and is in the mood to engage meaningfully. "For this to happen, we will need to have widespread reforms at the organisational hierarchy both at the central and state levels to show that the party is still a force to reckon with and is no longer in a state of inertia,” he said. Exuding hope in the grand old party's resurgence at a time of newly emerging political equations across India, Sibal said that despite a poor showing of the Congress electorally, the current mood in the country provides an opportunity for it to emerge as a viable alternative, owing to the party's pan-India presence. “The Modi government's inept handling of the pandemic and the resultant anguish among people across the country needs to be channelised. "The Congress has to take it upon itself to provide an alternative roadmap in the nation's interest and I am sure, we will emerge victorious in this enterprise,” he said just two days after strategist Prashant Kishor met NCP chief Sharad Pawar in Mumbai, triggering speculation of a potential third front. Asked if the Congress had learnt its lessons from the Antony committee report after the 2014 Lok Sabha debacle, Sibal said the party had not been able to stress that all forms of communalism were dangerous. “The Antony committee set up by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi soon after the 2014 Lok Sabha elections had rightly pointed out that fighting the polls on secularism versus communalism plank hurt the Congress that was identified as pro-minority, resulting in substantial electoral gains for the BJP. "More importantly the Congress also failed to drive home the point that minority and majority communalism were equally dangerous for the country. In my view, the decision to ally with All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) in Assam and Indian Secular Front (ISF) in Bengal was not thought through,” said Sibal. When pointed out that he had sought urgent party elections in the letter to Sonia Gandhi and if he agreed with the postponement of the exercise, Sibal said, “On January 22, the CWC had met to discuss the schedule for electing the new party chief in May. It was deferred by a month owing to the Assembly polls. "The exercise is on hold at the moment because of the pandemic. I do hope it happens sooner rather than later.” The former union minister welcomed the constitution of a committee to review the party's recent losses in West Bengal, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry, but added a caveat, “Setting up committees to analyse the reasons for any electoral debacle is welcome but unless the remedies suggested are accepted and acted upon, it will have no impact on the ground.” The panel headed by former Maharashtra chief minister Ashok Chavan has handed over its report to Sonia Gandhi with its recommendations, which the party will discuss internally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-needs-widespread-reforms-to-show-its-no-longer-in-inertia-says-kapil-sibal-997025.html
13-06-2021||National Politics||BJP works to strengthen its social arithmetic ahead of UP assembly polls||Joining hands with smaller parties with a political base in different castes was a part of the BJP strategy as it won big in Uttar Pradesh in the 2017 assembly polls and 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The saffron party is again working to stitch up a strong social alliance as it prepares for the state elections slated for early next year. With senior party leader and Union minister Amit Shah reaching out to the leaders of Apna Dal (S) and Nishad Party, both BJP allies but disaffected over the issue of their representation in the government, and Congress leader Jitin Prasada joining the saffron party, the ruling party seems to be taking measures to get its arithmetic right. Prasada hails from a noted Brahmin family of the state that had remained in the Congress for three generations, and the BJP believes that the young leader’s defection to its ranks will help it contain any dissatisfaction a section of the politically influential community might have with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath-led government. While Anupriya Patel of Apna Dal has not spoken on her meeting with Shah, Sanjay Nishad of Nishad Party made it clear that his party wants representation in the state government to “fulfil” the aspirations of the marginalised communities it draws its support from. “Political power is stronger than God’s power,” he told PTI to emphasise its importance to address myriad issues facing different deprived communities. He also reiterated his demand for giving the community of boatmen, who come under various castes and subcastes, benefits under the scheduled castes and not under the category of Other Backward Communities as being given currently in UP. In a message to the BJP, he said the community has in the past supported parties like the BSP, SP and the Congress but stopped voting for them after they did not address their concerns. “We understand the Modi government has been busy with important national issues,” he said, referring to Article 370 revocation. “Now we believe our concerns will be addressed,” he said. His son Praveen Kumar Nishad’s victory as Samajwadi Party candidate from Adityanath’s pocket borough of Gorakhpur had shocked the BJP, which then worked to woo him over to its camp during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Patel was a minister in the first Modi government but her party’s reported talks with the Congress during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections even as it finally fought as a BJP ally resulted in the Kurmi leader being kept out of its second innings. There have been reports that the BJP may also bring its former ally Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party to its fold again but its leader Om Prakash Rajbhar has ruled out such a possibility. BJP sources said their party has always worked to give due representation to various communities and noted that it has never been averse to tying up with smaller parties. “We have done it in various states, be it Bihar, Assam or Uttar Pradesh,” a leader said. Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav has also been working to broaden his party’s social appeal by bringing leaders from outside its core constituency. With the Yogi government’s handling of the recent Covid-19 crisis drawing questions from even state BJP leaders, with several of them writing letters to highlight their concerns, the saffron party leadership has been taking measures to address organisational and governance challenges. There has been strong speculation that Adityanath may go for an expansion of his Cabinet, and Shah's meetings with allies are being seen as part of the exercise. The BJP has a lot at stake in the next round of assembly elections in five states early next year as it is in power in four of them, including Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur besides the all-important Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-works-to-strengthen-its-social-arithmetic-ahead-of-up-assembly-polls-997056.html
13-06-2021||National Politics||Not aware of Modi govt's cabinet expansion: Pralhad Joshi||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said he was unaware of any cabinet reshuffle or expansion at the Centre.  Speaking to media persons in Hubballi on Sunday, he said any such decision would be taken at the highest level between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Party National President J P Nadda. “I am not privy to any such discussion,” he said. Joshi also rubbished the talks of change of guard at Uttar Pradesh, which is likely to go to the polls in the next eight months. “Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has established himself as one of the finest administrators in the country. He is successful in controlling the notorious Gunda-raj in the State and gave a good development-oriented administration in the last four-and-half years,” he said and added that the recent talks between Modi, Nadda and Yogi Adityanath were to discuss the strategies of preparation for the elections.  “There is no substance to the talk of Yogi Adityanath being replaced in UP,” he said.  Satisfied with Covid work Joshi also expressed his satisfaction over the handling of the Covid situation by the Union government. “We are not denying the fact that the second wave of Covid was harsh. Several people were affected as the virus spread very fast. However, within 10-12 days the Union government was able to bring the situation under control by improving oxygen and medicine supply,” he claimed.  The union minister also said that by improving medical facilities across India the Centre is preparing for the expected third wave.  Vaccine compulsion  Joshi said that India was under the compulsion to supply Serum Institute of India's (SII) Covishield coronavirus vaccine to other countries. “Covidshield is not completely made-in-India vaccine. SII in collaboration with a UK based company manufactured the vaccine. As per the agreement between the company and the UK company, SII had to supply 40% of its production to other countries,” Joshi said and added that intellectually bankrupt Congress is misleading the country on the vaccine.  He urged Congress-governed states such as Punjab and Rajasthan to minimise vaccine wastage and help in maximising vaccine reach in the country.  Quoting late prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Joshi said Congress is known for doing politics of ‘cash and lash (dead bodies)’. “Except in India, in no other country are the governments dealing with the opposition that is indulging politics over dead bodies,” he said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/not-aware-of-modi-govts-cabinet-expansion-pralhad-joshi-997086.html
13-06-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi says that the 'Ministry for lies and empty slogans' is Modi government's most efficient||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday hit out at the government alleging that its "secret ministry for lies and empty slogans" is the most efficient. Gandhi has been critical of the BJP government and has accused it of engaging in just rhetoric. "Which is GOI's most efficient ministry? - The secret Ministry for Lies & Empty slogans," he said on Twitter. - Which is GOI’s most efficient ministry? - The secret Ministry for Lies & Empty slogans His party colleague and senior leader Jairam Ramesh also hit out at the government alleging that it has taken a different stand in the Supreme Court and at the latest G7 summit over the issue of coronavirus vaccines. "To G7, He says- 'One Earth, One Health', asking for patent waiver for Covid-19 vaccines. In Supreme Court, his govt takes a completely different stance. Does not invoke compulsory licensing," he alleged on Twitter, targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "One stance for the world, another in India. Why this 'anarth' (absurdity)," he asked.  To G7, He says— ‘One Earth, One Health’, asking for patent waiver for COVID-19 vaccines. In Supreme Court, His govt takes a completely different stance. Does not invoke compulsory licensing||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-says-that-the-ministry-for-lies-and-empty-slogans-is-modi-governments-most-efficient-997115.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi unlock: Salons, weekly markets likely to reopen from next week||With the Covid situation improving in Delhi, authorities are expected to give more relaxations and allow reopening of salons and weekly markets from next week, sources claimed on Saturday. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had last week announced reopening of markets, malls and Delhi Metro services among other relaxations, saying more activities would be allowed if the Covid situation continued to improve in the city. "There is a likelihood of the Delhi government announcing more relaxations like reopening salons and weekly markets from next week. Reopening of cinema halls, gyms and allowing dining at restaurants are also under consideration," a source claimed. Phased reopening of Delhi had started with allowing construction and manufacturing activities from May 31, in view of declining numbers of coronavirus cases and positivity rate. The Covid situation has improved significantly since then with fewer number of infections and deaths reported by the Health bulletins of the Delhi government. According to the Health bulletin on Saturday, Delhi reported 213 fresh Covid cases with 0.3 positivity rate in the last 24 hours. Also, the number of deaths came down to 25. There were 414 Covid-19 cases with 0.5 per cent positivity rate and 60 fatalities last Saturday. The Chamber of Trade and Industry(CTI) has demanded the reopening of salons and gyms from June 14. In an online meeting of salon owners and gym operators, organised by CTI, they demanded reopening of the gyms and salons, said chairman of CTI Brijesh Goyal. He said the CTI has also written to the Delhi government and the Delhi Disaster Management Authority(DDMA) urging them to allow the reopening of salons and gyms as these sectors provide a livelihood to nearly 15 lakh people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-unlock-salons-weekly-markets-likely-to-reopen-from-next-week-996891.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||Navjot Singh Sidhu: Mercurial leader puts Congress on a sticky wicket||In 1996, the Indian cricket team toured England to play Tests and ODIs. Captained by Mohammad Azharuddin, the tour was a forgettable one as India lost both the Test series and the ODIs. But it was made worse by an off-field incident starring Navjot Singh Sidhu, who walked out of the tour following differences with Azharuddin, leaving everyone stunned. When the incident happened, very few could fathom what went on in Sidhu's mind. Now, in 2021, the story remains the same; except that Sidhu is a politician in the Congress party. Mercurial, colourful and flamboyant, Sidhu is a singular character, be it on the cricket field, as a television commentator, as a comedy show guest or in politics. If earlier he could lift the spectators' spirits by effortlessly hitting sixes, 'sixer Sidhu' in his political avatar is equally adept at working up the crowd at political rallies with his use of colloquial phrases, making him an indispensable campaigner. The Congress realises this and does not want to lose him, particularly ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections, in spite of the fact that Sidhu is politically unpredictable. The elections appeared to be a cakewalk till the dissidence within its ranks in Punjab came out in the open, as Sidhu staked his claim for a prominent role in the party. Sidhu's political innings has been nothing short of eventful. And it is not surprising. Sidhu joined the BJP in 2004 and entered the Lok Sabha the same year after winning from his hometown Amritsar. He retained the seat in the 2009 LS polls as well. But his relations with the BJP soured after the saffron party decided to field Arun Jaitley as a candidate from Amritsar for the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. An upset Sidhu had stayed away from the Lok Sabha campaign in 2014 and was mollified with a Rajya Sabha berth in 2016. The uneasy truce between Sidhu and the BJP was short lived, as he quit the party in 2016 and joined the Congress in January 2017. There is no doubt of Sidhu's popularity with the masses, which has led to him being wooed by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) as also by the breakaway factions of Akali Dal. Sidhu’s journey in the Congress has been a rocky one despite blessings from the Gandhi family. He was perhaps waiting for Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, who had declared 2017 as his last election, to walk into the political sunset. But the Congress’ decision to place its bets on 79-year-old Amarinder once again in the 2022 Assembly elections appears to have put a fresh roadblock for Sidhu. Tensions between Sidhu and Amarinder began when the former, then a minister in the Punjab government, decided to attend Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s oath-taking ceremony in August 2018, much against the wishes of the chief minister. Amarinder took it as a direct affront to his authority as chief minister. The run-ins with Amarinder continued, when Sidhu attended the inauguration of the Kartarpur corridor, not as a part of the Punjab government delegation but as a guest of the Pakistan prime minister. Amarinder hit back and divested Sidhu of key portfolios, accusing him of “inept handling” that led to the loss of the Congress in urban areas in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Sidhu later quit the government and went into a sulking mode for a while. He resurfaced recently, firing barbs at Amarinder. The AICC’s intervention to quell factionalism has strengthened Sidhu at the cost of Amarinder, who is the undisputed leader in Punjab. A three-member committee led by senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge recommended to “suitably accommodate” Sidhu in the party or the government, much against the wishes of the chief minister. With backing from Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Sidhu has had an eye on Amarinder’s post, and in the current battle is keen to become the party’s state unit president, an idea shot down by the chief minister. Amarinder has made it clear that leaders who have been with the Congress for years have a greater claim on key posts than a person who joined the party four years ago. Even the chief minister’s detractors appear to agree with him on the issue. “I do not want to comment on Sidhu, but there are traditional Congressmen who also have a right. Traditional Congressmen who have been ignored will have to be brought to the mainstream to revive the party,” senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Shamsher Singh Dullo told DH. Sidhu has now put the ball in Congress President Sonia Gandhi’s court, and she will have to decide on how to accommodate him – as a Cabinet minister, deputy chief minister, state Congress chief or any other respectable post. With strong support from the leadership, Sidhu’s sphere of influence is set to increase within the Congress. It remains to be seen whether the cricketer-turned-politician will prove to be an asset or a liability for the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/navjot-singh-sidhu-mercurial-leader-puts-congress-on-a-sticky-wicket-996908.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||Senior Uttarakhand Congress leader Indira Hridayesh passes away||Senior Uttarakhand Congress leader Indira Hridayesh breathed her last on Sunday. Indira Hridayesh, 80, was the Leader of the Opposition in the Uttarakhand Assembly and held key portfolios such as Finance, Public Works, Parliamentary Affairs in the Uttarakhand government. Indira Hridayesh breathed her last at the Uttarakhand Bhawan in the national capital where she had arrived for meetings with senior Congress leaders for the assembly elections next year. Born in Ayodhya on April 7, 1941, she was a four-term member of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council and served four terms as Member of the Uttarakhand Legislative Assembly from Haldwani since the formation of the hill state in 2000. “Indira Hridayesh was at the forefront of several community service efforts. She made a mark as an effective legislator and also had rich administrative experience,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said. “Indira Hridayesh was a strong link of the Congress in Uttarakhand. She dedicated her life to public service till the end. Her social and political contributions are an inspiration,” former Congress President Rahul Gandhi said. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat condoled the death of Indira Hridayesh. Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank termed the passing away of Indira Hridayesh as a personal loss. “We are shocked by the sudden demise of Indira Hridayesh. The Congress family will always feel the void left behind by your departure,” Uttarakhand Congress chief Pritam Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/senior-uttarakhand-congress-leader-indira-hridayesh-passes-away-996942.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||Over 50 shanties of Rohingya refugees gutted in fire in Delhi; no casualty||More than 50 shanties were gutted in a fire that broke out at a Rohingya refugee camp near Kalindi Kunj Metro station in southeast Delhi, officials said on Sunday. The incident took place on Saturday and the fire department received information about it around 11.55 pm, a senior fire official said. No one was injured in the fire, the official said. Five fire tenders were rushed to the spot near Kalindi Kunj Metro station, Madanpur Khadar. The fire was brought under control around 3 am, the official said. According to police, a PCR call regarding the fire at the Rohingya camp was received at Kalindi Kunj police station. Police reached the spot in Kanchan Kunj, Madanpur Khadar. Later, the fire was brought under control, a senior police officer said. "Fifty-six shanties, housing around 270 Rohingya refugees, were gutted in the fire. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained and appropriate legal action is being taken," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) R P Meena said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-50-shanties-of-rohingya-refugees-gutted-in-fire-in-delhi-no-casualty-996945.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||All you need to know about Digvijaya Singh's Article 370 revocation row||Singh had allegedly said that the Centre’s decision of abrogating Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir “was an extremely sad decision” in a conversation with a journalist from Pakistan on Clubhouse. The audiotape of Singh’s discussion was shared by BJP IT cell head Amit Malviya on Twitter. In a Club House chat, Rahul Gandhi’s top aide Digvijaya Singh tells a Pakistani journalist that if Congress comes to power they will reconsider the decision of abrogating Article 370… What was the controversial statement made by Singh? In the audiotape, Singh is heard saying, "Democracy was not there in Kashmir when they (central government) revoked Article 370. Insaniyat (humanity) was not there because they put everyone behind bars. And Kashmiriyat is something which is basically the fundamental of secularism because in a Muslim-majority state, there was a Hindu raja (king) and both worked together. In fact, the reservation in Kashmir was given to Kashmiri Pandits in government services.” “Therefore the decision of revoking Article 370 and reducing the statehood of J&K is extremely, I would say, sad decision and the Congress party would certainly have to take a relook at this issue,” he added. How did BJP react? Soon after the audiotape was released, BJP leaders took over social media to share their opinion of the Congress leader’s controversial statement. Instead of playing to the gallery across the border Congress must come to terms with abrogation of article 370. जमहूरियत-Democracywas only in hands of ruling elite. BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra accused Singh of staging the question put by the journalist for "spewing venom against India outside". In a press conference, he said, "In the Clubhouse, a Pakistani journalist asks this question that after the removal of Narendra Modi, how will India's power, what will be the Kashmir policy. Digvijaya Ji thanks that journalist on such a question and says that if Modi Ji is removed from power and the Congress government comes then he will re-establish Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. It is quite possible that what Digvijaya Singh has said today must have been the stage manager for that. Digvijaya Singh or a senior Congress leader must have asked that journalist to ask such a question.” What did Singh say to BJP’s reaction? He told, "Maybe a few leaders do not understand the difference between 'shall' and 'consider'. Congress party had opposed the abrogation of Article 370 in the Parliament and the manner in which it was removed. People of the region were not made a part of the decision." What is Article 370? The Centre took the decision to abrogate Article 370 on August 5, 2019. Under Article 370 of the Indian constitution, Jammu and Kashmir enjoyed a special status from 1954 to 31 October 2019. It allowed the erstwhile state to have its separate constitution and state flag, along with autonomy over the internal affairs of the state. The state was bifurcated into two union territories, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-you-need-to-know-about-digvijaya-singhs-article-370-revocation-row-996948.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||Three bodies found floating in Ganga in Uttar Pradesh||Three bodies, including that of a woman, were found floating in the Ganga on the Kannauj-Hardoi border, police said on Sunday. The bodies, found on Saturday, have been handed over to the Hardoi police, they said. Kannauj SP Prashant Verma said the bodies were found floating in the river near the Badnapur Ghat on Saturday. Since the bodies were spotted in the area under the Hardoi district, the Hardoi police was informed, and they were handed over to the Hardoi police, Verma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-bodies-found-floating-in-ganga-in-uttar-pradesh-996952.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||'Love jihad', 'cow terror' will not work in UP polls; farmers' issues supreme: RLD chief||Asserting that the BJP's alleged "apathy" towards protesting farmers will hurt it in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, RLD chief Jayant Chaudhary on Sunday said artificial issues such as "love jihad" and "cow terror" will not work as issues of development will win in the elections. As the focus shifts from the West Bengal polls earlier this year to the high-stakes election battle in Uttar Pradesh in 2022, newly-appointed Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Chaudhary asserted that his party will not allow a communally polarised campaign to ruin the Hindi heartland state in the run up to the assembly polls. In an interview with PTI, Chaudhary, who took over as RLD chief after his father Chaudhary Ajit Singh's demise last month, said his party and the Samajwadi Party have a good rapport and a strong working relationship. He said details need to be worked out for a formal alliance for the polls. Asked if a 'Mahagathbandhan' or a grand alliance is needed in UP to take on the BJP and whether the BSP and the Congress would be part of such an alliance, Chaudhary said, for him, issues come first and an understanding of those needs to be built between all alliance partners. "Who can be accommodated depends on who is honestly open to working together on the common framework," the 42-year-old leader said. On whether the Congress would play a significant role in the assembly polls despite its poor showing in the panchayat elections, Chaudhary said he would not like to comment on the Congress' plans and chances. Asked about the speculation over UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's political future as CM and reports about Cabinet reshuffle in the state, Chaudhary said the BJP is just trying to divert attention and create an illusion of dialogue to manage the disgruntled elements in the party. "Social engineering doesn’t come about by tinkering with one or two leaders at the top. The fact is that BJP's Uttar Pradesh government has been caught in a caste-based matrix and has not delivered jobs, economic growth, and efficient governance to people," he alleged. The state government's Covid response has been atrocious and no one can forget the scenes of dead bodies in the Ganga, he added. "Now, after four-and-a-half years to create rumours of change in leadership is a poor attempt to shift focus from failures," Chaudhary said. Talking about the farm laws protests and whether they would be a key issue in the polls, he said farmers will and should be the biggest poll issue in our country, and asserted that as a class they have been denied their rights for far too long. "The Centre’s new laws are prescribing a takeover of the entire market and value chain by the private sector and the withdrawal of the government from procurement and subsequent monopolisation will hurt producer and consumer interests," the RLD chief said. The "apathy and insensitive" attitude towards the protesting farmers will continue to haunt and hurt the BJP in polls, he claimed. Chaudhary has participated in a number of 'kisaan panchayats' in western Uttar Pradesh, where his party has had a significant presence over the years, and campaigned aggressively against the Centre's farm laws. Farmers from various parts of the country are protesting at Delhi's borders against the three farm laws brought by the Centre last year, alleging that the legislations will hamper farming. Asked about the electoral chances of the Opposition against the BJP in UP, Chaudhary said "when the nation is grieving and hurting, the Hindi heartland also will respond appropriately". "Love jihad, cow terror, Kairana exodus and other useless artificial issues will be rejected; healthcare, education and balanced development will win (in the polls)," he asserted. The Opposition in UP has been alleging that cow vigilante violence is on the rise in the state, a charge denied by the BJP. The 'Kairana exodus' was a reference to a BJP MP's claim in 2016 that close to 350 Hindus had left Kairana over alleged threats and extortion by criminal elements belonging to a particular community. Asked how he plans to turnaround the fortunes of the party which drew a blank in the last assembly polls, Jayant Chaudhary said, "I am humbled by the opportunity and the faith reposed in me by the Party at this critical juncture." "Chaudhary Saheb’s untimely passing has been a jolt for all of us. Just as any family copes with stress responds by coming together, the office bearers and workers of Rashtriya Lok Dal will need to work cohesively and look to the future," Chaudhary said. For reviving the party, Chaudhary said, as a first step he wants to engage with people who have worked at the grassroots and have political experience. He said the party is also in conversation with a lot of leaders from other parties who want to join the RLD and work with us, Chaudhary said. Asked if a fragmented opposition will be able to pose a challenge to the BJP in UP, the RLD chief said poll arithmetic has its own rhythms and rules and it's not as easy to combine different parties and fight elections and assume a "2+2=4 result". "It is not as if the multiplicity of players is helping the incumbent. Some of the parties could also be taking away votes which might otherwise shift to the BJP," he argued. Asserting that it is most important to pick the right issues, Chaudhary said social developmental deficits need to be addressed aggressively if we want the state to progress. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/love-jihad-cow-terror-will-not-work-in-up-polls-farmers-issues-supreme-rld-chief-996954.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||MP: Man kills shopkeeper for refusing to replace mobile phone||A 52-year-old shopkeeper was allegedly killed by a 19-year-old history-sheeter after the former refused to replace his mobile phone in Madhya Pradesh's Khandwa, police said on Sunday. "The accused Kausar Shah had purchased a mobile phone from the victim Gulab Punjabi's shop for Rs 1,000. On Saturday, Shah and his friends reached the shop demanding that the mobile phone be exchanged as it was faulty. As Punjabi refused to oblige, an argument broke out between the two. In a fit of rage, Shah allegedly slashed the neck of Punjabi with a cutter kept in the shop," Superintendent of Police Vivek Singh told reporters. He said the accused is a listed criminal at the Kotwali police station in Khandwa. The SP said the shopkeeper was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. "The police had obtained a CCTV footage in which the accused is seen fleeing the spot. He was arrested on Saturday night," Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-man-kills-shopkeeper-for-refusing-to-replace-mobile-phone-996955.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||Phone tapping issue resurfaces in Rajasthan||Phone tapping charges have come back to haunt the Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot led government in Rajasthan, with Congress MLA Ved Prakash Solanki alleging that some legislators have talked about their phones being tapped.  Without naming any MLA who levelled the phone tapping charge, Solanki, a staunch supporter of Congress leader Sachin Pilot, said the legislators also fear of being trapped by various agencies.  "I do not know if my phone is being tapped or not. Some legislators have told me that their phones are being tapped. I am also not aware if the state government is involved in phone tapping. Many officials told them (legislators) that it seems that there are efforts underway to trap them," Solanki, a legislator from Chaksu assembly constituency, told reporters on Saturday.  "Some of these MLAs have also informed the chief minister of the matter," he said.  Solanki said he does not know whether the MLAs have technical knowledge or there is some App through which they come to know that their phones are being tapped. Reacting to the remarks, BJP state president Satish Poonia charged that the Congress is intimidating its MLAs.  “Today again a Congress MLA is saying that many MLAs say their phones are being tapped and spying is happening. Congress should tell who these MLAs are? The Congress is intimidating its own MLAs," Poonia tweeted.  In a tweet, Deputy Leader of Opposition Rajendra Rathore charged that the state government was once again trying to intimidate public representatives.  In July last year, Pilot and 18 Congress legislators had rebelled against chief minister Gehlot. One of the accusations they levelled was about illegal phone tapping. The charges gained ground when some audio clips of telephonic conversations were shared by Gehlot’s officer on special duty (OSD) Lokesh Sharma. The audio clips were later handed over to Rajasthan Police’s special operations group (SOG) to investigate charges that some legislators were trying to topple an elected government through horse trading. The SOG ultimately closed the case after the Congress high command intervened to resolve the issues between Gehlot and Pilot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/phone-tapping-issue-resurfaces-in-rajasthan-996960.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||MP: Transgender held for dancing in campus of religious place, posting clip||A 24-year-old transgender was arrested for hurting religious sentiments after he allegedly danced in a mosque's campus in Madhya Pradesh and uploaded the video on social media, police said on Sunday. "Nanu Vishwas Kinnar was arrested on Saturday evening and charged with hurting religious feelings with deliberate and malicious intention under section 295 A of the Indian Penal Code," Talaiya Inspector DP Singh told reporters. He said authorities of the Moti Masjid had lodged a complaint stating that the act of the transgender had hurt their religious feelings. "The Kinnar danced in the campus of the Moti Masjid and uploaded the video on social media which went viral according to the complaint," he said. Kinnar was granted bail hours after his arrest from the police station as the criminal section invoked against him invites less than seven years' imprisonment if convicted by a court of law, police said. The Kinnar has more than one lakh followers on social media platforms, according to a police official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-transgender-held-for-dancing-in-campus-of-religious-place-posting-clip-996967.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||Budget constraint cannot justify violation of citizens' right to clean environment: NGT||The National Green Tribunal has said that insufficient money in civic authorities cannot justify the violation of citizens' right to clean environment. The principal bench of the NGT headed by Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel made this observation when the executive officer of the municipal board in Nokha, Rajasthan told the tribunal that the existing Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) could not be repaired and operated due to insufficient budget. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Rajasthan resident Bhanwar Lal Bhargava about discharge of untreated sewage and industrial effluent on agricultural land in Bikaner's Nokha village. Slamming the urban local body, the bench said the officer who has filed the affidavit does not have the requisite knowledge of law and responsibilities of the state pollution control board. "In view of binding judgment of the Supreme Court, the plea of budget cannot be taken to justify the continued violation of the Water Act and the citizens' right to clean environment. In absence of any other source of funds, funds are to be raised from the citizens in the area as directed by the Supreme Court, and for failure, concerned erring officers are to be proceeded against," the bench said. The NGT gave one last opportunity for compliance, failing which the secretary of the departments concerned i.e. local bodies/urban development/local self department and the member secretary of the state PCB will be held personally accountable, by way of coercive measures laid down under sections 25 and 26 of the National Green Tribunal Act, 2010 (NGT Act). Under section 26 of the NGT Act, violation of the order of this tribunal is a criminal offence punishable with imprisonment up to three years and a fine of up to Rs 10 crores. Under section 25 of the NGT Act, 2010, the order is executable at the decree of the civil court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/budget-constraint-cannot-justify-violation-of-citizens-right-to-clean-environment-ngt-996969.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||Rains lash parts of Haryana, Punjab; more expected in next 2 days||Rains lashed several parts of Punjab and Haryana on Sunday morning, and more showers are expected in the region over the next two days, the meteorological department said here. It said downpour was recorded at several places in the twin states between 5.30 pm on Saturday and 8.30 am on Sunday. The Union Territory of Chandigarh, which is the common capital of Punjab and Haryana, received 20.6 mm rainfall, while its adjoining areas, including Mohali and Panchkula, also received showers, the weather office said. In Haryana, Sirsa received a heavy downpour of 101.4 mm, while Dabwali received 62 mm rain. Among other places, Narwana recorded 32 mm downpour, Ratia in Fatehabad 52 mm, Ambala 28.6 mm, Hansi 20 mm, Jhajjar 19 mm, Narnaul 16 mm and Rohtak 14.8 mm, the Met said. In Punjab, Bathinda received 49.4 mm rainfall, Faridkot 24.4 mm, Hoshiarpur 23 mm, Adampur 17.2 mm, Muktsar 51 mm, Balachaur 19.1 mm, Rajpura 57.6 mm, Ludhiana 15 mm and Jalandhar 10 mm. According to the weather office forecast, light to moderate rain and thundershowers are likely in many parts of Haryana and Punjab on June 14 and 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rains-lash-parts-of-haryana-punjab-more-expected-in-next-2-days-996971.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi unlock: Restaurants to reopen with 50% capacity; weekly markets to resume activity, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced the opening of all market activities from Monday as part of the phased unlocking but kept public parks and gardens out of bounds. As Covid-19 cases continued to dip in the national capital, Kejriwal said weekly markets will resume activity, but only one market will open in one zone on a particular day. Religious places have also been allowed to open, but no visitors would be allowed as yet. The Delhi Disaster Management Act guidelines also permit restaurants to reopen but with 50% of seating capacity. Earlier, the DDMA had permitted shops to function in an odd-even format, but as per the new guidelines, all establishments will now be allowed to open. However, the shops will only be allowed between 10 am and 8 pm. The Delhi Metro will continue to ply with 50% of the capacity. “We will observe this for one week. If cases increase, stricter restrictions will have to be reimposed, otherwise, it will be continued,” Kejriwal said. The government has decided against reopening schools, colleges and other educational institutions. All gyms, spas, yoga institute, cinema theatres, multiplexes and banquet halls will also continue to remain shut. Sports complexes, swimming pools and stadiums have not been given a green signal yet. Any gathering for social, political, academic or entertainment reasons is also not allowed. Cultural and religious festivals continue to be prohibited as well. Delhi went under lockdown on April 19 as Covid-19 cases surged touching more than 28,000 cases every day. The chief minister began lifting the curbs in a phased manner from May 31. According to a health bulletin on Saturday, Delhi saw 213 fresh Covid-19 cases with a 0.3% positivity rate. The number of deaths came down to 25. The DDMA standard operating procedures for weekly markets said only asymptomatic customers will be allowed to venture out to shop. Pregnant women, children aged below 10, elderly aged above 65 and persons with comorbidities have been advised to stay home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-unlock-restaurants-to-reopen-with-50-capacity-weekly-markets-to-resume-activity-says-kejriwal-996982.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||Infiltration, militancy in control in J&K: MoS Home Reddy||Stating that the government has successfully curbed infiltration along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir, Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy Sunday asserted that militancy has been controlled in the Union Territory (UT). The Minister who was in Jammu to lay the foundation stone of (Swami Venkateswara temple) Lord Tirupati Balaji temple, said that the overall security situation in the country has also improved in the last two years. “In the past two years, the security situation has changed across the country, including Jammu and Kashmir. We have managed to curb infiltration and terrorism stands controlled in J&K,” he told reporters on the sidelines of the foundation laying ceremony. Reddy, who was accompanied by J&K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha, said that the pilgrims who would visit Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Cave Shrine in Katra will also have an opportunity to visit the Balaji temple and pay obeisance in Jammu as well. The Union Minister also said that the Covid-19 pandemic slowed down the process of development in the UT, “but once the situation improves, we will take J&K to new heights on the development front. Later in the day, the MoS Home is set to chair a high-level security meeting where he will take stock of the security situation in the region, especially near the LoC. This also comes amid a fresh ceasefire agreement that is in effect between India and Pakistan since February this year. Sources said the meeting will also discuss the aspect of security preparedness for the upcoming annual Amarnath Yatra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/infiltration-militancy-in-control-in-jk-mos-home-reddy-996985.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat condoles death of Indira Hridayesh||Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat condoled the death of senior Congress leader Indira Hridayesh in New Delhi on Sunday, saying she played a significant role in the politics of both Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand for four decades.   Describing her death as a big loss for the state, Rawat remembered the Congress leader for her profound knowledge of parliamentary procedures. Rawat said it was also a personal loss for him as he always got the love of an elder sister from her.     स्वo इंदिरा हृदयेश जी से मेरा परिचय दशकों पुराना रहा है। उनसे सदा मुझे बड़ी बहन जैसी आत्मीयता मिली। विधानसभा में जनहित के मुद्दे उठाने में वे सदा अग्रणी रहती थीं। मैं इस कठिन समय में उनके परिजनों व समर्थकों के प्रति अपनी सांत्वना व्यक्त करता हूँ। ॐ शांति State government's spokesman and cabinet minister Subodh Uniyal said he and other politicians of his generation had learnt a lot from Hridayesh who could rise above the confines of party based politics.  "Her knowledge of parliamentary procedures was amazing. We learnt a lot from her, " Uniyal said .  Leader of Opposition in the Uttarakhand Assembly, Hridayesh, was an MLA from Haldwani.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-cm-tirath-singh-rawat-condoles-death-of-indira-hridayesh-996989.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||Minor girl found dead in UP; rape suspected||An 11-year-old girl was found dead in the district with police on Sunday suspecting that she was raped before being murdered. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Rohit Singh Sajawan said that the girl, a student of class 6, had on Saturday around 8.00 am gone to the family's fields on a cycle to look after crops. In the evening, her cycle and clothes were found around 800 metres from her house, he said. Police suspect that she was killed with a sharp-edged weapon after being raped. Late on Saturday night, police took six persons in custody in this connection and are interrogating them. Family members of the girl said that she used to go the fields to look after the crops as her father is no more. The farm from where her body was recovered was filled with water, as a result her clothes were smeared with mud, and there was a head injury. Superintendent of Police (Rural) Rajkumar Agarwal suspected that some acquaintance might have committed the crime and in order to hide her identity she must have been killed after being raped. A case has been registered in this regard, he said, adding that further action will be taken after receiving post-mortem report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-girl-found-dead-in-up-rape-suspected-996992.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||DDMA issues SOPs for weekly markets in Delhi||The Delhi government on Sunday said weekly markets, barring those in containment zones, will be allowed to open between 4 PM and 10 PM for one week. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which issued standard operating procedures for weekly markets, said only asymptomatic customers will be allowed in them. Pregnant women, children aged below 10, elderly aged above 65 and persons with comorbidities have been advised to stay home. "Weekly markets in containment zones will remain closed. Only those outside containment zones would be allowed to open up as per the orders of DDMA … from 4 PM to 10 PM,” the SOPs read. Stall owners and customers have to maintain a physical distance of at least 6 feet, and use face masks and hand sanitisers. Spitting will be strictly prohibited. Large gatherings are not allowed. “No joining or merging of stalls will be allowed. Not more than two persons will be allowed to operate a stall,” the DDMA order said. There will be at least six-feet distance between two stalls and not more than two buyers will be allowed to deal at any stall at one time, it said. “Respective Zonal Deputy Commissioner of local authorities concerned will select the weekly markets for each day which will be opened and it must be ensured that only such weekly markets are made operational where this SOP can be implemented in letter and spirit,” the DDMA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ddma-issues-sops-for-weekly-markets-in-delhi-996994.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||Even Ambedkar would have been slandered as pro-Pakistan by BJP: Mehbooba Mufti||The BJP would have slandered even B R Ambedkar, the father of Indian Constitution, as pro-Pakistan had he been alive, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said Sunday, amidst criticism of Congress leader Digvijaya Singh over his remarks on Article 370. Mehbooba said Article 370 -- which gave special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir before its operative provisions were nullified by the Centre in 2019 -- was granted by the Constitution drafted by Ambedkar, but it has been "subverted" by the Centre. Her remarks came amidst growing criticism of the Congress and Singh over his purported comments in an audio chat on social media that his party will have a "relook" at Article 370 revocation and Jammu and Kashmir's lost statehood if it returns to power. The BJP has said that Singh's remarks were part of a larger pattern of the party being "hand in glove" with Pakistan. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, who was a BJP ally for some time in Jammu and Kashmir, criticised the saffron party. "Thank god Ambedkar ji isn't alive or else he too would be slandered as pro- Pakistan by BJP," she said on Twitter. Singh had purportedly made the remark during a clubhouse conversation with a person, who the BJP said was a journalist of Pakistani origin. "The decision of revoking Article 370 and reducing the statehood of J&K is extremely, I would say, sad decision, and the Congress party would certainly have a relook on the issue," Singh had said, according to excerpts of the clubhouse conversation available on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/even-ambedkar-would-have-been-slandered-as-pro-pakistan-by-bjp-mehbooba-mufti-997003.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||MP: 5,000 Pakistani refugees to get Covid-19 vaccine in Indore||About 5,000 Pakistani refugees from the Hindu Sindhi community living in Madhya Pradesh's Indore will be administered Covid-19 vaccines, an official said on Sunday. The representatives of the Pakistani refugees from the Hindu Sindhi community had recently requested the administration for inoculation, District Immunization Officer Dr Praveen Jadia told PTI. "This demand has been accepted following the state government's approval. These Pakistani refugees will now be able to receive jabs at the city's vaccination centres by showing their passport as the identity card," he said. Jadia estimated that about 5,000 Pakistani refugees are living in Indore and most of them are settled in the city's Sindhi Colony area. "We are administering anti-Covid 19 doses to all adults on humanitarian grounds. Last month, we had vaccinated a Dutch citizen who had come to Indore for some work," he recalled. Indore district, which is the worst hit by the pandemic in Madhya Pradesh, has so far recorded 1.52 lakh Covid-19 cases including 1,370 fatalities, according to officials. About 13.53 lakh people were administered the first dose of the vaccine in the Indore district while 2.35 lakh people had received both doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-5000-pakistani-refugees-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-in-indore-997005.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||Centre has sent no invitation to Kashmir leaders for dialogue yet||Amid speculations about a proposed dialogue between political leadership in Kashmir and the BJP-led central government to break the logjam, no formal or informal invitation has been received by regional parties so far. In recent days, it has been reported that the Centre was in the process of initiating a dialogue with the leaders of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) to draw a roadmap for the two sides to erase mistrust and fill the ever-widening political vacuum in the UT following the abrogation of its special status. However, a senior leader of the PAGD said that no formal or informal invitation has come to any of the leaders so far. “I can say with authority that as of now neither any contact has been established with the PAGD by the Centre nor any invitation has been sent,” he told DH. When asked whether they were in touch with the BJP government to initiate the dialogue, he said, “If some leader at individual level is in contact with Delhi, I am not aware of it. But as an alliance, there has been no contact so far.” PAGD, an alliance of NC, PDP, CPI, CPM, People's Movement and Awami National Conference, was formed in October 2020 by Kashmir-based leaders with the pledge of perseverance and steadfastness towards the restoration of the special status of J&K revoked by the Centre in August 2019. However, for nearly six months from December, the alliance remained dormant before holding a meeting last week, giving rise to speculations that the process of dialogue with the Centre may have advanced. CPI (M) leader, Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami, who is also the spokesperson of the PAGD said that the onus of initiating a dialogue is on New Delhi. “It was the unconstitutional and unilateral decision of August 5, 2019 by the Centre which froze the political process in the region. We always believe that dialogue is the only way to move forward,” he told DH. In recent days, both NC President Farooq Abdullah and PDP President Mehbooba Mufti have given enough hints that they were ready for a dialogue. While the ice seems to be melting, to hammer out a mutually acceptable solution to the present political impasse, leadership in Kashmir is waiting for the Centre to take the first step.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-has-sent-no-invitation-to-kashmir-leaders-for-dialogue-yet-997016.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||Woman accuses Lucknow hospital doctors, staff of raping her mother; victim dies later||A woman was allegedly gangraped while she was undergoing treatment at a government hospital in the state capital of Lucknow. The daughter of the 40-year-old victim, a resident of Uttar Pradesh's Amethi district, told Union Minister Smriti Irani, who represents the constituency in Lok Sabha, that her mother had told her that she had been 'gang-raped and 'assaulted' by the staff at Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in Lucknow. While the officials ordered a probe into the matter after Irani's intervention, the victim died late on Saturday night while being shifted to another hospital in Lucknow. The daughter of the victim said that her mother had been admitted to Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences on June 7 after being referred from the district hospital in Amethi. ''I was not allowed to meet my mother by the staff... after much persuasion, I met her a few days later and found her in a critical condition... she told me then that she had been gangraped and beaten by the staff,'' she said. The victim was discharged on Friday without assigning any reason even though she was still unconscious, she further alleged. Officials informed that a committee has been formed to investigate the allegations. The Lohia hospital management, however, refuted the allegations and said that no such complaint was lodged with it by the daughter of the victim. The incident comes close on the heels of another alleged gang rape with a patient inside the operation theatre of a hospital in Prayagraj.  Watch latest videos on DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-accuses-lucknow-hospital-doctors-staff-of-raping-her-mother-victim-dies-later-997019.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi logs 255 new Covid-19 cases, 23 more deaths||Delhi recorded 255 new Covid-19 cases and 23 fatalities, the lowest since April 7, on Sunday, while the positivity rate stood at 0.35 per cent, the health department said. According to the latest health bulletin, the new fatalities pushed the Covid-related death toll in the city to 24,823.  Delhi had reported 213 cases, the lowest since March 9, on Saturday; 238 cases on Friday, 305 cases on Thursday and 337 cases on Wednesday. The city had recorded 28 deaths on Saturday, 24 on Friday, 44 on Thursday and 36 on Wednesday. The positivity rate stood at 0.3 per cent on Saturday and Friday, 0.4 per cent on Thursday and 0.5 per cent on Wednesday, according to government data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-logs-255-new-covid-19-cases-23-more-deaths-997021.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||Hit by dust storms, Jama Masjid structures damaged, need urgent intervention of experts: Shahi Imam||The structures of the historic Jama Masjid in old Delhi have suffered damage in two dust storms within a week's time and thus, need "immediate intervention" of heritage experts, the Shahi Imam of the celebrated mosque said on Sunday. The 17th-century architectural icon was built in the reign of Mughal Emperor Shah Jehan for the main city of Shahjehabad, which currently falls in the Walled City, and is a major tourist attraction in the national capital. "Over a week ago, the southern minaret of the grand mosque was damaged by a dust storm and rain, and a big block of stone had fallen off it. Luckily, no one was injured in the incident. But, due to this, other stones around it have also become loose," the Shahi Imam Syed Ahmed Bukhari said. On June 4, a big chunk of the red standstone tower had fallen off after suffering damage in the massive dust storm and rains that had hit Delhi-NCR. The fallen piece was about two-metre long, 12-18 inches wide and about 2.5-inch thick. Other small pieces had also fallen along with it, he said. "The day before yesterday, another dust storm hit Delhi and the minaret was further damaged. A similar piece of big stone now precariously hangs off the tower, and it can fall any time," the Shahi Imam said, adding other parts of the mosque have also been affected by the dust storm. Repairs of the towering mosque have been carried out from time to time by the Arachaeological Survey of India (ASI) since 1956 as a special case, he said. "But after the damage suffered in the two dust storms, the structures of the Jama Masjid need urgent repair work and immediate intervention of heritage experts and engineers to avoid any further damage or mishap," Bukhari told PTI. He also shared that a couple of years ago, a big portion of stone had fallen off a smaller tower near Gate No. 3 of the mosque, but fortunately, no one was hurt in that incident too. The Mughal-era mosque, referred in old literature also as 'Masjid-i-Jahanuma' (the mosque commanding a view of the world), was built as the principal mosque of the city by Shah Jehan, and its architecture and intricate design has fascinated building experts and the layman alike. After the fall of the Mughal Empire in 1857, the British forces took over the area post the Sepoy Mutiny, and a large number of structures around the imposing mosque were demolished, according to historians. The historic mosque in the British-era came under the Sunni Majlis-e-Auqaf of Delhi, which became the Delhi Waqf Board in the 1950s, Bukhari said. The Jama Masjid sees a massive gathering on Fridays for 'jumma' prayers, but due to restrictions imposed in the wake of the Covid pandemic, people are not allowed to visit. The Shahi Imam said the pieces of sandstones used in the mosque were clipped together using iron plates in the Mughal-era and these have become thin and are wearing off with time. "In past repair works, many iron strips were replaced with steel plates, which are stronger and don't corrode," he added. On June 6, the Shahi Imam had sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to instruct the ASI to carry out repair works at the mosque. In the letter, Bukhari had said the internationally renowned mosque is in dire need of care. He along with the letter had also sent images of the fallen stones, the damage they have caused and the dilapidated state of the minaret. "Many stones of the building are in a state of dilapidation and often keep falling off, " the letter said. He requested the prime minister to instruct the ASI to inspect the monument, particularly the two minarets, and commence its necessary repairs.  "Due to falling of these stones, the support of the other stones around them has gone and they have become weakened and thus warrant immediate repairs to avoid any grave mishap," Bukhari said. Asked, if he has received any response from the ASI, he said, "Not, so far".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hit-by-dust-storms-jama-masjid-structures-damaged-need-urgent-intervention-of-experts-shahi-imam-997034.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||BJP to 'accommodate' disgruntled UP leaders in Boards, Corporations ||In an apparent bid to 'placate' disgruntled party leaders, MLAs and workers ahead of the next Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, BJP plans to 'accommodate' them in party organisation and state government-owned Boards, Corporations and Commissions.  The move assumes significance as it comes close on the heels of chief minister Yogi Adityanath's meetings with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J P Nadda. According to the sources in the state BJP, these disgruntled leaders, who include, senior leaders, legislators and workers, would be 'accommodated' in SC/ST Commission, Minority Commission and in different Boards and Corporations. ''There are many vacancies in these departments... we intend to fill these vacancies with party,'' said a senior UP BJP leader here on Sunday. The leader said that hundreds of party workers would also be appointed in various cells of the party and in different departments including those of media, IT and publication. He said that caste and regional factors would be kept in mind while making the selection of the party leaders for these posts. While the BJP leader termed it as a 'routine' exercise, sources in the saffron party said that it was being done to 'placate' the leaders, who had raised their voice against the state government and Adityanath's style of functioning.  Sources said that Adityanath had been told by the national party leadership to rein in the dissenters and take steps to assuage their feelings. During their meetings with the central leaders of the saffron party here a fortnight back, several UP BJP MLAs and other leaders had expressed resentment over the way the state government tackled the second wave of Covid 19 in the state and also demanded a change of guard. Though the central leadership refused to replace Adityanath, it did ask him to effect cabinet reshuffle and accommodate the disgruntled leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-to-accommodate-disgruntled-up-leaders-in-boards-corporations-997044.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||Former Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal summoned by SIT in 2015 police firing case||Former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal has been summoned by the special investigation team probing the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident to appear before it on June 16. Badal was the chief minister when the sacrilege and subsequent police firing incidents took place in Faridkot in 2015. According to the summons, the nonagenarian leader has been asked "to appear in person with the relevant record before the Special Investigation Team on date 16.06.2021 at 10:30 am at PSPCL, Rest House, Phase-8 SAS Nagar (Mohali)" for investigation of the cases. Reacting to the summons, Harcharan Bains, principal advisor to the Shiromani Akali Dal president, said, “We will fully cooperate with the SIT." Badal had been questioned in 2018 by the previous SIT probing the matter. He had then said the SIT probe was “politically motivated” and an attempt to defame him. The Punjab government had formed the new SIT led by Additional Director General of Police L K Yadav to probe the Kotkapura police firing incident following the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The new SIT is investigating the two FIRs registered on October 14, 2015 and August 7, 2018 in connection with the Kotkapura incident. The high court on April 9 this year had quashed a report by an earlier Punjab Police SIT into the 2015 firing at people protesting in Kotkapura over the alleged desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib in Faridkot district. The court had then directed the state government to set up a new SIT, without Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, the Indian Police Service officer who was part of the earlier team. Singh later took voluntary retirement after the court order. Police had also opened fire at a similar demonstration in Behbal Kalan, also in Faridkot, where two people were killed. A separate probe is underway in that case. The new SIT has already questioned former police chief Sumedh Singh Saini and some other police officers. Meanwhile, Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa on Sunday dubbed the summoning of Badal by the SIT as a step in the right direction. "The need of the hour is to conduct a fair investigation wherein the role of the then Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal, the then Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal and the then DGP Sumedh Singh Saini are brought out,” said Bajwa in a statement here. “Once the investigation is concluded within a month, an application must be filed for day-to-day hearing of the case before the trial court in Faridkot,” he said. After the high court quashed the report of the earlier SIT, a section of Congress leaders, including Navjot Singh Sidhu, has been targeting their own government for the alleged delay in delivery of justice in sacrilege and subsequent police firing incidents in 2015. The Congress in Punjab has repeatedly targeted the Shiromani Akali Dal, which was in power then in the state, over the incidents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-punjab-cm-parkash-singh-badal-summoned-by-sit-in-2015-police-firing-case-997045.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||UP govt teacher put on Covid duty 2 weeks after death||Two weeks after he succumbed to coronavirus, a government teacher was put on Covid control room duty at the collector’s office in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar apparently because authorities did not know about his death. The incident came to light when a duty chart issued by district authorities showed Nand Kishor, a resident of Khanjahanpur village, posted at the control room of the collectorate from June 10 to 24, the official said. The chart was issued as the authorities had not received the news of Kishor’s death, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-teacher-put-on-covid-duty-2-weeks-after-death-997073.html
13-06-2021||North and Central||Two private hospitals in Delhi to give Sputnik V jabs by end of this week||Apollo Hospitals and Madhukar Rainbow Children's Hospital in Delhi will start administering Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V to people by the end of this week, officials said on Sunday.  The Centre has fixed the price of the vaccine at Rs 1,145 per dose. "Apollo Hospitals are going to roll out the vaccine for the general public in Delhi by the end of the week," an official told PTI.  An official of Madhukar Rainbow Children's Hospital also said it will start administering Sputnik V jabs within this week. After Covishield and Covaxin, Sputnik V is the third vaccine to be approved by the government for use in India. The maximum price of Covishield for private Covid-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) has been fixed at Rs 780 per dose, while that of Covaxin is Rs 1,410 per dose. Dr Reddy's Laboratories, the marketing partner for the vaccine in the country, has been importing the shots from Russia.  Over a period of time, the vaccine is also going to be manufactured in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-private-hospitals-in-delhi-to-give-sputnik-v-jabs-by-end-of-this-week-997110.html
13-06-2021||Opinion||Covid-19: The one crisis whose narrative PM Modi can't change||By Mujib Mashal As India gasped for air at the peak of its Covid devastation, its leader appeared to advise his people to just breathe normally. The instructions, a bit of yoga advice for the stressed, came from one of the many social media accounts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has used powerful oratory and digital savvy to become India’s most dominant leader in decades. But the tweet showed how India’s master of public perception has increasingly struggled to get his message across, exposing the limits of his ability to control the narrative. The omnipresent Modi had largely vanished from public view as his government proved powerless to stop the deaths and the mounting criticism about his performance. With his poll numbers dropping and his allies straining to make his case on India’s talk shows, he has increasingly pushed “be positive” messaging and feel-good tips. The campaign has struggled to connect. “Sit in a comfortable meditative posture,” read a tweet from one of Modi’s many accounts, which project his diverse set of personas — this one the wise yoga guru. “Keep the spine erect. Place the hands on the thighs. Gently close the eyes and raise the face slightly. Breathe normally.” Responded one commenter: “This is like rubbing salt on wounds.” In turn, Modi has tried to quash dissent. His government has been locked in a messy showdown with social media platforms over taking down critical content. Police in Delhi, the capital, arrested at least 20 people for putting up posters critical of Modi’s handling of vaccinations. A Modi protégé, who leads India’s most populous state, Uttar Pradesh, threatened those who complained about oxygen shortages. On Monday, as India’s official death and infection figures were falling, Modi tried to seize the moment and change the narrative. In a rare televised address since the second wave began in April, he declared that the central government would help all 90 crore adults get free vaccines, a reversal of his earlier policy that had forced state governments into a chaotic competition over limited supplies. A spokesperson said Modi had been too busy with “silent work and work and work” to appear in public during the pandemic. Modi’s positivity push appears to be an attempt to drown out dissatisfaction. One survey found disapproval with Modi had risen by about 10 percentage points since the second wave intensified. In another survey, one in six people said they had lost a loved one and blamed the central government first, and then “destiny,” for their loss. “So much death, so much despair — children lost their parents overnight, elderly parents lost their young children, people lost their spouses,” said Shruti Chaturvedi, an entrepreneur doing relief work in the state of Goa. “How can we dare tell them ‘be positive’?” Modi’s approval rating is still above 60 per cent, according to one poll. But the growing dissatisfaction suggests the prime minister may not so easily be able to change public sentiment by pushing emotional nationalist causes or shifting his image as he has done in the past. Rather, like any other politician, he may increasingly be judged by his ability to deliver. “There was a template — that if you invisibilise problems you do not want to focus on and convince the rest of the population that only the visible part is the entire part, that seemed to work in the past,” said Kota Neelima, founder of the Institute of Perception Studies in New Delhi. But in a once-in-a-century catastrophe, she said, “you actually notice the government is absent.” Perhaps the most telling criticism has come from the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, that has long supported turning India into a Hindu state and that has placed its hopes in Modi. The RSS recently tried to help the positivity campaign by holding a series of lectures by influential figures called “Positivity Unlimited.” But in his own speech, Mohan Bhagwat, the RSS chief, couldn’t entirely deflect blame from Modi’s administration: Both the government and the people had lowered their guard, he said. Modi picked up many of his skills as a communicator as an RSS volunteer, said Badri Narayan, a social historian and political analyst who has written extensively about the group. Its “language of mobilisation” emphasises storytelling loaded with symbolism echoing thousands of years of history. “He was trained in that pedagogy of oratory,” Narayan said. “He came to learn how to use storytelling for bigger messaging, and he evolved that training in his own ways.” How Modi will emerge from the pandemic could depend on those talents, which have bailed him out in the past. To become prime minister, Modi overcame a reputation tarnished by his alleged involvement in fanning religious violence when he was chief minister of the state of Gujarat two decades ago. For a time, he was banned from entering the United States on grounds that he had violated religious freedoms. He successfully rebranded himself as the Hindu nationalist who could be India’s development champion. Soon after winning election in 2014, he traveled to New York and spoke for an hour in a packed Madison Square Garden to chants of “Modi! Modi! Modi!” In seven years as prime minister, he has tightly controlled his image. He prefers choreographed rallies and selective interviews over news conferences, avoiding vulnerability while offering plenty of content for his social media apparatus and network of celebrity supporters. In the face of crisis, Modi has displayed a talent of inventing a new narrative and switching personas, including combative national champion, digital leader and spiritual guide. At times he could seem deeply relatable, at others above it all. And he had what the opposition lacked: an ability to take his message viral. During the 2019 election, with the economy weakening, he emphasised the threat from Pakistan. Referring to an earlier comment Modi had made, his party projected him as the nation’s toughest “watchman,” boasting about the size of Modi’s chest as a sign of his strength. Just before the voting, he visited a temple and went to meditate in a cave, emphasising his religious devotion. The path was covered by a red carpet and surrounded by cameras. There were even photos and footage of the meditating Modi inside the small cave. After last year’s first wave of the virus, Modi declared victory, saying India “with a proactive approach” had saved “the entire humanity from a big tragedy.” He transitioned to an image of a wise man at the service of the nation. He grew his beard. His office posted a video of Modi feeding baby peacocks, strolling with full-plumage adult birds and perusing documents with one at his feet. When the second wave struck, Modi was on the campaign trail, boasting about crowd sizes and ripping into opponents. Experts now say those rallies undermined social distancing warnings. Modi and his allies have tried to drown out the negative voices as they scramble to address a catastrophic oxygen shortage and mismanaged vaccine supplies. The main tactic appears to be the threat of bogging down critics in India’s labyrinthine judicial system. In Delhi, the central government’s police arrested more than 20 people last month for putting up posters critical of Modi’s handling of the vaccination drive. The posters were made by the party that governs Delhi, which has clashed with Modi’s party. But the arrests for a simple act of protest in the nation’s capital sent shock waves. Modi may now be judged less by his rhetoric and ideology and more by his ability to provide services, said Narayan, the historian. “The debate is going to shift toward politics of medicalisation, to the safety of the body,” Narayan said. “He is talking as a prime minister, so he has to talk about delivery.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19-the-one-crisis-whose-narrative-pm-modi-cant-change-996896.html
13-06-2021||Opinion||Luxury and hunger: Two faces of an unequal pandemic||By Andy Mukherjee Mercedes-Benz AG recently introduced its Maybach sport utility vehicle in India — right in the middle of a fierce second wave of the pandemic. The 50 cars the German automaker wanted to sell by the end of 2021 were lapped up in a month. It turns out that just as the rich were scrambling to own these $400,000 wheels, annual per capita income was sliding below $2,000, with the country falling behind neighbouring Bangladesh. Colleagues at Bloomberg News recently chronicled a story that’s becoming all too familiar: Shoemaker Shyambabu Nigam had to sell his modest house to pay the $8,230 medical bill from his wife’s Covid-19 complications. One of his three leather-sewing machines is also gone. The debt-strapped couple is renting a room in a nearby village. Well-meaning initiatives, such as a government-backed emergency credit line that has been available to small businesses since last May, can’t reach highly informal micro units like Nigam’s. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has extended — until November — an existing program to make available fixed amounts of free food grains to 800 million people. Additional wheat and rice entitlements did help the poor last year. Yet, in the absence of incomes, the bottom quartile of the population had to drastically cut down expenditure on eggs, meat and fruit. To avoid a second straight year of nutrition crisis, it’s critical to provide poor households an immediate sustenance income: Say, slightly more than $2 a day for at least three months. The proposal has come from a team of economists at the Bangalore-based Azim Premji University. It will, the researchers argue, be of some help, though perhaps won’t prove enough. “The proposed cash transfer is just equal to incomes lost last year by the poorest 10% of households, leaving alone the second-wave impact.” Officially, there’s no word on such a cash transfer plan. Obsessed with keeping a lid on borrowing costs, the government is making things worse for the common man by its regressive consumption taxes, including on gasoline and life-saving Covid-19 drugs, and by a very high dependence on cheap money from the central bank. Excess liquidity, reflected in elevated asset prices, is creating what on paper looks like an oasis of opulence in a desert of despair. Economic power flowing from workers and small enterprises toward large firms — uncontested, if not aided, by India’s fiscal policy — is boosting their valuations. It’s helping create the wealth that’s powering sales of Maybach SUVs and a lot else besides. Mid-size and small steelmakers are struggling with sub-optimal 62% capacity utilization, while five large producers, which raised their market share by 5 percentage points to 58% in just one year, are using their “blockbuster profit” to pay down debt, according to Crisil, an affiliate of S&P Global Inc. When the government closes its annual accounts next March, the budget deficit will likely exceed its $206 billion target. This shortfall, which under normal circumstances would have been 6.8% of gross domestic product, may be higher now because of the deadly surge in infections in April and May, the first two months of India’s financial year. Output growth will be slower, and tax collections lower, than expected. When the government collects less in taxes than it spends, more money is staying in private hands. But are they the right hands? Probably not. Securing and administering vaccines should have been the obvious expenditure priority for this year. Even at a high per-dose cost of $10, adding 0.8% of GDP to the fiscal deficit would be money well spent, says University of British Columbia economist Amartya Lahiri. He's right. So far, only 5% of the 1 billion adult population has been fully vaccinated. Now that localized lockdowns are being relaxed, the 23 million daily-wage workers who have lost their livelihoods since January have to go out to rebuild their lives. The salaried class isn’t faring much better. Of the 8.5 million jobs lost this year, many may get replaced by gig-economy work. New-age startups may thrive because Covid-19 has accelerated the pace of digitization. Many traditional tiny firms, the kind that used to sustain millions like the shoemaker Nigam, will vanish. The Taj Mahal, a Mughal emperor’s ode to his dead wife, stands tall in the northern city of Agra. Nigam's act of love to save his wife was to sell their two-bedroom dwelling that took years to own. The house had a view of the 17th-century mausoleum, and it now belongs to someone else. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/luxury-and-hunger-two-faces-of-an-unequal-pandemic-996907.html
13-06-2021||Opinion||Ending HIV in children is way off target, where to focus action now||By Kaymarlin Govender and Linda-Gail Bekker World leaders have recently, under the auspices of the United Nations, renewed their commitment to ending AIDS. The new phase offers much needed hope for the future, provided the commitments made are fulfilled. The adopted political declaration and its recommendations offer strategies for ending mother-to-child transmission of HIV and paediatric AIDS. They also address inequalities faced by adolescents living with HIV. The commitments include an interim target of suppressing the viral loads of 75 per cent of all children living with HIV by 2023. Greater emphasis on innovative tools and strategies to locate and diagnose children of all ages living with HIV are very welcome. These include early infant diagnosis at the point of care, family testing and self-testing to find older children and adolescents who are not on treatment. Looking back, children have been one of the most neglected groups affected by HIV. The paediatric targets for 2020 were missed by a significant distance. For example, the global target for the HIV treatment coverage rate for children by 2020 was 95 per cent. But by 2019 only 53 per cent of children were on treatment. In 2020, an estimated 150,000 children acquired HIV globally. The target was to reduce infections to 20,000. Not meeting these targets represents a global failure. To make matters worse, in 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic disrupted HIV services for children and pregnant women. Failure to achieve these targets for children and adolescents in sub-Saharan Africa, home to 90 per cent of the children living with HIV, means that new infections will continue to increase and HIV related mortality will be a reality for decades to come. The June 2021 United Nations high level meeting was an opportunity to get the paediatric HIV response on track. The new political declaration is a result of extensive analysis of HIV data and consultation with member states, communities and partners from over 160 countries. In line with the 2021 political declaration, we emphasise that national governments should review their national strategies and commit resources to three key paediatric HIV issues. These are: prevention of mother-to-child transmission; HIV testing and treatment in children; and prevention and treatment of TB and HIV. Prevention of vertical transmission Programmes to prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV have been scaled up. But this transmission is rising in several African countries. Of equal concern, antiretroviral therapy coverage for pregnant women living with HIV is considerably lower in western and central African countries such as Nigeria and Angola (below 50 per cent) than in southern Africa. South Africa and Botswana have coverage of over 90 per cent. In 2017, an alarming one in five children born to mothers living with HIV in sub-Saharan Africa became HIV positive during childbirth or breastfeeding. We advocate for better planning for comprehensive HIV prevention during pregnancy and breastfeeding, access to pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) and other new prevention technologies. As per World Health Organisation guidelines, pregnant women must be tested for HIV multiple times during pregnancy. And women who test positive for HIV should immediately be placed on antiretroviral therapy. The efficacy of prevention of mother-to-child transmission practices needs to be reviewed and monitored closely in many African countries. Increasing access to viral load testing for pregnant and breastfeeding mothers living with HIV will also ensure the health of the mother and help to reduce vertical transmission. Paediatric HIV testing and treatment In 2020, 74,000 children were newly infected with HIV in eastern and southern Africa. And 46,000 deaths among children younger than 15 in the region were due to AIDS. The treatment coverage rate for children in eastern and southern Africa is 57 per cent compared with 78 per cent for adults. It is critical to ensure that all newborn babies exposed to HIV are tested between four and six weeks of age. Those living with HIV must start HIV treatment, because without treatment 50 per cent will die before they reach two years of age. This step is just the first of many in a process to ensure the health of HIV-exposed children as they grow older. We advocate for more resources to achieve the following: -95 per cent of HIV-exposed children tested by two months of age and again after cessation of breastfeeding; - 95 per cent of infants tested for HIV receive their test results no later than 15 days after blood sample collection; - 95 per cent of infants diagnosed with HIV infection initiate antiretroviral therapy no later than 15 days after receiving their test results; -85 per cent of all children living with HIV on antiretroviral therapy must have suppressed viral load by 2023 and 95 per cent by 2025; -scale up point-of-care early infant diagnostic testing, starting with areas that are hard to reach; -scale up efforts to actively track mother-baby pairs using a digital register of positive results; -greater use of family-based index testing and use of HIV oral tests for children aged 2-11. Childhood TB and HIV Tuberculosis (TB) is a major contributor to illness and death in children living with HIV, particularly in TB endemic settings. Children under 15 account for around 12 per cent of the 10 million TB cases globally. TB preventive therapy is a proven and effective intervention, particularly in young children. But only 27 per cent of the 1.3 million eligible children under five received preventive therapy in 2018. For children (and adolescents) living with HIV, TB is the most common opportunistic infection. Those with severe immune suppression have a five-fold higher risk of TB compared to those with mild immune suppression. National governments should therefore strengthen TB services for children with HIV so that 90 per cent of them receive treatment for both conditions. TB and HIV health services need to be integrated. Family approaches to TB preventive treatment must be scaled up to include HIV-negative households. Access to short-course TB preventive therapy regimens must be expanded. Innovative approaches for TB diagnosis among children must be considered, including the use of non-sputum biomarker-based samples such as stools and urine. Getting back on track In view of the threat to paediatric HIV services posed by further waves of COVID-19, we highlight the need to eliminate vertical transmission and prioritise paediatric testing and treatment services to achieve the new commitments. The commitment can be delivered through strong community-led responses in partnership with governments; maintaining and increasing domestic and donor funding for HIV and AIDS, particularly for low-income countries with limited fiscal ability and weak health systems; and ring-fencing resources for paediatric HIV and TB services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/ending-hiv-in-children-is-way-off-target-where-to-focus-action-now-996939.html
13-06-2021||Panorama||No one in the actual newsroom, but hard decisions aplenty||In normal times, newsrooms throb with life. Reporters are on the phone, grilling sources. Sub-editors are tersely editing infelicities out of articles and composing what is essentially a small book, daily. The video team grapples with temperamental studio guests, and the online desk competes with the rest of the world every minute. Across the floor, copious amounts of coffee are drunk. Tempers are often short, competition is keen, and everyone leaves exhausted, only to do it all again the next day. What a difference a pandemic has wrought. The number of people in the newsroom ranges from none to a handful. Some colleagues haven’t seen each other face-to-face for a year. Everything is done from home. The physical aspect of a newsroom has transformed to the extent that it will feel very strange when we go back to normal. The touch-and-feel product it creates, the newspaper, has changed less: It has lost a few grams in weight, which like with any crash diet, will come back once the rigours end. More noticeable is how a lockdown hits circulation and advertising revenue. But of all that’s changed, what gets the least attention externally is how difficult some newsroom decisions become during what is, essentially, wartime. Here’s a sampler: How do we deal with a story that has been unremittingly miserable for the best part of three months? How much do we show and tell, how critical should we be, how biting our text and how stark our images? How do we craft headlines to let words evoke emotion, without becoming an emotional mess ourselves? On the safety front, how much risk do we take sending our reporters out into the field? There are no easy answers. We know that this pandemic has taken a toll on the readers’ mental health, and on the newsroom’s. For three months, wherever you looked or listened, Covid was all you got. Some took refuge in the IPL and Netflix. But social media -- and this is where most journalists live much of the time nowadays -- reflected with a vengeance the horror of what had come to pass. Heart-rending appeals for oxygen on Twitter. Terrifying tales of bodies in rivers, or piled high in ambulances. Cremations in parking lots. And on the phone, a rasping, midnight fright from a colleague with very little lung capacity left. So, when a bright young photojournalist comes up with striking shots of cremations at sunset -- saffron flames rising against a twilit sky -- you decide, against your journalistic judgement, to downplay it a bit. You may even bury cremation shots in an inside page, risking demotivating the journalist, who has worked at some personal risk. At one point, we took the call to exercise restraint in showing dead bodies to a shell-shocked readership, even at the cost of telling the story fully, which is what we do for a living. And when health reporters file stories questioning every silver lining, you gently try and extract some hope from them. They do an outstanding job, and they still have free rein to go after a once-in-a-century story. But we ask them, and others, to seek out the inspiring as well, and luckily there is plenty of that in the heroism of frontline workers, nurses and doctors. Most journalists are trained to see the bad news first. Good news is usually not news. As George Orwell may have said: “Journalism is printing something that somebody doesn’t want printed. Everything else is public relations.” But what do you do when all you see is bad news? How does one balance the need for full, honest and hard reporting with the responsibility of not completely puncturing public morale? We tell our reporters to not write emotionally but to write to evoke emotion. There is also the opposite problem to excess emotionality. Like cops desensitised to gory crime scenes, journalists often develop the faculty of inuring themselves to distressing developments. The skill lies in retaining the sensitivity to tell that story appropriately, otherwise you get headlines like the one I saw on a website (not one of ours): “The virus is coming for your children!” But for all that restraint there is pent-up wrath in even the most dispersed newsroom. A government misstep (and there were plenty) comes in for a regular roasting. Shameless vote-grubbing, claiming credit when there is little to claim, and doing a disappearing act only to reappear when things are getting better evoke more anger than in peacetime. There is fury at China, which many sense has been ultra-economical with the truth on the origins of the virus. And it would also be useful for those -- and they know who they are -- who spew venom at our profession to remember that many of our journalists have been out there reporting and shooting images and video at a time when it would have been safer to be at home. As we unlock, our responsibility shifts: We need to help keep at bay the sort of euphoria that comes from a huge cloud lifting. We intend to keep a beady eye on developing case clusters, the pace of vaccination and government policy on Covid-19. Sometime in the future, when the pandemic is gone, we will go back to only deciding which political slugfest deserves pride of place on page 1, which funny story makes it to the ‘anchor’ (the bottom of the page), how we report on the perfidy of our regional rivals, and which glamorous sportsman’s peccadilloes can journey from the back of the book all the way to the front. For now, though, we are gingerly making our way back, yearning for a normal newsroom, with all its flaws. For a year, we have lived in times that have been a bit too interesting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/no-one-in-the-actual-newsroom-but-hard-decisions-aplenty-996885.html
13-06-2021||Panorama||The road away from hell||The nice thing about off-road vehicles is that you can mostly just point and go. This April, I pointed a Mahindra Thar down a rocky path leading from the road to the campsite at Geku, parked in line with the other vehicles in our convoy, and hauled my rucksack to my tent on a sandbar, on a bend of the Siang. Three years ago, we’d kicked off a four-day white-water rafting expedition at this spot. The chances of ever returning were vanishingly small—yet here I was, the same white sand, that iron sky over this same wild river. I couldn’t stop smiling. The rafting trip had turned me into a slobbering adorer of Arunachal Pradesh, which is full of craggy mountains blanketed with thick forest or snow, crisp air, rushing rivers, birdsong, delicious pork dishes—and proud, hospitable Arunachalis, who come in a resplendent variety of tribes and customs, and are always up for one more drink and one more laugh. So, when Lhakpa Tsering, president of the Arunachal Motor Sports Club, invited me to join the trans-Arunachal drive, I jumped at it. Geku was about midway along our east-to-west journey across the whole state, largely on the 2,500-km trans-Arunachal Highway. Afterwards, in the grip of Delhi’s second Covid wave and the mirrored hothouse of isolation, it was the endorphin-soaked memories from this epic 12-day drive that kept me sane. Like peeing in Myanmar, because the only female-friendly spot at the Pangsau Pass was just across the border fence—nothing breaks the ice among fellow travellers like introducing yourself with your bum hanging out. Like peering at China from the military outpost at Kaho, the easternmost or ‘first’ village in India, where telephones don’t exist, and the 14 local families communicate via radio. Like being under a leaky canopy in a torrential cloudburst at the beach campsite at Hayuliang, by the Lohit river, laughing and singing and feeling aliiiiive. When the devastation in Delhi felt like that Edvard Munch painting, I remembered making screamy noises as racing champion Gaurav Gill demonstrated ‘drifting’ on a mountain road. Staring at my empty bar, I thought of watching women making apong, that hangover-free fermented rice drink, on our rest day in Bomjir, by the banks of the broad Dibang river. When I was lonely, I remembered joining the Mopin festivities in Aalo, where someone in the crowd smeared my face with celebratory white paste, or the homestay in Basar, where the host family chatted with us around their enormous hearth, and four of us bunked down in one of their rooms. Caged at home, I relived driving 13 exhilarating hours to Ziro, where I’d always longed to attend the famous music festival. Waking to each lockdown Groundhog Day, I pretended to be crawling out of my tent in a cold dawn at gorgeous Pakke Kesang or Shergaon, for a cup of hot sweet tea, and brushing my teeth with my eyes resting on some extraordinary river or valley or mountain vista. When the Delhi heat rose, I thought of climbing up to the Sela Pass and the cool snows around Tawang, and dancing to a live band in rain and sleet at 12,000 feet, next to the ridiculously beautiful PTso lake. When my playlist got boring, I remembered the large-hearted groups of Arunachali men and women who welcomed us with song and dance at every stop. I’m torn about telling everyone about a still-pristine place, but I can’t recommend a road trip in Arunachal Pradesh enough, if you’re up for a little adventure. Whether it was on boulders strung together with dust, or creamy world-class asphalt—there was plenty of both—the pleasure of driving through endless beauty in a fabulous beast of a car will stay with me a long time. I think it might see me through the third wave. (Mitali Saran thinks a good asteroid could solve all our problems @mitalisaran)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-road-away-from-hell-996886.html
13-06-2021||Panorama||We need to address Bengaluru's bleak climate future||Bengaluru already seems crowded to us, but the city continues to grow steadily. By 2030, different agencies estimate that Bengaluru will contain between 15-20 million people. Given the size of the city, and the number of people in it, such growth will have major implications for our environment, health, ecology and energy use. In turn, the looming climate crisis will be a game changer in the coming decades. Cities like Bengaluru demand voluminous amounts of energy to support industry and manufacturing, and for basic things like transport, electrification, construction and cooking. Even more basic needs must be satisfied – food and water amongst them. Most Indian cities consume large amounts of energy to ensure water supply. Bengaluru is no exception. The city brings water all the way from the Cauvery, across a distance of almost 100 km, pumps it up to a height of close to 500 m, and then sends it across the city in a network of pipes. The Bengaluru Water Supply and Sewerage Board spends a substantial fraction of its monthly revenue on electricity, giving us a glimpse of the massive amounts of energy this exercise requires. Yet even the water brought in at great expense from the Cauvery is insufficient to supply Bengaluru’s needs. Almost half of this water goes waste, victim to leaky pipes and unregistered usage. The need for additional water is met by private entrepreneurs, who run borewells around the clock, using up more electricity. Cities like Bengaluru also guzzle cement like they guzzle water. Road expansion, the construction of new airports, high rise apartments and swanky corporate campuses, demand cement. Cement production requires energy. Most of the electricity that lights up homes, malls, and offices, and powers our industries, comes from coal. Indian coal plants generate close to 3/4th of the country’s energy needs. Although the supply from “clean” sources such as solar and wind energy is growing, renewable energy supply has been unable to keep pace with the accelerating demand for energy in India’s cities. Coal contributes as much as 40% to global greenhouse gas emissions, fueling the out-of-control heating of the world’s atmosphere, placing the planet’s climate on a runaway trajectory towards extremes of temperature never before witnessed in human history. The petrol and diesel that powers the tens of millions of vehicles on India’s city streets further fuels global warming. The greenhouse gases emitted by landfills and dumps, waste-to-energy plants, thermal power plants and the smoke from factory chimneys add up, increasing the scale of the problem. Cities like Bengaluru are major drivers of climate change. The relationship goes both ways – Bengaluru is also a major location of climate impact. Although people talk a lot about coastal flooding because of climate change, it is not just cities like Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata that will be hard hit. Inland cities like Delhi, Hyderabad and Bengaluru are already located in drought-prone low rainfall regions and face regular water shortage problems. A couple of years ago, the newspapers were filled with discussions about when Bengaluru might face Ground Zero – a day when the city runs out of water. With the new entry of Cauvery water to peripheral parts of Bengaluru, that day has been pushed into the future. But we are not safe yet. Cities like Bengaluru have become large islands of concrete. This concrete generates well-known urban heat island effects, creating super-hot pockets of air that can change local rainfall patterns, leading to even more variable rainfall. Not just Bengaluru, with global climate change, the Cauvery basin that supplies water to the city will experience increasingly erratic and unpredictable rainfall. When it does rain, way too much rainfall will be packed into short intense storms (leading to flooding). We are also likely to face longer dry spells than we are used to. While we are dealing with Covid, we cannot afford to ignore the effects of climate change. One crisis will not wait for another. (Harini Nagendra the Azim Premji University Prof prides herself on barking up all trees, right and wrong)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/we-need-to-address-bengalurus-bleak-climate-future-996887.html
13-06-2021||Panorama||Evolving a new citizen-state||A defining career moment for me was when I got a research assistantship for my Masters’ programme. The assistantship was funded by NASA. This was in 1990, and NASA was very well regarded. It was beyond a dream-come-true to be working on electromagnetic sensors and AI on the Space Shuttle main engine! It was before the Big Tech boom. Space and other programmes with international impact were still the domain of the government. There were private contractors for various workloads on these programmes, but they were responsible to the government. In 2004, the US Congress ruled to let the space-tourism industry to self-regulate. Today, the US space programme has an increased dependency on private industry, including completely private space launches! Jeff Bezos and a band of tourists will probably make a space trip next month, entirely at their own risk, with FAA influence on their safety. This is a significant change in the roles of government and private enterprise. Similarly, public health was part of governments’ role to understand and prevent pandemics, and other large-scale health issues. Today, significant programmes have been developed through private charitable institutions run by entrepreneurs. In my mind, this is good as there are sufficient regulations to ensure that charitable institutions operate with good governance. However, areas such as pandemic response and accessible healthcare programmes should be government programmes and need very strong political leadership. With the arrival of cryptocurrency, money, which should be a government-owned affair, is also slipping into the private realm, driven by technological progress. Technology, in this case, is a ‘trustless’ system enabled by distributed consensus and distributed ledgers. In a trustless system, the users do not need to trust each other or a third party for the system to function. Another example of the diminishing role of the government is in media. Social media companies and their platforms’ ability to create and broadcast unfiltered opinions is unlike anything we have known before. The January 2021 instance of social media companies switching off the voice of the president of the USA to prevent incitement to violence is a role reversal that heralds the arrival of a new citizen-state. In India, given the low number of taxpayers, there is an increasing dependence on corporate social responsibility programmes for what would normally be part of government programmes. The Indian industry rises to the occasion in every emergency. A recent example being industry assistance in everything ranging from masks, oxygen and ventilators for the Covid-19 response. Tata Trusts have long led the way globally for how the industry plays a significant role for public good. Charitable entities such as the Azim Premji Foundation are paving the path for wealthy citizens contributing to the public good. Still, the industrial sector and charities are not equipped nor have the authority to respond strategically to a pandemic and other national-level needs. It is the government that must have the ability to prioritise the welfare of its citizens over winning the next election. World over, governments have failed to do this. Adam Smith’s view that free-hand self-interest results in prosperity has certainly been the most influential driver in the functioning of capitalistic economies and their governments. According to Smith, the elements of prosperity were enlightened self-interest, limited government, and a free-market economy backed by a solid currency. However, now we know that self-interest is typically short-sighted and not enlightened; a limited government could result in the unbridled disparity of wealth; a free-market economy could result in an environmental crisis. Adam Smith is still relevant but needs an upgrade – 1) Self-interest, tempered with societal concern; 2) free-market, with environmental regulations; 3) a transparent government that regulates 1 & 2 and provides secure borders, law & order, and engages in public works. Globally, governments are losing the trust of the younger generations; so are the large corporations. Parliament, courts and the police have not lived up to the increasing standards of transparency and accountability. New laws and new technology cannot compensate for the significant lack of political leadership. Laws need to be simplified, modernised, and leverage technology. It must be acknowledged that technology can be used to increase transparency and accountability. Can a trustless technical system like Blockchain help get faster approvals, safer transactions, better authentication, better operating public services, more transparent law and order execution, more accessible healthcare, more inclusive education? Can we have 80% of current government transactional duties enabled by a blockchain system? Yes, and this will be the true promise of digital: Adam Smith 2.0! (Gopichand Katragadda the former CTO of Tata Group and founder of AI company Myelin Foundry is driven to peel off known facts to discover unknown layers. @Gkatragadda)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/evolving-a-new-citizen-state-996888.html
13-06-2021||Panorama||The COWS coming home, and India is not ready||China’s space programme, which took off in a modest manner only in the early 1990s, has entered a haloed zone after the successful landing of its Zhu Rong rover on Mars, followed by the launch of the Large Modular Chinese Space Station (LMCSS) in April this year. On April 29, China launched the world’s third-largest rocket, the Long March-5, carrying the core module of China’s Tiangong space station. The bold China Manned Space logo put the world on notice: China has not just arrived in space but is within striking distance of taking leadership in a new era of space exploration and exploitation. China began attempts to join the Cold War ‘Space Race’ during the 1970s, but faced several failures, not least because of the state of its economy then and the horrendous demonising of intellectuals and scientists during Mao’s Cultural Revolution. The collapse of the Soviet Union, leaving the US as the lone Superpower, and the 1990 Gulf War, which the Chinese military watched in horror, spurred the political leadership to launch a determined programme to build space capabilities for a country that feared that the US could do to it what it had done to Saddam Hussein’s Iraq. Among the first major tasks cut out for the military was Project 921: to build a Chinese space station in phases – phase 1 was to launch a manned space mission (which it did in 2003) and build capabilities such as spacewalking (demonstrated in 2008); phase 2 was to build China’s own space station. Note that the project was initiated just after the US and Russia joined hands to build the International Space Station (ISS), and the plan was for China’s Tiangong space station to be in place just as the ISS would approach the end of its life in 2025. With the launch of the Tianhe-1, the core module of the Tiangong space station, China is on path to completing the space station by the end of 2022. To accomplish this, China National Space Administration (CNSA) is going ahead with 11 crew and cargo missions that will build out two space laboratories around the core module, with enough facilities for three people to be on board through the year. In all, China plans to launch 40 missions in the next year as it races to take leadership in space from America. This, when the rest of the world is struggling with the Covid-19 pandemic, China’s gift to the world. Our own ISRO, in comparison, has seven launches planned (the space agency chief says it is 14 missions, counting each rocket launch and orbiting of a satellite as two missions!) and delayed several other missions citing problems due to the pandemic. There is uncertainty over whether Gaganyaan’s pre-cursor unmanned mission will happen in December this year or not. The fraught geopolitics of space is clearly coming into view. The Americans are worried that other countries will flock to the Chinese space station, ushering in a China-led space order. Russia, which has said it will end its role in the ISS by 2025 (even if the US extends its life to 2028 or so), and China have announced that they will jointly build an International Lunar Space Station, which too will be available to other countries to use. The US wants allies and friends to sign up to its own Artemis Accord, to preserve and promote a US-led space order. Nearly a dozen national space agencies have signed up (but note the absence of the European Space Agency). Should India sign up to the Artemis Accord? A new ‘space race’, a Cold War in Space (COWS), is underway. India will once again be called upon to choose sides. There is an argument that joining the Artemis Accord will be a natural extension of India’s role in the Quad with the US, Japan and Australia. But then, what will it do to our relations with Russia, which is increasingly finding itself in the Chinese orbit? Sooner or later, there will be a movement towards control and denial regimes in space, such as were erected to stop the spread of nuclear and missile capabilities during the Cold War. India must begin preparing for that today. For a start, we must build capabilities to insulate the space programme from eventualities such as the pandemic and step up the op-tempo of our space projects. When China can do it, when SpaceX can do it, why can’t ISRO? The Modi government has opened up space to the private sector. Now, it should aggressively prioritise space activities to boost the economy and national security.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-cows-coming-home-and-india-is-not-ready-996889.html
13-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM M K Stalin announces more relaxations, tea stalls allowed to reopen||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Sunday announced more relaxations in as many as 27 districts of the state which includes permission for tea shops to reopen from June 14. Barring 11 districts, seven in western and four in Cauvery delta regions respectively, the fresh relaxations would be applicable in the rest of 27 districts including Chennai and other nearby districts. Tea shops can function from 6 AM to 5 PM and only takeaway services are permitted, Stalin said in a statement and appealed to people to use vessels and avoid using plastic bags to take home the hot beverage. Tea stalls are ubiquitous in Tamil Nadu which also sell snack foods and these were closed from May 10, when the lockdown kicked in across the state due to the second wave of Covid-19 and the curbs were extended from time to time. "Sweet and savoury shops are also permitted to be open from 8 AM till 2 PM and only parcel services are allowed." Restaurants and bakeries have already been allowed to function. To help people avail a host of government services like getting certificates for various purposes, e-service centres would also operate from Monday, the Chief Minister said. Offices of building construction firms are also allowed to work with a 50 per cent workforce, he added. Construction work has also been allowed already. After a gap of 35 days, salons, parks and state-run liquor outlets in 27 districts in Tamil Nadu would reopen on June 14 and the state government announced such relaxations on Friday and also extended the lockdown till June 21 morning. Places of worship and tourist locations will continue to remain closed and there would be no public or private bus services during the extended spell of lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-m-k-stalin-announces-more-relaxations-tea-stalls-allowed-to-reopen-997000.html
13-06-2021||South||Abandoned tiger cub being made self-reliant by Kerala forest officials to return to forest||A tiger cub abandoned at the age of around two months in the forest areas of Idukki district in Kerala is now being trained by the Kerala forest department to hunt its prey before being released to the forest. Officials of the Periyar Tiger Reserve are setting up temporary fencing at around 1.5-acre forest land to familiarise the cub with the forest. It would be imparted training in hunting prey by providing live animals and birds rabbits and hens. It was already trained in swimming as part of correcting its limb problem. PTR deputy director A P Sunil Babu said it could be for the first time in Kerala and even in south India that the forest officials were imparting such training to a tiger cub. It was in last November the forest officials spotted the tiger cub in the forest close to Mangala Devi Kannagi Temple in Kerala - Tamilnadu border areas of Idukki. As its mother did not come to collect it even after waiting for a couple of days, forest officials shifted the female cub to a shelter. Babu said that the tiger cub could have been either abandoned by its mother as the cub had some health issues or the mother could have died. These are the two possibilities for abandoning the cub. A team of forest officials and a veterinary doctor took utmost care of the cub. It had problems with limb and vision. An artificial pond was even set up in the shelter to cure the limb problem through swimming and physiotherapy. The vision problem was also cured. It is being fed with milk and meat. Now the nine-month-old tiger cub is quite healthy. It was named Mangala as it was spotted near the Mangala Devi Kannagi Temple. However, it needs to be trained for hunting its prey before being released to the forest. Hence a temporary fencing in the forest was being made and it would be kept in it for at least one month and preys would be provided inside the fencing. The hunting skills would be monitored and if it is found self-reliant only the cub would be released in the forest. Babu said that the cub would be possibly released in the forest by next month. Even then the forest officials would keep a watch to ensure its safety. Though the tiger population in Kerala was earlier declining, over the last few years the numbers were found to be increasing. As per the latest available data, the tiger population was around 190 in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/abandoned-tiger-cub-being-made-self-reliant-by-kerala-forest-officials-to-return-to-forest-997052.html
13-06-2021||South||One-year-old girl child brutally assaulted by stepfather||A one-year-old girl child was brutally assaulted allegedly by her stepfather at Kannur in Kerala. The child's grandmother reportedly told the police that the child was beaten up by stepfather for silly matters like urinating in the house. The child suffered injuries on her left arm and was admitted to Kannur government medical college hospital. The incident occurred near Kelakam in the suburbs of Kannur. The child's mother Ramya, 24, was living with the accused Ratheesh, 39, over the last few months. On Saturday evening, Ramya's mother found out about the assault and she reported it to the police. Police said that a case under Juvenile Justice Act was registered against Ratheesh and Ramya and they were taken into custody. The court will take a decision on the child's custodian.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-year-old-girl-child-brutally-assaulted-by-stepfather-997078.html
13-06-2021||South||Kerala: Congress' Lok Sabha MP Ramya Haridas alleges abuse and threat to life from Left workers||Lok Sabha MP Ramya Haridas of the Congress alleged she received abuse and a threat from left-front workers in her constituency Alathur in Kerala's Palakkad district on Sunday. In a petition to the police, the MP alleged that a former panchayat president of Alathur and seven others abused and raised a threat on her life. The MP said that the incident happened while she was talking to some women volunteers engaged in the fight against Covid-19. The MP also sat on the road in protest for some time and later lodged the petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-congress-lok-sabha-mp-ramya-haridas-alleges-abuse-and-threat-to-life-from-left-workers-997119.html
13-06-2021||State||Will send illegal immigrants out of Karnataka: Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday stated that he would send illegal immigrants from Pakistan and Bangladesh out of Karnataka.  Speaking to media persons on Sunday, he said he has directed officials concerned to identify such people in the state. He also promised that he would make an honest attempt to allot residential plots to site-less people in the state before completing his term as chief minister.  He said the government would end lockdown in districts where it has been extended if the Covid-19 cases come down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/will-send-illegal-immigrants-out-of-karnataka-yediyurappa-996979.html
13-06-2021||State||Twitter campaign for Tulu as official language gets good response||Demanding official language status to Tulu language, various Tulu organisations had initiated Twitter campaign, which received an overwhelming response. With the hashtag #TuluOfficialinKA_KL, the campaign commenced on Sunday morning from 6 am till midnight. Jai Tulunad and other associations of the Tulu language have taken up the campaign to urge both Kerala and Karnataka to declare Tulu as an official language. The campaign also aimed to urge the government to include Tulu in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution. Supporting the campaign, former MLC Capt Ganesh Karnik in his tweet said “Let’s all be proud Tuluvas with our distinct identity, our unique culture, our entrepreneurship and all our all-inclusive live and let live philosophy of co-existence with people speaking many languages..” While DK MP who is also BJP State President Nalin Kumar Kateel in a tweet in Tulu said “I support the demand for official status to Tulu language. The efforts and talks are on to include Tulu in the eighth schedule. A few technical issues need to be sorted out. All efforts will be made to announce Tulu as the official language during our tenure itself.” MLA Vedavyasa Kamath in his tweet in Tulu said “Tulu language is the mother tongue. All of us want Tulu to get official language status.” While Mangalore City North MLA Dr Y Bharath Shetty said “Tulu, the language of Coastal Karnataka has rich Oral Tradition, Historical and Cultural Significance. With recent efforts from many Tuluvas, the Tulu script is revived and rendered. We have given representation to Chief of Karnataka to make Tulu as an official language in Karnataka.” District-in-Charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary in his tweet said "Tulu should get official language status. I also support the demand of the people of Tulunadu to get special status to Tulu. Tulu is not only a language, it is a culure and tradition. It has a history of its own..." Supporting the campaign, Keerthan R Kotian tweeted “Tulu is one of the ancient Dravidian languages and is spoken by the people of Mangaluru, Udupi of Karnataka and Kasaragod of Kerala. We being Tuluvas have our feelings towards the Tulu language and culture. It is our right to have Tulu as an official language.” Vijeth Rai tweeted “Tulu has its own Calender, Own Cultures, Own script...Tamil Poet Mamulnar described the beauty of Tulu in his poem..Today also Tamil scholars call this region Tulunad with love and respect. But Karnataka and Kerala govt try to kill Tulu #TuluOfficialinKA_KL.” More than 2.25 lakh tweets were tweeted in support of the campaign by evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/twitter-campaign-for-tulu-as-official-language-gets-good-response-997084.html
13-06-2021||State||Only industrial establishments can run at 50% capacity, Karnataka govt says in clarification||The state government has issued a clarification to the revised guidelines on Covid curbs notified on June 11. According to the guidelines, "All production units/establishments/industries are permitted to function with 50% of their staff strength...." The government has clarified that 'establishment' in point number one of additional activities permitted under the guidelines, referred only to industrial establishments. "Hence, no other establishments/offices other than those allowed under the guidelines and related addendums are permitted to function," the clarification read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/only-industrial-establishments-can-run-at-50-capacity-karnataka-govt-says-in-clarification-997135.html
13-06-2021||State||Karnataka: Fee cut order not applicable this year, say private schools||The private unaided schools in the state have clarified to parents that the fee cut order issued by the government last year will not be applicable this year. As the government notifies to start admission process for the 2021-22 academic year from June 15, the Karnataka private school managements, teaching and non-teaching staff coordination committee has clarified that the fee cut order will not be applicable for admissions during this academic year. The committee held a meeting here on Sunday. Addressing the media after the meeting, convener of the committee D Shashi Kumar said, “junior officials are misguiding the media and parents with respect to the fees. We would like to clarify that the fees cut order issued last year is not applicable this year. “ “The fees that we are charging this year is what we were charging before the 2019-20 academic year. Most schools have not hiked the fees for 2020-21 and 2021-22,” hesaid. The committee has demanded that the government clarify to parents about the fees and direct them to pay the same. It should also make attendance mandatory, even if it is online classes. “We urge the government to ask parents to the clear fees dues as not all of them are suffering financial losses,” he said. According to the committee, except for a few, most schools (specially budget/average schools) are facing low admissions. “Even after requests made to parents to confirm the continuation, many students have not turned up,” said the committee members. “We want to tell the government that we cannot offer any more fee discount. The government can provide financial aid directly to parents, instead of making us suffer. As most schools are already under loss due to the Covid situation, we made it clear that no fee discounts will be offered,” the members said. In 2020-2021, the government had issued an order directing schools to collect only 70 per cent of the tuition fee charged during 2019-20. It was mentioned in the order that it was applicable only for 2020-21. The order has challenged by the private schools in the High Court. Reacting to the decision by the private schools, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said that the government would take a decision within the framework of law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-fee-cut-order-not-applicable-this-year-say-private-schools-997140.html
13-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kannada actor Sanchari Vijay critical after road accident||National award-winning actor Sanchari Vijay is in critical condition after suffering injuries in an accident in Bengaluru on Saturday night. Police said Vijay was riding pillion on his friend's bike (Yamaza FZ) when it skidded and hit a light pole at JP Nagar 7th Phase.  Dr Arun L Naik, neurologist at Apollo Hospital, said they have operated on Vijay's brain after finding internal bleeding. "He is on ventilator. We can't comment further," he said. As per the statement given by Vijay's brother Siddesh Kumar, the actor had gone with his friend Navin to buy medicine. "Kumar has complained that Navin's carelessness led to the accident. We will get a statement from the injured riders once they recover," police said. Vijay is known for movies such as Nanu Avanalla Avalu, Harivu and several plays.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannada-actor-sanchari-vijay-critical-after-road-accident-997061.html
13-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 7,810 Covid-19 infections,125 deaths||Karnataka on Sunday recorded 7,810 fresh cases and 125 deaths taking the total infection count and toll to 27.65 lakh and 32,913 respectively. The state has 1,80,835 active cases whereas the total discharges stood at 25,51,365 with the recovery of 18,648 people. The Covid infections in Bengaluru Urban district remained the highest with 1,348 infections and 23 deaths but showing significant decline in cases compared to June 1 when there were 3,418 cases and 276 deaths. The city has so far reported 11,96,688 infections and 15,307 deaths. There were 85,995 active cases. Mysuru district remained the second major Covid hotspot with 1,251 and 25 fatalities. According to the health bulletin, there were 581 infections in Hassan, 467 in Mandya, 434 in Dakshina Kannada, 393 in Shivamogga, 391 in Davangere and 352 in Tumakuru. Fresh cases were reported in other districts as well including Ballari, Belagavi, Bengaluru Rural, Chikkamagaluru, Kodagu, Kolar, Udupi and Uttara Kannada. The department said there were nine deaths each in Belagavi and Dharwad, seven deaths each in Ballari, Davangere, Hassan and four each in Chikkamagaluru and Udupi. Deaths were reported in 13 other districts as well. There were zero fatalities in Bagalkote, Bidar, Chikkaballapura, Kalaburagi, Mandya, Ramanagara and Yadgir. As many as 1,29,617 tests were done on Sunday including 80,841 using RT-PCR and other methods. So far 3.16 crore tests were done cumulatively, the department added. As on Sunday, 1.69 crore inoculations were done in the state comprising first and second dose of vaccine. The positivity rate for the day was 6.02 per cent and Case Fatality Rate was 1.6 per cent, the department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-7810-covid-19-infections125-deaths-997121.html
13-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Monoclonal antibody study in Bengaluru yields heartening results||In what is one of the most sizable deployment of monoclonal antibodies in the city to date, 22 out of 30 Covid-19 patients who were administered the drug cocktail over the past four weeks, have recovered, doctors said. The treatments were carried out at Manipal Hospital (Old Airport Road) in Bengaluru. The patients ranged in age from 19 to 70. In addition to Covid-19, they were suffering from serious comorbidities which placed them at high-risk of developing health complications, explained Dr Satyanarayana Mysore, Head of Pulmonology at the hospital. Five had cancer. The rest had diabetes and other complications. The remaining eight patients, who were given monoclonal antibodies are still recovering. “Most recoveries happened within 24 to 48 hours,” Dr Mysore said. A 19-year old patient was a severely obese young man with body mass index of between 38 and 40 and needed urgent surgery for gangrene of the bowels. “To conduct the surgery, the viral load needed to be brought down. With Remdesivir it would take five days. But with monoclonal antibodies, he was sitting up and better by the next day,” Dr Mysore said. “This is a total game-changer in how we treat Covid-19,” he added. The single-dose treatment costs Rs 59,000, it is substantially more economical than the current treatments, Dr Mysore said. Patients spend less time in hospitals (the dose can be given as an outpatient treatment), their hospital bills are lower and there is reduced separation anxiety.  The cocktail comprises the drugs Casirivimab and Imdevimab. This combination was given emergency approval by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in November 2020, and subsequently by the Drug Controller of India (DCGI).  Although a second cocktail (comprising bamlanivimab and etesevimab) was granted FDA emergency use approval in April 2021, Dr Adarsh C K, Chief Consultant Gastroenterologist and Hepatologist, BGS Gleneagles Global Hospital said that there was evidence to suggest that the Casirivimab-Imdevimab combination was more effective. While other hospitals in the city have announced other monoclonal antibodies programmes, few have actually started. At BGS Gleneagles, two patients were given the treatment: one a 45-year-old man who was immunocompromised due to an organ transplant and an 83-year-old woman. “Within 24 hours, the 45-year-old was asymptomatic. The 83-year-old is also recovering,” Dr Adrash said. Concern over misuse While doctors described the treatment as a potent tool to be used in the predicted third wave, there is concern that it will be misused.  Doctors stressed that the cocktail can only be used for Covid-19 patients with mild or moderate symptoms, and who have been carefully assessed as being at high-risk due to comorbidities. “It should only be given to patients in the early phase of infection. Not when they require oxygen,” added Dr Prakash Doraiswamy, Senior Consultant (Critical Care), Aster CMI Hospital. But there is concern that the cocktail’s success could work against it. “If too many people start demanding it, the people who need it the most are likely to be deprived,” Dr Adarsh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-monoclonal-antibody-study-in-bengaluru-yields-heartening-results-997127.html
13-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Only 54% MGNREGA bank accounts in Karnataka seeded with Aadhaar||Only 54 per cent of bank accounts belonging to workers of the rural employment guarantee scheme have been seeded with Aadhaar, leaving a large number of payments that are possibly going to unauthenticated financial addresses.  According to government data, there are 78.91 lakh bank accounts of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) workers in Karnataka. Of this, 42.73 lakh, or 54.15 per cent, are seeded with Aadhaar. For them, wages are credited only to their bank accounts that are linked with Aadhaar, known as the Aadhaar-enabled Payment System (AePS).  The remaining 36.17 lakh workers are receiving wages in their bank accounts. But, there is no way of being sure that these bank accounts belong to the workers as they are not seeded with Aadhaar.  The government is doubling down on the AePS because it will ensure money reaches the right bank account. In August 2018, the government made Aadhaar the basis for all beneficiary payments.  “We have 96 per cent of MGNREGA job cards seeded with Aadhaar, but seeding bank accounts is getting delayed,” Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR) principal secretary L K Atheeq said.  “There is some amount of paperwork involved. There’s a consent letter that the workers need to sign. These letters then go all the way to the National Payments Corporation of India. Once both job cards and bank accounts are linked with Aadhaar, then the AePS will happen,” he explained.  According to Atheeq, non-seeding of Aadhaar with workers’ bank accounts did not deprive them of wages. “AePS is desirable because it perhaps reduces the rate of rejection in the transactions,” he said. “There’s a small percentage of transactions that get rejected often due to mismatch in phone numbers or if the phone number is associated with a different Aadhaar,” he said. Whenever a transaction is rejected, Atheeq said the Fund Transfer Order is regenerated.  Apparently, banks are delaying the Aadhaar seeding. “It needs cooperation from the banks,” Atheeq said.  There are seven districts where less than 50 per cent of the MGNREGA bank accounts are Aadhaar-seeded: Kolar, Bagalkot, Bengaluru Urban, Vijayapura, Bidar, Kalaburagi and Yadgir.  Under MGNREGA, semi-skilled and unskilled workers are paid Rs 289 per day for a minimum 100 days of work in a year. Aadhaar-seeding is better when it comes to Jan Dhan accounts: 81 per cent of the 1.81 crore accounts have been seeded. Similarly, 87 per cent of all operative CASA (current account savings account) accounts in the state are Aadhaar-seeded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/only-54-mgnrega-bank-accounts-in-karnataka-seeded-with-aadhaar-997142.html
13-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Poverty, school closure push up child marriages in Karnataka||In 2020-21, Women and Child Development (WCD) department officials stopped 15 child marriages on average, every two days. Total cases prevented in the year stood at a staggering 2,711, about 67% higher than 1,623 child marriages averted by officials in 2019-20 and more than double the cases reported in 2018-19. Closure of schools along with deteriorating economic situation in rural areas, according to the Department are the cause for the surge. Among the districts, highest number of cases were detected in Ballari district with 249 while Mysuru was second with 245. In 10 other districts of the state, more than 100 cases of child marriage was stopped. Data from the Prohibition of Child Marriage and Monitoring Cell shows that more child marriages were stopped in Ballari and Mysuru districts this year, than in the two previous years put together. While Ballari had 170 cases - 105 in 2018-19 and 65 in 2019-20, Mysuru had a total of 153 cases - 69 in 2018-19 and 84 in 2019-20. Several other districts too have seen a significant spike in cases. In Bengaluru Rural, just 12 cases were reported in the two years before 2020-21. In 2020-21, 66 child marriages were stopped. A similar situation was in Kolar - 93 in 2020-21, compared with 17 in 2018-19 and 37 and 2019-20. Koppal district, meanwhile, saw child marriage cases drop from 270 in 2019-20 to 111 this year, according to government data. Speaking to DH, child rights activist Baburaj Palladan said that the spike in cases was due to a “lot of insecurity about the future of children, especially girls.” Since there is no school or college, the girls are forced to sit at home and are not engaged. “There are also threats to adolescent girls, and parents worried about their safety think that marriage will provide the girls some security,” he said. While officials were able to stop such marriages based on tip-offs or alerts from local social service workers and volunteers, sources said that some cases are going unreported as systems to monitor such cases were stretched thin due to Covid work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/poverty-school-closure-push-up-child-marriages-in-karnataka-997144.html
13-06-2021||West||Shivaji Maharaj's Rajgad Fort to get ropeway||The famous Rajgad Fort in Pune – that was the capital of the Maratha Empire under Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj for nearly a quarter of a century – is set to get a ropeway soon. Besides, the Shri Ekvira Devi Temple at Karla near the hill station of Lonavala in Pune district will get either a funicular railway or a ropeway. For this, the Department of Tourism has signed two MoUs with the Indian Port Rail & Ropeway Corporation Limited (IPRCL). The ropeway would be a pilot project to be run on a Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) basis. The Rajgad Fort was the main fort for Shivaji Maharaj before the legendary Maratha warrior moved the capital to Raigad Fort in Raigad district, where he was coronated and laid the foundation of the ‘Hindavi swaraj’ – self-rule of the Hindu people. Incidentally, the Raigad Fort has a ropeway, which is run by a private party. Located over 50 kms away from Pune city, the Rajgad Fort – nestled in the Sahyadri ranges, is popular among tourists and trekkers. The fort is located at an altitude of 4,514 ft on the hill named Murumb Devacha Dongar. The fort has stood witness to many significant historic events as it is associated with Shivaji Maharaj's life. The Ekvira Devi Mandir is located near the Karla Caves near Lonavala. The temple has an idol of Goddess Ekvira right next to the caves, once a centre of Buddhism. The state has two funicular services – Saptashrungi Devi Temple in Nashik district and Jivdani Mata Temple at Virar in Palghar district. Another rope would come up in Haji Malang shrine at Kalyan in Thane district. The MoUs were signed in the presence of state Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray, Minister of State for Tourism Aditi Tatkare, Principal Secretary (Tourism) Valsa Nair Singh, Ashutosh Salil, MD, MTDC and Dr Dhananjay Sawalkar, Director, Directorate of Tourism (DoT). Dr Sawalkar said: “Being a popular pilgrimage place and having nearby tourist attractions like Karla caves, Ekvira Devi temple witnesses 7 to 8 lakh tourists annually. Similarly, Rajgad fort has historical significance as it was the capital of Shivaji Maharaj for nearly 25 years and is a popular trekking destination. Therefore, with the development of the ropeway, the religious place will be easily accessible for the tourists and will result in promoting tourism at these locations.” Anil Kumar Gupta, Director, IPRCL said, “A ropeway project requires very less land acquisition, is cost-effective and eco-friendly. It will definitely be beneficial for the tourism sector in Maharashtra. We are happy to have got this opportunity.” Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shivaji-maharajs-rajgad-fort-to-get-ropeway-996923.html
13-06-2021||West||Netizens seek justice for Sushant Singh Rajput ahead of his first death anniversary||Exactly a year after Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput died under mysterious circumstances, the investigations by multiple agencies are still under way. Sushant (34), who had acted in Bollywood films such as M.S. Dhoni: The Untold Story (2016), Kedarnath (2018) and Chhichhore (2019), was found hanging from a ceiling fan on June 14, 2020, at his rented duplex flat in Mount Blanc building at Bandra. Ahead of his first death anniversary, social media platforms are flooded with appreciation for the star and demands for justice.  Never seen any Bollywood star do this ?? You are one of a kind💗 Sushi 💗 The Bandra police station in Mumbai registered an accidental death report (ADR) in the case, however, following the first information report (FIR) registered by the actor’s father Krishna Kishore Singh in Bihar and growing demand for a detailed probe and request by the Bihar government, the Supreme Court ordered a probe by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). On August 19, the CBI formally took over the case, and then the Enforcement Directorate (ED) joined to probe the financial angle while the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) was roped in to investigate the drugs angle. Rajput’s family blamed the actor’s live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, his friend and assistant director Rishikesh Pawar, house manager Samuel Miranda and house help Dipesh Sawant – and all were arrested by the federal anti-drug agency. A total of 33 have been charge-sheeted by the NCB. Recently, the NCB arrested Siddharth Pithani, the flatmate of Rajput, who is a graphic art designer by profession. Pithani, who was nicknamed ‘Buddha’ by Rajput, house help Dipesh Sawant, cook Keshav Bachner, and help and cook Neeraj Singh were among the four present when the actor was found dead. The CBI has recorded the statements of several persons including Rajput's father and his sisters - Nitu Singh aka Rani, Priyanka Singh, Meetu Singh and Shweta Singh Kirti. According to the statements of Rhea and witnesses, Sushant used to take drugs and was being treated for mental health issues. The BJP unit of Maharashtra took the opportunity to target the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government in the state including Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son and state’s Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray. As a matter of fact, the issue became a Bihar vs Maharashtra and then a Centre vs State issue. It may be recalled, the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) has ruled out any foul play and concurred that Sushant died by hanging and was not strangulated or poisoned. Rhea, who is currently on bail, has also accused Priyanka and a New Delhi-based doctor for allegedly securing bogus prescriptions that enabled the actor to get anxiety medication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/netizens-seek-justice-for-sushant-singh-rajput-ahead-of-his-first-death-anniversary-996930.html
13-06-2021||West||Shiv Sena was treated as slaves in erstwhile BJP govt in Maharashtra: Sanjay Raut||The Shiv Sena was virtually treated as "slaves" and attempts were made to finish off the party politically when it was in power with the BJP in Maharashtra from 2014 to 2019, Sena MP Sanjay Raut has alleged. Addressing Sena workers in Jalgaon in north Maharashtra on Saturday, Raut said, "The Shiv Sena had a secondary status in the previous government and was (treated) like slaves. Attempts were also made to finish off our party by misusing the very power which was enjoyed because of our support". Raut's remarks came days after Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi separately, setting off political speculations in the state. The Shiv Sena-BJP alliance crumbled in 2019 over the issue of chief ministership. The Sena, which was one of the oldest allies of the BJP, later formed an unlikely alliance with the NCP and Congress to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra. Raut said he always thought that the Sena should have its chief minister in Maharashtra. "Even if Shiv Sainiks don't get anything, we can proudly say the state's leadership is now in the hands of the Shiv Sena. The Maha Vikas Aghadi government was formed with this sentiment (in November 2019)," he said. Recalling the drama preceding the formation of the tripartite government in November 2019 after the Assembly elections, Raut said senior NCP leader Ajit Pawar, who briefly switched sides to form a government with the BJP under Devendra Fadnavis, is now the "strongest spokesman "of the MVA. The second Fadnavis-led government which was formed with Ajit Pawar had lasted for just 80 hours. "....Anything can happen in politics. Ajit Pawar, the deputy CM of Maharashtra, is now working shoulder to shoulder with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray," Raut said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-was-treated-as-slaves-in-erstwhile-bjp-govt-in-maharashtra-sanjay-raut-996956.html
13-06-2021||West||Gujarati singer Geeta Rabari received Covid-19 jab at home? Inquiry on||A controversy has erupted over a picture shared by popular Gujarati folk singer Geeta Rabari being purportedly administered a Covid-19 shot in her house at Madhapar village in Kutch district, prompting the administration to issue a show-cause notice to a woman health worker, officials said on Sunday. Rabari had posted the picture of receiving the jab from a nurse while sitting on a sofa at her house on social media, officials said. She later removed the picture after the controversy erupted. A complaint was filed with the district administration based on this picture alleging preferential treatment to the singer for inoculation for which one has to otherwise required to go to a designated centre after booking a slot online. An inquiry was initiated after the complaint and a show-cause notice was also issued to the concerned health worker, officials said. "As per the complaint received by me yesterday, Geeta Rabari had taken vaccination at her house at Madhapar village on Saturday evening. I issued instructions to officials to identify the health staff who went to her home to administer the vaccine, and on whose approval it was done," said Kutch DDO Bhavya Verma. Verma said the health worker was directed to file an explanation on Sunday. "We will take further action based on her reply," the DDO added. He said Rabari had booked a slot for vaccination on Saturday but instead of going to the public health centre, she apparently preferred to get vaccinated at home. Kutch Chief District Health Officer JO Madhak said Rabari allegedly received her vaccination shot at her house at Madhapar village and an inquiry was initiated. The 25-year-old singer has had several popular music albums to her credit and known for giving live performances in Gujarat and abroad. Rabari had last February performed at the 'Namaste Trump' event held at the Narendra Modi stadium, then called the Motera stadium, in Ahmedabad, before Prime Minister Narendra Modi and then US President Donald Trump.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarati-singer-geeta-rabari-received-covid-19-jab-at-home-inquiry-on-996976.html
13-06-2021||West||Man in Nagpur walks into police station with 'bomb'||Personnel at the Nandanvan police station in Nagpur in Maharashtra were left shocked when a young man walked into the premises with a bag which he said contained a "bomb" he had found abandoned near a college. However, a brief questioning on Saturday evening revealed that the 25-year-old, identified as Rahul Pagade, had himself prepared the explosive using a petrol bottle and a battery by watching online tutorials, officials said on Sunday. An officer ruled out any terror angle and said Pagade had no intention to plant the explosive or to harm anybody. Pagade works in a salon and lives alone in a rented house in Saibaba Nagar in the city. His parents had died. All his three sisters are married. "Pagade told us that he learnt bomb-making after watching tutorials and decided to do it himself. He extracted flash powder from firecrackers and used a mobile battery and a petrol bottle to make the makeshift bomb. He connected the wires from the battery to the petrol bottle," the officer said. However, he developed cold feet and decided to get rid of the explosive. He disconnected wires and walked up to the police station where he handed over the bag to the police at 5 pm on Saturday. "He told the police that he found the bag containing the bomb abandoned near KDK college. However, the police suspected his statement and interrogated him. Finally, he confessed to making the explosive himself. Pagade said as he panicked and didn't understand what to do with the explosive, he walked to the police station with the hope to defuse the bomb," the officer said. A case was registered against Pagade under the Arms Act and section 123 of the Mumbai Police Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-in-nagpur-walks-into-police-station-with-bomb-997009.html
13-06-2021||West||Doctor beaten up in Maharashtra after Covid patient's death; four held||A doctor was allegedly attacked by four persons after the father of their friend died while undergoing treatment against coronavirus at a government hospital in Latur city of Maharashtra, police said on Sunday. The incident occurred at Vilasrao Deshmukh Government Medical Sciences Institute during the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, they said. The four accused, identified as Shubham Dilip Nakade (25), Shriniwas Govindrao Dhobe (25), Akash Pramod Shete (20), Namdev Hanumant Shinde (29), have been arrested, police sub-inspector Kiran Pathare said. “The accused used abusive language against Dr Amit Varma (24) and thrashed him alleging that he didn't treat their friend's father properly,” he said, adding that the doctor did not suffer any serious injury in the incident. Based on the complaint lodged by the doctor, a case was registered against the four accused at Gandhi Chowk police station under IPC sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult), and arrested them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/doctor-beaten-up-in-maharashtra-after-covid-patients-death-four-held-997027.html
13-06-2021||West||NCB seizes 'weed cakes', marijuana from Mumbai bakery||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has seized marijuana and 830 grams of 'weed cakes' from a bakery in suburban Malad and arrested three persons including a woman in this connection, an official said on Sunday. According to the NCB, it was the first such case in India wherein 'edible weed' was used for baking cakes. During the raid conducted on the bakery on Saturday night, 'brownie weed cakes', 'edible pot brownie and 'weed pot brownie' weighing 830 grams along with 35 gram of marijuana were seized, he said. The NCB also took three persons, including Jagat Chaurasia suspected to be the main supplier of the contraband from Bandra, in custody and seized 125 grams of marijuana from him, the official said. According to the NCB, a new trend is seen among youngsters to consume substances by mixed and baking 'brownie weed pot' cakes. Edible cannabis or 'edible weed pot brownie' is a food product (either homemade or produced commercially) that contains cannabis extract as an active ingredient. Edible weed pots are a way to consume cannabis. Cannabis edibles may affect people for a longer period than smoked cannabis, according to the NCB. The NCB has registered a case against the trio under various sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-seizes-weed-cakes-marijuana-from-mumbai-bakery-997055.html
13-06-2021||West||Concrete floor caves in, car sinks into water, video goes viral||In a shocking incident, an SUV parked in a society compound in the Ghatkopar suburbs of Mumbai was sunk in a well after the RCC slab over it caved in on Sunday. For nearly a week now, the financial capital of Mumbai is experiencing heavy rainfall. The incident took place at the Ramnivas Society at Cama Lane at Ghatkopar in the eastern suburbs of Mumbai. Fortunately, no one was inside the black-coloured car when the incident took place. A video of the incident has gone viral on social media platforms. The car is owned by Kiran Doshi. “I was alerted…..I immediately rushed out to check it and right in front of my eyes, the vehicle was sucked into the well water… in barely seconds, before we could do anything,” said Doshi. Teams from the Mumbai Police, BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporations and others rushed to spot and deployed water pumps to empty the well water. The car, however, is yet to be retrieved. A crane has been brought in to pull it out from the depth. "There is a well in the premises of this society. The well was covered by RCC on half of the well. The residents of the society used to park their cars in the RCC area,” local residents said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/concrete-floor-caves-in-car-sinks-into-water-video-goes-viral-997064.html
13-06-2021||West||Now Gujarat will change, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal one day before state visit||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, whose Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is eyeing to contest the 2022 Gujarat Assembly polls, will be on a one-day visit to the state on Monday, a spokesperson of the party said. "Now Gujarat will change. Tomorrow I am coming to Gujarat, and will meet all the brothers and sisters of Gujarat," Kejriwal said in a tweet posted in Gujarati on Sunday. During his visit, Kejriwal is scheduled to inaugurate the party's Gujarat state office in Ahmedabad. This will be Kejriwal's second visit to Gujarat. He had last visited Surat in February after the party emerged as the main opposition after the civic body elections there in its maiden fight there. His visit assumes significance as the AAP is eyeing to contest the December 2022 Gujarat Assembly election and aggressively preparing for it. In a release, the state unit of the AAP said, “As per Kejriwal's day-long itinerary of his Monday visit, he will arrive at Ahmedabad airport at 10.20 am, from where he will go to the circuit house. At 11.40 am, he will hold a press conference at the city's Vallabh Sadan after "taking the blessings of Lord Krishna.” He will then leave to inaugurate the party's new state office located on Ashram Road. Kejriwal will leave for Delhi on the same day, party's spokesperson Tuli Banerjee said. The AAP had made inroads into Gujarat politics by winning 27 seats in the 120-member Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), emerging as the main opposition. The party had also fielded candidates across all the local bodies- municipal corporations, municipalities, as well as district and taluka panchayats, winning on several of them. The AAP is looking to present itself as a formidable alternative to the Congress in Gujarat and challenge the BJP in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home turf. The party is trying to fill in the gap left by the Congress, which has seen setbacks in the recent past with several of its MLAs resigning, and its poor performance in the local body polls held in February this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/now-gujarat-will-change-says-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-one-day-before-state-visit-997109.html
13-06-2021||West||Maharashtra Covid toll rises as govt updates figures||Maharashtra continued to reconcile and update Covid-19 figures, reporting 2,771 deaths in the 24-hour period on Sunday, its highest toll since the outbreak of Covid-19 in March 2020. On Sunday, the state had reported 483 deaths and 11,104 fresh cases, according to the Public Health Department. Of the 483 deaths reported today, 284 occurred in the last 48 hours and 199 in the last week. However, on Sunday, 2,288 deaths were added as the Covid-19 portal was updated. Out of the 2288 deaths,467 occurred in Nashik, 351 in Nagpur, 324 in Pune, 249 in Ahmednagar, 148 in Satara, 89 in Sangli, 89 in Thane, 70 in Jalgaon, 67 in Mumbai, 62 in Akola, 52 in Osmanabad, 39 in Jalna, 35 in Latur, 31 in Wardha, 26 in Kolhapur, 22 in Dhule, 19 in Raigad, 18 in Palghar, 18 in Parbhani, 14 in Ratnagiri, 14 in Solapur, 13 in Bhandara, 13 in Gondia, 13 in Nanded, 12 in Nandurbar, 11 in Chandrapur, 6 in Yavatmal, 4 in Hingoli, 3 in Amravati, 3 in Beed, 2 in Aurangabad, 2 in Gadchiroli, 1 in Buldhana and 1 in Sindhudurg. The state now has a total of 1,55,588 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-toll-rises-as-govt-updates-figures-997123.html
13-06-2021||West||Maharashtra: Sena MLA makes contractor sit on water-logged road for 'improper' work||Shiv Sena MLA from Chandivali in Mumbai made a contractor sit in a waterlogged stretch of a road and got some civic workers pour garbage on him, alleging that the latter had not carried out the drain cleaning work properly. The incident that took place on Saturday, invited criticism from the BJP, which said that Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray must speak on the matter and tell if the behavior of MLA Dilip Lande was justified. Speaking to reporters, Lande said, "The contractor was supposed to clean Sanjay Nagar nullah, which he has not done properly. When the area started getting water-logged during the rain, I called him, but he did not come. When some Shiv Sainiks and I started working towards clearing the drain and the road, the contractor arrived." Justifying his act, the legislator said, "I did this because I wanted the contractor to realise his responsibility. Due to the drain not being cleaned properly, there was water-logging on LBS Road, which greatly inconvenienced people in the area. The contractor was supposed to deploy 3-4 people at the spot to ensure water recedes quickly, but when I reached there, no one was present." Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council Pravin Darekar criticised Lande and demanded that the CM clarify if such behavior was justified. Incidentally, the Shiv Sena is the ruling party in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), mandated with carrying out all civic works in the metropolis, including making it monsoon-ready annually. The city had received heavy rains in the past few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sena-mla-makes-contractor-sit-on-water-logged-road-for-improper-work-997139.html
