14-06-2021||Comment||Is planet earth at stake?||The world seems to be in trouble not just because what the Coronavirus pandemic is doing but the conjecture of whether there will be peace and stability for the people who will live on this planet safely in future. After the major breakthroughs like the industrial revolution, the world wars and such other major virus-carrying pandemics like the smallpox, the plague and other deadly scars, the world is silently going through the metamorphosis such as the ruthless elimination of the ecosystems that are tearing the globe apart in several ways that the mankind hasn’t yet woken up to learn. It’s indeed very painful and threatening to find how the world, or our earth, is being treated and handled in a vicious manner by the so-called developed nations to increase their status as economic powers of the world. The economic status is good to live a comfortable life but at what cost to the environment? Are we aware as to how have we caused the ruin and the detriment to the fragile systems and space that gave us life, hope and sustenance on this planet? Long ago but not very long indeed, we lived in a world that was slow-paced and ecologically healthy and fertile. We understood the value of the soil, the grass, the bush, the trees, the lakes, the bees and the birds and the beautiful rainfalls. The children painted the fascinating hills, mountains, the moving clouds, the swaying trees, the ripples of water on the rivers and the great waves of the oceans. Van Gogh wrote to his brother who, in Paris, traded in the former’s paintings that he would live in the village and die painting the objects of the nature. If you look at Van Gogh’s paintings and portraits in the Amsterdam museum, you would realise what he meant by it. India, with its great environmental assets and features where the Ganga, the Cauvery and Krishna flow and some of the other fascinating streams and waterfalls trundle,  had equally impressive and gorgeous panoramic sites. The world was different and looked so beautiful wherever you went. We walked on the soil, rolled on the grass and plucked berries from the bushes and climbed the trees to play and have fruits. What a time of life it was compared to the cubicles that we see where people are confined eternally without fresh air. There were no cement concrete structures and blocks, there were no rising towers overlooking tiny specs of moving vehicles and elsewhere series of concrete apartments and those shopping malls where people keep moving without looking at one another or even acknowledging that they are human beings like themselves.  In the process of creating a modern world, we have created complex systems of living with numerous designs for working, travelling, walking, eating and resting which indeed seem extraordinary but are extraneous to natural life. These subsidiaries or technologies are a tremendous drain on the planet as the volume of resources to produce the energy and raw material to create and run the modern world are humongous. Presently, the world, especially the US, UK, Russia, China and India together spend more than $700 trillion on their military. Weapons and ammunitions, ships, submarines, jets, bombers and tanks that you see which roll on the parade days of these nations, tell us the amount of money, material, effort and knowledge invested on these arms and equipment that bring a proud sense of joy and proverbial moment of glory. Crushed mercilessly But in reality,  what’s important is the energy that these military credentials deploy on engaging these arsenals to demonstrate how the ecosystems are trampled and eliminated by producing these weapons and how the environment which has produced this marvellous planet is crushed mercilessly forever. Such enormous money is spent at a time when a majority of the people are finding a shortage of water, food and housing facilities. How could this happen when the world is becoming more aware and discerning in matters of creating a better life for people. When the United Nations could take the responsibility of allaying fears of the emerging conflicts between the nations and bringing ceasefire after conflicts and skirmishes, why don’t they sit and think as to how they could save this beautiful world by banning the production of arms and ammunitions by bringing a universal restriction and limit the creation of the military power of such countries? If the intention of the rich nations is to promote their economic power by producing the military hardware and selling it to others, what’s then the grace and equity of democracy?  Time has come when we are facing grave dangers of existence with pandemics like Coronaviruses obliterating life on earth and pitifully the human race is in the oblivion of the implications of their actions on the environment. The world is in real trouble with the rivers like the Euphrates which once fed millions of people with its plentiful fish and the Nile shrinking and not reaching and irrigating the lands in five countries of the Mediterranean. The Durum wheat is falling in its yield while the Italians are grieving the decline in their favourite dish of pasta. The Europeans are in eternal fear of the failure of agriculture and fisheries as the ice in the polar Arctic is melting fast due to global warming. Latin America going through the worst economic and environmental crises, topped with the Covid- 19, India should be taking a close look at what’s happening to the world and look through its own prism of a pace of development that doesn’t speak only of a material civilisation but growth in balance with its capacity of natural resources and its spiritual intelligence and effort to keep the diverse population in peace and happiness, the saga laid by many a saint and philosopher the world respected.  (The writer is an environmental activist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/is-planet-earth-at-stake-997197.html
14-06-2021||First Edit||Confusing the virus, Karnataka-government style||The partial relaxation of the Covid lockdown announced by Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is unrealistic and will neither help break the chain of the virus nor will it kickstart the economy. The state would perhaps have been better off continuing the existing lockdown than adopting a piecemeal approach without a basic understanding that revival can begin only when the entire ecosystem of supply chain, production and markets are thrown open simultaneously. Now, while the government has allowed all industries to function with 50% manpower, shops that market their products will have to remain shut as only sale of essential goods, besides construction materials, is permitted. This is an unenviable situation for the industry as, on the one hand, they incur manufacturing costs while on the other, there is a pile-up of inventory with the markets closed. Though the government last week permitted 100% export-oriented units to reopen, most of them preferred to remain shut because they could not resume production as factories manufacturing raw materials were not allowed to open. In another typical case of putting the cart before the horse, the government has permitted all production units, establishments and industries to function, but how the employees will commute to their places of works is a million-dollar question as BMTC will not operate its buses. This will badly hit several small industries including garment units as their workers depend extensively on public transport. With work from home now the norm especially for the IT sector, it has become impossible to function without computers or mobile devices which may tend to malfunction due to extensive use requiring urgent repairs. But while liquor outlets are considered essential services and allowed to carry on business, electronic repair stores are not. The current lockdown will continue in districts where the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) is high, but in other parts of the state, the government appears to have devised a plan to confuse the virus. While permitted shops can remain open till 2 pm, night curfew and weekend curfew will be in force till June 14. Obviously, the state has no empirical data that the virus will be on the prowl only at night and on weekends. The relaxation amounts to taking one step forward and two steps backwards and points to the complete lack of a consultative process. This dichotomy has been the hallmark of this government right from the start. Instead of taking ad hoc measures, the chief minister should constitute an over-arching committee comprising doctors, industrialists, economists and other experts who will take a decision keeping in mind the overall health of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/confusing-the-virus-karnataka-government-style-997190.html
14-06-2021||In Perspective||How to better integrate public grievance redressal and delivery systems||A strong and effective grievance redressal system (GRS) is an essential part of public administration. It is referred to as the heart of governance’. People’s trust in administration hinges on to the extent that it is able to address public grievances quickly. Besides, a strong and effective GRS is a tool to measure the effectiveness of its service delivery function.  After all, is it not a tax payers’ right to demand a hassle-free GRS? But there is not a single system to address public grievances. It is not that the Central and state governments are not aware of the importance of GRS. But it is sheer lack of will on the part of the lawmakers and bureaucrats towards citizens’ welfare. Successive governments both at the Centre and the states have tried with multiple public grievance redressal systems [PGRS] with catchy names. The Central government launched ‘Sevottam’ scheme which is in theory, an excellent PGRS. It has three components— publication of citizens’ charters, setting up of a GRS and staff training, improving infrastructure within the organisation. Sevottam was introduced in a few Central government departments. But soon they went into oblivion.  In Karnataka, several attempts have been made to address public grievances. A few years ago, 'Janaspandana’ was launched which was a traditional GRS with too many loopholes. There was no accountability, transparency or feedback facility. Citizens felt that Janaspandana was doing a post office job. After incorporating information technology with Janaspandana, it was modified as e-spandana. Yet things have not improved. There are umpteen numbers of Helpdesks and Sahayavanis. However, these are restricted to providing information and nothing to do with grievances. Public grievances are closely related to public service delivery. Hence, any effort to reduce grievances should aim at an efficient and quick public delivery system. Karnataka launched ‘Sakala’ in 2011. For the first time, it provided for accountability, transparency and citizen participation - the three components of good governance. Under Sakala, besides getting services in a time-bound manner, citizens get compensation for delay in services. The compensation amount is to be borne by the erring official. In the initial years, Sakala was a hit among the citizens and it was a role model for the country. However, over the years, Sakala has lost its sheen and it is alleged that officials are scuttling Sakala. The state has set up Bengaluru One, Common Service Centers, Karnataka One, Atalji Jana Snehi Kendra, Bapuji Kendras, Gram One, Janasevaka, Janahitha etc. While these are efforts to deliver public services, they also aim at reducing grievances. All these have been brought under one portal— Seva Sindhu— under a separate directorate. Educating citizens  Despite these efforts, citizens are unable to get their grievances redressed. The reasons are obvious. Most of the PGRS are unknown to the common citizens. These systems have been launched without taking citizens into confidence. The departments/authorities concerned have not made sufficient efforts to inform and educate citizens about the PGRS. Besides, a lack of infrastructure and manpower has made the PGRS irrelevant. The PGRSs are not embedded with the latest information technology tools. It is heartening to note that the e-governance department has proposed to introduce an integrated PGRS [iPGRS].  The objective is to have a one-stop solution for all types of citizen grievances in the state. The iPGRS is said to cover over 40 departments and over 7,000 complaints/grievances. The scheme of iPGRS looks impressive. Citizens can henceforth register any grievance related to state government departments in a single portal. The grievance automatically reaches the department/authority concerned. Citizens can also keep track of their complaints. The scheme promises timely resolution of grievances. It is not clear whether the timelines prescribed under Sakala will be adhered to. In case the grievance is not resolved within the prescribed time limits, the grievance gets escalated to the next higher officer. The iPGRS has a provision for receiving feedback from citizens. But how this feedback will be used for systemic changes is a moot question. The proposed iPGRS raises certain questions. It is not clear whether privacy of the citizen/complainant is protected. Most of the public grievances relate to delay in the delivery of services, which is again related to the demand for bribery. Whether such complaints will be entertained is not clear. Third, the iPGRS appears to have no legal backing. What happens if a service is delayed beyond the time limit fixed by the department? Unlike Sakala, will the citizens get compensated? It is not clear if Sakala will continue. Fourth, the iPGRS should listen to social media. Hundreds of complaints are posted on Facebook and Twitter. The iPGRS should be able to collect these complaints through dedicated social media executives. Fifth, lodging complaints should be an easy and hassle-free experience. The usual difficulties like the requirement to press multiple clicks, time run out etc, needs to be minimised. Finally, a massive public awareness campaign should be undertaken to make the iPGRS successful. (The writer is Founder, Consumer Rights Education and Awareness Trust)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/how-to-better-integrate-public-grievance-redressal-and-delivery-systems-997198.html
14-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Chilli sellers feel heat of lockdown in Mangaluru||The dry red chilli sellers, who procure Byadagi and Guntur varieties of chillies from farmers and traders in North Karnataka and sell by the side of road at KPT Circle in Mangaluru, have felt the heat of lockdown this year. Byadagi chilli is known for its deep-red colour and is less spicy while Guntur chilli is known for its heat (hotness). Four to five persons are engaged in selling both the varieties of chillies by the side of the road throughout the year. The sellers eke out a living by selling the chillies during the harvest season. Owing to the implementation of lockdown and Covid-19 pandemic, the business is dull this year, Shankar, one of the sellers, told DH. “We either directly purchase from farmers from their fields after harvest in Ballari, Chikkamagaluru, Bagalkot, Gadag and other areas or purchase from wholesale sellers from the cultivating area and sell it in Mangaluru by the side of the road,” said Chandra Nayak, another seller. “The sale is normally brisk during summer as people purchase a large quantity of chillies for preparing pickles. However, this summer, hit by lockdown, not many people came forward to purchase. We want to sell off the chillies that are available with us now,” said Shankar. Byadagi chilli is a crucial ingredient in cooking a variety of south Indian food. These sellers sell both the varieties of chillies throughout the year. As and when the stock gets emptied, they procure it from the cultivating areas. The chillies are sold between Rs 180 to Rs 200 per kg. Last year, it was sold for Rs 150 to Rs 160 per kg. The sellers have been using tarpaulin to protect themselves from rain. During the season, they also sell tur dal, green gram, chickpea, black-eyed pea and tamarind.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chilli-sellers-feel-heat-of-lockdown-in-mangaluru-997214.html
14-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||CID nabs four in Karnataka constables' exam impersonation scam||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) probing the impersonation scam during police constables' recruitment exams conducted last year has nabbed four persons who were faculties at coaching centres in Gokak and Belagavi.  They allegedly helped 21 candidates who enrolled illegally to clear the exams.  The arrested are: Bheemappa Mahadeva Hulloli alias Bheemshi, Lakshman Uddappa Bandi, Lakshman Muttappa Parannavar and Mallikarjun Yamunappa Babalannavar, who were working with Ekalavya coaching centre and Darideepa coaching centre. The kingpin of the racket has been identified as Basavaraj Dundanahatti. He is at large and efforts are on to nab him. The racketeers used to charge Rs 3 lakh to Rs 5 lakh per candidate to arrange impersonators for both written and physical examinations.  The CID officials said a total of 61 persons, including five police constables, have been arrested so far. They seized Rs 1.5 lakh in cash, two cars, one computer hard disk, two pen drives and eight mobile phones.  The officials said the applicant's original Aadhaar card was morphed with the photo of the impersonator who attended the examination. Five police constables who had attended the examination on behalf of others were arrested and dismissed from service. The officials said all 21 candidates involved in the malpractice are debarred and measures have been taken to ensure that they don't attend any future examinations. Steps have been followed to match the photo identity of candidates from time of applying for the examination till they get the final orders, along with fingerprints to prevent such malpractices in future recruitment process. There were 21 cases registered in the state, including 11 in Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cid-nabs-four-in-karnataka-constables-exam-impersonation-scam-997489.html
14-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||This Karnataka government school teacher is a study in student care||It was a surprise of their life for children studying at a government primary school in a Yalagudige village in Chikkamagaluru district when they received a letter in their name recently. The school is located in a remote village with two teachers and 16 children studying in classes 1 to 5. It was a letter from their teacher checking about their health during the pandemic time and it was the first ever letter the students had received all these years.  Geetha K H, is a teacher working for the last 10 years in this school, was missing her students and decided to surprise them by writing letters. “It’s been almost a year since I met my students. I had decided to surprise them with the letters when they are off the school and write individual letters to all my students checking their health and also congratulating them for being promoted to next grade,” Geetha told DH. There were around 16 students in grades 1 to 5 and Geetha has written to all of them. “I thought it was my duty to boost their morale during the pandemic. Even kids are bored without school, they are missing their friends. While I was checking the health of my friends and relatives over the phone every day, why not my students?,” Geetha said. Interestingly, the teacher received a reply from 10 of her students. “In my letters, I conveyed my wishes to their parents and siblings. Asked them to practise Covid-appropriate behaviour, mentioned why they are special to me, advised them to use the mobile phone only for academic purposes. To my surprise, I received 10 reply letters from my students and I cannot express my happiness,” she said.  The teacher even dropped her mobile number in the letters and asked her students to call in case they need any help or if they feel like talking to her, or missing the school or for any academic issues. Sharing their happiness one of the students of class 4 said, “When my father told there is a post in my name, I was surprised. But, when I got to know it was from Geetha miss, I was jumping with happiness.” Geetha’s initiative has been much appreciated, with many on social media, including Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar, applauding her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/this-karnataka-government-school-teacher-is-a-study-in-student-care-997497.html
14-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Heavy rain disrupts normal life in coastal Karnataka, Malnad regions||The southwest monsoon has picked up steam bringing heavy rain to coastal and Malnad districts on Monday while many parts of north and south interior districts experienced mild to moderate showers. The relentless showers have piled on the misery in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada and Chikkamagaluru districts. Incidents of tree fall and damages to houses were reported from across the three coastaldistricts. A 55-year-old man from Aikala in Mulki taluk was electrocuted when he was trying to clear branches of a tree that fell on his house. The deceased was identified as Madhav Acharya. Traffic on Puttur-Uppinangady road near Sediyapu was affected for a couple of hours after a tree came crashing on the road. The incessant showers have led to a significant rise in water level of Kumaradhara and Netravathi rivers. The rough sea and high waves have sparked fears of sea erosion in the coastal villages of Honnavar, Bhatkal, Ankola and Karwar taluks. Aatmalinga of the famed Mahabaleshwar Temple in Gokarna was submerged in rainwater for a while. Several places in Malnad and coastal districts plunged into darkness following the damage to power lines. Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga and Kodagu districts also witnessed sharp showers throughout the day. Water level in Triveni Sangam in Bhagamandala has gone up considerably. Rains, coupled with strong winds, have brought down trees and electricity poles in several coffee estates in the region. As much as 9,500 cusecs of water was released from 21 crest gates of Tunga dam at Gajanur near Shivamogga, as the dam reached maximum level of 588.24 metre.  Many parts of Mumbai Karnataka and Kalyana Karnataka districts experienced spells of light showers on Monday. Unrelenting rain in the last two to three days has spurred water level in Manjra river in Bidar. A sharp spell of rain in the afternoon left many areas in Kalaburagi city waterlogged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/heavy-rain-disrupts-normal-life-in-coastal-karnataka-malnad-regions-997500.html
14-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Encroachment charges: Panel gives clean chit to Mysuru MLA Sa RA Mahesh||The committee constituted to investigate the allegations against SaRa Choultry submitted a report on Monday stating that the said building had not been constructed on the Rajakaluve. Regional Commissioner G C Prakash had ordered to conduct survey and to submit report after previous deputy commissioner Rohini Sindhuri had alleged that Sara Choultry, owned by MLA Sa Ra Mahesh, is constructed on the Rajakaluve, near Datagalli Ring Road. The committee, led by Additional Deputy Commissioner Manjunathaswamy, comprises Deputy Director for Land Records G Seemanthini and Assistant Director H Manjunath. The committee submitted the report to the regional commissioner through the deputy commissioner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/encroachment-charges-panel-gives-clean-chit-to-mysuru-mla-sa-ra-mahesh-997509.html
14-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Pune cops nab Kalaburagi nurse for illegal sale of 'black fungus' medicine||Pune cops arrested a staff nurse working at Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in connection with illegal sale of Amphotericin B injection being used to treat 'black fungus' infection.  The arrested has been identified as Rajkumar Bhajantri.  The cops who came to the city on Monday informed Rural police station PSI Basu Chauhan that they will arrest Rajkumar who is staying at P&T quarters of the city.  An official said, "Based on a tip-off in Pune, a police team arrived to the city and gave a call to the accused asking him to come to Aland checklist of the City and took him along with them".  "Four more hospital staff have been suspected to be involved in the illegal sale of the vials. They have been interrogated and the police are likely to arrest them", said a GIMS source.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pune-cops-nab-kalaburagi-nurse-for-illegal-sale-of-black-fungus-medicine-997549.html
14-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Arun Singh to chair BJP Karnataka core committee meet on June 18||BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, who is in charge of the party’s affairs in Karnataka, will chair a meeting of the state party’s core committee on June 18. During his three-day visit starting June 16, Singh is scheduled to meet Cabinet ministers and MLAs who are waiting to express their grievances against the administration. Singh will arrive on Wednesday evening and will meet ministers the same day. During the next two days, prior to the core committee meeting, Singh is scheduled to interact with several BJP legislators from the state. His visit will come in the wake of demands by a section of BJP legislators to convene the Legislature Party meeting. While speculations are rife about an ongoing attempt to unseat Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Singh has ruled out any change in leadership, asserting that Yediyurappa will continue in the top post. According to sources, Singh is expected to issue a stern warning against acts of indiscipline by party legislators while also ensuring that differences between factions are sorted out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/arun-singh-to-chair-bjp-karnataka-core-committee-meet-on-june-18-997494.html
14-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||MLAs can air their resentment against Yediyurappa with Arun Singh: K S Eshwarappa||Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa said BJP leaders and MLAs who are not happy with Yediyurappa’s administration can share their resentment with BJP in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh. Speaking to media persons, here on Monday, he said Singh would hold a meeting with ministers on June 16 in Bengaluru and would meet legislators on June 17. The MLAs can share their views on the chief minister in the meeting. He claimed that, unlike in Congress, BJP believes in democracy and it would provide a platform for leaders to air their voices with the central leaders. Congress leaders are making baseless allegations against BJP to cover up their mistakes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mlas-can-air-their-resentment-against-yediyurappa-with-arun-singh-k-s-eshwarappa-997552.html
14-06-2021||National||DH Toon | 'One Earth, One Health' — A long pass into the international field||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday virtually took part in an outreach session of the G7 summit and articulated the “One Earth, One Health” mantra for global cooperation to fight the Covid-19 pandemic as well as future pandemics. He sought G7's support for the proposal moved by India and South Africa at the World Trade Organisation for temporarily waiving the Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) protection on Covid-19 vaccines and drugs. He called for global unity, leadership and solidarity and emphasised the special responsibility of democratic and transparent societies to prevent future pandemics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-one-earth-one-health-a-long-pass-into-the-international-field-997194.html
14-06-2021||National||External affairs minister Jaishankar interacts with Indian diaspora in Kenya||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has held a "productive" online interaction with a cross section of Indian diaspora in Kenya. Jaishankar arrived in Kenya on Saturday on a three-day visit to strengthen India's relations with the major East African country. "Hon’ble External Affairs Minister of India @DrSJaishankar, who is currently on an official visit to Kenya, held a productive online interaction with a cross section of Indian diaspora in Kenya 13th June," the Indian High Commission here tweeted late Sunday night. The meeting was moderated by the High Commissioner of India to Kenya, Dr Virander Paul, it said. Kenya has a vibrant community of persons of Indian origin presently numbered around 80,000, including an estimated 20,000 Indian citizens. On Saturday, Jaishankar and his Kenyan counterpart Raychelle Omamo held a "productive discussion" on bilateral cooperation that the two countries will take forward through a joint commission. "A detailed exchange on regional and global issues as befitting two UNSC members. A historical solidarity is today a modern partnership," Jaishankar had tweeted after the talks. India and Kenya are currently serving in the United Nation Security Council. They are also members of the Commonwealth. Kenya is an active member of the African Union, with which India has longstanding ties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/external-affairs-minister-jaishankar-interacts-with-indian-diaspora-in-kenya-997230.html
14-06-2021||National||Taranjit Singh Sandhu interacts with pharmaceutical companies during Philadelphia visit||India’s Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, visited the city of Philadelphia during which he interacted with some of the top pharmaceutical companies and had a meeting with the city mayor, who applauded India for supplying with two million N-95 masks last year. “A pleasure to start the day in Philadelphia with a meeting" with Philadelphia Mayor Jim F Kenney, Sandhu said in a tweet as he kicked off his two-day trip to the city on June 11. This was his first travel out of the national capital area during the Covid-19 crisis. During the meeting, Kenney thanked India for supplying two million N-95 masks to Philadelphia in 2020, Sandhu said. In September 2020, the mayor had sought India's assistance in facilitating export of N95 masks for the frontline workers of Philadelphia. The Indian Embassy responded by expediting the request and facilitating a supply of 18 lakh masks which were received by Philadelphia on October 5, 2020. During the meeting between Sandhu and Kenney, the discussions focused on economic, healthcare and education ties and the dynamic diaspora. They also discussed future healthcare cooperation, including in therapeutics. The mayor was keen on increasing air connectivity between Philadelphia and India. Kenney and Sandhu discussed the potential to collaborate on sustainability initiatives, including electric mobility. “From economic, healthcare and education ties to the dynamic diaspora, India values partnership with this historic city,” Sandhu said in another tweet. Sandhu visited the Ocugen facilities and Jubilant Pharma office in Philadelphia. The Jubilant Pharma based in Yardley, Pennsylvania, is a subsidiary of Jubilant Life Sciences Limited based in Noida, Uttar Pradesh. Ocugen Inc is a biopharmaceutical company focused on discovering, developing, and commercialising gene therapies to treat rare and underserved eye diseases and developing a vaccine to fight Covid-19. Noting that Indian pharmaceutical companies are playing an important role in expanding public health in the US, Sandhu tweeted, “A fruitful interaction with Jubilant Pharma leadership in #Philadelphia at the new office. Their critical drugs lead the fight against the pandemic.” Jubilant Pharma has signed a non-exclusive licensing agreement with Gilead Sciences Inc for the manufacturing and distribution of Remdesivir (API) which has received an Emergency Use Authorisation by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of Covid-19 pandemic. The authorisation belongs to the injectable form of Remdesivir only. During his meeting with Jubilant CEO Pramod Yadav, Sandhu discussed the critical drugs that Jubilant manufactures in the fight against pandemic. The company officials briefed the Ambassador on the range of their activities and production capacities in the US. The company has created 2400 job in the US. In April, Jubilant Pharma concluded safety and pharmacokinetic/absorption studies of a new oral formulation of remdesivir in animals and health human volunteers in India. The novel formulation can potentially lower the capacity constraint faced by the injectable form of remdesivir and guarantee broader and timely availability for the patients. Ocugen CEO Dr Shankar Musunuri and other Board members briefed Sandhu that they were in discussions with the FDA, on development and commercialisation of COVAXIN in the US market. In February, Ocugen entered into an agreement with Bharat Biotech International Limited (Bharat Biotech) for development and commercialisation of Covaxin. “The India-US healthcare partnership continues to grow! Visited Ocugen facilities in Philadelphia and met their Board members. Discussed issues relating to bringing #Covaxin into the US," Sandhu tweeted. As home to some of the top academic research institutions in the country, Philadelphia has attracted a number of high-tech sectors, including pharmaceuticals. In 2019, Philadelphia became the sixth largest life sciences market in the US. Sandhu also met Prof Tariq Thachil, Director of the Centre for the Advanced Study of India at the University of Pennsylvania. It is the first research institution in the US dedicated to the study of contemporary India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taranjit-singh-sandhu-interacts-with-pharmaceutical-companies-during-philadelphia-visit-997232.html
14-06-2021||National||Fuel rates hiked again; Petrol crosses Rs 104 a litre in Bhopal||Fuel prices were increased again on Monday after a day's pause. Petrol in the national capital Delhi is now priced at Rs 96.4 a litre (after a 38 paise rise) while diesel costs Rs 87.28 a litre, up by 30 paise. In Bhopal, a litre of petrol now costs Rs 104.59 while diesel costs Rs 95.91. Petrol in Ladakh costs Rs 101.95 per litre and diesel Rs 93.90 a litre.  In India's financial capital, Mumbai, petrol is priced at Rs 102.58 and diesel at Rs 94.70 a litre each. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. The increase in prices is due to a combination of rising international oil prices and central and state taxes. Global oil prices held near multi-year highs on Monday, underpinned by an improved outlook for demand as several nations eased coronavirus curbs. Brent crude was up 14 cents, or 0.2 per cent, at $72.83 by 0123 GMT. US West Texas Intermediate was also up 14 cents, or 0.2 per cent, at $71.05 a barrel, after reaching the highest since October 2018 at $71.24 on Friday and rising 1.9 per cent on the week. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fuel-rates-hiked-again-petrol-crosses-rs-104-a-litre-in-bhopal-997238.html
14-06-2021||National||Chirag Paswan may be removed as LJP leader in Lok Sabha||In some big bad news for Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan's son, Chirag Paswan, five of Lok Janshakti Party's (LJP) six Lok Sabha MPs barring him have staged a coup of sorts pitching his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras as Leader of House replacing him, a development that is sweet revenge for Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. LJP MPs have already met Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla apprising him of their decision to choose Paras as Leader of Lok Sabha. Battling rebellion in the party, Chirag Paswan on Monday drove to the residence of uncle Pashupati Paras at 18, Rajendra Prasad Road in New Delhi. After high drama outside the residence of Paras and a 10-minute long wait, Chirag was allowed entry, where he spoke with Paras. A sullen looking Chirag ducked media queries. While Paras hailed Nitish Kumar as 'Vikaspurush,' making no bones where his loyalty lies, Team Chirag chose to state that they are with the NDA. LJP sources said that in order to save the party from faltering, Chirag proposed to resign from the post of national President of  LJP but that the party should not be divided. While Chirag wanted his mother Reena Paswan to be made party chief in place of him, the faction led by Paras is not quite keen on it. Split imminent? The split looks imminent and is yet another setback for Chirag, who has been receiving one jolt after another ever since he severed ties with NDA ally Janata Dal (United) (JDU) in Bihar, fielding candidates on JDU seats and targeting Nitish Kumar in the October 2020 Assembly polls, which though ensured that BJP emerges the main party in the state and JDU substantially reduced, brought no gains for LJP, which could win just one seat. In April this year LJP's lone Bihar MLA Rajkumar Singh had joined the JDU after voting in favour of JDU candidate Maheshwari Hazar in the post of Deputy Speaker in March that had prompted the party to seek explanation from him. Earlier in February, LJP's lone member in the Bihar legislative council Nutan Singh, married to a BJP minister in the state, joined the BJP. The sidelining of Chirag by his own Lok Sabha MPs after a Chacha (uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras) and Bhatija (nephew Chirag Paswan) slugfest may perhaps be music to Kumar's ears, whose proximity with Paras is well known. In 2017, Paras was inducted into Nitish's cabinet when he was not even an MLA. Later he was made an MLC by Nitish Kumar. In 2019, Paras became an MP. Sources say that the Paras-led group in the party will back JDU. A simmering broil The power tussle in LJP began in 2014 when Chirag had become BJP's Parliamentary Board Chairman. The tussle kept simmering but the senior Paswan (Ram Vilas Paswan kept it under wraps and made his son party chief in November 2019 against the wish of his brother. Union Minister Paswan's death in October 2020 took away that command structure in the party. The massive debacle of LJP in Bihar polls after its decision to go solo and target Nitish Kumar, proved the proverbial 'last nail in its coffin' adage. In February, Nitish Kumar's meeting with LJP Nawada MP Chandan Kumar Singh had kicked in speculations but Kumar had then insisted that not much should be read into this. The same month, over 200 mid-level and lower-rung leaders of LJP joined the JDU. That Chirag Paswan's party was getting sandwiched between competing ambitions of BJP and JDU in Bihar was evident when the LJP leader did not turn up for an NDA meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi on January 30 citing ill-health. JDU, however, claimed that the invitation was withdrawn after its opposition as it does not consider LJP an NDA ally. Nitish Kumar, despite getting substantially lower number of seats than BJP is heading the government there but his trusted leader in BJP Sushil Kumar Modi was not named for Deputy Chief Minister this time. Recently JDU had taken strong umbrage to BJP poaching its six MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh reminding the ruling party at the Centre of 'coalition dharma'. Eye on the big pie BJP, which rules the neighbouring UP, and has, in the past, ruled another neighbouring state — Jharkhand, has its eyes for a long time on Bihar, where it could not have a Chief Minister of its own despite having emerged as the single largest party this time and having more number of seats than the JDU. There is a tension at the middle rung between cadres of BJP and JDU, both of which are trying hard to strengthen themselves for the bigger pie- In the first week of June, the BJP had to sack MLC Tunnaji Pandey to keep the alliance going, days after Pandey had launched a vitriolic attack against Kumar sparking a bitter war of words. A big section in JDU believes that BJP had a hand in pitting Chirag Paswan against JDU in last Assembly polls as well as behind such occasional utterances of lower and middle-level BJP leaders against the Chief Minister. Clearly the Bihar politics pot is boiling and a churning seems underway. A similar Chacha-Bhatija (uncle-nephew) political slugfest had taken place in Uttar Pradesh between Akhilesh Yadav and Shivpal Yadav but that was settled in favour of the nephew. In Bihar, however, it seems the other way round.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chirag-paswan-may-be-removed-as-ljp-leader-in-lok-sabha-997244.html
14-06-2021||National||70,421 new Covid-19 cases, 3,921 deaths: Lowest spike in over two months, rise in fatalities||India recorded a single-day rise of 70,421 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest in 74 days, taking the country's infection tally to 2,95,10,410, while the count of active cases fell below 10 lakh after over two months, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The Covid-19 death toll in the country climbed to 3,74,305 with 3,921 fatalities recorded in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The count of active cases has further declined to 9,73,158, which is 3.30 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 95.43 per cent. A net decline of 53,001 cases has been recorded in the Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, the data showed. Also, 14,92,152 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the total number of such examinations in the country so far to 37,96,24,626, it stated, adding that the daily positivity rate was recorded 4.72 per cent. It has stayed below 10 per cent for 21 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has also reduced and stands at 4.54 per cent. Recoveries outnumbered daily new cases for the 32nd consecutive day in the country.  The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 2,81,62,947, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.27 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 25,48,49,301 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4. The 3,921 new fatalities include 2,771 from Maharashtra, 267 from Tamil Nadu, 206 from Kerala and 125 from Karnataka. A total of 3,74,305 deaths have been reported so far in the country. This includes 1,11,104 from Maharashtra, 32,913 from Karnataka, 29,547 from Tamil Nadu, 24,823 from Delhi, 21,786 from Uttar Pradesh, 16,896 from West Bengal,  15,562 from Punjab and 13,317 from Chhattisgarh. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/70421-new-covid-19-cases-3921-deaths-lowest-spike-in-over-two-months-rise-in-fatalities-997245.html
14-06-2021||National||Honeywell says partnering with Centre to ramp up oxygen production||Honeywell International Inc said on Monday it was partnering with the Indian government to ramp up oxygen production in the country. Honeywell, which makes aircraft parts for planes manufactured by Boeing Co and Canada's Bombardier Inc, said its researchers will collaborate with Indian scientists to test and validate suitability of adsorbents for oxygen production in India. Indian hospitals ran out of beds and life-saving oxygen during a devastating second wave of coronavirus in April and May and some people died in parking lots outside hospitals and at their homes. The country's total Covid-19 case load now stands at 295.1 lakh, while total fatalities are at 374,305.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/honeywell-says-partnering-with-centre-to-ramp-up-oxygen-production-997261.html
14-06-2021||National||Fact-check: Does Covid-19 vaccine make you 'magnetic'?||Amidst several posts/videos claiming that Covid-19 vaccines can make people magnetic being circulated on social media, the Government of India issued a clarification to clear the doubts and debunk the claim. PIB Fact Check tweeted, “Several posts/videos claiming that #COVID19 #vaccines can make people magnetic are doing the rounds on social media. #PIBFactCheck: COVID-19 vaccines do NOT make people magnetic and are completely SAFE. Register for #LargestVaccineDrive now and GET VACCINATED” ✅COVID-19 vaccines do NOT make people magnetic and are completely SAFE The Press Information Bureau's (PIB's) fact-checking arm made a short video clip to clear the rumours and called those claims on the vaccine are “baseless”.  Answering if the Covid-19 vaccine can make you magnetic, it said, “Vaccines cannot cause a magnetic reaction in the body. Covid-19 vaccines are completely safe and don’t contain any metal-based ingredients.”  Videos from all over the world making a flawed claim of magnets sticking to the arms of the Covid-19 vaccinated people were shared on the internet, making people question the safety of the vaccine. In a similar viral video of Arvind Sonar from Nashik, Maharashtra, a man is trying to put spoons and coins on Sonar’s arms, which are getting stuck to his arm. Assuring people that the Covid-19 vaccine is completely safe, PIB said, “Do not fall prey to misinformation about Covid-19 vaccines and get vaccinated.” However, it is common to experience side effects after the vaccine, like headache, fever, swelling around the injection area, and others depending on which Covid-19 vaccine one takes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-does-covid-19-vaccine-make-you-magnetic-997282.html
14-06-2021||National||Centre eyes Covid-19 vaccine delivery via drones, invites bids||The government has invited bids for delivery of Covid-19 vaccines and drugs to remote areas and those with difficult terrains in select locations of the country by drones to ensure last-mile coverage. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) conducted a successful feasibility study in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur and has developed a standard protocol for the delivery of vaccines using Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV), according to the bid document. On behalf of the ICMR, the HLL Infra Tech Services Limited (Procurement Support Agency) has invited expression of interest (EOI) through the Central Public Procurement Portal from experienced Indian agencies for the delivery of medical supplies (vaccines/drugs) by UAVs. According to the tender criteria, the ICMR shall engage UAV operators who are able to conduct beyond visual line of sight (BVLOS) operations in fixed pre-defined flight paths, deliver medical supplies payload at select locations in India and return to the command station. During the prevailing pandemic, different agencies are helping the government prevent and control the transmission of Covid-19. To strengthen the delivery of vaccines, the ICMR successfully conducted a feasibility study to deliver vaccines through UAVs in collaboration with IIT, Kanpur, the bid document stated. "Based on the preliminary results of the study, the ICMR has developed a standard protocol for the successful delivery of vaccines using a UAV. "Now, based on the experience gained in the feasibility study, the ICMR is keen to develop a model for vaccine delivery by UAV in the field practice area to reach areas to cover last-mile coverage at difficult terrain in selected locations," it said. "The main objective of the proposed work is to develop a medical supplies delivery model and its feasibility in the field practice area by using UAVs in remote inaccessible (hard to reach) areas in selected locations in India," it added. According to the specifications, UAVs should be able to cover a minimum aerial distance of 35 km, able to take off vertically and carry a minimum payload of 4 kg and should be capable of returning to command station after delivering the payload. Initially, the tenure of engagement shall be 90 days. This can be extended further depending upon the performance of the UAV operator and the need of the program.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-eyes-covid-19-vaccine-delivery-via-drones-invites-bids-997298.html
14-06-2021||National||Monuments, museums under ASI to reopen from June 16||As Covid-19 cases decline, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has announced that all centrally protected monuments, sites and museums would be open for visitors from Wednesday. The ASI had shut down 3,691 monuments and sites from April 15 due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said the Ministry had given the go-ahead for their reopening and that visitors would have to follow Covid-19 related protocols. The ASI said in its order that the monuments, sites and museums would be reopened “in strict compliance with the executive orders, if any, issued by State/District Disaster Management Authority”. Tickets to the monuments will be available online and visitors will have to book slots beforehand. While the monuments remained out of bounds for visitors since April 15, ASI carried out restoration works at key monuments including the Taj Mahal, Agra Fort and Fatehpur Sikri. The ASI had planned mud pack treatment for the main dome of the Taj Mahal, restoration work on the Royal Gate of the monument, and fortification works at the Agra Fort.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monuments-museums-under-asi-to-reopen-from-june-16-997309.html
14-06-2021||National||'Practise what you preach': Chidambaram on PM Modi's G7 speech||The government should practise in India what it preaches to the world, Congress leader P Chidambaram said on Monday, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi stressed democracy and freedom of thought at a G7 meet. Prime Minister Modi on Sunday said India is a natural ally for the G7 and its partners in defending democracy, freedom of thought and liberty from a host of threats stemming from authoritarianism, terrorism, violent extremism and economic coercion. "PM Modi’s speech at the G7 Outreach meeting is inspiring as well as ironic. The Modi government should practise in India what it preaches to the world," Chidambaram tweeted in response. He added that it was "sad" the prime minister was the only guest not physically present at the outreach meeting. "Ask yourself why? Because India is an outlier as far as the fight against Covid 19 is concerned. We are the most infected and least vaccinated country (as a proportion of the population)," the former Union minister said. The prime minister made a virtual address at an outreach session of a summit of the Group of Seven (G7) richest democracies held in Cornwall in Britain.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/practise-what-you-preach-chidambaram-on-pm-modis-g7-speech-997313.html
14-06-2021||National||AIIMS Delhi to recruit 6-12-year-olds for clinical trials of Covaxin||The recruitment for the clinical trial of the country's first indigenously-developed Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, among children in the age group of 6-12 years will begin at the AIIMS here from Tuesday. This will be followed by the clinical trial of children in the age-group of 2-6 years. The enrolment of children volunteers aged 12-18 years at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has been completed and they have been given the first dose of Covaxin. "The recruitment process for the clinical trial of Covaxin among children in the age group of 6-12 years will begin from Tuesday," Dr Sanjay Rai, Professor at the Centre for Community Medicine at the AIIMS, told PTI. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had granted permission for conducting the phase 2/3 clinical trial of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin among children aged two to 18 years on May 12. The trial is to be conducted in three parts -- 175 volunteers each in the groups aged 12-18, 6-12 and 2-6 years. In the trial, the vaccine will be given by the intramuscular route in two doses on day 0 and day 28. Covaxin, indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is being used in adults in the country's ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive. The clinical trials will evaluate the safety, reactogenicity and immunogenicity of the vaccine in children. The government recently cautioned that even though Covid-19 has not taken a serious shape among children till now, its impact can increase among them if there is a change in the virus behaviour or epidemiology dynamics and said preparations are being strengthened to deal with any such situation. A national expert group has been formed to review Covid-19 cases in children and approach the pandemic in a renewed way to strengthen the country's preparedness, NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul had told a press conference. The group has examined signs that were not available four-five months before, he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-delhi-to-recruit-6-12-year-olds-for-clinical-trials-of-covaxin-997315.html
14-06-2021||National||61 held from Noida pool party for Covid-19 norm violation||The Noida Police has arrested 61 people, including 15 women, for allegedly partying at a farmhouse here in violation of restrictions imposed to combat Covid-19, officials said on Monday. The arrests were made following a raid on the property in Sector 135, under the Expressway police station limits, on Sunday night, they said. “A pool party was being held at the Green Beauty farmhouse in the Yamuna floodplains area in Sector 135 in violation of the Covid-19 protocols. A total of 46 men and 15 women were arrested,” a police spokesperson said. “All accused were bathing in the swimming pool in violation of the pandemic protocols. They were without face masks and some of them were even spitting at various places in the open premises of the farmhouse,” the spokesperson said. The police said they have recovered 12 bottles of beer and two bottles of whiskey, which were meant for sale in Haryana, from the venue. Several of the arrestees are residents of Delhi, while some are from Ghaziabad and other towns of the NCR, the police said. An FIR was lodged under Indian Penal Code sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (unlawfully or negligently spreading infection of any disease dangerous to life), and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/61-held-from-noida-pool-party-for-covid-19-norm-violation-997322.html
14-06-2021||National||Chess platform bans Zerodha co-founder Nikhil Kamath for cheating in charity match against Vishwanathan Anand||Nikhil Kamath, co-founder of India’s stockbroking platform Zerodha and India’s youngest billionaire, landed himself in a soup after "beating" five-time chess world champion Vishwanathan Anand in an online charity stream for Covid-19 only to have his account suspended by the organiser, Chess.com, for violating its fair play policy. The charity stream was organised to raise funds for Covid relief and had Anand simultaneously play against celebrities like Aamir Khan, Arijit Singh and Riteish Deshmukh, among others. Kamath was the only participant to hand the former world champion a "defeat" in the exhibition event. However, many chess fans were unconvinced with the victory and claimed the businessman had used unfair means to beat Anand in the match. Hours after the match concluded, Chess.com seemingly added fuel to the fire by blocking Kamath’s account on the site for breaching its fair play policy. As the online uproar over the game grew, Kamath put up a post on Twitter accepting that he had had help from people analysing the game and from computers, but suggested that Anand himself had been in the know. He jokingly compared his feat to winning a 100-metre race against Usain Bolt and said the confusion was unintentional.   While Kamath’s tweet was solace for some, many twitter users were unconvinced by the young entrepreneur’s clarification. One user said the “casual apology” did not bury all the questions that the fraudulent game had raised.   Nikhil, I've always looked up to you but this isn't acceptable. Such a casual apology after what happened yesterday raises a lot of questions. Did you think that you would outsmart the world using engines and nobody would know?1/2 Anand too responded to the controversy saying, "Yesterday was a celebrity simul for people to raise money It was a fun experience upholding the ethics of the game. I just played the position on the board and expected the same from everyone".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chess-platform-bans-zerodha-co-founder-nikhil-kamath-for-cheating-in-charity-match-against-vishwanathan-anand-997324.html
14-06-2021||National||Gone too soon: Friends, colleagues remember Sushant Singh Rajput on his death anniversary||On the first death anniversary of Sushant Singh Rajput, Bollywood personalities Bhumi Pednekar, Rajkummar Rao, and directors Abhishek Kapoor and Mukesh Chhabra paid tributes to their "curious" and "inspirational" colleague. Rajput, 34, was found dead at his Bandra residence on June 14, 2020. A popular face on Indian television courtesy of the hit soap opera Pavitra Rishta, Rajput made his feature film debut in 2013 with Kai Po Che!. Ekta Kapoor shared a series of pictures on her Instagram page and hashtagged the caption, "Remembering Sushant Singh Rajput." "Wished on the stars with you... Now I wish on a star knowing it's you," she wrote. The producer was instrumental in giving Rajput his breakthrough with the hit show Pavitra Rishta in 2009. Abhishek Kapoor, who directed Rajput in Kai Po Che! and Kedarnath, said he is yet to come to terms with the actor's demise. "One year today... Still numb. #omnamahshivaya #sushantsinghrajput #superstar forever," he wrote. Rajput's friend and casting director Chhabra, who directed the actor in his last cinematic outing Dil Bechara, shared Kapoor's sentiment. "Nothing seems to be the same. The void you left behind still remains. Here's hoping I'll see you once again. Miss you brother. #stillnumb #sushantsinghrajput," he added. Ali Khan, who worked with Rajput in her 2018 debut Kedarnath, shared a picture with the late actor and recalled how he was instrumental in "introducing" her to the world of acting. "Whenever I needed help, advice or a laugh you were always there. You introduced me to the world of acting, made me believe that dreams could come true, and gave me all that I have today. Still can't believe you're gone. But every time I look at the stars, the rising sun or the moon I know you're here. From Kedarnath to Andromeda," the actor wrote. Rajput's Chhichhore co-star Shraddha Kapoor posted a picture with him on Instagram and captioned, "Shine on, dearest Sush." Rao, who starred with the late actor in Kai Po Che!, shared Rajput's picture on his Instagram Story, with the caption "Bhai (brother)." Rajput's Raabta co-star Kriti Sanon shared a collage from the look test she did with the actor for the 2017 romantic-drama. Sanon said she still feels like the actor is still around and she will meet him someday. "Today, it feels so painfully weird to know that you and I are not in the same world anymore... Still feels like it hasn't happened for real. Like maybe you are still around and I'll bump into you somewhere.. "I don't think it'll ever sink in... But I pray that you are happy and at peace whichever world you are in, Sush," she captioned the collage. Rajput's former girlfriend, actor Rhea Chakraborty, posted an emotional note on Instagram remembering her "love". "There isn't a moment where I believe that you aren't here anymore. They said that time heals everything but you were my time and my everything. "I know that you are my guardian angel now - watching me with your telescope from the moon and protecting me," Chakraborty, 28, wrote alongside her photo with Rajput, a science nerd who had a deep interest in astronomy. Rajput's Dil Bechara co-star Sanjana Sanghi shared her photo with the late actor on her Instagram Story, captioning it: "A forever void. Miss you." In an emotional note, Pednekar said she misses her Sonchiriya co-star and his questions. "From the stars to the things unknown, you showed me the world like I had never seen it before. I hope you've found your peace my curious sweet SSR...Om Shanti," she wrote on the photo-video sharing platform. Actor Tahir Raj Bhasin also shared a few photographs with Rajput on his Instagram Story. "Remembering your insatiable curiosity and intelligence. Gone too soon. May you always remain interstellar," Bhasin said about his Chhichhore co-actor. Rajput's Pavitra Rishta co-star and former girlfriend Ankita Lokhande shared a montage of their pictures on the social media platform. "This was our journey. Phir milenge chalte chalte (until next time)," she captioned the video. Pulkit Samrat, another TV actor who transitioned to films, said Rajput's death felt like "a personal loss". In a note, Samrat said the late star still exists as "an inspiration to those who dare to dream big". "You exist in the hopes and aspirations of every small town guy who dreams of making it big some day. You exist for everyone who wants to believe that humans are capable of kindness. "You exist for everyone who dares to dream. I never got to know you in this lifetime, but if we live more than once, I would want to be a part of the world again where you exist, a world that is much kinder than this one. Sushant Singh Rajput, you are missed," the Fukrey actor said. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is probing Rajput's death, with the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Narcotics Control Board (NCB) investigating money laundering and drugs related angle in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gone-too-soon-friends-colleagues-remember-sushant-singh-rajput-on-his-death-anniversary-997327.html
14-06-2021||National||Looking forward to working with PM Modi: New Israeli Premier Bennett||Israel's newly elected Prime Minister Naftali Bennett said on Monday that he was looking forward to working with his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi to further develop the "unique and warm relations" between the two democracies. Bennett, the 49-year-old leader of the right-wing Yamina party who on Sunday became the new premier ending Benjamin Netanyahu's 12-year hold on power, said this while responding to Prime Minister Modi's congratulatory tweet. Prime Minister Modi earlier congratulated Bennett on being sworn in as Israel's new prime minister and said he looked forward to meeting him and deepening the strategic partnership between the two countries as they celebrate 30 years of the upgradation of diplomatic ties next year. "Thank you Mr. Prime Minister @narendramodi, I look forward to working with you to further develop the unique and warm relations between our two democracies," Bennett tweeted from his official handle. Bennett took oath of office on Sunday after the Knesset (Parliament) elected him as the 13th Prime Minister of Israel. Alternate Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Yair Lapid also said that Israel’s new government will work to "advance strategic relations" with India. "I look forward to working together to advance the strategic relations between our countries and hope to welcome you to Israel soon," Lapid tweeted on Monday in response to a congratulatory message from External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. Jaishankar earlier in a tweet congratulated his new Israeli counterpart. Lapid, the head of the Yesh Atid party, would take over premiership in September 2023 under a power-sharing deal with Bennett, serving for two years till the end of the term. In his tweets, Modi also conveyed his "profound gratitude" to Netanyahu, whose long tenure as Israeli prime minister ended on Sunday. Modi thanked Netanyahu for his "personal attention" to India-Israel strategic partnership. "As you complete your successful tenure as the Prime Minister of the State of Israel, I convey my profound gratitude for your leadership and personal attention to India-Israel strategic partnership @netanyahu," Modi tweeted. Netanyahu responded to Modi’s tweet thanking him for the strong alliance between India and Israel and their personal friendship. "Thank you Prime Minister Narendra Modi for your great personal friendship and for the strong alliance we forged together between Israel and India," Netanyahu tweeted. Thank you Prime Minister Narendra Modi for your great personal friendship and for the strong alliance we forged together between Israel and India. The Israeli leader also mentioned about the strong bond developed with India during his tenure in his speech at the Knesset on Sunday just before the vote of confidence in the new government that removed him from twelve years of uninterrupted rule. The personal chemistry between the two leaders has often been talked about in the Israeli media and Prime Minister Modi got a royal welcome during his historic trip to the Jewish state in July 2017 when Netanyahu accompanied him almost like a shadow during his entire visit. The gesture then extended to Modi is reserved for very few people in Israel. The new national unity government - an unprecedented coalition of ideologically divergent political parties drawn from the Right, the Left and the Centre, along with an Arab party - has a razor-thin majority in a 120-member house. The formation of the new government ended the political impasse in the country that saw four elections in less than two years leading to inconclusive results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/looking-forward-to-working-with-pm-modi-new-israeli-premier-bennett-997334.html
14-06-2021||National||Telangana draws flak for buying 32 luxury cars worth crores amid Covid-19 pandemic: Report||The Telangana government has come under criticism by Opposition parties for buying luxury cars costing Rs 25-30 lakh each for 32 Additional District Collectors of the state amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Calling it a "criminal splurge" move, the BJP has told that it was done to "appease bureaucrats" in the state. BJP Spokesperson, Krishna Saagar Rao asked in a Twitter video, "How can Chief Minister Rao justify spending over Rs 11 crore to buy 32 ultra-luxury vehicles?” "He is indulging in this massive wastage of public money in the middle of a dangerous pandemic, while many poor people are dying of debt burden due to Covid-19 hospitalisation. This decision...is horrendous and unthinkable," he said. The BJP has also demanded the Telangana Chief Minister to immediately take back the move. "As such KCR (Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao) has pushed the surplus state of Telangana into a debt trap state with a whopping debt of Rs 40,000 crore. They already have government cars in good condition," Congress Spokesperson D Sravan Kumar said. He has also alleged that the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government has misused the public’s money to buy these cars for the bureaucrats instead of using it to add more beds in government hospitals and buying buses for public transport. The Telangana Chief Minister justified the move by saying that these cars are needed by the additional collectors to tour around the entire district to do their duties. Recently, Finance Minister Harish Rao had mentioned that Telangana went through a massive loss of as much as Rs 4,500 crore due to the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-draws-flak-for-buying-32-luxury-cars-worth-crores-amid-covid-19-pandemic-report-997344.html
14-06-2021||National||Delhi man held for making hoax call about bomb on plane||A 22-year-old man onboard a Delhi-Patna flight was apprehended on Monday for allegedly making a hoax call to Delhi's Police Control Room saying that there was a bomb on the plane, officials said. The man has been identified as Akash Deep. He is "mentally disturbed", the police said. After boarding the flight with his father, Deep made the call to the PCR saying that there was a bomb on the plane, a senior police officer said. According to preliminary investigation, the man is "mentally disturbed" and was being accompanied by his father to Patna for treatment, he said. "We have received the papers of his medical treatment. A medical examination will be conducted and further course of action will be decided based on his interrogation," he added. There were over 48 passengers onboard the flight. They are being shifted to another aircraft. The first aircraft is being checked thoroughly, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-man-held-for-making-hoax-call-about-bomb-on-plane-997350.html
14-06-2021||National||Petrol price crosses Rs 100/litre in Hyderabad after fuel rates hike||Hyderabad on Monday became the second metro city in the country to see petrol price crossing Rs 100 per litre mark after fuel prices were raised yet again. Petrol price was hiked by 29 paise per litre and diesel by 30 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The hike -- 24th in six weeks -- pushed fuel prices across the country to new historic highs. In Delhi, petrol hit an all-time high of Rs 96.41 a litre, while diesel is now priced at Rs 87.28 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. And because of this, petrol retails at over Rs 100 per litre mark in seven states and union territories -- Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Ladakh. While several districts of Telangana saw petrol hitting Rs 100 mark earlier this month, state capital Hyderabad reached the mark on Monday. Petrol in the city is now priced at Rs 100.20 per litre and diesel at Rs 95.14. Hyderabad is the second metro city to see Rs 100 per litre petrol price. Mumbai on May 29 became the first metro in the country where petrol was being sold at over Rs 100 a litre. Petrol now costs Rs 102.58 a litre in the city and diesel comes for Rs 94.70. Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan near the India-Pakistan border was the first place in the country to see petrol hitting Rs 100 a litre mark in mid-February and on Saturday it also earned the distinction of diesel crossing that psychological mark. Petrol in the city is sold at Rs 107.53 a litre - the highest rate in the country, and diesel comes for Rs 100.37. Premium or additive laced petrol in the town sells for Rs 110.81 a litre and same grade diesel at Rs 104.03. Rajasthan levies the highest VAT on petrol and diesel in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The hike on Monday was the 24th increase in prices since May 4, when state-owned oil firms ended an 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during assembly elections in states like West Bengal. In 24 increases, petrol price has risen by Rs 6.01 per litre and diesel by Rs 6.55 a litre. Oil companies revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on the average price of benchmark fuel in the international market in the preceding 15 days, and foreign exchange rates. International oil prices have firmed in recent weeks in anticipation of demand recovery following the rollout of vaccination programme by various countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-price-crosses-rs-100/litre-in-hyderabad-after-fuel-rates-hike-997352.html
14-06-2021||National||10-yr-old boy sodomised by two youths in UP's Muzaffarnagar||A 10-year-old boy was allegedly sodomised by two youths who also recorded a video of their act, police said on Monday. According to the complaint lodged by the victim's family, the boy was taken to a sugarcane field in a village under Jansath police station area where he was sodomised on Sunday. The family alleged that the accused also posted on social media the video footage which has gone viral. Station House Officer D K Tyagi said a case has been registered against the accused - Gaurav and Sethal. While Gaurav has been arrested, police is trying to nab Sethal, he added. The victim is undergoing treatment at a hospital, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-yr-old-boy-sodomised-by-two-youths-in-ups-muzaffarnagar-997364.html
14-06-2021||National||Corruption in Ayodhya land purchase? Trust must clarify: Sanjay Raut||Amid charges of corruption in the land purchased by the Ram Janmabhoomi Trust in Ayodhya, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Monday demanded "clarification" from the Trust and other leaders, saying the construction of the temple is a matter of faith for the saffron party and the common people. Talking to reporters here, Raut said Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MP Sanjay Singh spoke to him on the issue this morning and the "evidence provided by him is shocking". "Lord Ram and the fight for the Ram mandir is a matter of faith for us. For some, it is a political matter. The Trust formed for the construction of the temple should clarify if the allegations are true or false. The temple's 'bhoomipujan' ceremony was also attended by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat. They should also speak out. Ram temple is a matter of faith. People have made donations out of faith. Even Shiv Sena had contributed Rs one crore to the Trust," Raut said. If the money collected out of faith is misused then what is the use of having faith? he asked. "We need to know what is happening. We need to know whether the allegations are true or false," the Sena leader said. The allegation that the land worth Rs 2 crore was bought at an inflated price of Rs 18.5 crore by Shriram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai for the Ram temple premises was made by AAP's Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh and a former minister in the Samajwadi Party government, Pawan Pandey. The allegation was strongly refuted by Rai. Terming it a case of money laundering, Singh and Pandey had sought a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate. Raut said the members of the Trust were appointed by the BJP. "Representatives of organisations like the Shiv Sena should have been included in the body as the Sena had participated in the agitation for the construction of the Lord Ram's temple...That was our earlier demand ".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/corruption-in-ayodhya-land-purchase-trust-must-clarify-sanjay-raut-997365.html
14-06-2021||National||9 arrested for burning effigy of Bhaichung Bhutia in South Sikkim||Police have arrested nine persons in connection with the burning of an effigy of former India football captain Bhaichung Bhutia at Namchi in South Sikkim district in violation of the lockdown in force in the state, a senior officer said on Monday. "We arrested nine persons from Namchi town last evening and released them on bail since the offence was a bailable one," South Sikkim's Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Thakur Thapa told PTI. "We are searching for some more people involved in the incident and they too will be arrested soon," the SSP said. Thakur said the accused persons, said to be the members of the Dakshin Sikkim Nari Sangh, had held a protest march in Namchi town last week in violation of the lockdown in place in view of outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic in the state. The protesters, all of them women had taken out a protest march against the former India Captain's reported opposition to the construction of a 300-bed hospital at the cost of Rs 500 crore in Namchi town for which Chief Minister Prem Singh Tamang had laid a foundation stone last month. The protesting women had raised slogans like 'Bhaichung Bhutia murdabaad' before setting his effigy on fire in protest against his opposition to the hospital project. Bhutia, who is on a commentary assignment for Euro Football Championship, had released a video message condemning the burning of his effigy in South Sikkim, his native district, at a time when restrictions were in place to prevent gathering of the people in view of the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, which has claimed more than 280 lives in the state. "The protests against him and his effigy burning took place in a market place in Namchi in violation of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, which was imposed to prevent gathering of the people," he said in the video message. The 44-year-old Bhutia clarified that he had never opposed the hospital project per se, but opined that the state government could have used the resources and funds to contain the pandemic now and built the hospital later on. Bhutia, who is also the working President of the Hamro Sikkim Party (HSP), had slammed the misplaced priorities of the Prem Singh Tamang government at a time when the government has been "unable" to bring the pandemic under control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/9-arrested-for-burning-effigy-of-bhaichung-bhutia-in-south-sikkim-997369.html
14-06-2021||National||Filmmaker Aisha Sultana moves HC seeking anticipatory bail||Filmmaker Aisha Sultana, who was booked under sedition charges by Lakshadweep police, on Monday moved the Kerala High Court seeking anticipatory bail. In her plea, Sultana said there is a possibility of her arrest, if she reaches Kavaratti. Police have asked her to appear at Kavaratti police station on June 20. Sultana was booked on June 10 on sedition charges following a complaint by a BJP leader that she spread false news about the spread of Covid-19 in the union territory during a TV debate. The complaint was filed by the BJP's Lakshadweep unit president Abdul Khader. Sultana hails from Chetiath island in Lakshadweep. According to the FIR lodged by the Kavaratti police, a case under sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 B (hate speech) of the Indian Penal code has been registered against the filmmaker. In his complaint filed with the Kavaratti police on Wednesday, Khader said Sultana, during a debate in a Malayalam TV channel, had alleged that the Central government used biological weapons for the spread of Covid-19 in Lakshadweep. The BJP leader, in his complaint, has alleged that Sultana's was an anti-national act, which tarnished the "patriotic image" of the central government. He sought action against her. The BJP's Lakshadweep unit had staged a protest in the islands seeking action against the filmmaker. Lakshadweep has been witnessing protests by various political parties since the administration started implementing reform measures in the islands||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/filmmaker-aisha-sultana-moves-hc-seeking-anticipatory-bail-997371.html
14-06-2021||National||'One Nation One Ration Card' empowers migrant workers: Centre to SC ||The Centre on Monday told the Supreme Court that its flagship programme of One Nation One Ration Card (ONORC) empowered migrant workers by ensuring food security across the country. It primarily aimed to enable migratory National Food Security Act (NFSA) beneficiaries to access the Public Distribution System (PDS) from any ePoS enabled fair price shop (FPS) in the country through portability.   In its written submission in suo moto case of problems and miseries of migrant workers, the Union government said, “The ONORC plan aims to empower all NFSA migrant beneficiaries to access their PDS/NFSA food grains from any Fair Price Shop (FPS) of their choice anywhere in the country by using their same/existing ration card with biometric authentication. In short, ONORC makes food security portable.”   As part of the ongoing technology-driven reforms under the Targeted Public Distribution System (TPDS) in the country, the government said, it had introduced the ONORC plan for the nationwide portability of the ration cards under NFSA.  “It is submitted that portability gives that choice, while at the same time enabling the family back home to draw the remainder of the eligible ration," the Centre said.   The document added that the government has extended the scheme for food grains for all the beneficiaries, who are not covered under NFSA and to whom ration cards have been issued by the state governments under their own scheme at 5 kg per person per month.   The Centre said under phase III of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY-III), allocation of food grains has been made to all the states/UTs for free of cost distribution to all the Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and Priority Household (PHH) beneficiaries from central pool at 5 kg/person/month for two months, May and June 2021.   “The above said allocation under PMGKAY-III has been made to all States/UTs in addition to their respective normal TPDS allocation as per NFSA, 2013. This scheme covers about 80 crore beneficiaries. The distribution under PMGKAY III is already underway. Also, its further extension for five 5 months up to November 2021,” the Centre said.   In order to tide over the difficulty of food security during the current crisis, the responsibility of identification and distribution to the beneficiaries lies with the states/UTs, it pointed out. “All the states/UTs have been advised through the communications dated May 20 and May 25, to avail their requirements of food grains through the mentioned schemes, to provide food grains to those who are not covered under the NFSA including migrants/stranded migrants, as per locally assessed requirements," it said. The top court last week had reserved its judgment in the matter. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-nation-one-ration-card-empowers-migrant-workers-centre-to-sc-997375.html
14-06-2021||National||Jaishankar, senior Kenyan ministers hold ministerial roundtable||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Kenya's top ministers on Monday discussed building a comprehensive partnership between the two countries at the Ministerial Roundtable here. The Ministerial Roundtable, chaired by Kenyan Foreign Minister Raychelle Omamo, reviewed all aspects of the bilateral relationship. The meeting was attended by Kenya's Defence Minister Monica Juma, Trade and Industry Minister Betty C Maina, Information and Communication Technology Minister Joe Mucheru EGH, Energy Minister Charles Keter, Asst Treasury Minister Nelson Gaichuhie, Assistant Health Minister Rashid Abdi Aman and Interior Secretary Eng Karanja Kibicho. After the meeting, Jaishankar in a tweet thanked the senior ministers for their valuable contributions and appreciated the "ideas, enthusiasm and commitment" of all the participants. "Discussed building a comprehensive partnership at the Ministerial Roundtable today. Thank FM Raychelle Omamo for chairing," he tweeted. Jaishankar, who arrived in Kenya on Saturday on a three-day visit to strengthen India's relations with the major East African country, earlier interacted with Indian business representatives here. On Sunday, he held a "productive" online interaction with a cross section of Indian diaspora in Kenya. The meeting was moderated by the High Commissioner of India to Kenya, Dr Virander Paul. Kenya has a vibrant community of persons of Indian origin presently numbered around 80,000, including an estimated 20,000 Indian citizens. India and Kenya are currently serving in the United Nation Security Council. They are also members of the Commonwealth. Kenya is an active member of the African Union, with which India has longstanding ties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-senior-kenyan-ministers-hold-ministerial-roundtable-997378.html
14-06-2021||National||Vaccines don't prevent Covid but help in keeping symptoms mild: Sangita Reddy||Vaccines don't prevent coronavirus infections but will help in keeping the symptoms mild, Apollo Hospitals Joint MD Sangita Reddy said on Monday. In a series of tweets, Reddy also said she was going home today after being hospitalised for coronavirus. "After 500 days of dodging Covid-19, I tested positive on June 10. My initial reaction was of shock & dismay - Why me? I was careful & vaccinated. Hospitalised with high fever I took the cocktail Regeneron therapy within the early window period & it has made a dramatic difference," she said. Highlighting the role of vaccines and timely diagnosis and treatment, she said, "The important point to remember - vaccine won't prevent Covid but will help keep symptoms mild. Timely diagnosis & treatment are key to a quick recovery." "As I go home today and continue self-isolation... My heartfelt gratitude to nursing staff, doctors...," she noted. Reddy has been emphasising that the government should move quickly to ramp up the availability of the Covid vaccines in the country by enhancing domestic production as well as increasing procurement from abroad. In a tweet on May 17, Reddy said, "The challenge of India's vaccination strategy is not admin as much as supply. I urge our govt to move quickly on ramping up domestic production... seek international aid in the form of vaccine & establish a district network of all public and private hospitals to accelerate the pace of inoculation."  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccines-dont-prevent-covid-but-help-in-keeping-symptoms-mild-sangita-reddy-997382.html
14-06-2021||National||Rajasthan govt to begin e-auction to mine sandstone to be used for Ram temple||The Rajasthan government will soon begin an online auction of a special pink sandstone variety, much sought after by builders including those constructing the Ram temple in Ayodhya, found in the Bansi Paharpur area of Bharatpur. A state government official Sunday said putting the mining blocks on auction became possible after the Union Ministry of Forest and Environment gave an in-principle approval for converting 398 hectares of Bandh Baretha Wildlife Sanctuary land for mining sandstone. About 70 mining blocks will be developed in the area soon for mining of the pink sandstone which is expected to generate a revenue of Rs 500 crore for the state government, Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) Mines and Petroleum Subodh Agrawal said. It would enable legal mining in the area and sandstone would be made available for Ram temple in Ayodhya through legal channels, he said. Mining was officially banned in the area in 2016 but illegal operations continued and the Bansi Paharpur’s pink sandstone was available in the grey market. The Dholpur variant of the stone is said to be no match to the Bansi Paharpur stone. Agrawal said that due to the tireless efforts of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, Bansi Paharpur mining area has been marked out of Wildlife Sanctuary area in March last year. He said the permission for diversion of 398 hectare area of Bansi Paharpur area was issued by the Union Ministry of Forest, Environment and Climate on June 11. The ACS said that with the commencement of legal mining activities in this area, thousands of people will get direct and indirect employment. At the state level, the proposal to allow the mining special sandstone was cleared by a standing committee of the Rajasthan Wildlife Board in February, Authorities in the Congress-run Rajasthan had then denied that the move had anything to do with the Ram temple specifically. But Vishaa Hindu Parishad leader in Ayodhya Triloki Nath Pandey had approved of reports that this “technical problem” is now being sorted out. Thousands of tonnes of the pink sandstone mined in Bansi Paharpur have been sourced for the temple over the years, but much more is needed, he had said. There were concerns in Ayodhya that supplies of this stone with a unique pink hue would dry up. The supply of the stone took a hit after the Bharatpur administration seized 25 trucks loaded with illegally mined pink sandstone last September.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-govt-to-begin-e-auction-to-mine-sandstone-to-be-used-for-ram-temple-997388.html
14-06-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Ex-Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender joins BJP||In your evening news brief, monsoon rains have covered two-third of the country; centrally protected monuments to reopen on June 16 and former Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender joins BJP.  India's annual monsoon rains have covered two-thirds of the country, nearly a fortnight ahead of the normal schedule, a weather department official said on Monday, adding that conditions are favourable for further advancement into the north-western parts this week. The early arrival of monsoon rains in central and northern India will help farmers accelerate the sowing of summer-sown crops such as paddy rice, cotton, soybean and pulses, and may boost crop yields too.   The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) on Monday said that all centrally-protected monuments, sites and museums under it that were closed on account of the coronavirus pandemic will reopen from June 16.   Former Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender joined the BJP on Monday in the presence of Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan. Rajender has already tendered his resignation as the Huzurabad MLA and has also relinquished his membership of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS). (Source: DHNS/PTI/ Reuters)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-ex-telangana-health-minister-eatala-rajender-joins-bjp-997393.html
14-06-2021||National||8 FIRs in MP against reporters for exposing corruption: CPI(M)||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Monday hit out at the Madhya Pradesh government for adopting a "dictatorial attitude" and booking journalists who were exposing corruption. FIRs have been filed against eight journalists in the last two months for exposing administrative corruption or for demonstrating courage to put across facts to the people, CPI(M) state secretary Jaswinder Singh said in a statement. It was the first time the media was being attacked so brutally since the Emergency in the 1970s, Singh added. "The Khandwa collector got an FIR lodged against a reputed newspaper for highlighting the dearth of oxygen beds in a report on April 19. Ten days later, Indore Press Club president Arvind Tiwari was booked on April 29 for criticising MP minister Mahendra Singh Sisodia," Singh said. "In April, a civil surgeon got a case lodged against TV journalist Samer Dwivedi in Ashoknagar over a Covid-19 news report. Taveer Warsi was booked in Rajgarh, Rajesh Chourasia in Chhattarpur, Mehfooz Khan in Shahdol, Shubham Shrivastava in Sagar. The latest FIR was on journalist Pankaj Soni on June 12 on the complaint of an engineer after the former exposed a scam," Singh said in the CPI(M) statement. "All political parties, social organisations, intellectuals, and supporters of democracy must come together to oppose the MP government's dictatorial attitude," the CPI(M) statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8-firs-in-mp-against-reporters-for-exposing-corruption-cpim-997397.html
14-06-2021||National||GST Council has turned majoritarian, decisions not taken by consensus: Amit Mitra||West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra on Monday alleged that the GST council has turned majoritarian and decisions were no longer taken on the basis of a consensus as originally envisaged. He also said voices of the Group of Ministers in the council remained unheard. Mitra said that he had tried his best to "raise objections" during the 44th GST Council meeting on Saturday, but the virtual link was snapped at a "critical time". The veteran economist demanded a probe into how and who had "muted" his microphone when the meeting was in progress. "Authoritarianism and majoritarianism have taken over the GST Council... It's most unfortunate," he told reporters. Mitra had also written a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman after the meeting to record his "dissent" against the decisions of the council. "I was heard repeatedly in the meeting. But during the concluding part, I kept on raising my hand and you could see me... All (other) microphones were unmuted by the Centre's web management team. "My microphone was muted and I could see it... I am not a fool. Please investigate and let me know. Why was my microphone muted at a critical time when I wanted to put across my dissent? I am giving the benefit of the doubt," he said on Monday. Stressing that he shared a "very cordial relationship" with Sitharaman, Mitra said he is yet to receive a reply from her. Mitra had Saturday termed the GST Council's decision not to reduce taxes on Covid-19 vaccines as "anti-people". The council has slashed tax rates on coronavirus drugs such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab as well as on medical oxygen and oxygen concentrators but ignored demands for a reduction in taxes on vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gst-council-has-turned-majoritarian-decisions-not-taken-by-consensus-amit-mitra-997398.html
14-06-2021||National||Centre allocates additional vials of Amphotericin-B to states, UTs||The government on Monday allocated an additional 1,06,300 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin-B, used to treat 'black fungus' infection, to states, Union Territories (UTs) and central institutions, Union Minister Sadananda Gowda said. Amphotericin-B is used to treat mucormycosis, also known as 'black fungus', which damages the nose, eyes, sinuses, and sometimes even the brain. "Ensuring significant availability of Liposomal #Amphotericin B, additional 1,06,300 vials of the drug have been allocated across all the states/UTs and Central institutions today," the minister of chemicals and fertilisers tweeted. He added that another 53,000 vials of conventional Amphotericin-B have been given to states and UTs. "A total of 53,000 vials of Conventional #Amphotericin B have also been allocated to all the States/UTs & Central Institutions today," Gowda said. The allocation of the drug is being made to ensure its smooth supply and timely treatment of patients, he added. Liposomal formulations are less expensive and have less renal toxicity than simple Amphotericin B. Mucormycosis is a very rare infection that is caused by exposure to mucor mould which is commonly found in soil, plants, manure, and decaying fruits and vegetables. It affects the sinuses, the brain and the lungs and can be life-threatening in diabetic or severely immuno-compromised individuals such as cancer patients or people with HIV/AIDS. There has been an alarming number of cases of mucormycosis among patients with Covid-19 and those who have recently recovered. Doctors believe that mucormycosis may be triggered by the use of steroids, a life-saving treatment for severe and critically ill Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-allocates-additional-vials-of-amphotericin-b-to-states-uts-997402.html
14-06-2021||National||New Covid-19 variant 'Delta plus' identified; is it a concern for India?||The highly transmissible Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 has mutated further to form the ‘Delta plus’ or ‘AY.1’ variant but there is no immediate cause for concern in India as its incidence in the country is still low, scientists said. The new Delta plus variant has been formed due to a mutation in the Delta or B.1.617.2 variant, first identified in India and one of the drivers of the deadly second wave. Though there is no indication yet of the severity of the disease due to the new variant, Delta plus is resistant to the monoclonal antibody cocktail treatment for Covid-19 recently authorised in India. “One of the emerging variants is B.1.617.2.1 also known as AY.1 characterized by the acquisition of K417N mutation,” Vinod Scaria, clinician and scientist at Delhi’s CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), tweeted on Sunday.   The mutation, he said, is in the spike protein of SARS-COV-2, which helps the virus enter and infect the human cells.   According to Public Health England, 63 genomes of Delta (B.1.617.2) with the new K417N mutation have been identified so far on the global science initiative GISAID.   In its latest report on coronavirus variants, updated till last Friday, the health agency said Delta plus was present in six genomes from India as of June 7.   “The variant frequency for K417N is not much in India at this point in time. The sequences are mostly from Europe, Asia and America,” Scaria wrote on Twitter.   The earliest sequence of this genome was found in Europe in late March this year.   Noting that the travel histories for the variant are not readily available to make assumptions, Scaria said an important point to consider regarding K417N is the “evidence suggesting resistance to monoclonal antibodies Casirivimab and Imdevimab”. This cocktail recently received emergency-use authorization in the country from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation. Drug majors Roche India and Ciplas have priced the antibody cocktail at a steep Rs 59,750 per dose.   Similar to antibodies which are proteins that the body naturally produces to defend itself against the disease, monoclonal antibodies are artificially created in a lab and tailor-made to fight the disease they treat.   Casirivimab and Imdevimab are monoclonal antibodies that are specifically directed against the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2, and designed to block the virus' attachment and entry into human cells.   Scaria also indicated the mutation may be associated with the ability to escape the immune response against the virus. Allaying fears, immunologist Vineeta Bal noted that while there may be some setback in the use of commercial antibody cocktail due to the new variant, resistance to the therapy is not an indication of higher virulence or severity of a disease.   “How transmissible this new variant is will be a crucial factor to determine its rapid spread or otherwise,” Bal, guest faculty at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, told PTI.   She also noted that the quality and quantity of neutralising antibodies, responsible for defending cells from pathogens, generated in the individual infected with the new variant is unlikely to be affected because of the mutation.   “Thus in individuals catching infection with the new variant, it may not be a matter worth worrying,” she added.  Pulmonologist and medical researcher Anurag Agrawal concurred.   “There is no cause of concern due to the new variant in India as of now,” Agrawal, the director of CSIR-IGIB, told PTI. The scientist said the blood plasma from many fully vaccinated individuals will have to be tested against this variant to determine whether it shows any significant immune escape.  As the Delta variant continues to evolve and acquire new mutations, there is a lot of interest in understanding its evolution. He said SARS-CoV-2 has a nearly constant rate of acquiring genetic variants, and each variant has acquired additional variants in a stepwise fashion. “Understanding this continued evolution is of great importance in mapping the evolutionary landscape of emerging variants. Largely the virus has tried to optimise for transmission and immune escape by step-wise acquisition of new mutations,” he added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-covid-19-variant-delta-plus-identified-is-it-a-concern-for-india-997412.html
14-06-2021||National||Under Secy officers to attend office on all working days||All officers of at the level of Under Secretary and above have been asked to attend offices on all working days while persons with disabilities and pregnant women employees would continue to work from home, a Personnel Ministry order issued on Monday said. As regards government servants of the level below Under Secretaries, 50 per cent of such officials shall attend office on all working days and the remaining shall work from home, said the order issued to all central government ministries/departments. The Personnel Ministry has come up with guidelines to regulate attendance in government offices "in view of the fact that number of Covid cases and positivity rate have reduced considerably". "All government servants at the level of Under Secretary and above to attend office on all working days," it said. All officers/staff have to ensure strict compliance with Covid-appropriate behaviour viz. frequent washing of hands/sanitisation, wearing a mask/face cover, observing social distancing at all times and "any laxity in this regard shall be viewed seriously", the order said. The officers/staff shall follow staggered timings -- 9 am to 5.30 pm, 9.30 am to 6 pm and 10 am to 6.30 pm -- to avoid overcrowding in offices, it said. The persons with disabilities and pregnant women employees shall continue to be exempted from attending office but are required to work from home till further orders, the order said. All officers/staff residing in the containment zone shall be exempted from coming to offices till the containment zone is denotified, according to the order. Those officers/staff who are not attending office shall work from home and they should be available on telephone and other electronic means of communication at all times, the order said. "Meeting, as far as possible shall be conducted on video-conferencing and personal meetings with visitors, unless absolutely necessary in public interest, are to be avoided," it said. These instructions shall come into force from June 16 until June 30, the order said, adding that biometric attendance shall continue to be suspended and physical attendance registers to be maintained until further orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/under-secy-officers-to-attend-office-on-all-working-days-997414.html
14-06-2021||National||Arvind Kejriwal inaugurates Gujarat AAP office||Aiming to project the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) as an effective "alternative" to the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress in Gujarat in the 2022 Assembly elections, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday inaugurated his party's Gujarat state office in Ahmedabad. The new state headquarters of the AAP is located on Ashram Road. Till now, the AAP was functioning from a rented office located in a commercial complex in the Navrangpura area of the city. Before leaving for Delhi after his one-day visit to Ahmedabad, Kejriwal, also the national convener of the AAP, held a meeting with his party's key leaders from Gujarat at the circuit house, the AAP said in a statement. Earlier in the day, Kejriwal visited Vallabh Sadan, a Vaishnavite temple located on Ashram Road in the city and took darshan of the deity. Addressing reporters at the Vallabh sadan, Kejriwal said the AAP will contest all seats in Gujarat in the next year's elections and accused the BJP and Congress of having a "tacit alliance" between them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arvind-kejriwal-inaugurates-gujarat-aap-office-997421.html
14-06-2021||National||850 oxygen plants being set up in various districts from PM-CARES fund: DRDO chief||As many as 850 oxygen plants are being set up in various districts from the PM-CARES fund, DRDO chief C Satheesh Reddy said Monday, as India emerges from the second wave of coronavirus which caused a major medical oxygen crisis across the country. Reddy highlighted during the 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav Discourse Series' by the Department of Science and Technology (DST) that the DRDO was prepared to provide all kinds of support including more "flying hospitals" when the need arises in the fight against coronavirus, a DST statement said. "We established temporary hospitals specific to Covid-19 in many cities (during the second wave). These are modular hospitals, we call it flying hospitals, and these have been made in a way that the virus does not go out of hospitals," he said. "If there is any third wave, all the hospitals will be taking the load, and the government is discussing these aspects with various stakeholders," Reddy said. During the peak of the second wave of coronavirus in April and May, India reported a severe medical oxygen supply crisis with hospitals in several parts of the country running short of the gas due to heightened demand. "A total of 850 oxygen plants are being set up in various districts of the country from PM-CARES fund for catering to the needs of the country to fight the pandemic Covid-19," said Reddy, according to the DST statement. He also underlined how the Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) is primarily carrying out research in advanced technology in defence, while also concentrating on developing low cost but high-quality technology for the benefit of people. DST Secretary Ashutosh Sharma talked about various steps taken by the Centre and the DST to fight the coronavirus pandemic and how to keep vaccines safe and to ensure they reach every nook and corner of the country. He also spoke about ways in which Artificial Intelligence (AI) could play a greater role in fighting the pandemic. "Technologies have been developed for storing and transporting vaccines to every nook and corner of the country. New ways of storing vaccines have been developed as per the Indian conditions. "Convergence of technologies is the future, and AI can play a great role in diagnostics, telemedicine and will have tremendous importance in remote monitoring, diagnostics and decision-making in fighting the pandemic," Sharma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/850-oxygen-plants-being-set-up-in-various-districts-from-pm-cares-fund-drdo-chief-997427.html
14-06-2021||National||Post-poll violence in Bengal: Gang rape survivors move SC seeking SIT, independent agency probe||A 60-year-old woman and a 17-year-old minor girl from West Bengal have approached the Supreme Court alleging horrific gang rape by TMC workers, for their families' support to the BJP in the recently held Assembly election and sought SIT probe into all incidents of post-poll violence.   The 60-year-old woman alleged that she was raped in front of her six-year-old grandson by TMC workers on the intervening night of May 4-5, in "a glaring living example of the nature of post-poll violence unleashed throughout the state against family members of those who opposed the interest of the ruling party".  The woman said on May 3, after the declaration of poll results, a large mob of 100-200 people, which mainly comprised of TMC supporters, surrounded her and asked the family to leave the house. “After BJP emerged victorious in the Assembly constituency (Khejuri), workers of the ruling party in the state got infuriated and started burning down houses of BJP supporters, hurling bombs, even inflicting physical torture and looting jewellery and other valuables," the woman’s application read.        While history is replete with gruesome instances where rape was employed as a strategy to terrorise the enemy civilian population and to demoralise enemy troops, never have such cruel crimes been committed against a woman for her or her family's participation in the democratic process, it said.  “Not merely the said crimes were facilitated by the inaction of the state authorities/police, but what was shocking is the post-crime humiliation that the rape survivors were subjected to, for their perceived audacity in reporting the crime," it added.    The victim alleged that the police refused to register the case when her son-in-law tried to report the incident, and after her daughter-in-law persisted, an FIR was filed only against one, despite the naming of the five accused. The woman was later treated at a hospital, where medical examination confirmed rape.  A 17-year-old minor girl from the Scheduled Caste community also approached the top court seeking SIT/CBI investigation into her alleged gang rape by TMC workers on May 9, when she was returning home with her friends. The victim claimed that she was raped by four TMC workers for more than an hour as a "lesson" for her family supporting BJP.  The victim asked the top court to shift the trial out of the state, alleging the police were pressuring her family saying their other daughter may face the same consequences. The applications were filed in a pending case by Biswajit Sarkar, the brother of deceased Bengal BJP worker Abhijit Sarkar, allegedly murdered in post-poll violence in West Bengal.  The court, which had already issued notice on Sarkar’s plea, would take up the matter on Tuesday. In a response to the plea for a CBI probe into post-poll violence, the West Bengal government told the court that no interference was required as the High Court was already seized of the matter.  In an affidavit, the West Bengal government claimed the allegations were misleading and politically motivated. It also said the state was cooperating with National Commission for Women already probing violence. It also said the FIR was already lodged, arrests were made and compensation paid to the victims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/post-poll-violence-in-bengal-gang-rape-survivors-move-sc-seeking-sit-independent-agency-probe-997432.html
14-06-2021||National||Central govt officers above rank of Under Secretary asked to come to office on all working days||With the second wave of Covid-19 situation easing in the country, the Centre on Monday asked all its officers above the rank of Under Secretary to come to office on all working days while those residing in containment zones as well as disabled and pregnant personnel are allowed to work from home. Only half of the officers below the level of Under Secretaries will be allowed to work from office on a working day, while the rest will work from home, according to an order issued by the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT). All government servants at the level of Under Secretary and above will attend office on all working days. Persons with disabilities and pregnant women employees will continue to be exempted from attending office but are required to work from home till further orders. The offices will follow staggered timings to avoid overcrowding. A group of staff would report for duty at 9 am, followed by 9.30 am and 10 am. All officers and staff residing in the containment zone will be exempted from coming to offices till the containment zone is de-notified. According to the order, the officers and staff who are working from home should be available on telephone and other electronic means of communication at all times. Meetings, as far as possible, should be conducted on video conferencing and personal meetings with visitors, unless absolutely necessary in public interest, should be avoided, the order said. Proper cleaning and frequent sanitisation of the workplace, particularly of the frequently touched surfaces should be done. The heads of departments should also ensure non-crowding in corridors and canteens, it added. This order will be in effect till this month-end, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-govt-officers-above-rank-of-under-secretary-asked-to-come-to-office-on-all-working-days-997446.html
14-06-2021||National||India's contribution to climate change in last 200 years just 3%: Javadekar||Unbridled carbon emissions especially by Europe and the US over the last 200 years, and in the last 40 years by China have caused the climate change disaster, Union Environment Prakash Javadekar said on Monday. He also said that India's contribution to climate change in the last 200 years has been only three per cent. Developed nations owe $1.1 trillion to developing nations as a part of climate change mitigation under the Paris Agreement, and this was discussed at the G7 Summit, which concluded on Sunday, Javadekar said at the virtual 'Environment Conclave: Revival, Regeneration and Conservation of Nature'. "India's contribution to climate change in the last 200 years is just three per cent. The unbridled carbon emissions particularly by Europe, USA and in the last 40 years by China, caused climate change disaster. These countries prospered economically but polluted the world," he said. "India is one of the countries with the least contribution in climate change," Javadekar said at the webinar organised by the FICCI Ladies Organisation (FLO). The FLO is a wing of apex trade body Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI). The minister said that as part of the Paris agreement, rich countries promised to provide $100 billion each year to help developing nations combat climate change. "But for the last 11 years, nothing has come. In the just-concluded G7 meet yesterday they discussed this financial issue seriously because they know they cannot postpone it further," Javadekar said. He said that as soon as schools -- shut due to the Covid pandemic -- reopen, his ministry will initiate a nursery programme in 5,000 schools. Under this programme, students of classes six to eight will plant saplings and nurture them till they pass out from their schools, Javadekar said. "This will inculcate (in them) a habit of taking care of plants, bring discipline and will also help in generating much-needed oxygen (O2). This will be also introduced in IITs (Indian Institutes of Technology) and other higher education institutes soon," he said. Javadekar lauded the government's efforts to combat air pollution by introducing BS-VI emission norms for vehicles in April last year and completing the construction of the western and eastern peripheral expressways around Delhi, saying these have helped reduce pollution in the national capital in a big way. "The adoption of the zig-zag technology in 3,000 out of 6,000 brick kilns around the National Capital Region (NCR) has also helped in reduction of air pollution. Soon all brick kilns will follow the suit," he said. In zig-zag kilns, bricks are arranged to allow hot air to travel in a zigzag path which results in better mixing of air and fuel, allows complete combustion, reducing coal consumption by about 20 per cent. Javadekar added that the central government is also taking steps to ensure the country becomes free of single-use plastic by next year. In a statement, the FICCI FLO said that the conclave was aimed at spreading awareness about issues related to the environment and to collectively work together for a better world. Speaking at the conclave, FICCI FLO president Ujjwala Singhania said the FLO encourages its members' enterprises to manage their triple bottom line - profits, people and planet. "There is an urgent need to formulate a development model which focuses on responsible and eco-friendly government policies that will promote sustainable use of natural resources," she said. "The FLO this year has taken the pledge of planting over one lakh trees by our 18 chapters across India. An impactful beginning to this initiative was made on World Environment Day," Singhania said. She said that the FLO has adopted 143 villages across India with an objective to ensure integrated development with adequate infrastructure and to develop eco-friendly small-scale industries to create sustainable livelihood. Chair of the FICCI environment committee Mukund Rajan said that with global warming and climate change taking a toll on the planet, there is a need to focus more on preserving bio-diversity. "Global warming and climate change are taking a toll on us in form of various natural disasters, cyclones, extreme climate events and ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. This shows we should focus more on preserving biodiversity and our corporates to find solutions for environmental challenges within the natural environment itself. Our markets are coping up to predict and cope with such events," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-contribution-to-climate-change-in-last-200-years-just-3-javadekar-997447.html
14-06-2021||National||World has to decouple trade policy, green goals: Goyal at UN Trade Forum 2021||Hoping that the developed countries will not use the inter-play of trade and climate challenge "too much", Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Monday said the world should decouple trade policy and its green goals. He also hoped that credit rating agencies and bodies like the IMF "which kind of dictate" the financial architecture of the world do not land up being unfairly harsh on the developing and less-developed countries as this is a time to become compassionate, more liberal and supportive to these nations. "I think a little longer rope needs to be given even to earlier agreements or earlier commitments so that these countries (developing and less developed) have space to bring their economies back on track," Goyal said at the UN Trade Forum 2021. Let the trade policy look for more inclusive growth all over the world and all the countries need to work towards climate justice and sustainable lifestyle. "We do hope that the developed world will not use the inter-play of trade and climate challenge too much because I think trade should allow all countries to prosper. "It should not create trade barriers which will ultimately become a hindrance to taking prosperity to the poorer, lesser developed countries," he said.  Goyal added: "I do believe that we have to decouple trade policy and our green goals". Rather, he said, the UN and the other multilateral agencies like the UNFCCC (United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) should focus on getting the world together to fulfil their commitments around climate change. The minister added that there should be differentiated responsibilities when it comes to the developing world or the less-developed countries, as they have to fulfil their commitments which they made in Paris particularly relating to capital, and technology. Further, Goyal said the world should learn lesson from the 2008 economic crisis and the developed world should not land up in "over adventurism" in terms of fiscal proliferation. Talking about healthcare, he said that under the Ayushman Bharat scheme, 500 million people have access to medical facilities free of charge and "we are going to expand it to 100 per cent coverage so that every citizen in India and every resident gets access to healthcare". The government is investing in upgrading healthcare facilities and expanding them, he added. About the forthcoming meeting of the World Trade Organization's (WTO) 12th ministerial conference in Geneva, Goyal said the members cannot prioritise only the agenda of the developed world. It has to address issues that have been long pending such as the asymmetry in agri subsidies and finding a permanent solution to the issue of public stockholding for food security purposes, he added. WTO Director-General Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said the member countries have agreed for text-based negotiations of the proposal of India and South Africa for temporary TRIPS waiver to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. "Now, we have revised text from proponents India and South Africa which is supported by the vast majority of developing countries. "It is going to be tough because still there are differences. We hope we can get a pragmatic approach. I am not in a hurry... I want to get some agreement by July because lives are involved," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-has-to-decouple-trade-policy-green-goals-goyal-at-un-trade-forum-2021-997451.html
14-06-2021||National||Emirates Group Security, GMRAA to offer airport security training||Aviation training providers Emirates Group Security (EGS) and GMR Aviation Academy (GMRAA), on Monday, decided to jointly promote cooperation for the development and exchange of information, technical expertise, and experiences in aviation security. As per the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed by the two companies, they will jointly offer more than 75 aviation and security courses in both online and conventional classroom settings – certificates, diplomas, undergraduate and postgraduate – to thousands of professionals in India as well as in the Middle East and Asian regions. The aim will be to educate and train aviation security personnel to plan, coordinate, and implement a broad range of airport security measures in accordance with national and international legislation, in a bid to address new and emerging challenges being faced by the industry, a GMR Group statement said. The efforts are part of wider critical initiatives to support the safe restoration of mobility and air travel across different regions, it said. “By investing in our workforce, and the global aviation community, we can bridge the gap between borders and create a tight-knit network of individuals capable of rising to any challenge,” Dr Abdulla Al Hashimi, Divisional Senior Vice President of Emirates Group Security, said. “Our association with the Emirates team will support us to showcase our mettle in the Middle-eastern/ Asian region. The customisation of the programme will help in assimilating and up-skilling of the aviation professionals and empower them to become good leaders,” said Ashwani Lohani, CEO of GMR Services Business.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/emirates-group-security-gmraa-to-offer-airport-security-training-997455.html
14-06-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination: No door-to-door drive in national policy, Centre tells HC||The Union government on Monday told the Bombay High Court that its national guidelines do not at present allow a door-to-door drive to vaccinate people against Covid-19. The Union government's counsel, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, said some state governments and municipal bodies had decided to ignore its advisory guidelines and were conducting door-to-door vaccination for special categories of citizens, but it was not possible yet to make such drives a part of the national policy. ASG Singh was responding to a previous query posed by a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni on what the Centre thought about the BMC's request seeking its permission to conduct door-to-door vaccination for the elderly, bedridden, or such category of citizens. "On the BMC's permission letter to Union ministry of health and family welfare, the ministry says its current advisory against such drives has been formulated based on recommendations of experts," ASG Singh said. "Some states and municipal bodies have been carrying out door-to-door vaccination but from the national angle, the national policy should be followed. We request the court to bear with us for sometime. For the time being, it is not practical or possible," he said. The ASG said the Centre, however, kept improvising and updating its policy from time to time and perhaps, sometime in future, it might permit door-to-door vaccination drives. ASG Singh said since the Union government's policy was merely advisory in nature, it had not asked states such as Kerala, Odisha, Jharkhand, which were conducting such drives, to roll them back. The HC then pointed out that in case Maharashtra, which has already expressed its desire to conduct door-to-door vaccination drives for the bedridden, decides to go ahead with it, then the state would stand on the same footing as the states mentioned above. The bench also asked the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) if it would follow the Centre or the state's guidelines in case Maharashtra began a door-to-door drive. "We will follow the state's guidelines. The state is thinking about the drive but issues like lack of manpower, since three persons will be needed to visit each person getting vaccinated, requirement of ambulance, and ensuring no wastage of vaccine, have to be considered," BMC counsel Anil Sakhre said. The state's counsel, Gita Shastri, told HC that while news reports had quoted state health minister Rajesh Tope expressing a willingness to begin door-to-door vaccination drives for the bedridden, and for formulating a separate protocol for the same, she was yet to take instructions as to when a final decision would be taken. The court was hearing a Public Interest Litigation filed by lawyer Dhruti Kapadia, seeking door-to-door vaccination drive for citizens above 75 years of age, and for those who were specially-abled or bedridden. HC said it will pass detailed directions on the same later this evening. It will hear the plea further on June 22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-no-door-to-door-drive-in-national-policy-centre-tells-hc-997458.html
14-06-2021||National||1984 riots case life convict seeks sentence suspension on med grounds, Delhi HC calls for report||The Delhi High Court on Monday called for a status report from the police regarding the health of a life convict in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case who has sought interim suspension of sentence for 90 days on medical grounds. A bench of Justices Navin Chawla and Asha Menon directed the police to file the fresh status report regarding the medical condition of convict Naresh Sehrawat before the next date of hearing on July 5. Advocate Dharam Raj Ohlan, representing Sehrawat, told the court that he was seeking interim suspension of sentence or parole of 90 days in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the High Powered Committee (HPC) set up for decongesting jails to prevent the spread of Covid-19 among prisoners. Ohlan contended that his client was suffering from stage 4 kidney and liver ailments for which transplants were the only option and till he gets a transplant he has to be on a special diet which would not be possible while in prison. The lawyer also told the bench that in view of Sehrawat's medical condition he was susceptible to Covid-19 infection. Opposing the plea, senior advocate R S Cheema, representing the Special Investigation Team (SIT), told the bench that Sehrawat has already received two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine and he was being well looked after. To this, Ohlan said that vaccination was not a 100 per cent guarantee or protection against Covid-19 infection. Cheema also told the court that the convict was being provided all the requisite medical treatment and there was no emergency right now for grant of any relief to him. An SIT was earlier set up by the Ministry of Home Affairs to reinvestigate the riot cases. The trial court had awarded death penalty to convict Yashpal Singh and life term to Naresh Sehrawat in the case relating to the killing of two men in New Delhi during the 1984 riots -- the first convictions in the cases reopened by the SIT. Sherawat has also appealed against his conviction and the sentence before the high court which is pending. The death reference as well as the appeal of Singh against the capital punishment awarded to him is also pending in the high court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1984-riots-case-life-convict-seeks-sentence-suspension-on-med-grounds-delhi-hc-calls-for-report-997465.html
14-06-2021||National||Chhattisgarh HC stays probe in toolkit FIR against Raman Singh, Sambit Patra||The Chhattisgarh High Court on Monday stayed investigation into an FIR registered against senior BJP leader and former chief minister Raman Singh and the party's national spokesperson Sambit Patra in connection with the alleged circulation of a fake toolkit. Justice Narendra Kumar Vyas granted interim relief after hearing writ petitions filed by Singh and Patra seeking for quashing of the FIRs, the petitioners' lawyer Vivek Sharma said. On May 19, an FIR was lodged at Civil Lines Police Station here based on the complaint of Akash Sharma, the president of National Students' Union of India's (NSUI) Chhattisgarh unit, with the latter alleging that Singh, Patra and others had circulated fabricated content on social media platforms using a fake letterhead of the Congress by projecting it as a toolkit developed by the party. During the hearing on the petitions on June 11, senior lawyers Mahesh Jethmalani, Ajay Burman and other counsels appeared for Singh and Patra, while senior lawyer Abhishek Manu Singhvi and state Advocate General Satish Chandra Verma argued for the state. After the hearing, the HC had sought a reply on the issue from the state government within three weeks and reserved its order over grant of interim relief to petitioners. The order was delivered on Monday. The HC, in separate orders, said, “If we see the face value of the FIR, no offence under Sections 504, 505(1)(b) and 505(1)(c) of IPC is made out as the averments of the FIR reflect that by the tweet of the petitioner, Congressmen are aggravated which clearly indicates that no public peace or tranquillity is being adversely affected and it is purely political rivalry between two political parties." “This, prima facie, establishes that present FIR has been registered with political motives,” the orders said, adding that "considering the facts of the case and from perusal of FIR, prima facie, no case is made out against the petitioner and criminal proceedings are manifestly attended against the petitioner with malafides or with political grudge". The HC said considering the facts and circumstances of the case, "continuation of investigation on basis of FIR will be nothing but an abuse of process of law". The HC said further investigation on the FIR shall remain stayed till the next hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-hc-stays-probe-in-toolkit-fir-against-raman-singh-sambit-patra-997471.html
14-06-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: New concerns rise but a few things to rejoice too||A new week brings new worries, and joys too, as India continues its battle against the ravaging second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.  Karnataka on Monday logged 6,835 fresh cases and 120 deaths, taking the infection count to 27,71,969 and toll to 33,033, the health department said. The state has 1,72,141 active cases whereas the total discharges stood at 25,66,774 with the recovery of 15,409 people today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-new-concerns-rise-but-a-few-things-to-rejoice-too-997474.html
14-06-2021||National||I-T dept allows manual filing of tax forms for foreign remittance as new e-filing portal continues to face glitches||The income tax department on Monday allowed manual filing of certain forms after the new tax filing portal continued to face tech glitches even after a week of its launch. The I-T department issued a circular allowing manual filing of Form 15CA/15CB (required for foreign remittances) with banks till June 30, so that business transactions may go on. The forms will be uploaded online on the e-filing portal later, it added. The new portal, www.incometax.gov.in, was launched last Monday (June 7), with the tax department as well as the government saying it was aimed at making compliance more taxpayer-friendly. But users complained of technical issues from the very first day and not everything has been fixed even after a week, chartered accountants (CAs) said, adding that taxpayers are unable to view past e-filed returns and many features/ facilities continue to be marked 'coming soon'. In a statement, the income tax department said, "In view of the difficulties reported by taxpayers in electronic filing of Income Tax Forms 15CA/15CB on the portal www.incometax.gov.in, it has been decided that taxpayers can submit the aforesaid Forms in manual format to the authorised dealers till June 30, 2021." The I-T department also advised authorised dealers to accept such forms till June 30, 2021 for the purpose of foreign remittances. "A facility will be provided on the new e-filing portal to upload these forms at a later date for the purpose of generation of the Document Identification Number," the statement added. Any person who needs to make a foreign outward remittance, needs to file an online form/ declaration in Form 15CA specifying nature of transaction and amount of income tax deducted on such foreign remittance. In certain cases, this Form 15CA is also backed by a chartered accountant's certificate in Form 15CB, who certifies that appropriate income tax has been deducted on such remittance. Such forms (15CA and 15CB) were required to be filled online using income tax e-filing portal. Nangia & Co LLP Partner Shailesh Kumar said due to shutdown of old e-filing portal post May 31, 2021 and technical snags being faced with the new portal, filing of online Forms 15CA and 15CB has not been possible till now. "This had created a significant hardship for businesses, which required payment to be made outside India, for placing the orders or for obtaining licenses or meeting their commercial obligations.  "However, banks were not permitting foreign remittance, for want of Form 15CA/15CB. This practical problem had brought many business transactions on a standstill," Kumar said. Realising the hardships of businesses, the government has issued this circular allowing manual filing of Form 15CA/15CB with banks till June 30, so that business transactions may go on despite the technical snags in new e-filing portal, he added. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman herself had asked Infosys -- the vendor which created the portal -- and its Chairman Nandan Nilekani to fix the technical glitches. A day after the launch of the portal, social media users had flagged glitches in the new e-filing website to the finance minister. Following that, Sitharaman took to Twitter and asked Infosys and its chairman to fix the problem. Replying to the tweet, Nilekani had said Infosys is working to fix the glitches. Infosys was in 2019 awarded a contract to develop the next-generation income tax filing system to reduce processing time for returns from 63 days to one day and expedite refunds. Kumar said starting from the struggle to log in to the portal to important features such 'e-proceedings' tabs being unavailable with a message displayed 'coming soon', there is anxiousness among the taxpayers and tax professionals with respect to orders being passed and non-compliance of notices without getting a sufficient opportunity to present a case. "The taxpayers could face penalty consequences for reasons beyond their control. Also, taxpayers are facing a major challenge for remitting funds abroad as they are unable to issue Form 15CA/ CB. "Even after one week of going live, the aforesaid are not minor glitches and require immediate attention/ resolution," Kumar said. The new IT portal, rather than being user-friendly, is turning out to be a nightmare presently, he added. AMRG & Associates Senior Partner Rajat Mohan said the common issues frequently faced on the portal since last week includes login taking 10-15 minutes, inability to file responses to the assessment notices, data related to past filings not being visible on the portal and e-proceedings module not being fully functional. "New income tax portal needs to be fixed at the earliest; numerous errors and glitches are causing inconvenience for the taxpayers and tax professionals,” Mohan added. Deloitte India Partner Aarti Raote said the new tax portal has raised expectations from all. However, many who accessed the site felt it was slow and several existing features were also not accessible. "Users were faced with access and login challenges. The tax department has also indicated that the Digital Signature would need to be re-registered on account of security reasons. Thus benefits of the new portal would be seen when these initial glitches are addressed," Raote added. Dhruva Advisors LLP Partner Sandeep Bhalla said the classification interface of the new website seems to be user friendly with user manuals for each type of users, but the site itself is pretty slow and takes quite some time for small things like updating of profile. "A basic thing such as changing password could take several minutes. The various forms required to be filed for lower withholding applications... are difficult to find. The data of earlier rectifications etc filed on the earlier e-portal does not reflect and throws up error message," Bhalla added. One sometimes wonders on the timing for the new launch when the advance tax timing was round the corner and deadline for completion of assessments is end of the month, which has been extended multiple times only due to pandemic and now timing of this glitch, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-t-dept-allows-manual-filing-of-tax-forms-for-foreign-remittance-as-new-e-filing-portal-continues-to-face-glitches-997475.html
14-06-2021||National||MHA's order on citizenship only for legal migrants, not related to CAA: Govt tells Supreme Court||The Centre has opposed before the Supreme Court a plea questioning validity of the May 28, 2021 order, which was related to granting citizenship to "legal migrants" and had "no relation whatsoever with the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019". "The existing law and procedure for acquiring citizenship of India is in no way sought to be amended through the notification," the Ministry of Home Affairs said. The Ministry filed an affidavit in response to an application filed by the Indian Union Muslim League for a stay on the May 28 order, in view of the pendency of a batch of petitions challenging the validity of the CAA, 2019. The IUML called the notification illegal as it allowed certain districts to grant citizenship to non-Muslim refugees from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan. The government, for its part, maintained that the said notification, issued on several representations, including those from current Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot in 2004 and 2009, does not provide for any relaxations to the foreigners and applies only to those who have entered the country legally with valid passports and visas.  "The notification is concerning the mere delegation of power vested with the central government. It has no relation whatsoever with the CAA," the government said, contending it was inconceivable how the present application could be filed in the pending matter. It further said similar notifications were issued on December 23, 2016, October 23, 2018, February 28, 2004, February 22, 2005, and July 12, 2006, regarding delegation of power to district collectors to grant citizenship. With the notification, the power to grant citizenship was delegated to the Collectors of 13 more districts i.e. Morbi, Rajkot, Patan and Vadodara in Gujarat, Jalore, Udaipur, Pali, Barmer and Sirohi in Rajasthan, Durg and Balodabazar in Chhattisgarh, Faridabad in Haryana and Jalandhar in Punjab and to the Home Secretaries of two more States i.e. Haryana and Punjab.  "Therefore, now District Collectors of 29 districts and Home Secretaries of nine States will exercise powers of the Central government to grant citizenship to the specified category of foreigners," it said. The top court is scheduled to take up the matter on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mhas-order-on-citizenship-only-for-legal-migrants-not-related-to-caa-govt-tells-supreme-court-997478.html
14-06-2021||National||High inflation due to daily rise in fuel prices: Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Monday said the reason for the high inflation in the country is the daily rise in petrol and diesel prices. His comments came on a day when retail inflation rose to 6.3 per cent in May, breaching the RBI's comfort level, on the back of costlier food items. "WPI Inflation is 12.94 percent. CPI Inflation is 6.3 percent. Do you want to know why? Fuel and Power inflation is 37.61 per cent. Thanks to PM Modi raising petrol and diesel prices every day," Chidambaram said on Twitter. "Food inflation is 6.3 per cent. Do you know why? Pulses inflation is 9.39 percent. Edible oil inflation is 30 percent. These are high marks for competent economic management," the former finance minister added. The wholesale price-based inflation accelerated to a record 12.94 per cent in May, on account of rising prices of crude oil, manufactured goods and a low base of last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/high-inflation-due-to-daily-rise-in-fuel-prices-chidambaram-997479.html
14-06-2021||National||Rajasthan lowers VAT on diesel for mining sector||The Rajasthan government on Monday decided to reduce the VAT on diesel for the mining sector in the state. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has approved the draft notification to provide cheaper diesel with a view of providing relief to the mining sector businesses. According to the proposal of the state finance department, bulk purchase of diesel for commercial activities is done from outside the state due to the cheaper price of the fuel in the neighbouring states of Rajasthan. In the past, manufacturing industries have been given concession in the state value added tax (VAT) on purchase of diesel from oil marketing companies located in the state. In this sequence, the mining industry will also be given benefit of reduced VAT on buying diesel from the oil marketing companies located in Rajasthan, an official statement said. With this decision, the mining sector will get the benefit of purchasing diesel at lower rate in Rajasthan itself and the state government will get an additional revenue of Rs 108.84 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-lowers-vat-on-diesel-for-mining-sector-997482.html
14-06-2021||National||Govt aims to increase Janaushadhi outlets to 10K by March 2024: Mandaviya||The government is looking to increase the number of Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Kendras (PMBJKs) in the country to 10,000 by March 2024, Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilisers Mansukh Mandaviya said on Monday. The minister stated the government's expansion plan for the PMBJKs while virtually inaugurating an outlet at Pragpur in the Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh. As on June 11, 2021, there were 7,836 PMBJK outlets across the country. In Himachal Pradesh alone, there are already 66 Jan Aushadhi Kendras, Mandaviya noted. He added that under the Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana (PMBJP), all the districts of the country are being covered. PMBJP is ensuring easy reach of affordable medicine to the people in every nook and corner of the country, he stated. Mandaviya noted that even in a situation like Covid-19, the role of Jan Aushadhi Kendras has become important. The 7,836 Jan Aushadhi Kendras are operating day and night tirelessly to serve the poor and the needy, he added. Apart from selling affordable and quality generic medicines, many Jan Aushadhi Kendras have distributed ration kits, cooked food and free medicines to the needy people during the lockdown period, Mandaviya said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-aims-to-increase-janaushadhi-outlets-to-10k-by-march-2024-mandaviya-997483.html
14-06-2021||National||Objectionable content relating to Hindu gods, goddesses removed: Instagram tells HC||Instagram has informed the Delhi High Court that it removed certain objectionable content relating to Hindu gods and goddesses posted by a user on its platform. Justice Rekha Palli also issued notice and sought response of Facebook and Instagram on a plea seeking direction to implement Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code) Rules 2021 in its true letter and spirit. The court was informed by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, representing Facebook which owns Instagram, that the content has already been removed and assured that keeping in view the grievance raised by the petitioner, the respondents will not disseminate the copies of the petition to any unrelated third party. He also submitted that a Grievance Officer has already been appointed by Facebook under the new IT Rules, and the person concerned will also function in the same capacity for Instagram.  The court also issued notice and sought response of the Centre on a prayer that the government and the social media networks be directed to discharge their executive, statutory and all other obligations in relation to the IT Rules without any delay and listed the matter for further hearing on August 16 before the regular bench. Petitioner Aditya Singh Deshwal submitted that while using Instagram, he found highly obnoxious or objectionable posts put up by a user named as ‘Islam Ki Sherni’ and that the content uploaded showed abusive language written about Hindu gods and goddesses along with their vulgar representation in the form of cartoons and graphics. The petitioner, represented through senior advocate G Tushar Rao and lawyer Ayush Saxena, sought that the content should be removed at the earliest from the platform. The plea has also sought direction to Instagram to preserve all the details associated with these user accounts and place them before the court to expose the identity of culprits behind these objectionable posts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/objectionable-content-relating-to-hindu-gods-goddesses-removed-instagram-tells-hc-997485.html
14-06-2021||National||Delhi HC declines stay on trial court order asking IMA chief not to use platform to promote religion||The Delhi High Court on Monday declined to stay a trial court order asking Indian Medical Association president J A Jayalal not to use the organisation’s platform to propagate any religion.  Justice Asha Menon refused to pass any ex-parte order as nobody appeared on behalf of the complainant, who had approached the Delhi court.  In June 4 order, Additional District Judge Ajay Goel noted "admission" of Dr Jayalal of an interview given to 'Christian Today' on March 30 wherein "he gave credit to Jesus for reducing the Corona outbreak", saying it is "not in good taste" and "seemingly not in harmony with the Constitution". "Saying Christianity and Allopathy are the same and is the gift by western world would be the most inaccurate assertion. Sushrata who was an Indian is considered God of surgery, which is integral aspect of Allopathy," the court had said.  The order had then come on a suit by Rohit Jha to restrain Jayalal from denigrating Hinduism and Ayurveda. On a plea by Jayalal against the order, the High Court said it will examine the matter and issued notice to Jha. Advocate Tanmaya Mehta, representing Jayalal, claimed he never gave assurance to the trial court since he has not done anything wrong, and sought a stay on the order. He claimed that the order was affecting his reputation as he was heading a body that has 3.5 lakh doctors as its members. He claimed the suit before the trial court was based on fake news.  The High Court has scheduled the matter for hearing on June 16.   Jha alleged Jayalal was misusing his position IMA chief and launched a malicious and defamatory campaign against Hindu religion in the garb of proving superiority of allopathic medicines over Ayurveda in Covid patient’s treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-declines-stay-on-trial-court-order-asking-ima-chief-not-to-use-platform-to-promote-religion-997498.html
14-06-2021||National||Was beaten up, forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram', elderly Muslim man says in viral video; police say no such allegations in FIR||In a viral video posted on social media, elderly Muslim man Abdul Samad Saifi accused four men of beating him up, chopping his beard and asking him to chant “Jai Shri Ram” in the Loni area of Ghaziabad. The Ghaziabad police said it had already registered an FIR and had arrested one man, Parvesh Gurjar, for his involvement in the incident, which took place on June 5 but was reported to the police two days later. Ghaziabad Senior Superintendent of Police Amit Pathak, however, said that the victim Saifi, a Bulandshahr resident, had not made an allegation of being forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' or the chopping of his beard, in his FIR lodged on June 7. "How come he is making new allegations now on June 14?" asked Pathak, saying that someone might have instigated him to make new allegations. Ghaziabad (Rural) SP Iraj Raja said that Gurjar was arrested a few days after the incident for his role in another criminal case, but was found to be involved in the assault on Saifi. So, he was placed under arrest in this case as well. Raja said the motive behind the beating up of Saifi by Gurjar and his associates was a dispute between the two over the purchase of an amulet. Saifi allegedly practised occultism and sold the amulet to Gurjar, purportedly to free one of his family members from an "evil effect" but a dispute arose between the two as the desired result was not achieved, Raja said. After Gurjar's arrest, the police repeatedly summoned Saifi to join the investigation, but he never came to the police, the SSP said, adding he was also summoned on Monday, but he was yet to appear. In the viral video, Saifi showed his injuries and said that he was abducted from the Gokulpuri area when he took an auto for Loni in Ghaziabad. The auto already had two people in it when he hired it while two more boarded the vehicle a little distance ahead, said Saifi. The four suddenly pounced on him, covered his head with a cloth and began beating him up inside the auto, Saifi said. "They eventually drove me to a secluded house in a field in the Behta Hazipur village of Loni where they beat me up further while asking me to chant Jai Shri Ram," said Saifi in the video. "Every time I cried out in pain and uttered Allah, they beat me up again and asked me to chant Jai Shri Ram instead," said Saifi. "They even chopped off my beard, calling me a Pakistani spy."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/was-beaten-up-forced-to-chant-jai-shri-ram-elderly-muslim-man-says-in-viral-video-police-say-no-such-allegations-in-fir-997499.html
14-06-2021||National||Farmers across India suffering due to Centre's indifference: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said farmers across the country are suffering due to the Centre's indifference, and vowed to fight for the welfare of the "very backbone" of society. Banerjee also said the day marked the 10th year of the Singur Land Rehabilitation and Development Bill that was passed in the assembly after a "long struggle". "Today, it pains me that across the nation our farmer brethren are suffering owing to the indifference of the Centre. Together, we shall continue our fight to ensure the well-being of the very backbone of our society. Upholding their rights remains a top priority," the CM tweeted. "On this day, 10 years back, the Singur Land Rehabilitation and Development Bill 2011 was passed in the WB assembly after a long & difficult struggle. We unitedly fought for the rights of our farmers & addressed their grievances, bringing in positive change in their lives," she added. The Trinamool Congress supremo has been raising her voice and rendering support to the farmers' protests against the controversial agri laws passed in Parliament last year. Sha had also assured farmer leaders led by Rakesh Tikait and Yudhvir Singh during a meeting last week of support to their agitation against the three farm laws. The Bhartiya Kisan Union led by Tikait and Singh had supported the 'No vote for BJP' campaign ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections, and have plans to extend that in other upcoming state elections as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-across-india-suffering-due-to-centres-indifference-mamata-997504.html
14-06-2021||National||Liquor shops open in Tamil Nadu after a month||After being shut for over a month, TASMAC liquor outlets in 27 districts in Tamil Nadu, including Chennai, opened their shutters on Monday as lockdown relaxations announced by the state government came into effect on Monday. TASMAC shops in 27 of the total 38 districts opened at 10 am on Monday and functioned till 5 pm. The government allowed these shops to reopen as the daily Covid-19 cases came under control. The remaining 11 districts are still reporting high infection rate. The government has issued strict guidelines to be followed at the TASMAC shops and police have also been deployed to control the crowd. Tipplers were seen waiting outside the shops since early morning and posed for shutterbugs when they had their “dose” in their hands. In a video message to the people of the state, Chief Minister M K Stalin appealed to the public to strictly adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour. He stressed wearing masks in public and maintaining social distancing at public places. Stalin also said the government allowed TASMAC shops to function only to discourage people from consuming illicit arrack and smuggled liquor. He also warned that the relaxations will be withdrawn if rules are not followed properly. This decision to reopen the shops met with stiff opposition from the BJP, which accused the ruling party of adopting “double standards”. The DMK had opposed the reopening of TASMAC shops during the first wave when AIADMK was ruling the state. TASMAC, one of the major revenue-generating sources for the state government, sells liquor for about Rs 30,000 crore a year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/liquor-shops-open-in-tamil-nadu-after-a-month-997506.html
14-06-2021||National||Vatican rejects Sister Lucy Kalapura's appeal, confirms dismissal||Apostolic Signatura, the supreme authority of the Catholic church at the Vatican, has rejected the appeal of a Kerala nun against dismissal from the Franciscan Clarist Congregation under the Roman Catholic Church. Lucy Kalapura, who faced the action after she participated in protests against Jalandhar bishop Franco Mulakkal, has been fighting against an order removing her from the FCC. She had even sought an opportunity for a personal hearing by the Vatican and Pope Francis's intervention into the decision of the FCC to expel her. FCC superior general Sister Ann Joseph issued a letter on Sunday stating that since Kalapura's appeals were rejected and dismissal confirmed by the supreme authorities Kalapura should now vacate the convent at Mananthavady in Wayanad. Kalapura was also warned of legal action if she did not vacate. Kalapura could no longer wear the religious habit of the FCC hereafter and she would not be entitled to any benefits as he as dismissed, said the superior general. However, Kalapura told a section of the media that she would remain at the convent until she was given an opportunity to present her side. She said that she was suspecting that those actions were taken against her based on fabricated documents. Sister Lucy was suspended citing various charges, including purchasing car and publishing books without the permission of the church, causing insult to the church by making a false accusation against the church leadership in television discussions and taking part in the stir against Franco without the church’s permission. An autobiography published by the nun also alleged sexual harassment of nuns by priests in the church.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vatican-rejects-sister-lucy-kalapuras-appeal-confirms-dismissal-997510.html
14-06-2021||National||Bellad meets Arun Singh in Delhi, complains against Yediyurappa||Hubballi-Dharwad (West) MLA Arvind Bellad, who identifies with the anti-Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa camp, met BJP National General Secretary (incharge Karnataka) Arun Singh on Monday and requested him to advise the CM to convene a legislative party meeting immediately. Bellad, who was in Delhi for 3 days to meet party leaders, was with Singh for around half an hour. What exactly transpired between the two leaders was not known, but sources in the BJP believed that Bellad complained that the CM was not hearing the MLAs' grievances, saying that most of them were unhappy with BSY's working style. He complained that frequent interference from the CM's family members in the administration brought a bad name to the government and the party. After hearing him out, Singh reportedly told Bellad that he would visit Bengaluru on June 16 and will speak to all leaders. Both Bellad and Singh refused to comment on the meeting.  Singh has avoided meeting any leaders from Karnataka in Delhi but he gave an appointment to Bellad to send a message among party leaders that he is ready to hear views from both sides, sources in the BJP said. Bellad also sought appointments with National President J P Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. During his previous visit to the national capital along with Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar, Bellad failed to meet any national leaders as they were hoping to avoid media speculation about the party affairs in Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bellad-meets-arun-singh-in-delhi-complains-against-yediyurappa-997511.html
14-06-2021||National||Explained: Why some Twitter users are losing followers||Twitter has met with several complaints from users, including Anupam Kher, who say they have lost followers in hordes in recent days. The microblogging site, on its part, has said the dip in followers is part of a regular clean-up. Actor Anupam Kher had last week asked the social media company if he had lost 80,000 followers in 36 hours as a result of a software glitch. Many others responded to his tweet, saying they had been facing a similar issue at varying degrees. 400 gone from mine. In a day😃   SirI have lost my 10 followers since yesterday. I have got hardly a few.It’s equally painful as if you loose a hair from your head ! I believe that you can understand the pain 😊 Regular practice However, Twitter has said the culling was likely a part of a regular practice that it undertook to remove accounts that seem to be inauthentic, deceptive or inactive. “We regularly challenge accounts to validate or confirm account details, like password or phone number, to better protect the integrity of the conversation on Twitter,” a spokesperson said in an emailed response. “Until accounts confirm additional information, they will be in a locked state and will not count toward follower counts. This means, follower counts may drop.” This basically means that Twitter asks users to regularly check in and confirm their details to verify that they are actual users and not accounts created to artificially increase follower counts or a range of other prohibited activities on the site. Platform manipulation and fake accounts According to Twitter’s platform manipulation and spam policy, attempts to “engage in bulk, aggressive, or deceptive activity that misleads others and/or disrupts their experience” come under platform manipulation. This includes everything from commercially-driven spam and fabricated conversations to fake accounts and coordinated attempts to create an unsafe environment for users. Twitter checks for a range of factors to identify such content and the accounts associated with it, including duplicating another account’s followers using automation, tweeting with excessive, unrelated hashtags in one or many tweets and posting misleading or deceptive links.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-why-some-twitter-users-are-losing-followers-997512.html
14-06-2021||National||'A year after Galwan clashes, India better prepared to deal with any eventualities'||A year after the deadly clashes between Indian and Chinese armies in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh, India is better prepared to deal with any eventualities along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as the trust deficit between the two sides persists, people in the defence establishment said on Monday. They said the Galwan Valley episode helped Indian security planners crystalise the country's approach towards China as well as recalibrate the short-term and long-term goals considering the possible security threats. In the first deadly clash in the border area in nearly five decades, 20 Indian soldiers were killed on June 15 last year in the Galwan Valley, triggering a large deployment of troops and heavy weaponry by both armies at the friction points. In February, China officially acknowledged that five Chinese military officers and soldiers were killed in the clashes with the Indian Army though it is widely believed that the death toll was higher. "We are much better prepared militarily. The Galwan Valley clashes helped us prioritise our national security approach towards the northern border," said one of the persons cited above. It is learnt that the Chinese military has also enhanced its positions in several depth areas in the high-altitude region. The people said the clashes also helped in hastening the "jointness" among the three services and cited the example of a united approach by the Indian Army and the Indian Air Force in dealing with the overall challenge along the LAC. "The clashes brought out a high degree of synergy between the Indian Army and the IAF," said another person. The people cited above said the "trust deficit" between the two sides still persists and India is fully ready to deal with any situation in eastern Ladakh and other sectors along the LAC. The ties between the two countries came under severe strain following the Galwan Valley clashes that took place over a month after the border standoff began between the Indian and Chinese militaries in multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh. Days after the incident, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar bluntly told his Chinese counterpart that the "unprecedented development will have a serious impact on the bilateral relationship.” India held the neighbouring country accountable for triggering the Ladakh standoff by violating rules of engagement on border management and conveyed that peace and tranquillity along the LAC is the basis for the progress of the rest of the relationship and they cannot be separated. Months later, Jaishankar and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi agreed on a five-point pact to resolve the row at a meeting in Moscow on September 10. The two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks. They are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. There was no visible forward movement in disengagement of troops in the remaining friction points as the Chinese side did not show flexibility in their approach on it at the 11th round of military talks. Last month, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane said that there can be no de-escalation without complete disengagement at all friction points in eastern Ladakh and that the Indian Army is prepared for all contingencies in the region. Gen Naravane also said that India is dealing with China in a "firm" and "non-escalatory" manner to ensure the sanctity of its claims in eastern Ladakh, and that it was even open to initiating confidence-building measures. India has been insisting on complete disengagement in remaining friction points to de-escalate the situation in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-year-after-galwan-clashes-india-better-prepared-to-deal-with-any-eventualities-997520.html
14-06-2021||National||Railways to operate additional trains to meet demand of passengers||With many states announcing unlock, Indian Railways is gearing up to operate more trains to meet the passengers' demand. Ticket booking has increased to more than 14 lakh per day compared to 5 lakh last month, said an official in the Railways. The Railways asked the zonal officers to be in touch with the state governments so that it can operate more trains depending on the local requirement. Most of the special trains, which will be operating from states including Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Assam, Jharkhand to cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. "Those migrant workers, who have gone to their home states after the lockdown was announced, have started returning to cities in search of jobs. To facilitate the passengers, the Railways is operating more trains," said the official. With many states relaxing the lockdown, the economic activities have started to pick up. The Railways also plan to operate general class sitting trains from the eastern states to states like Haryana and Punjab, where agricultural activities depend on migrant workers. Last week, Railway Board chairman Suneet Sharma told the media that Railways is keen to normalise the services at the earliest and will increase the services gradually. At present, Railways operate around 900 Special Mail Express trains every day on average. Before the second wave, Railways operated 1,500 trains daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-operate-additional-trains-to-meet-demand-of-passengers-997521.html
14-06-2021||National||PM says India on track to achieve Land Degradation Neutrality||India has a target of restoring 26 million hectares of degraded land by 2030 and it will help achieve an additional carbon sink of 2.5 to 3.0 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told the United Nations General Assembly on Monday. “We are on track to achieve our national commitment of Land Degradation Neutrality,” said the Prime Minister. He was delivering the keynote address during the high-level dialogue at the UNGA on desertification, land degradation and drought. “In India, over the last 10 years, around 3 million hectares of forest cover has been added. This has enhanced the combined forest cover to almost one fourth of the country’s total area.” The Prime Minister said that restoration of land would start a virtuous cycle of good soil health, increased land productivity, food security and improved livelihoods. The government had taken up some novel approaches for restoration of land in many parts of India. He cited the example of highly degraded land and very little rainfall at Banni in Rann of Kutch in Gujarat, where land restoration was done by developing grasslands, which helped in achieving land degradation neutrality. It also supported pastoral activities and livelihood by promoting animal husbandry, he told the UNGA. “In the spirit of South-South cooperation, India is assisting fellow developing countries to develop land restoration strategies. A Centre of Excellence is being set up in India to promote a scientific approach towards land degradation issues,” said the Prime Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-says-india-on-track-to-achieve-land-degradation-neutrality-997522.html
14-06-2021||National||Ayush Ministry's guidelines to protect children from Covid-19: All you need to know||Ayush Ministry has recently issued a 58-page ‘homecare guidelines’, mentioning preventive healthcare using Ayurvedic medicines for children, who are said to be the vulnerable group for a possible third wave of Covid-19 in India. It is also mentioned that few Ayurveda medicines, including other systems of Ayush, have been effective in treating Covid-19. However, the ministry has asked parents to consult a qualified Ayush physician as these are general guidelines and every child might need advice specific to their condition. “The guidelines are a supplement (add-on to present contemporary line of management) to the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and precautionary measures and it should not be taken as its substitute,” the document states. Covid-19 prevention protocol for children Like adults, children also need to wash their hands frequently, wear masks and practice social distancing. Making it mandatory for children in the age group of five to 18 years to wear masks, the guidelines mention, “Offering a small reward may be helpful in case the child is not willingly washing their hands.” Children between two and five years are advised to wear masks under parental supervision. Kids are advised to wear non-medical or fabric three-layered cotton masks. The guidelines advise children to stay at home as much as possible, adding, “Avoid attending public functions, social gatherings and crowded places like parks, religious places, markets and group play.” Ayurveda prophylactic measures for children The guidelines specifically mention that maintaining good hygiene is essential. Children above two years of age should do proper brushing twice a day while children above five years should do oil pulling and gargle with warm water. The norms also encourage oil massages, nasal application of oil and yoga practices like pranayama and meditation in children above five years. Under Ayurveda prophylactic measures and immunity-building solutions, children should be given turmeric milk, chawanprash and a decoction of traditional herbs (Ayush Bal Kwath). Having adequate sleep and a balanced diet is key to a healthy life. “Help follow the new normal with positivity. Tell them (children) how it helps rather than how difficult it is. Assure them that this is a passing phase. Instil hope by counting the blessings,” the document states. Protocol for suspected Covid-19 positive children The guidelines mention five warning signs — fever lasting beyond four-five days, decreased oral intake, the child becoming lethargic, increasing respiratory rate and oxygen saturation dropping below 95 per cent. “If any of them is present, one should take medical opinion,” it states. In case of symptoms, children can take Ayurvedic medicines after consulting any practitioner. Suspected Covid-19 positive children are advised to stay away from their grandparents as older people are at a higher risk of contracting the serious infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayush-ministrys-guidelines-to-protect-children-from-covid-19-all-you-need-to-know-997523.html
14-06-2021||National||Mehul Choksi is our citizen: Indian government to Dominica court||India has conveyed to a court in Dominica that fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi continues to be its citizen and must be repatriated from the Caribbean Sea island nation. Choksi renounced citizenship of India on December 14, 2018. He submitted his passport at the High Commission of India at Georgetown in Guyana along with the requisite citizenship renunciation fee. But the Government of India conveyed to him on March 15, 2019, that his plea for renunciation of citizenship had been rejected, Azad Singh, a diplomat of the High Commission of India at Port of Spain in Trinidad and Tobago, deposed in an affidavit submitted before the court in Dominica.  New Delhi has been trying to get him repatriated from Dominica to India, where he would have to stand trial for colluding with his nephew and jeweller Nirav Modi in defrauding the Punjab National Bank of Rs 13500 crore. The diamantaire was reported missing from Jolly Harbour township in Antigua and Barbuda on May 23 last. He was arrested from Canefield Beach in Roseau, the capital of Dominica, on May 26. He, however, alleged before the court in Roseau that he had been kidnapped from Antigua and Barbuda and brought to Dominica. The 62-year-old remains in the custody of the law enforcement agencies of Dominica - in a hospital in its capital city. The Government of India also deposed before the court that Choksi had taken the citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda fraudulently. Choksi was granted the citizenship of the A&B by the Browne’s Government in November 2017. He had taken oath as a citizen of A&B in January 2018 – just days after fleeing from India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mehul-choksi-is-our-citizen-indian-government-to-dominica-court-997524.html
14-06-2021||National||India working towards restoring 2.6 crore hectares of degraded land by 2030: PM||India is working towards restoring 2.6 crore hectares of degraded land by 2030 and assisting fellow developing countries to develop land-restoration strategies, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at a high-level UN dialogue on Monday. Asserting that land degradation affects over two-thirds of the world today, Modi said if left unchecked, it will erode the very foundations of our societies, economies, food security, health, safety and quality of life. "Therefore, we have to reduce the tremendous pressure on land and its resources. Clearly, a lot of work lies ahead of us. But we can do it. We can do it together," he said. The prime minister made these remarks in his virtual address at the UN "High-Level Dialogue on Desertification, Land Degradation and Drought" at the United Nations. He said India has taken the lead to highlight land-degradation issues at international forums and cited that the "Delhi Declaration" of 2019 called for better access and stewardship over land and emphasized gender-sensitive transformative projects.  "In India, over the last 10 years, around three million (30 lakh) hectares of forest cover had been added. This has enhanced the combined forest cover to almost one-fourth of the country's total area," the prime minister said. "We are on track to achieve our national commitment of land degradation neutrality. We are also working towards restoring 26 million (2.6 crore) hectares of degraded land by 2030," the prime minister said. This would contribute to India's commitment to achieve an additional carbon sink of 2.5 to 3 billion (250 to 300 crore) tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent, he added. "We believe that restoration of land can start a cycle for good soil health, increased land productivity, food security and improved livelihoods," the prime minister said. Noting that land degradation poses a special challenge to the developing world, Modi also told the meet that in the spirit of South-South cooperation, India is assisting fellow developing countries to develop land-restoration strategies. A centre of excellence is being set up in the country to promote a scientific approach towards land degradation issues, he said. "It is the mankind's collective responsibility to reverse the damage to land caused by human activity. It is our sacred duty to leave a healthy planet for our future generations," Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-working-towards-restoring-26-crore-hectares-of-degraded-land-by-2030-pm-997526.html
14-06-2021||National||Rise of modern Africa a 'long awaited expectation': Jaishankar||The rise of modern Africa is a "long awaited expectation", External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Monday, underlining that the decisions made by the international community will be really global only when the continent's voice is adequately heard and reform made in the leading bodies like the UN Security Council. Jaishankar said that both as a solidarity and a strategy, India stands with Africa. "Within our capacities, we have partnered with as much a large heart as with an open mind. Your priorities guide our initiatives," he said. Jaishankar made the comments during the inauguration of the renovated Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Library in the prestigious University of Nairobi. He arrived in Kenya on Saturday on a three-day visit to strengthen India's relations with the major East African country. "The rise of modern Africa is not just a noble sentiment, it is a long awaited expectation, even a profound calculation. It is only when this continent of more than a billion people takes its rightful place, that a full diversity of our planet will find proper expression. "It is then that we can justifiably declare that the world is truly multi polar. Decisions made by the international community will be really global only when Africa's voice is adequately heard. And that must happen most of all by reform in leading bodies like the UN Security Council where today India and Kenya have seats as non-permanent members for two years," he said. During the event, Jaishankar said that this is also a time to reflect on the larger significance of the relationship between India and Kenya. "India's association with this university goes back decades and the very memory of Mahatma Gandhi was meant to underline our strong solidarity. It also reminds us of the Kenyans with Indian heritage who have contributed so much for this university's growth and success," he said. The minister said that the sentiment has not diminished in the decades that have passed but has taken the form of practical South-South cooperation of which this project is one small example. There are numerous other activities that involve human resources and nurturing talent that stand as testimony to the deep bonds between the two countries, he said. Highlighting the initiatives taken by the two countries to strengthen the bilateral relationship, including in the educational sector, Jaishankar said these illustrations should evoke a discussion on how to refashion the relationship for contemporary times. "I believe that the core continues to be the solidarity forged by our shared struggle last century. But they must also take into account the new challenges that have emerged since," he said. Jaishankar said that the pandemic has brought home the dangers of relying on limited geographies. When supply chains are disrupted and demand outstrips supply, the more vulnerable will inevitably get short changed. "Africa cannot afford that to continue. And this goes against the very spirit of South-South cooperation. The direct lesson from the pandemic is the need today, pressing need I would say, for decentralised globalisation," he said. Underlining that due to the pandemic, health and food security have become far more central which makes a compelling case for enhancing capacities in Africa. "And that would only happen when partnerships genuinely aimed at Africa’s welfare deliver more extensively on development projects. Indeed, development itself will only unfold when it is based on deeper capacities," Jaishankar said. He said that his visit has contributed to a new agenda of cooperation that is now in the making and which is shaped by the vision that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Kenyan President President Uhuru Kenyatta have of the relationship. "In 1956, the statue of Mahatma Gandhi was unveiled at this University. Six decades later, the modernisation of this library is a reminder of what brings us together. "It is only by greater international cooperation and stronger capacities that result from it, that we can, in the Mahatma’s words, bring about the change we seek. India and Kenya have the opportunity to demonstrate that their partnership can make a difference," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rise-of-modern-africa-a-long-awaited-expectation-jaishankar-997535.html
14-06-2021||National||Unlike Prasada, Scindia, many Congress workers weren't served things on a platter: Jairam Ramesh||After Jitin Prasada quit the Congress and joined the BJP, severing his family's three-generation ties with the Congress, Jairam Ramesh said that he is "deeply saddened". Amid defections of young leaders – Jyotiraditya Scindia and now Jitin Prasada – to the BJP, the Congress leader said, “Incidentally, to both Scindia and Jintin Prasada, the Congress party gave everything at a very young age, but they seem to have felt that the pastures are greener on the other side." Ramesh further said that he has more respect for a politician who has been in BJP for 40 years than for a Congressman who leaves the party to join BJP.  “I don’t look upon this as joining ICICI or HDFC bank. You join a political party because of the party’s ideology and programme... For me, a political party is not like a job or employment... (You are) doing it out of a sense of commitment and allegiance to certain values,” he said. Earlier Congress veteran Kapil Sibal had said that from “aaya ram, gaya ram politics, it has come to "prasada politics now” and asked whether Jitin will get the 'prasada' from the BJP, suggesting that leaders were moving out of the party to serve their political interests. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unlike-prasada-scindia-many-congress-workers-werent-served-things-on-a-platter-jairam-ramesh-997537.html
14-06-2021||National||43% Indian consumers didn't buy made-in-China items but Covid-19 led to trade rise: Survey||About half of Indian consumers surveyed said they did not buy made-in-China products in the past 12 months as an aftermath of the border tensions with China, a report by online firm LocalCircles on Monday said. The report is based on a survey, which was conducted during June 1-10 and covered 17,800 citizens residing in 281 districts of the country. Imports from China, however, increased 42 per cent year-on-year during January-May 2021, due to a rise in the import of life-saving medical equipment and medical oxygen equipment by India from China, according to the report. "In reality, China's share in Indian imports for intermediate goods is 12 per cent, and capital goods is 30 per cent, while final consumer goods is 26 per cent. "The first question in the survey sought to understand how many products that were made in China did Indian consumers purchase in the past 12 months. In response, 43 per cent said they did not buy anything made in China," the report said. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in clash between India and Chinese troops in boarder escalation at the Galwan Valley in June 2020. The Indian Army in a statement had said that there were casualties on both sides. Breaking down the poll, LocalCircles said 34 per cent respondents said they purchased 1-2 products, and 8 per cent bought 3-5 of them. "There were also four per cent of consumers who bought 5-10 made-in-China products, three per cent said 10-15, one per cent said over 20, and another one per cent said 15-20 products. Six per cent of Indian consumers did not have an opinion," the report said. After the attack on Indian soldiers on the India-China border, many Indians had expressed their intent to boycott Chinese-made products. Another LocalCircles survey, conducted in November 2020 (around the festive season), indicated that 71 per cent of Indian consumers did not purchase Made-in-China products, and many of those who ended up buying was because of lower prices. "Though Chinese trade with India declined in calendar year 2020 by 5.6 per cent to $87.6 billion, the 5 months of calendar year 2021 show a 42 per cent increase in Chinese imports by value," the latest report said. It added that LocalCircles research suggests that this surge was particularly due to the rise in import of life-saving medical equipment and medical oxygen equipment by India from China as Covid-19 cases surged in the country. According to the latest survey report, household earnings were severely impacted with lockdowns and for some, buying the lowest cost product was not a choice but the only option and, hence, they ended up buying Chinese items. India's economic recovery, which looked on solid footing in January 2021 with leading global institutions predicting 11 per cent GDP growth for 2021-22, has hit another speed bump with the lethal second Covid-19 wave putting almost all states in a 45-60 day lockdown, the report said. They survey found that 60 per cent who bought made-in-China products purchased only 1-2 items, 14 per cent said they bought 3-5 products, seven per cent bought 5-10, two per cent said 10-15, and another two per cent said more than 20 products. "It must be kept in mind that there are many Made-in-China products that do not have an Indian counterpart that offer similar or higher value-quality-uniqueness combinations. "Similarly, many global manufacturers of gadgets and appliances have their factories in China producing for global demand and while such products may carry a global brand name, they are produced in China," the report said. It added that during the pandemic in 2020 and in 2021, many Indian purchased pulse oximeters to measure their SPo2 levels and 90 per cent of these oximeters available in India were made in China. "Majority Indian consumers who purchased made-in-China products did so because they are the cheapest available option and offer value for money," the report said. It, however, added that 40 per cent of them also highlighted uniqueness and 38 per cent highlighted quality as a differentiator and "that is something the Government of India and Indian manufacturers and MSMEs must act upon".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/43-indian-consumers-didnt-buy-made-in-china-items-but-covid-19-led-to-trade-rise-survey-997548.html
14-06-2021||National Politics||Congress alleges scams in donations in name of Lord Ram||The Congress on Sunday alleged that scams are happening by taking donations in the name of Lord Ram after two Opposition leaders accused Shriram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai of buying a piece of land at an inflated price for the Ram temple premises. The allegation that the land worth Rs 2 crore was brought at an inflated price of Rs 18.5 crore was made by two Opposition leaders -- AAP's Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh and a former minister in the Samajwadi Party government, Pawan Pandey. The allegation was strongly refuted by Rai. Tagging a tweet on Rai refuting the allegation, Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "Lord Ram, what kind of days are these? Scams are happening by taking donations in your name. Shameless robbers are intoxicated with arrogance like Ravana and are selling faith." हे राम,ये कैसे दिन... आपके नाम पर चंदे लेकर घोटाले हो रहे है।बेशर्म लुटेरे अब आस्था बेच ‘रावण’ से अहंकार में मदमस्त हैं। सवाल है कि ₹2 करोड़ में ख़रीदी ज़मीन 10 मिनट बाद ‘राम जन्मभूमि’ को ₹18.50 करोड़ में कैसे बेची? "The question is how the land bought for Rs 2 crore was sold after 10 minutes to 'Ram Janmabhoomi' for Rs 18.50 crores?" he asked. "Now it seems… Kans are ruling, Ravana is everywhere!" Surjewala said in a tweet in Hindi. Terming it a case of money laundering, Singh and Pandey both sought a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-alleges-scams-in-donations-in-name-of-lord-ram-997250.html
14-06-2021||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi greets people on Raja Parba festival||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday greeted people on the occasion of 'Raja Parba', a festival celebrated in Odisha. Raja Parba is a three-day-long festival. The second day signifies the beginning of the solar month of "Mithuna", marking the arrival of rains, according to the website of Odisha Tourism. "Best wishes on the auspicious occasion of Raja Parba. I pray for the good health and well-being of everyone," the prime minister tweeted. Best wishes on the auspicious occasion of Raja Parba. I pray for the good health and well-being of everyone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-greets-people-on-raja-parba-festival-997271.html
14-06-2021||National Politics||Misuse of donations of devotees is insult to faith: Priyanka Gandhi on alleged Ayodhya land scam||Amid charges of corruption in the land purchased by the Ram Janmabhoomi Trust in Ayodhya, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday said misuse of donations by devotees is a sin and an insult to their faith. "Crores of people made their offerings at the feet of God out of their faith and devotion. Misuse of those donations is  unrighteous  and is a sin and an insult to their faith," she said in a tweet in Hindi. करोड़ों लोगों ने आस्था और भक्ति के चलते भगवान के चरणों में चढ़ावा चढ़ाया। उस चंदे का दुरुपयोग अधर्म है, पाप है, उनकी आस्था का अपमान है। The Congress on Sunday alleged that scams are happening by taking donations in the name of Lord Ram after two opposition leaders accused Shriram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai of buying a piece of land at an inflated price for the Ram temple premises. The allegation that the land worth Rs 2 crore was brought at an inflated price of Rs 18.5 crore was made by AAP's Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh and a former minister in the Samajwadi Party government, Pawan Pandey. The allegation was strongly refuted by Rai. Tagging a tweet on Rai refuting the allegation, Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala had said on Sunday, "Lord Ram, what kind of days are these? Scams are happening by taking donations in your name. Shameless robbers are intoxicated with arrogance like Ravana and are selling faith." "The question is how the land bought for Rs 2 crore was sold after 10 minutes to 'Ram Janmabhoomi' for Rs 18.50 crores?" he asked. "Now it seems… Kans are ruling, Ravana is everywhere!" Surjewala had said in a tweet in Hindi. Terming it a case of money laundering, Singh and Pandey had sought a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/misuse-of-donations-of-devotees-is-insult-to-faith-priyanka-gandhi-on-alleged-ayodhya-land-scam-997333.html
14-06-2021||National Politics||AAP will contest all seats in Gujarat in 2022 Assembly polls: Arvind Kejriwal||After offering prayers to Lord Krishna in Ahmedabad on Monday during his second Gujarat visit this year, Delhi Chief Minister and national convener of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced that his party will be contesting all seats in the Assembly polls scheduled to be held at the end of 2022. The Delhi CM inaugurated the party's state office in Ahmedabad and formally announced the induction of popular television news anchor Isudan Gadhvi into the party. In February, Kejriwal had visited Surat for a roadshow after his party won 27 of the 120 seats in Surat Municipal Corporation for the first time and became the main opposition in the civic body, ousting the Congress. "The last 75 years is a story of Congress and BJP in the country. Here in Gujarat, one party has been ruling for the past 27 years but these years are also a story of a partnership between BJP and Congress. They are together. It is said that Congress is in the pocket of the BJP. Congress supplies to the need of the BJP. How long will it go on like this? Who will take care of Gujarat...farmers are committing suicide, there is massive unemployment, government schools and hospitals are in shambles," Kejriwal said while addressing a press conference at Vallabh Sadan.  Without mentioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Union Home Minister Amit Shah, natives of the state, Kejriwal said, "The businessmen here are scared. Why do they need to be scared when the country is free. Few years back, I was supposed to visit Gujarat to address in a chamber of commerce here but it got cancelled after the pressure from Gujarat authority," he said.He added that Gujarat has been left "orphaned" during the pandemic. Pitching his party as an alternative of the BJP and Congress, the Delhi CM said, "A person sitting in Gujarat sees that if electricity can be given for free in Delhi, why is it so expensive in here in Gujarat. If hospitals and schools can be improved in Delhi in five years, why did it not happen here in 70 years." Saying that his party will contest all 182 Assembly seats, he said that the party will take up issues of "unemployment, poor conditions of schools, colleges, hospitals, farmers' suicide". When asked how will he fight Prime Minister Modi and Union Home Minister Shah on their home turf, Kejriwal said, "We are not here to fight individuals. We are here to take up issues of the common man. Every state has its own model which can't be copied to any other state."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-will-contest-all-seats-in-gujarat-in-2022-assembly-polls-arvind-kejriwal-997335.html
14-06-2021||National Politics||Chirag Paswan has reaped what he had sown: JD(U)||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's JD(U), which bore the brunt of Chirag Paswan's brinkmanship in the assembly polls last year, on Monday said the LJP president was reaping what he had sown. JD(U) national president RCP Singh reacted with a sense of vindication to the developments in the party founded by late Ram Vilas Paswan, whose son has been left cornered in a revolt led by the former's younger brother Pashupati Kumar Paras and supported by four other MPs, including nephew Prince Raj. "It is a well known adage that as you sow, so you reap. Chirag Paswan was heading a party which was with the NDA. Yet, he adopted a stance that damaged it in the assembly polls. This led to a sense of unease within his own party," Singh told reporters here. Chirag Paswan had opened a front against Nitish Kumar in the elections, fielding nominees against all JD(U) candidates, many of them rebels from the BJP. He had claimed that he wanted to help the saffron party form its own government in the state where the people yearned for a change in leadership. Although the NDA managed to secure a majority and Kumar was backed for another term, the JD(U) ended up with a much smaller tally, conceding the upper hand to the BJP, which now has the lion's share in the council of ministers in Bihar two of them being deputy CMs. Asked about the praise showered on Nitish Kumar by Pashupati Kumar Paras, who represents the Hajipur seat from where Ram Vilas Paswan was elected for most of his career, Singh said "he was a minister in the state cabinet until he got elected to Parliament. We shared extremely cordial relations". The JD(U) chief also remarked that Chirag was "too young" and had failed to keep his flock together in the LJP, which owed its current standing, in a large measure, to "efforts put in by Pashupati Kumar Paras and Ram Chandra Paswan (Prince Raj's late father)". Singh, however, parried queries as to whether the rebel LJP MPs would be welcome if they expressed the wish to join JD(U). "Many formalities are to be completed. The five MPs who have revolted need to be notified as an independent group by the Lok Sabha Speaker. They have already stated they will remain in the NDA. "In any case, in Bihar NDA, it is only the BJP and our party. Whichever party they join, they will be with us," he said. He declined to comment on speculations about one or more rebel LJP MPs being inducted into the Union cabinet from JD(U) quota or getting accommodated in the state ministry, but reiterated his stand that all NDA allies ought to get a "respectable" share at the Centre. The developments in the LJP come barely three months after its lone MLA Raj Kumar Singh crossed over to the JD(U) upon being pulled up for voting in favour of Maheshwar Hazari, the NDA candidate for deputy speaker's post. Singh had quit the LJP protesting the reproach from the leadership and asserting that he had supported the NDA candidate in line with the party's earlier stance of backing Vijay Kumar Sinha, the alliance's nominee, as Speaker. Notably, while Sinha belongs to the BJP, Hazari is from the JD(U).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chirag-paswan-has-reaped-what-he-had-sown-jdu-997336.html
14-06-2021||National Politics||JD(U) calls Congress a 'sinking ship' but ducks queries on possibility of split in Bihar||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumars JD(U) on Monday parried questions on speculations that a large number of Congress MLAs were planning to jump ship. JD(U) national president RCP Singh, however, remarked that the Congress was like a sinking ship and hence it may continue to suffer desertions as it has done in the past. Singh was replying to queries on reports in a section of the media here that at least 13 MLAs of the Congress, which has a total strength of 19, were planning to walk over to JD (U). The party had suffered a split in three years ago when its former state president Ashok Choudhary walked over to the JD(U) along with some other legislators. Choudhary has since risen to prominence in JD(U), as the partys working state president during the assembly polls, and is seen as one of the trusted cabinet colleagues of the Chief Minister. Look at the partys performance in West Bengal. The Congress used to rule the state. And in the recent assembly polls it was wiped out. No wonder old loyalists like Jyotiraditya Scindia and Jitin Prasada are choosing to exit, Singh remarked. He also charged that the Congress had given up respecting its workers who were increasingly feeling stifled under the dynasty an oblique reference to the Nehru-Gandhi family. When pressed about the possibility of Congress MLAs in Bihar switching sides in the foreseeable future, Singh shot back we shall cross the bridge when it comes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jdu-calls-congress-a-sinking-ship-but-ducks-queries-on-possibility-of-split-in-bihar-997340.html
14-06-2021||National Politics||LJP implodes, five MPs oust Chirag Paswan as leader, elect Pashupati Kumar Paras||Five of the six Lok Janshakti Party MPs in Lok Sabha have joined hands against their leader Chirag Paswan and elected Pashupati Kumar Paras, the youngest brother of Paswan's late father and party founder Ram Vilas Paswan, in his place, causing a big churn in Bihar politics. Paras on Monday lauded Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar as a good leader and "vikas purush" (development-oriented man), highlighting the deep fault lines within the party as his nephew has been a strong critic of the supreme JD(U) leader. "I have not broken the party but saved it," Paras, the MP from Hajipur, told reporters. He asserted that 99 per cent of LJP workers were unhappy with the turn of events in Bihar as Paswan led his party against the JD(U) and it fared poorly in the 2020 assembly polls. The LJP has been on the brink of collapse, he said in reference to its poor show in the polls, and lashed out at "anti-social" elements in the party, an apparent pointer to a close aide of Paswan whose proximity to him has not gone down well with many party leaders. Paras said his group will continue to be part of the BJP-led NDA, and added that Paswan can remain in the organisation. The group of five MPs has conveyed their decision of electing Paras as the LJP's leader in Lok Sabha to the Speaker. The five MPs had met Speaker Om Birla on Sunday night to inform him about their decision to replace Paswan with Paras as their leader. Sources in the Speaker's office said that their request is under consideration There has been no comment from Paswan on the issue. Soon after Paras spoke to reporters, Paswan drove to his uncle's residence in the national capital to meet him. Paswan's cousin and MP Prince Raj also stays there. Paswan, who has not been keeping well for some time, waited for over 20 minutes in his car before he was let into the house and then left after spending more than an hour inside. He left without saying a word to waiting media persons. It is believed that neither of the two rebel MPs met him. A household help said the two were not at home when the LJP chief arrived. Paras had long been unhappy with Paswan's style of functioning and was joined by other MPs, including Chandan Singh, Veena Devi and Mehboob Ali Kaiser, as they believed that his campaign against Nitish Kumar had left them at a disadvantage in the state's politics. Kaiser has been elected the party's deputy leader. The group is also likely to stake claim in the Election Commission to represent the real LJP with its president now left isolated at the top after taking on the mantle following his father's death last year. It may move to oust Paswan from the top party post in the coming days. Sources close to him have blamed the JD(U) for the split, saying the party had long been working to isolate the LJP president after his decision to go all out against Chief Minister Kumar in the 2020 assembly polls. The JD(U), which was for the first time reduced to the status of a junior partner to the BJP after it lost more than 35 seats due to the presence of LJP candidates, has been seething and had worked to woo over a number of LJP's organisational leaders to its fold. The lone LJP MLA joined the JD(U). Paras denied the charge that Kumar's party had a role in the split. The BJP, which has its share of pro-Paswan voices as well as his critics, maintained a silence over the matter, with some party leaders noting that it was an internal matter of the party. Though he had left the ruling NDA in Bihar to fight independently in the assembly polls, he has maintained a strong pro-BJP and pro-Prime Minister Narendra Modi stand. With buzz growing about a reshuffle in the Union cabinet, political watchers believe that the development is aimed at thwarting Paswan's chances to join the government but it remains to be seen as to how the saffron party sees the implosion in the LJP. As such, the equation between the BJP and the JD(U) has been far from smooth despite both parties sharing power in Bihar, and Kumar has been taking various measures to bolster his party's strength after suffering a setback in the assembly polls. Paras is seen as more pro-Nitish Kumar than pro-BJP, and Paswan's complete marginalisation is not something many BJP leaders will wish even though a section of the party has been miffed with his conduct, sources said. That not a single MP, all of whom owe their current position to Ram Vilas Paswan, has stood by Chirag Paswan reflects poorly on him, they added. What will also be a key aspect, while going ahead, is as to how core LJP voters, mostly members of Paswan community, react to the development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ljp-implodes-five-mps-oust-chirag-paswan-as-leader-elect-pashupati-kumar-paras-997396.html
14-06-2021||National Politics||Betrayal in name of Lord Ram is unrighteous: Rahul Gandhi on Ayodhya land deal||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday hit out at the BJP over the alleged scam in purchase of land in Ayodhya by the Ram temple trust and said betrayal in Lord Ram's name is unrighteous. "Shri Ram himself is justice, truth, faith. Betrayal in his name is unrighteous," he said in a tweet in Hindi, alleging a scam in the land purchase. The Congress has alleged that the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust had purchased a piece of land worth Rs 2 crore at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh at an inflated price of Rs 18.5 crore. In another tweet, he hit out at the government over its pro-privatisation drive and said it would not help the people. "GOI's 'Modi Mitr-centric' (friend-centric) privatisation drive won't help the public. NYAY will," he said, while pointing to the scheme he had proposed for providing direct cash in accounts of the poor and the oppressed sections of society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/betrayal-in-name-of-lord-ram-is-unrighteous-rahul-gandhi-on-ayodhya-land-deal-997480.html
14-06-2021||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi holds meeting with Union ministers, BJP chief Nadda||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday met Union ministers, including Rajnath Singh and Nitin Gadkari, along with BJP president JP Nadda, sources said. For the past one week, Modi has been holding in-person meetings with Union ministers apparently to take stock of the work done by the government in the last two years and to discuss various issues, they said. Both Union ministers and Union ministers of state are meeting the prime minister in different groups. The meeting attended by Singh, Gadkari, Union Minister D V Sadananda Gowda and Minister of State V Muraleedharan, besides others, is the fifth in the series and perhaps the last, a source said. The sources said that BJP chief Nadda was present most of the meetings which were held at 7, Lok Kalyan Marg, the official residence of the prime minister. Last week, Modi had met Union Home Minister Amit Shah along with Nadda and Union ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad and Jitender Singh. Political observers and party insiders feel that this could be an exercise before an expected Cabinet expansion and reshuffle, but there has been no official word yet. The sources said that all these meetings of the prime minister with Union ministers have lasted for nearly five hours. Besides the work done by the ministries, Modi also discussed various important and relevant issues with them, they said, adding that the meetings were called after the second wave of Covid cases. Cabinet ministers or ministers of state of agriculture, rural development, animal husbandry and fishing, tribal affairs, urban development, culture, statistics and programme implementation, civil aviation, railways, food and consumer affairs, jal shakti, petroleum, steel, external affairs and environment were among those who were called for the meetings, the sources said. These meetings with the Union ministers were preceded by meetings between Modi and presidents of various wings of the BJP and party general secretaries. Nadda and BJP general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh were present at the meetings with the party office-bearers. Though there has been no official word on Cabinet expansion or reshuffle, but speculation over the issue has been doing the rounds for many days. The Cabinet meeting, which is chaired by the prime minister, is usually held once a week and that of the council of ministers once a month. The cabinet meeting is being held virtually every Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-holds-meeting-with-union-ministers-bjp-chief-nadda-997484.html
14-06-2021||National Politics||Not joining AAP: Gujarat Congress leader Hardik Patel||Gujarat Congress working president Hardik Patel on Monday asserted he would not join the Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party after reports emerged on social media said that he could be the face of AAP for the 2022 Assembly elections in the BJP-ruled state. While discarding these reports as "baseless", Patel saw the BJP's hand behind the circulation of such "fake reports", a claim rejected by the ruling party. The reports emerged in the backdrop of AAP chief Kejriwal's visit to Gujarat on Monday. "I am surprised at the reports coming in from various media quarters that I am going to join the AAP and become their face for the next year's Assembly election in Gujarat. Such claims are baseless. Such fake reports are being planted in the media with malicious intent at the behest of the BJP," Hardik Patel said in a statement.  "These are being circulated to create confusion among Congress supporters and the Patidar community. The BJP is circulating such baseless reports in order to hide its failure during the Covid-19 crisis in Gujarat" he added. Patel said he is the youngest working president ever of the Gujarat Congress and he joined the party "with the sole aim of removing the anti-farmer, anti-worker and anti-Patidar BJP government." Patel said he will try his best as the opposition party's state working president to see that Congress forms a government in Gujarat in 2022. Earlier in the day, the former head of a Gujarati news channel, Isudan Gadhvi, joined the AAP in the presence of Kejriwal. The BJP rejected Patel's allegations of planting fake news against him. "The BJP fights elections on the agenda of development and that is why people elect us. Hardik Patel is having his own agenda and we are not concerned about it. His allegations are far from the truth," said Gujarat BJP spokesperson Yamal Vyas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/not-joining-aap-gujarat-congress-leader-hardik-patel-997517.html
14-06-2021||North and Central||Haryana extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 21||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the coronavirus lockdown by another week till June 21, while easing several restrictions. Doing away with the odd-even formula, the state government allowed all shops to open from 9 am to 8 pm. Restaurants and bars, including in hotels and malls, are allowed to stay open from 10 am to 10 pm. Giving further relaxations, gyms are now allowed to stay open from 6 am to 8 pm with 50 per cent capacity after adopting requisite social distancing norms, regular sanitisation and Covid-appropriate behavioural norms. However, spas shall remain closed, said an official order.  The timings for opening of shopping malls will continue to be from 10 am to 8 pm. Sports complexes, stadia have now also been permitted to open only for sports activities by following all Covid-related norms and spectators will not be allowed. The state government has termed the lockdown "Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana (Epidemic Alert-Safe Haryana)". "Now, after duly considering the fact that although the Covid positivity rate and the number of new Covid positive cases have declined, so as to continue the preventive and precautionary measures to contain the Covid pandemic… the 'Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana' is extended for another week from June 14 (5 am onwards) to June 21 (till 5 am) in the state," an order issued by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan said. According to the order issued by Vardhan under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, all colleges, coaching institutions, industrial training institutes, libraries and training institutes whether government or private shall remain closed till further orders in the state. For gatherings in weddings and funerals, the number allowed is up to 21 people as before. However, for gatherings other than weddings, funerals/cremations, the maximum number will be 50 and for gatherings more than 50, prior permission from the deputy commissioner will be required. The number of daily Covid-19 cases, which had crossed the 15,000-mark last month, has now come down to under 500 while Covid fatalities have also registered a sharp fall. The Haryana government had imposed the lockdown in the state on May 3 in view of the prevailing Covid situation. It has now been extended for the sixth time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-june-21-997199.html
14-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi eases Covid-19 curbs: What's allowed, what's not from today||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced the opening of all market activities from Monday as part of the phased unlocking but kept public parks and gardens out of bounds. As Covid-19 cases continued to dip in the national capital, Kejriwal said weekly markets will resume activity, but only one market will open in one zone on a particular day. Here are the activities that will be allowed, restricted or continue to be disallowed in Delhi from June 14: 1. Schools and educational institutions will continue to remain closed in the national capital. 2. All shops in markets, malls will be allowed open from tomorrow in Delhi. 3. Restaurants will be allowed to open with 50 per cent capacity.  4. Weekly markets in Delhi will also open from tomorrow. However, only one market will be allowed in each zone. 5. Social, political, cultural gatherings will continue to remain prohibited. 6. Religious places have also been allowed to open, but no visitors would be allowed as yet. 7. All gyms, spas, yoga institute, cinema theatres, multiplexes and banquet halls will also continue to remain shut. 8. Sports complexes, swimming pools and stadiums have not been given a green signal yet. 9. The Delhi Metro will continue to ply with 50 per cent of the capacity. Kejriwal said that if a spike in Covid-19 cases is observed in next week, restrictions will again be imposed on markets and restaurants in Delhi. Delhi went under lockdown on April 19 as Covid-19 cases surged touching more than 28,000 cases every day. The chief minister began lifting the curbs in a phased manner from May 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-eases-covid-19-curbs-whats-allowed-whats-not-from-today-997229.html
14-06-2021||North and Central||AAP’s RS MP Sanjay Singh, ex-SP MLA accuse corruption in land purchase for Ayodhya's Ram temple||Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Khestra Trust, which was overseeing the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya, found itself mired in corruption after its secretary Champat Rai was accused of purchasing a piece of land worth Rs 2 crore for a whopping Rs 18.5 crore. Aam Admi Party (AAP) leader and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh and Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Tej Narayan Pandey claimed that the price of the land in question, which was at Bagh Bijaisi area in Ayodhya, shot up to 18.5 crore within a span of ten minutes. "The land was first registered in the names of two people for Rs 2 crore... 10 minutes later the Trust bought the land from them for Rs 18.5 crore and the registry was also done the same day," Singh alleged. Incidentally in both the registrations, the witnesses were the same people. They were Trust member Anil Mishra and the Mayor of Ayodhya Rishikesh Upadhyaya. The two leaders demanded a CBI probe into the matter. "It is a very serious matter... it must be thoroughly investigated," Pandey said. Rai, however, rejected the allegations and said that the land was purchased below the market value. "It's a political conspiracy to malign the Trust... we have a record of everything," he added. The Trust has been on a land-buying spree ever since it was entrusted with the task of constructing the Ram Temple. The central government had allotted 70 acres of land for the Temple. The Trust later decided to expand the area of the Temple and purchased several temples adjacent to the Ram Janambhoomi.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-s-rs-mp-sanjay-singh-ex-sp-mla-accuse-corruption-in-land-purchase-for-ayodhyas-ram-temple-997251.html
14-06-2021||North and Central||In one month, 'black fungus' claims five lives in Jammu and Kashmir||As many as five people have died due to mucormycosis aka 'black fungus' — a rare but dangerous fungal infection — in Jammu and Kashmir in the last one month, official figures reveal. All the five deaths attributed to mucormycosis were reported from three districts of Jammu region and none from Kashmir. However, the cases have been reported from seven districts of the union territory (UT), including Kashmir valley. So far, 19 cases of confirmed mucormycosis have been reported while 10 more suspected cases of the fungal infection are admitted at various hospitals, the data reveals. Of the total 29 cases, 24 are from Jammu division and five from Kashmir. mucormycosis has a very high fatality rate across India and in J&K the mortality of the infection is over 17%. Mucormycosis became a much talked about subject across the country after some recovering and recovered Covid-19 patients were found infected with the disease, whose symptoms include headache, fever, pain under the eyes, nasal or sinus congestion and partial loss of vision. Health experts say mucormycosis is mostly found among Covid-19 patients who have diabetes, fluctuation in sugar level or increased iron level in the blood. It is a “notifiable disease” and all suspected and confirmed cases are reported to the government of India. J&K government declared 'black fungus' an epidemic on May 24 after its cases started emerging in various parts of the UT among patients who had either recovered from Covid-19 or were undergoing treatment for the viral infection. Like most parts of the country, the Liposomal Amphotericin B vials, a key medicine needed to treat black fungus, also is in short supply across the UT. A senior health official said the crisis of these drugs was also due to delay in reporting of these cases which resulted in a shortfall in allocation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-one-month-black-fungus-claims-five-lives-in-jammu-and-kashmir-997295.html
14-06-2021||North and Central||Explained | How drone delivery of Covid-19 vaccines will work||The Centre is pulling all stops in a bid to vaccinate all Indians above 18 years by December-end. The latest plan set in motion is vaccine delivery, especially in remote areas, with the help of high-tech drones. The ICMR has invited bids from agencies to deliver medical supplies payload at select locations with difficult terrains. The plan has been in the works since the government gave the apex medical research body the go ahead in April. HLL Infra Tech Services, a unit of the government-owned HLL Lifecare, on Friday invited bids from experienced Indian agencies to build a framework and model for vaccine delivery through unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) to get vaccines to remote places or regions with tough terrain. What is the goal? The ICMR plans to create a medical supplies delivery model that can be used to deliver vaccines and other medical necessities to certain places that are hard to reach through drones. The medical research body is looking to engage UAV operators to fly these drones along a fixed route, drop off medical packages and return to the command station in a safe way.  How did the idea come about? The ICMR had been conducting feasibility trials with the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur and vaccine maker Bharat Biotech since April to test how heavy payloads could be used and how far medical supplies could be carried by the drones. Based on the results of the studies, the ICMR says it has developed a standard protocol to successfully deliver vaccines using UAVs. How will the UAVs work? According to the bid document, the ICMR requires the UAVs to be capable of covering at least 35 km in the air, reaching a minimum altitude of 100 meters and returning to the command station. Additionally, the aircraft should be able to fly beyond visual line of sight (BVLOS), which means they must be capable of being flown safely without being directly seen by the drone operator. The drones are also required to take off vertically, carrying a payload of 4 kg, preferably on top of the drone. The ICMR has strictly barred delivery by parachute. The UAVs should also be able to follow fully autonomous take-off, flight, and landing along paths defined by a global positioning system (GPS), have the ability to be reconfigured, be equipped with multiple fail-safe options and come with third-party insurance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/explained-how-drone-delivery-of-covid-19-vaccines-will-work-997297.html
14-06-2021||North and Central||5-year-old falls in 150-feet borewell, rescue operation on||A five-year-old fell into a 150-feet-deep borewell while playing in Dhariyai village here on Monday, police said, adding that rescue operation is underway. The incident took place at about 8:30 am under the Nibohara police station area in Fatehabad in Agra rural. So far, the child's movement can be noticed and he was responding, Station House Officer Sooraj Prasad told PTI. He added, "The rescue of the child was on since the police got information about the incident." An eyewitness said the child fell into the borewell that was dug by his father, Chhotelal. "We had dropped a rope into the borewell which the child had caught and he has been responding to our queries," the villager added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-year-old-falls-in-150-feet-borewell-rescue-operation-on-997301.html
14-06-2021||North and Central||Man lynched in Rajasthan over suspicion of smuggling cattle||A man was lynched while another injured by a group of people who attacked them on suspicion of smuggling cattle in Rajasthan's Chittorgarh district, police said on Monday.  Police said the victims were taking three oxen to their village in Madhya Pradesh from Begun town of Chittorgarh for agriculture work when a group of people hit them with sticks accusing them of smuggling cows. The incident occurred near Bhilkhanda in the intervening night of June 13-14.   “Babu Bhil and Pintu Bhil, both hailing from Jhabua district of Madhya Pradesh, were critically injured in the attack and were rushed to a hospital where Babu Bhil succumbed to injuries,'' Superintendent of Police Deepak Bhargav said. He said that 7-8 persons have been detained in connection with the incident.   Circle Officer Begun Rajendra Singh said the victims were taking three oxen in a van. “The local men alleged that they were smuggling cows and attacked them. However, the animals were oxen. The injured man has stated that he and Babu purchased the oxen from Begun town of Chittorgarh and were taking them to their village for farming work,” he said. The officer said that Pintu could not produce any document pertaining to the purchase and the animal trader has been called for verification of his claim. “A case of murder has been registered and stern action will be taken, Additional Director General, Crime, Ravi Meherda said in Jaipur.  Inspector-General of Police, Udaipur range has also reached Chittorgarh, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-lynched-in-rajasthan-over-suspicion-of-smuggling-cattle-997332.html
14-06-2021||North and Central||Akhilesh Yadav demands probe into journalist's death in crash days after reporting on liquor mafia||The Samajwadi Party (SP) on Monday demanded a high-level inquiry into the death of a journalist, who had recently reported on the liquor mafia, apparently in a road accident here. The 42-year-old news channel reporter, Sulabh Srivastava, died as his motorcycle rammed a pole near a brick kiln in Sukhpal Nagar under the Kotwali police station area on Sunday, police said. "The mysterious death of a TV reporter in an alleged accident is extremely sad. The BJP government in this case should constitute a high-level probe, and tell the family members and the public that despite the apprehension of murder by the liquor mafia expressed by the reporter, why he was not provided security," SP chief Akhilesh Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. Srivastava had recently run a news story against the liquor mafia in the region. Then on June 12, he wrote to the Prayagraj additional director general of police to seek protection. Additional Superintendent of Police Surendra Dwivedi said Srivastava died in a crash while returning from Asrahi village under the Lalganj police station area after reporting on an illegal arms manufacturing unit uncovered there. Following the crash, a severely injured Srivastava was taken to the district hospital, where doctors declared him dead, he said. The officer said police were probing various angles and the body of the deceased was sent for a post-mortem examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akhilesh-yadav-demands-probe-into-journalists-death-in-crash-days-after-reporting-on-liquor-mafia-997338.html
14-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi's single-day Covid-19 cases decline to 131||Delhi reported 131 new Covid-19 cases, 355 recoveries and 16 deaths in the last 24 hours. The active cases in the national capital currently stand at 3,226. Delhi reports 131 new COVID cases (positivity rate - 0.22%), 355 recoveries, and 16 deaths in the last 24 hours More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-single-day-covid-19-cases-decline-to-131-997342.html
14-06-2021||North and Central||Covid curfew extended for another week in Uttarakhand, chardham yatra opened for locals||The Uttarakhand government on Monday extended the Covid curfew in the state till June 22 but announced some important relaxations such as opening the chardham yatra for locals on the condition of a negative RT-PCR test report. The period of the current curfew in the state was to come to an end at 6 am on Tuesday morning. "We have decided to extend the curfew for another week to June 22 in view of the Covid-19 situation. The old SOPs will largely remain in force except a few major changes such as opening the doors of the Himalayan temples for locals with negative RT-PCR reports," Cabinet Minister and state government's official spokesman Subodh Uniyal said. "People of Chamoli district now have the permission to visit Badrinath temple for 'darshan' if they have a negative RT-PCR test report. Similarly, people of Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi districts can also now visit Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri respectively with a negative RT-PCR test report," the minister said.  The famous four Himalayan temples in Uttarakhand though open since May for daily prayers have been out of bounds for pilgrims.  Revenue courts have also been reopened with certain restrictions, he said.  Means of public transport like auto rickshaws and tempos have been allowed to ply on the roads and shops selling sweets can now open for five days in a week, Uniyal said.  Fifty people can now attend marriage ceremonies and funerals instead of the present permission for 20. However, those attending weddings will have to bring a negative RT-PCR test report.  District Magistrates have been authorised to relax the restrictions for market places in rural areas based on their assessment of the Covid situation, he said. On the decision to extend the curfew, Uniyal said the cases of Covid-19 may have come down but it would be premature to say that the pandemic challenge has been overcome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-curfew-extended-for-another-week-in-uttarakhand-chardham-yatra-opened-for-locals-997370.html
14-06-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh journalist, who had apprehended threat from liquor mafia, found dead||An Uttar Pradesh journalist, who had apprehended threats to his life from the liquor mafia, was found dead in the state's Pratapgarh town. The scribe, identified as Sulabh Srivastava (40), who worked for a local TV channel, was found lying on the side of a road in Katra locality of the town late on Sunday night. He was rushed to a hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead. According to sources, he had injury marks on the face. While the family members cried foul and alleged that Srivastava was murdered, the police said that prima facie it appeared to be a case of ''accidental death''.  A member of the journo's family said that Srivastava had written a letter to the additional director general of police apprehending threat to his life from liquor mafia. He had said in the letter that the liquor mafia was annoyed with him owing to his coverage of illicit liquor in the district in the past few days. Srivastava had extensively reported on the liquor mafia operating in the district, sources said. The opposition as well as the ruling party leaders demanded an impartial probe into the journo's death. BJP Lok Sabha member from Pratapgarh Sangam Lal Gupta shot off a letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath seeking a thorough investigation into the matter. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, in a tweet, slammed the state government over the latter's "silence" in the matter. ''Liquor mafia rules in the state,'' she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-journalist-who-had-apprehended-threat-from-liquor-mafia-found-dead-997384.html
14-06-2021||North and Central||Some don't leave opportunity to defame Ram Janmabhoomi: UP Dy-CM Dinesh Sharma||Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma on Monday hit out at those alleging corruption in purchase of land in Ayodhya by the Ram temple trust, saying some people do not leave any opportunity to defame the Ram Janmabhoomi. The Samajwadi Party, the Aam Aadmi Party and the Congress have alleged that the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust has purchased a land worth Rs 2 crore at an inflated price of Rs 18.5 crore. "The official answer (to allegations of corruption) will be given by officials of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust. I would say in one line that there are some people in the opposition who do not like anything positive in context to the Ram Janmabhoomi. Sometimes they say Lord Ram was fictional, and that the Ram Setu did not exist. They also taunt," Sharma told reporters here after attending a meeting of the Uttar Pradesh Cabinet. He said when all the obstructions for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya were cleared, the opposition started an "anargal pralaap" (nonsensical hue and cry). "They do not hesitate in leaving any opportunity to defame the Ram Janmabhoomi," Sharma said. To a question about a possible expansion of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath headed Cabinet, the BJP leader said, "Such decisions, be it on expansion or reshuffling in the council of ministers, is taken by the high command and the organisation." "The organisation is authorised to do this, and an organisational meeting is held to discuss this," Sharma said. He said that at the Cabinet meeting, preparations to deal with a probable third wave of the Covid pandemic were discussed. Discussions were also held on the condition and functioning of primary health centres that have to be adopted by public representatives, the deputy chief minister said. On whether any discussion was held for the upcoming assembly elections or on the recently-held panchayat polls, Sharma said, "This was not an election meeting. Election meetings are held at the organisational level." "This meeting was about the preparations for the third wave of the coronavirus. What has been done till now and review and monitoring of government schemes that have been implemented," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/some-dont-leave-opportunity-to-defame-ram-janmabhoomi-up-dy-cm-dinesh-sharma-997403.html
14-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi's claim on One Nation One Ration Card 'misleading', no full implementation, Centre tells SC||The Centre on Monday told the Supreme Court that the Delhi government's claims of the launching of 'one nation one ration card' (ONORC) in the national capital were misleading, as the scheme was initiated merely in one circle in Seemapuri. “The claim of Delhi government regarding launch of One Nation One Ration Card plan in NCT of Delhi is misleading, as they claim to have implemented it only in circle 63 Seemapuri. Only a handful of transactions conducted in a single circle with about 42 ePoS machines cannot be considered as the implementation of ONORC,” it said. In its written submission in a suo moto case over miseries of migrant workers, the Union government pointed out that despite several Covid-related challenges, a total of 32 states/UTs covering around 69 crore National Food Security Act beneficiaries, i.e. 86 per cent of NFSA population in the country were swiftly brought under the ONORC plan by December 2020. Last week, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, had submitted before a bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan and M R Shah that Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi and West Bengal, were yet to implement ONORC. The Delhi government counsel had then submitted it has implemented the scheme. The top court had later observed that all states must implement the (ONORC) scheme.   With regard to the Delhi government's claim, the Centre, in a fresh submission, said a very large number of inter-state migrants are present here. Numerous street dwellers, rag-pickers, migratory labourers, construction workers, rickshaw pullers, auto/taxidrivers, etc do not have access to their National Food Security Act (NFSA) food grains. In the absence of full implementation of ONORC, the Centre said migrant workers will not able to take the benefit of their quota in Delhi.   “Further, unless the national portability transactions are rolled out formally in all the FPSs (fair price shops) of all circles of NCT Delhi, in which more than 2000 ePoS machines have been supplied and waiting for operation, it cannot be considered as an implementation of ONORC," the Centre said.   The Delhi government has claimed that the Centre has stopped its ambitious doorstep delivery of ration scheme, which was set to be launched soon.  Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had said the ration delivery to homes sounds like a novel idea, but there are loopholes and possibilities for corruption. He had questioned the Delhi government why it has not implemented the scheme yet. It ensures economically weaker sections get subsidised food grains and guards against corruption by linking distribution to Aadhaar card's biometrics, the minister claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-claim-on-one-nation-one-ration-card-misleading-no-full-implementation-centre-tells-sc-997430.html
14-06-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh top-performing state on gender equality goal of SDG: NITI Aayog report||Chhattisgarh has been declared the top-performing state in India on the gender equality parameter of the Sustainable Development Goals, according to the NITI Aayog's SDG India Index report 2020-21. The index, developed in collaboration with the UN in India, measures the progress at the national and sub-national level. It tracks the progress of all states and union territories on 115 indicators aligned with the National Indicator Framework (NIF) of the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation. Last year, Chhattisgarh scored 43 points on the gender quality parameter and was ranked seventh in India. This year, it scored 61 and topped the chart. The report said the improvement in Chhattisgarh ranking was seen due to a balanced sex ratio at birth, improvement in equal gender pay over the years which has helped it surpass past records, lower crime rate against women, lower domestic violence against, among others. Other SDG parameters where Chhattisgarh ranked in the top 10 (2020-21) are Clean water and Sanitation, Decent work and Economic Growth and Reduced Inequality. The Index for Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) evaluates progress of states and union territories on social, economic and environmental parameters. Overall, Kerala retained the top rank in Niti Aayog's SDG India Index 2020-21, while Bihar was adjudged the worst-performer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-top-performing-state-on-gender-equality-goal-of-sdg-niti-aayog-report-997443.html
14-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi restaurants start operations after 2 months with 50% capacity||Installing protective screens, conducting temperature checks, contactless ordering, and visible cues to ensure physical distancing are among the various measures taken by restaurants in the national capital which reopened with 50 per cent capacity on Monday after nearly two months. Dine-in facilities were barred in Delhi since April 17, when the first weekend lockdown was imposed in a bid to curb the spread of Covid-19 infection in the city. According to the latest guidelines of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), restaurants can open with 50 per cent capacity but they cannot serve liquor to their guests as bars in such establishments will remained closed till further orders. "The measures in place include mandatory daily wellness and temperature checks for everyone (crew, customers and delivery partners), compulsory face masks, enhanced focus on hand hygiene with frequent hand washing and gloves for the crew," said Rajeev Ranjan, Chief Operating Officer, Connaught Plaza Restaurants Pvt Ltd, which operates McDonald's restaurants in north and east India. "Front counters and drive through have been fitted with protective screens and ordering, payment and delivery has been made contactless to minimize human contact. "All restaurants have visual cues on furniture and floor to help customers and employees maintain adequate physical distance and follow Covid-protocols. The customers will also notice foot-operated taps in the rest rooms," he added. Restaurants in south Delhi's Lajpat Nagar and Moolchand areas, largely remained closed or opened shutters for just cleaning the premises on Monday. In Lajpat Nagar's central market area, Afghan Darbar was among the restaurants which was inviting guests again to relish their exotic cuisine. "We have reopened after relaxation of lockdown norms, but no guests have come so far till afternoon. People are still afraid to step out after what we witnessed in the second wave of the pandemic. But, life has to go on, and we are taking all precautions," Salman Ali, manager of Afghan Darbar restaurant, told PTI. In the central market area, pan-India restaurant chain Pind Balluchi also reopened its outlet on Monday, but its manager said, dining services will practically begin from Tuesday. "Today, most of the restaurants are cleaning the places, and a very few in our area have opened shutters. Small cafes have suffered huge losses in the lockdown and still feeling cagey to reopen as people won't come out much due to fear of Covid," said Rajesh Rana, manager of Pind Balluchi's Lajpat Nagar outlet. In Amar Colony, famous for its eateries that sell tandoori momos, only a few had reopened, with barely two-three customers in sight. Representatives of popular family restaurant Bikanervala at Lajpat Nagar said they are only serving customers in disposable plates besides following all other Covid protocols including sanitising and thermal scanning. Mohammad Salim, branch manager of Barbeque Nation at Vivek Vihar, said dine-in will be started from tomorrow. "Today, we are preparing ourselves for the dine in process. The restaurant is being sanitized properly and instructions are also being pasted at the entry gate. Our restaurant has seating capacity of 130 people. Half of the tables are already blocked to maintain social distancing while the customer will have their food," Salim said. Jaydeep Mukherjee, Business Head, Smoke House Deli said, "While it is too soon to gauge a response, we are seeing smaller tables with groups of 2-4 people coming together". "We are hoping for increased footfalls throughout the week. After over eight weeks of lockdown, there is a sense of longing for being able to go out and enjoy a meal. Our customers have observed our safety and hygiene protocols last year and are feeling safe to come back," he added. Mayank Bhatt, Business Head - SOCIAL, said, the response on the first day is positive. "We have only been operational for dine-in for a few hours, and the response has been very positive. While the lunch groups are still underway, we already have reservation enquiries for the evening and coming days. For now, we are seeing small groups of 2-3 people visit our outposts," Bhatt said.  At Raasta and Yeti restaurants, the process of sanitisation and vaccination of staff is going and the doors will be opened for public by next week only. "We have just called our staff back and now in the process of sanitizing the outlets. We have also scheduled a vaccine drive for our staff and will open our doors by next week adhering to all the SOPs as 50 per cent seating, social distancing and others," said Joy Singh, co-partner, Raasta and Yeti. According to Zorawar Kalra of Massive Restaurants Pvt Ltd which runs eatery chains like Masala Library by Jiggs Kalra, Made in Punjab, Farzi Cafe and Pa Pa Ya, there is also going to be an element of "revenge consumption". "Over the weekend in Gurgaon, the response has been very good. We expect a similar response in Delhi. There is also going to be an element of revenge consumption. People are raring to go out after the eight week lockdown. Our staff is fully vaccinated and the restaurants have been sanitised and fully prepped in anticipation of the relaxation of the lockdown. "We are hopeful that we get longer extended timelines for operating as dinner time is crucial for the survival of a restaurant especially in Delhi where diners eat out late," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-restaurants-start-operations-after-2-months-with-50-capacity-997444.html
14-06-2021||North and Central||UP journalist death: Police register murder case; Samajwadi Party demands high-level inquiry||The Uttar Pradesh Police on Monday registered a case of murder after a journalist of a private news channel, who had recently reported on the liquor mafia, died in what appeared to be a road accident. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav demanded a high-level inquiry into the death, terming it "mysterious", while West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC leader Mamata Banerjee expressed shock over the demise of the ABP journalist, saying "we are unable to save lives who are working tirelessly towards unfolding the truth". "Sulabh Srivastava had gone for news coverage to the Kotwali Lalganj area on Sunday and was returning home late in the night. He was found seriously injured near the Sukhpal Nagar brick kiln and was taken to the district hospital, where doctors declared him dead," Superintendent of Police Akash Tomar told reporters. His motorcycle rammed into a pole near the brick kiln under the Kotwali police station area in Pratapgarh district, police said. The 42-year-old reporter had recently run a news story against the liquor mafia, and had on June 12 written a letter to the Prayagraj additional director general of police seeking security. His wife, Renuka Srivastava, in her police complaint said her husband was being threatened for doing a story against the liquor mafia and the Prayagraj additional director general of police was informed about it in writing but no effective action was taken. "Because of this, unknown mafia elements murdered my husband on Sunday night while he was returning from Lalganj after news coverage," she said in her complaint. The murder case, registered on the basis of the complaint, is against unknown persons and investigations have started, the superintendent of police said, adding that the last rites were performed in Allahabad after postmortem. Earlier, Additional Superintendent of Police Surendra Dwivedi said Sulabh Srivastava died in a crash while returning from Asrahi village under the Lalganj police station area after reporting on an illegal arms manufacturing unit which was busted there. Following the crash, the severely injured reporter was taken to the district hospital where doctors declared him dead, he said, adding that police are probing various angles. Samajwadi Party president Yadav in a tweet in Hindi said, "The mysterious death of a TV reporter in an alleged accident is extremely sad." "The BJP government in this case should constitute a high-level probe, and tell the family members and the public that despite the apprehension of murder by the liquor mafia expressed by the reporter, why he was not provided security". Expressing grief over the death of the reporter, Chief Minister Banerjee said, "Shocked at the demise of ABP journalist Sulabh Srivastava in Uttar Pradesh. Sad to see that despite "democracy & freedom" being a part of our ethos, we are unable to save lives who are working tirelessly towards unfolding the truth." Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hit out at the Uttar Pradesh government, accusing it of "nurturing jungle raj". "The liquor mafia from Aligarh to Pratapgarh: has caused death throughout the state. The government is silent," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "Journalists uncover the truth, warn the administration about the dangers. The government is asleep," she alleged. Does the government that is "nurturing jungle raj" have any answers for the tears of the family of journalist Sulabh Srivastava, Priyanka Gandhi asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-journalist-death-police-register-murder-case-samajwadi-party-demands-high-level-inquiry-997462.html
14-06-2021||North and Central||JNU issues show-cause notice to Aishe Ghosh, another student for 2018 protest||The Jawaharlal Nehru University has issued show-cause notices to JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh and another student for a protest they held in 2018, calling it an act of "indiscipline and misconduct". Reacting to the notice, Ghosh said despite the closure of several administrative offices owing to the Covid pandemic, the varsity's chief proctor's office "has been regularly functioning to intimidate and punish students". The notice issued to Ghosh on June 11 said she had "been found involved in disruption" of the Board of Studies (BOS) meeting on December 5. Professor Rajnish Kumar Mishra, chief proctor of the varsity, confirmed the development. When asked why the notices were issued nearly three years after the protest, he said, "They (students) had blocked the university over the issue of fee hike for a long time and then there were intermittent disturbances. In 2020, the pandemic situation started. We have begun the process now". The notice read, "This kind of activity dangerous in nature and falls under Item Category of the Statute 25 of the Statutes of the University which states -- All acts of violence and all forms of coercion such as gheraos, sit-ins or any variation of the same which disrupts the normal academic and administrative functioning of the university and or any act which incites or leads to violence". Calling her protest "an act of indiscipline and misconduct", the notice sought an explanation on "why disciplinary action should not be initiated" against her. Ghosh has been given time till June 21 to reply to the notice, "failing which it will be presumed that you have nothing to say in your defense and this office will be free to take appropriate action against you", it said. In a Facebook post, the Jawaharlal Nehru University Student' Union president said, "In JNU, several administrative office are not functioning citing pandemic situation, scholarships are not getting disbursed, hostel allotment for first years are not happening, water crisis is going on in the campus, vaccination for students are not happening. "But the chief proctor's office has been regularly functioning to intimidate and punish students." Questioning the priority of the varsity administration, she said, "While thousands of students in our campus are suffering, a huge section everyday is being pushed out of university due to discrimination. The JNU administration is in glee to further fulfil its anti-student policies."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jnu-issues-show-cause-notice-to-aishe-ghosh-another-student-for-2018-protest-997473.html
14-06-2021||North and Central||Journalist's death in UP: Priyanka says state govt 'nurturing jungle raj'||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday hit out at the Uttar Pradesh government over the death of a journalist, who had recently run a story on the liquor mafia and was killed in what police said was a road accident. The Congress general secretary accused the Yogi Adityanath dispensation of "nurturing jungle raj". The 42-year-old news channel reporter, Sulabh Srivastava, died as his motorcycle rammed a pole near a brick kiln in Sukhpal Nagar under the Kotwali police station area of Pratapgarh on Sunday, police said. "The liquor mafia from Aligarh to Pratapgarh: has caused death throughout the state. The government is silent," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "Journalists uncover the truth, warn the administration about the dangers. The government is asleep," she alleged. Does the government that is "nurturing jungle raj" have any answers for the tears of the family of journalist Sulabh Srivastava, Priyanka Gandhi asked. Srivastava had recently run a news story against the liquor mafia in the region. Then on June 12, he wrote to the Prayagraj additional director general of police to seek protection. Additional Superintendent of Police Surendra Dwivedi said Srivastava died in a crash while returning from Asrahi village under the Lalganj police station area after reporting on an illegal arms manufacturing unit uncovered there. Following the crash, a severely injured Srivastava was taken to the district hospital, where doctors declared him dead, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/journalists-death-in-up-priyanka-says-state-govt-nurturing-jungle-raj-997477.html
14-06-2021||North and Central||Elderly woman sexually assaulted, dies after being stabbed multiple times in Delhi||A 62-year-old woman died allegedly after being stabbed 20 times by a man who also sexually assaulted her in east Delhi's Dallupura village, police said on Monday. The accused has been arrested, they said. The police received information about on Sunday from Dharamshila Hospital about the victim. "The police reached the hospital and found that the throat of the victim, a resident of Dallupura village, had been slit with a sharp-edged weapon and there were multiple injuries marks on her stomach. She had been declared brought dead," Deputy Commissioner of Police (east) Priyanka Kashyap said. A case under section 302 (murder) was registered at the New Ashok Nagar police station. During investigation, police analysed the CCTV footage of the area from where the woman was recovered and the identity of accused was established following which he was arrested, the DCP said. During interrogation, the accused admitted to his crime. The police have also recovered the knife, officials said, adding that the accused claimed he was in an inebriated condition during the incident, police said without giving further details about the accused. The accused first slit her throat and then stabbed her over 20 times, they said, adding that it also appears to be a case of sexual assault. The body was later sent to Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital for the post-mortem, the police said. The woman's son said when he came home after completing his duty hours as a security guard in Noida and entered the house, he saw his mother lying in a pool of blood. The woman was from Begusarai in Bihar and used to live in Dallupura village along with her son and grandson, police said. She used to sell vegetables near her house. On Sunday, she had taken out her vegetable cart along with her grandson and later went back home to cook food, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/elderly-woman-sexually-assaulted-dies-after-being-stabbed-multiple-times-in-delhi-997533.html
14-06-2021||Opinion||AAP's poll concerns behind doorstep ration delivery||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), one of India's most successful political startups, has an unenviable task at hand in 2022. But, first, it needs to protect its turf in Delhi, which is due for crucial civic body polls next year and expand beyond Delhi in the seven Assembly polls slated in 2022. It is a coincidence that the only other successful political startup of recent times, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), faces a similar predicament. Existential crisis confronts both these parties in their respective home turfs. Both are also looking at the electorate in Punjab to bail them out of the situation. The BSP will battle for its survival in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. At the same time, the AAP hopes it consolidates its footprint in Delhi by winning the civic body polls. In Punjab, the BSP has allied with the Akalis. The AAP hopes to improve upon its 2017 Assembly polls performance in that state when it had relegated the Akalis to the number three spot and emerged the principal Opposition party. Both would be looking to cut into the support base of the Congress to do well in Punjab, while AAP can do well if only it gnaws at the Congress support base in such poll-bound states like Uttarakhand, Goa, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat as well. But unlike the BSP, which at 37 years looks to be in terminal decline, the AAP at only eight years old is a more potent fighting force. It is the only party since 2014 to have stopped the BJP juggernaut not once but twice (defeating the BJP in 2015 and 2020 in Delhi). To the AAP's advantage, it currently holds the reins of the Delhi government. So it is hopeful the talk of its 'good governance' in Delhi would resonate in the Delhi civic polls and other poll-bound states in 2022. It was, therefore, desperately searching for an issue that would make its support base of the urban poor keep their faith with the party. The AAP believes its proposed doorstep delivery of subsidised ration to the poor of Delhi could be its trump card and also repair its reputation dented after thousands of covid deaths in Delhi. The scheme proposes to deliver four kg flour and one kg rice at the doorstep of the poor. The BJP-ruled Centre has shot the proposal down. The BJP argues the scheme will lead to pilferage and corruption. Law Minister and senior BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad said that the plan violates the National Food Security Act (NFSA), which allows for the delivery of food grains through fair price shops. Food security rights activists have punched holes in the scheme. For example, the NFSA provides Rs 2 per kg wheat for the poor at fair price shops, but the Arvind Kejriwal government has proposed free home delivery of Rs 4 per kg wheat flour. Critics say it is easier to check the quality of wheat than that of wheat flour. A similar effort was discontinued in West Bengal some years back for this reason. The possibility of pilferage and overcharging also increases with doorstep delivery. But the AAP is unrelenting on the issue. The AAP has walked on a political tightrope during and after the Delhi Assembly poll campaign, and the survival of its government in Delhi hangs by a thread after Parliament enacted a law in March that curtailed the autonomy of the Delhi government, vesting decision making powers in the hands of the Lieutenant Governor. The AAP does not want to get into the BJP-led Centre's crosshairs and has steered away from supporting joint statements of the Opposition parties on Covid-19 mismanagement and farm laws. Instead, on the farm laws, the AAP opted to protest alone. The Left parties, who have supported the AAP over the years, have publicly questioned its silence on crucial issues of public concern. The AAP kept its criticism muted on the Union government-appointed administrator's controversial decisions in Lakshadweep, which like Delhi, is a union territory. However, it bears reminding that months before the Delhi polls, the AAP supported the repeal of Article 370, stripping Jammu and Kashmir of the status of a state and bringing it under central rule. It did not utter a word against the Union government on the controversy around former West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. It ignored that the Trinamool Congress had specially flown down three of its Rajya Sabha MPs, despite the election campaign in West Bengal, to participate in the debate in Parliament in March on eroding the powers of the Delhi government. While the AAP has dominated Delhi's politics since 2013 and governed it continuously since 2015, it still does not control Delhi's three resource-rich civic bodies. Until 2012, it was called the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) and trifurcated in 2012. It also needs to expand beyond Delhi. With an eye on Punjab, the AAP-led Delhi government has ordered the recruitment of 800 teachers to teach Punjabi in the schools it runs in Delhi. The AAP had launched its election campaign in Punjab with Kejriwal's public rally in Moga on March 21. Its ambition of winning the faith of the urban poor is not entirely misplaced. In the civic polls in Surat in April, the AAP beat Congress to emerge a distant runner up to the BJP. The Gujarat Assembly polls are in November of 2022. But AAP's influence in Punjab is restricted to only one of the three regions of the state. It lacks a known face in the state, and three of its legislators defected to Congress earlier this month. The AAP believes the doorstep delivery of subsidised ration is that one issue that might strike a chord with the urban poor in Delhi and states like Gujarat and Punjab. The AAP is, therefore, unlikely to let go of it anytime soon. Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/aaps-poll-concerns-behind-doorstep-ration-delivery-997293.html
14-06-2021||Opinion||How Nitish avenged his drubbing by splitting LJP||When Ram Vilas Paswan’s younger brother Pashupati Kumar Paras led a Sunday coup and split the LJP with five of the six Lok Sabha MPs swearing allegiance to him, he was just playing as per the script written and directed by the ruling party in Bihar. Those who know Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar well will tell you: He never forgets and forgives so easily. So, when a much-junior Chirag Paswan, the LJP president, was spewing venom about Nitish in November 2020 and threatening to put him behind bars once the Bihar Assembly polls are over, it was quite clear the over-ambitious Paswan scion had shot himself in the foot. Watch the chronology of how the JD(U) strongman weakened Chirag in an assiduously crafted design. First, he made the lone LJP MLA join the JD(U), and the lone LJP MLC join the BJP. Thereafter he assigned his trusted aide and JD(U) Lok Sabha MP Lallan Singh the task to extend an olive branch to the LJP MP, Paras. Paras was already indebted to Nitish ever since the Bihar Chief Minister made him a Cabinet minister (Animal Husbandry) in 2017 when he was neither an MLA nor MLC. On the other hand, Paras was unhappy with Chirag ever since the latter admonished him for praising Nitish soon after Ram Vilas Paswan’s death. Successful in winning over Paras, the second one to be poached was Prince Raj, son of Ram Vilas Paswan’s younger brother late Ram Chandra Paswan. Prince became a Lok Sabha MP after the seat was vacated following his father’s untimely demise. Incidentally, Paras’ wife and Prince’s mother are sisters. So, it was easy to persuade Prince to cross over the fence. The third LJP MP was Chandan Singh, brother of former LJP MP Surajbhan Singh. Surajbhan enjoys a personal rapport with Lallan Singh, while Chandan has a good equation with Nitish. With half the battle won, the fourth target was the LJP MP from Vaishali, Veena Devi. Her husband Dinesh Singh is a JD-U MLC and, therefore, it was easy to convince her to dump Chirag. The fifth LJP MP Mehboob Ali Kaisar had a running feud with the top LJP leadership. “In fact, he was almost denied the Lok Sabha ticket from Khagaria during 2019 parliamentary polls. It was the timely intervention by Nitish which saved his day. Since then, Kaisar has been indebted to Nitish,” a ruling party source told Deccan Herald on Monday. In weaning away all these five LJP MPs, one more key aide of Nitish, Maheshwar Hazari, played a crucial role. A senior JD(U) leader, Hazari is Paras's cousin and has always maintained cordial ties with everyone despite being on the other side. The grapevine is now abuzz with the theory that the five LJP MPs, who have submitted a petition to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla informing him about Paras being elected the LJP president as well as the Leader of the LJP Parliamentary Party, may eventually join the JD(U) and further strengthen Nitish, who already has 16 Lok Sabha MPs from Bihar. This will serve a twin purpose: The JD(U) will numerically have more MPs from this state than the BJP (which has 17 Lok Sabha MPs from Bihar). Secondly, the increased strength in the lower house will give Nitish the much-needed ammunition to drive a hard bargain with the BJP, and possibly seek due representation in the Union Cabinet, too. The ruling JD(U) has, however, vehemently denied its role in the LJP split. “As you sow, so you reap,” remarked the JD(U) president and a key Nitish aide, RCP Singh. (Abhay Kumar is a Patna-based independent journalist.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-nitish-avenged-his-drubbing-by-splitting-ljp-997448.html
14-06-2021||Panorama||Off The Record: June 14, 2021||‘Our’ chief minister While attacking the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front in the Kerala Assembly over the rosewood tree felling row, senior Congress MLA P T Thomas recollected that those involved in the tree felling case were also accused in a case pertaining to the launch of a mobile phone venture, Mango Phones, and ‘our chief minister’ had even committed to launching the project. Since Thomas did not specify the chief minister’s name, the general impression was that it was current Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. But the next day, Vijayan clarified that the said event was supposed to be held in February 2016 and at that time Congress leader Oommen Chandy was the chief minister. Vijayan said Thomas’s intention of using the words ‘our chief minister’ was to put him (Vijayan) under a cloud of suspicion by playing safe. Arjun Raghunath, Thiruvananthapuram Naga toddler wins hearts A three-year-old girl in Nagaland won many hearts after she walked up to a government health centre earlier this month when her parents were away at work. The photo of the girl, Lipavi, with her mask on, was shared by many on social media. She was having cough and cold and so she visited the Hebolimi health centre in Zunheboto district for a check-up by herself as her parents had already left for their agriculture field. Many posted on social media that the little Lipavi set an example at a time many adults are reluctant to visit a hospital fearing Covid-19 infection. Sumir Karmakar, Guwahati Escape word: Courtesy visit The phrase ‘courtesy visit’ is often used by politicians to ward off controversy or to dodge uncomfortable questions from journalists especially in case of a politically sensitive meeting. It came as a refrain when BJP leaders and former minister in the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government Rajib Banerjee made a sudden visit to the residence of TMC general secretary Kunal Ghosh in Kolkata on Saturday. In a bid to dodge questions from journalists on whether the meeting was to pave the way for his return to the TMC, Banerjee repeatedly took refuge in the phrase. He kept saying that it was a “courtesy visit” which coincidentally took place as he came to visit one of his relatives who was unwell and incidentally lives near Ghosh’s residence. What makes the so-called “courtesy visit” more interesting is that it lasted for one and half hour. Politics in Bengal is on the boil and is abuzz at present with Mukul Roy’s return to the TMC. Politics will never end in Bengal and the same applies to the so-called “courtesy visits” of politicians. Soumya Das, Kolkata AAP demands speedboats From parts of Mumbai’s far western suburbs to Vasai-Virar were flooded during the massive downpour last week, the local AAP unit has demanded that the municipal corporation provide tractor and speedboat services during the monsoon. “For last three years, the rural areas of Vasai and the urban localities of Vasai, Virar and Nalasopara get flooded. The option that is left with us is to have tractors and speedboats,” said AAP leaders John Periera and Susheel Dwivedi. “We have to look at long term solutions to address the issue of flooding in monsoons,” Dwivedi said. Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai Rumour mill in Kashmir A rumour of “something big” is going to happen made people of Kashmir anxious for the whole week. The sudden influx of paramilitary forces in parts of J&K triggered the rumours that the Center was planning “administrative and demographic changes” in the region. As similar rumours were doing rounds prior to the abrogation of the erstwhile states’ special status under Article 370 on August 5 2019, life in Kashmir became hostage to the latest rumours. On June 7, Pakistan as usual added fuel to the fire when its Foreign Ministry issued a statement expressing serious concern over reports of India’s purported plans to trigger new “administrative and demographic changes” in Kashmir. However, as soon as the J&K L-G cleared the air, the rumour mill got shut. Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-june-14-2021-997187.html
14-06-2021||Panorama||Mentoring: A novel way to impart 'true education' during pandemic||As is often stated, one should not allow a crisis to go to waste. The current pandemic which has affected children — rich or poor, rural or urban — is just one occasion to adapt out-of-the-box idea to impart “true education”. It is a well-known reality that our current education system has failed to ignite critical thinking or creativity in our students, teach values to make them socially responsible citizens, create curiosity to ask questions or learn about the world.  If the New Education Policy (NEP) is properly implemented, then there is hope that our children will have a chance to get true education. However, we need not wait for the implementation of NEP. Right now, during the current crisis itself, if we can implement Student Mentoring Programme (SMP), we can make a beginning. Under SMP, a mentor who is reasonably well-educated has a desire to interact with children to create curiosity in them by telling stories or answering their questions and can guide them to develop a proper value system, will spend an hour a week with a student.  SMP has similar features such as the one of Indian 'gurukula' where a teacher guides his disciples in acquiring life skills, or the advisory system of the US education system where each student has an advisor to guide students. The difference with SMP is that it is carried out on a digital platform using a smartphone while the other two are in person. During India’s freedom struggle, Mahatma Gandhi was promoting a programme called, “Each one, Teach One” to educate the illiterates. SMP is a replica of this except that the former uses information technology highway.  The usefulness and importance of the mentoring programme can be appreciated through the example of Indra Nooyi. She is a former chairman of PepsiCo who has consistently figured in the lists of the world’s most powerful women. Despite her busy schedule, she was mentoring five American Indian High School students recently. She has spent time with each of her mentees individually and collectively, with their parents (all virtually), taken walks with some of them, and has even invited their parents and mentees for a dinner.  Since both the authors of this article are associated with Pratham, an NGO with a mission to ensure all children are in school and learning well, we were familiar with the ground realities and also had easy access to children in villages. Our experience helped us to design and run a pilot project in three villages close to Mysuru.  Forty students from class 6 to 9 were shortlisted. Parents of the students were briefed about the programme and the value that the mentors could add to their child’s learning. There was spontaneous acceptance. Profile of the students such as the class they were studying, their interests, parent’s profession, level of education, phone numbers etc, was prepared to find a suitable mentor. Two kinds of mentors were selected— about 30 teacher trainees from BGS College of Education, Mysuru, and 10 professionals with a different background like lawyers, academicians, retired school principals, teachers with several years of experience, engineers etc. Basic guidelines of engagement between mentors and mentees were also listed to ensure uniformity and best practices are followed. There was to be no physical contact between mentors and mentees, no offer of any financial assistance while mentors were told to avoid teaching lessons that were a part of the school curriculum. This was primarily to avoid any conflict in the methodologies of teaching followed in the schools. Access to phones Initial responses of mentees and mentors have been uniformly positive. There were some problems with children getting access to phones when their parents take the devices to work. These are not insurmountable problems. The attractiveness of SMP is its replicability, scalability and practically zero cost. However, no NGO, whether big, active and well-funded, has enough bandwidth to scale it to national or even state level. A state government can easily implement this programme and scale it up.  The state government can give wide publicity through TV, radio and newspapers on how all those educated can serve the society from the comforts of their house without any inconvenience. Periodically, they can publish stories of outstanding contribution of some mentors and also the improvement in mentees to give high visibility to the programme. As the programme expands, booklets and pamphlets can be prepared to serve as guides to mentors as well as mentees for them to make the best use of the programme.  The Ministry of Education can promote the idea of forming WhatsApp groups of say 20 to 30 mentors in some areas by developing a massive data bank of mentors and mentees. From time to time, prizes can be given to recognise outstanding contribution on the part of mentors and performance on the part of mentees to incentivise active participation. It goes without saying that there will be a need for the government to allocate some funds. Social departments of colleges and universities can be roped into promoting and monitoring this programme. There are three critical factors for SMP to succeed. First is the recruitment of concerned and committed individuals. Second is the continuing interest on the part of schoolchildren and their parents. Finally, the competence of officials and college and university staff to monitor the programme and take corrective steps.  The potential of SMP to contribute to achieving NEP’s objectives is immense. But how we organise to tap into it depends on the capacity of the government departments to get the involvement of the intelligentsia. It is most apt to conclude by quoting Swami Vivekananda: “So long as the millions live in hunger and ignorance, I hold every man a traitor who, having been educated at their expense, pays not the least heed to them.” Let us hope most will in this nation-building project.  (Shenoy is an advisor and Ranjan is a trustee of Pratham, Mysuru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/mentoring-a-novel-way-to-impart-true-education-during-pandemic-997192.html
14-06-2021||Right in the Middle||A wise message||A couple of years ago, when we stayed with our elder son’s family in Hyderabad for a fortnight during winter, an interesting incident happened that got stuck in my mind as a unique, pleasant memory. As is my long-time wont, I set out on my morning stroll. As there was no space for habitual morning walkers like me such as a park in the vicinity or roads, free of bursting crowds and shattering din, I was content, strolling on the path within the compound-wall of my son’s apartment. With the morning Sun climbing the firmament slowly, shooting down his rays, I was walking at a slow pace in the warmth of the wintry, morning sun. While strolling with unhurried steps, I was engrossed in watching the sun, scissoring off the gossamer layer of fog and spreading warm radiance all over. A few birds perched cosily on branches of a few trees along the path of my walk were showering their chirpy, mellifluous greetings, elevating my spirits. All of a sudden, I heard someone call me from behind. My steps came to a halt and I stood surprised gazing around. A cute, little girl of about ten years, riding a bicycle, came into my sight. She halted her bike before me. Sliding off the saddle of her bike, she picked up from a basket, a couple of shiny, dewy, milky blossoms. I was still staring at her, unable to figure out what she was doing. But the little girl was still smiling at me. Then, offering the beautiful blooms to me, she chirped: ”Good morning, Uncle. Please, take these flowers”. Amazed and delighted, I asked her curiously, ”why are you offering me these flowers? Is there any special occasion in your house?” "No, special occasion in our house, Uncle. You know flowers are the supreme beauties in God’s creation. They offer us wonderful, pure and infinite happiness. These are the flowers from our small garden. I want to share this great joy of these supreme beauties with the people of our flats. So I am offering these flowers to our people in the flats.” Uttering these words, the little girl went away, peddling her bike and casting over me, her flowery smiles. With the showers of her angelic smiles all over me, enveloped in unique, unbounded joy, savouring the colourful, supreme beauties in my hands, I stood there for a while musing, "what a wise, superb message of eternal beauty from this little angel. How nice it is to share our happiness with others through the offering of such sweet, little things." With these reflections illumining my mind, I resumed my morning walk to usher into a happy day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-wise-message-997186.html
14-06-2021||Second Edit||IISc and its will to excel||It is good news that the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore, has been adjudged the world’s best research institute on the basis of citations by the Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) World Rankings 2022. QS rankings which grade the world’s universities are looked forward to every year as reliable indicators of academic standing. The rankings are decided on the basis of academic reputation, employer reputation, faculty-student ratio, international faculty ratio, international student ratio and citations per faculty. While the IISc stood first on citations, it does not figure in the top 100 universities in overall ranking. It scored a perfect 100 on citations per faculty, which is the value arrived at by dividing the total number of citations received by a university’s research papers over a five-year period by the number of faculty in that institution. It is an indicator of how the research work in the institute is referenced by students and scholars.  There may be doubts about the relative value of citations among other metrics, but there is no doubt that coming first in the world on its basis is a marker of merit and excellence. The country can be proud of that achievement and should take it as a sign of what its scientific and research institutions can achieve. When all the metrics are considered, the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bombay and IIT Delhi are ranked first and second in India and the IISc comes third. The IISc and the IITs are the best institutions in the country in the field of teaching and research in science and engineering, but have not figured in high or even middle positions in world rankings. Only 22 Indian universities figure in the top 1,000.  That is why the IISc’s position in the QS rankings on citations is significant and should bring cheer and hope. It may have surprised many that an institution which was not in the reckoning has suddenly taken the number one position, ahead of the world’s best universities, though it is only with respect to one parameter. It shows that it is possible to achieve excellence in other areas also if there is the will to excel and sustained efforts are made for that. QS noted that Indian universities have improved their performance on academic reputation and research impact, but they continue to rank poorly in the teaching capacity. Changes have to be made in organisation, practices, policies and attitudes and in the environment in which the universities function, and there should be an atmosphere congenial to scientific enquiry and research in the country. The country will hope that the recognition won by its premiere scientific institution is not a blip, and will lead to bigger achievements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/iisc-and-its-will-to-excel-997191.html
14-06-2021||South||Sacked TRS minister joins BJP, rekindles party's hopes in Telangana||The BJP has become hopeful of regaining its electoral momentum in Telangana with the joining of Eatala Rajender. The former TRS minister's resignation from the Telangana assembly membership on Saturday has necessitated the Huzurabad by-poll, which is expected to be a close contest between the ruling party and the BJP. The saffron party is expecting to repeat the Dubbaka success of November last year when it has stunned the TRS supremo K Chandrasekhar Rao, wresting the ruling party-held seat in a fiercely fought by-poll. The BJP further shocked the TRS with an impressive performance in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls of December, improving its tally from four to 48 wards. However, the BJP suffered election setbacks thereafter losing a sitting MLC seat to the TRS in March and was trounced by the latter to a distant third position in the Nagarjuna Sagar by-poll in April. The party's show was dismal in the Warangal, Khammam etc, civic body polls, too. At such a time, analysts say, Eatala's banishment came as an opportunity for the BJP to regroup the dissatisfied leaders in the TRS and renew its political attack on KCR. Eatala took the BJP membership in New Delhi on Monday, in the presence of union minister Dharmendra Pradhan and BJP Telangana in-charge Tarun Chugh, and vowed to strive for BJP's expansion to all parts of Telangana. A few other ex-TRS leaders, workers and student union leaders have joined the BJP along with Eatala, who said that there would be more defections from all the districts soon. Working towards its target of 2023 assembly elections, the BJP, according to the state leaders, is strategising to accommodate the Telangana agitation leaders, others who lost prominence under the TRS's seven-year rule. Eatala, one of the senior-most TRS leaders holding the crucial health department, was sacked by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao last month following charges of land grabbing by the minister and his associates. Eatala was a close confidant of Rao and his lieutenant during the statehood agitation but a rift developed between the two in the last few years. Accusing the CM of treating his ministers and legislators like slaves, Eatala has also alleged KCR of winning the elections lately with money and establishment power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sacked-trs-minister-joins-bjp-rekindles-partys-hopes-in-telangana-997302.html
14-06-2021||South||Aisha Sultana moves Kerala High Court seeking anticipatory bail in sedition case||Lakshadweep-based filmmaker Aisha Sultana has approached the Kerala High Court seeking anticipatory bail in a sedition case filed against her. An FIR was registered against her on sedition charges after she, in a TV debate, said the Centre deployed Covid-19 as a 'bio weapon' against the people of Lakshadweep. Lakshadweep-based filmmaker Aisha Sultana approaches Kerala High Court seeking anticipatory bail in sedition case against her FIR was registered against her on sedition charges after she, in a TV debate, said Centre deployed COVID as a 'bio weapon' against people of Lakshadweep Aisha Sultana is an actor, activist and filmmaker from Lakshadweep. She is a native of Chetlat island of the Union Territory. With the Malayalam movie ‘Flush’, Sultana had made her debut as a director. She has also worked as an associate director of another Malayalam film 'Kettyolaanu Ente Malaakha’. Often being vocal about social issues of Lakshadweep, Sultana is seen actively protesting against the recent political crisis in the UT. The case was registered with charges of sedition (IPC 124A) on the basis of a petition filed by BJP Lakshadweep president Abdulkhader Haji.  She allegedly made the remark during a discussion on a Malayalam news channel regarding the current resentment and protests in Lakshadweep over proposed legislation and reform measures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aisha-sultana-moves-kerala-high-court-seeking-anticipatory-bail-in-sedition-case-997304.html
14-06-2021||South||Covid-19: Kerala logs 7,719 new cases, 161 deaths||Kerala on Monday logged 7,719 fresh Covid-19 cases and 161 deaths, taking the caseload to 27,05,933 and the toll to 11,342. It said 68,573 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and the test positivity rate was 11.26 per cent. Till now, 2,12,89,498 samples have been tested. Active case stood at 1,13,817. As many as 16,743 people have been cured, taking the total recoveries to 26,10,368. Among the districts, Thiruvananthapuram recorded the highest number of positive cases today at 1,170, followed by Ernakulam with 977 and Kollam 791. "Of those found infected today, 36 reached the State from outside while 7,138 contracted the disease from their contact. The source of infection of 493 is yet to be traced and 52 health workers are also among the infected," a government statement said. As many as 5,25,331 people are in quarantine, including 30,052 in hospitals, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-kerala-logs-7719-new-cases-161-deaths-997429.html
14-06-2021||South||Praful Khoda Patel reaches Lakshadweep, people protest by observing 'black day'||As administrator Praful Khoda Patel reached Lakshadweep on Monday, people of the island observed 'black day' by wearing black masks and badges. The police tightened their vigil against the protests. According to sources on the island, people staged the protest, cutting across age and political affiliations, by holding placards against various decisions of the administration. Many also wore black masks and badges. 'Save Lakshadweep Forum', a collective of various political parties of Lakshadweep had called for observing 'black day'. Though many tried to raise black flags at the premises of their houses, the police prevented it. Police personnel also took photographs of houses where black flags were raised. Zaheer, a native of Kalpeni island, said that since lockdown due to Covid-19 was in place there were no pubic demonstrations. But if the administration did not revoke its controversial decisions, the island may witness the resentment of the people spilling over to the streets. Patel is reportedly planning to be on the island for one week. He would be reviewing the implementation of various decisions, especially infrastructure development projects like the Smart City project at Kavaratti. Though a delegation of Congress MPs from Kerala waited at the Kochi airport on Monday morning with the intention of meeting Patel, he did not travel via Kochi. Congress MP T N Prathapan said that the administrator who used to go to Kavaratti via Kochi skipped Kochi to evade protests. But the protests against him would be intensified, he said. Meanwhile, actress from the island Aisha Sulthana, who was slapped with a sedition case by the Lakshadweep police, moved the Kerala HC on Monday seeking anticipatory bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/praful-khoda-patel-reaches-lakshadweep-people-protest-by-observing-black-day-997452.html
14-06-2021||South||AIADMK cracks the whip, expels 16 functionaries who spoke with Sasikala||Sending out a strong message to its ousted interim general secretary, the AIADMK on Monday expelled 16 functionaries who spoke with V K Sasikala over the phone in the past few weeks and accused her of “enacting a drama” by claiming that she would “grab” the party. In a four-page resolution passed at the Legislature Party meeting, the AIADMK said it would like to remind everyone that the party will never destroy itself to “fulfil the desires” of one family, an obvious reference to the Sasikala clan. Overcoming the differences between them, coordinator O Panneerselvam, and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami moved the resolution to keep Sasikala out of the party. The two leaders were at loggerheads on who gets to be Leader of Opposition in the Tamil Nadu Assembly and had exchanged barbs against each other at the last meeting. As Sasikala’s camp continues to release audio clips of party functionaries talking to her over the phone in which she promises to make a comeback and “head the party”, AIADMK sources said, the meeting decided to put up a united face, and send a message that the party won’t buckle under pressure. “The resolution was passed unanimously, and it was prepared after the deliberations at the Legislature Party meeting. The legislators were united in not letting Sasikala take over the party. Everyone was against her re-entry,” a senior legislator who attended the meeting told DH. Another legislator said since unity was the buzzword in the meeting, OPS agreed to function as deputy leader of the AIADMK Legislature Party. “He had no option but to agree. He does not have much support or say in the AIADMK now. And I believe Delhi (read BJP) may have had a role in OPS’ decision,” a party senior told DH. The resolution made a frontal attack on Sasikala – this is probably the first time her name is being mentioned by the party in an official document after her ouster in 2017 – accusing her of trying to make a comeback into politics using the party’s popularity. The four-page resolution was stinging and recommended action against everyone who spoke to Sasikala and “brought disrepute to the AIADMK.” Within minutes of the meeting, OPS and EPS released two statements expelling 16 functionaries, including a former minister, and ex-MP, for touching base with Sasikala. The resolution is significant as Sasikala continues with her outreach to AIADMK cadres promising them of her “re-entry” into the AIADMK and “set things right” in the party. Sasikala's outreach comes three months after she announced that she was “stepping aside” from politics after she came out of the Parappana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru. However, after the AIADMK’s defeat, Sasikala feels she has a chance to head the party again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-cracks-the-whip-expels-16-functionaries-who-spoke-with-sasikala-997463.html
14-06-2021||South||IIT-M research suggests greater govt investment in healthcare||Contending that the pandemic poses a greater risk of social isolation among the elderly, which may cause detrimental health impact, research undertaken by the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) has pitched for “greater government investment” in public healthcare to mitigate the impact of Covid-19 on the elderly. The study conducted based on the 75th round of the National Sample Survey (NSS) 2017-18, found only 18.9 per cent of the elderly had health insurance and therefore they may not be able to bear large expenditures on health, and further, 27.5 per cent of people whose age is 80 years or above are immobile and 70 per cent of elders are partially or wholly financially dependent on others. The study was undertaken by Prof VR Muraleedharan, Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, IIT Madras, and Dr Alok Ranjan, the first Author who was a Post-Doctoral Student at IIT Madras till December 2020. The NSS survey covered 113,823 households and 555,115 individuals from randomly selected 8,077 villages and 6,181 urban areas. The results showed that disparities exist in health status as well as healthcare access of elderly people across the country, the institute said. The research concluded that the current pandemic poses a greater risk of social isolation among the elderly, which may lead to a greater adverse health impact. “Overall, given the evidence on the possible hardships that the elderly may have already gone through during the pandemic and hardships that they may face in the future, the importance of strengthening the public health care system cannot be over-emphasised,” the researchers opined. “Our research highlights ways in which the elderly may have suffered even due to Covid-19 control measures, such as social/physical distancing that could increase depression, and lead to a higher chance of inflammatory response in the elderly. There are several such ailments specific to the vulnerable elderly population,” Prof Muraleedharan said.  The vulnerability of India’s elderly increases across economic levels, and other dimensions such as the place of residence, gender, social group (caste), marital status, living arrangements, surviving children, and economic dependence, the research further added. The researchers want to extend the result of this study to a policy, and plan to carry out detailed surveys among the elderly population particularly in Tamil Nadu, especially to design effective rehabilitative care which is almost absent in India’s public healthcare system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iit-m-research-suggests-greater-govt-investment-in-healthcare-997476.html
14-06-2021||South||Social media commentator arrested in Tamil Nadu||Kishore K Swamy, a social media commentator known for his slanderous language, was on Monday arrested by Tamil Nadu Police for circulating defamatory contents against DMK founder C N Annadurai, late chief minister M Karunanidhi and incumbent M K Stalin. Swamy, 41, was arrested on Monday morning following a complaint filed by the Kanchipuram district IT Wing of DMK. Ravichandran, the IT wing functionary, said the comments would create unrest in society. Swamy has over 73,000 followers on Twitter and is a self-proclaimed supporter of AIADMK and BJP. He has been arrested twice in the past for his derogatory posts against women journalists. The social media commentator is a known DMK baiter and often posts tweets against leaders from political parties other than the two parties he claims to support. One of his last tweets was against the DMK’s move to encourage women to become priests in the state. Police said Swamy was booked under Sections 153 (Wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause a riot—if rioting is committed — if not committed), 505(1)(b) and 505(1)(c) of the IPC. After the arrest, Swamy was produced before a magistrate, who sent him to judicial custody. Swamy was arrested in 2019 and 2020, but released immediately, for his abusive tweets against women journalists. Nearly a dozen women journalists in Tamil Nadu had filed complaints against him for his derogatory tweets and their profession on social media. Though many welcomed Swamy’s arrests, there was condemnation, too. BJP vice-president and former Karnataka-cadre IPS officer K Annamalai termed the development as “unfortunate”. “Is it a crime to criticise the DMK family and its leaders? Is there no freedom of speech and expression? Do not suppress the voice of freedom of speech and expression,” he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/social-media-commentator-arrested-in-tamil-nadu-997503.html
14-06-2021||South||Kerala to implement new Covid-19 death reporting system, hopes to address flaws||Underreporting of Covid-19 deaths, an allegation that the health sector of Kerala is facing right from the initial stages of the pandemic might be addressed as the state is switching over to a new system of determining the cause of deaths at the district level itself, instead of the present system of deciding at the state level. The new online system that will come into place from Tuesday would ensure transparency and avoid a backlog in determining the Covid-19 deaths, which is mainly caused by missing the information. It was due to the clearance of the backlog that the state is witnessing higher Covid-19 deaths over the last several days, health department sources said. The Covid-19 death rate of Kerala is now 0.41 per cent with 11,342 total deaths. Allegations of underreporting of Covid-19 deaths assumed much seriousness as the Centre and the state government announced support schemes for children orphaned due to Covid-19. There were apprehensions that due to the suspected underreporting, many children who lost both father and mother to Covid-19 may be deprived of the benefits. Sources in the Kerala health department told DH that the major flaw in the present Covid-19 death reporting system is the loss of some vital information like Specimen Referral Form Identification Number (SRF ID), which is generated when a person is tested Covid-19 positive while transferring patients' records from hospitals to the authorities. The state-level team would keep such cases of missing information in abeyance. This was leading to a backlog. With the new online system, all such vital information about patients would be made 'mandatory fields'. Hence, no data will be missed. Moreover, to avoid the backlog, the state government had allowed the district level teams to declare the cause of death of a patient - whether it is Covid-19 or not. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that with the introduction of the new system from Tuesday, the backlog and confusions over Covid-19 death reporting would be over. Meanwhile, the existing lockdown in Kerala, which will continue till June 16, is likely to be relaxed as the test positivity rate in the state is coming down. On Monday, the TPR of the state was 11.26 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-implement-new-covid-19-death-reporting-system-hopes-to-address-flaws-997505.html
14-06-2021||South||O Panneerselvam elected deputy leader of AIADMK legislature party||AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam was on Monday elected as deputy leader of the Legislature Party even as Edappadi K Palaniswami ensured that one of his lieutenants was chosen as the whip, a crucial and key post. The AIADMK Legislature party also elected its other office-bearers keeping the caste equations in mind. Though Panneerselvam was not interested in holding the post of deputy leader, sources said legislators asked him to accept the post in the interests of the party, which is still smarting under the defeat in the April 6 Assembly polls. Panneerselvam, who lost to Palaniswami in the race to be Leader of Opposition, is understood to have been sulking for the past few months and sought the post of the whip to his camp. But, Palaniswami did not want to part away with the crucial post from his camp -- his close aide S P Velumani is the new whip. S Ravi, a Dalit leader, was elected as deputy whip, while K P Anbalagan, who hails from the dominant Vanniyar caste, is the new secretary, and Manoj PH Pandian from the Nadar community is the deputy secretary. Former minister Kadambur C Raju will be the new treasurer of the legislature party. “OPS should not have accepted the post. He should have nominated one of his supporters to the deputy leader post. He has been relegated to eternal no. 2 in the party though he is the coordinator. Maybe, he got a call from Delhi (BJP) to accept whatever is given so that AIADMK stays united,” a senior leader told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/o-panneerselvam-elected-deputy-leader-of-aiadmk-legislature-party-997516.html
14-06-2021||South||Telangana sees 1,511 new Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths||Telangana on Monday reported 1,511 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths, pushing the tally so far to 6,04,880 and 3,496 respectively. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 173 followed by Khammam (139) and Nalgonda (113) districts, a bulletin said, providing information as of 5.30 PM today. The number of recovered people outnumbered the fresh cases with 2,175 people recuperating from the infectious disease, taking the cumulative number of recoveries to 5,80,923. The number of active cases was 20,461, the bulletin said. It said 1,10,681 samples were tested today and the total number of samples tested till date was 1,68,34,591. The samples tested per 10 lakh population was 4,52,299. The case fatality rate in the State was 0.57 per cent while it was 1.3 per cent at the national level. The recovery rate in Telangana was 96.03 per cent while it was 95.39 per cent in the country. Meanwhile, State Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao said the virus spread is declining. The positivity rate which was 6.74 per cent at the beginning of lockdown (last month) has now come down to 1.36 per cent. The other parameters, including number of recoveries and bed occupancy ratio, have shown improvement in the situation, he said. He said cases of mucormycosis have also considerably declined. The government is prepared to deal with the situation if a third wave of virus occurs, he said adding that a complaint has been lodged with police against a person who allegedly spread false information about the so-called third wave. Observing that people are already under psychological stress due to the virus, Rao advised against spreading false information on social media about the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-sees-1511-new-covid-19-cases-12-deaths-997518.html
14-06-2021||State||Twitter campaign for Tulu gets support from politicians||A Twitter campaign demanding official language status for Tulu launched by various Tulu organisations on Sunday received support from politicians and the public in the coastal belt. Launched with the hashtag #TuluOfficialinKA_KL, the campaign began from 6 AM on Sunday till midnight. The organisations, including 'Jai Tulunad', took up the campaign to urge both Kerala and Karnataka to declare Tulu as an official language. Backing the campaign, Dakshina Kannada MP and BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel tweeted in Tulu saying, Efforts and talks are on to include Tulu in the eighth schedule. A few technical issues need to be sorted out. All efforts will be made to announce Tulu as official language during our tenure itself." Former MLC Ganesh Karnik, in his tweet, said, Lets all be proud Tuluvas with our distinct identity, our unique culture, our entrepreneurship and all our all-inclusive live and let live philosophy of co-existence with people speaking many languages. Tulu language is our mother tongue. Every one of us want Tulu to get official language status, tweeted Vedavyas Kamath, MLA. Mangalore city north MLA Bharath Shetty, in his tweet, said Tulu, the language of coastal Karnataka, has a rich oral tradition and historical, cultural significance. Dakshina Kannada district-in-Charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary tweeted saying he supported the demand of the people of Tulunadu to get special status for Tulu. Tulu is not only a language but also a culture and tradition with a history of its own, he said. More than 2.5 lakh people tweeted in support of the campaign during the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/twitter-campaign-for-tulu-gets-support-from-politicians-997361.html
14-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||19 districts in Karnataka partially reopen today, 11 others to wait||After an eight-week lockdown, 19 districts in Karnataka will see some relaxations starting Monday while 11 districts with high positivity rate have to wait longer. Over the past one week, job capital Bengaluru, where restrictions are being eased, has seen an influx of people. National highway authorities said the traffic is set to increase. "We had opened only three gates due to low number of vehicles. From Monday, we need to open all the 10," sources at Nelamangala toll plaza said. The government has allowed industries and establishments to operate, but with a restricted staff strength of 50 per cent; for garment factories, it is 30 per cent. The timings of 6 am to 2 pm for establishments and weekend curfew from 7 pm on Friday to 5 am on Monday are likely to affect business transactions. Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association said even if the government implements full unlock measures, industries across the state will hardly recover. "Many employees depend on public transport, which has not been allowed," it said, stressing the need for a "conducive atmosphere". Sampath C, general secretary of Adarsh Auto Union, said the easing of restrictions has not raised much hope for auto and taxi drivers. "For people whose daily bread depends on the movement of others, finding work is still a gamble. Within our association, only 20 per cent worked during the 6 am to 10 am relaxation hours as most couldn't get any passengers. Half of the 1.45 lakh auto rickshaws are driven by people who do not own them but rent them to make a living. They won't survive in this condition," he said. Daily wage labourers, domestic workers and garment workers said transportation will be a major problem. "I have to give up Rs 2,000 of my monthly earning because I can't find a bus to reach Basaveshwarnagar," said Padma B, a domestic worker and resident of Gayatrinagar. Meanwhile, the 11 districts, including Bangalore Rural, Mysuru, Dakshina Kannada, Mandya, Belagavi, Chikkamagalur, Shivamogga, Davangere, Chamarajanagar, Hassan and Kodagu, will continue to be under lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/19-districts-in-karnataka-partially-reopen-today-11-others-to-wait-997176.html
14-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to give Rs 1L for BPL family that lose an earning adult to Covid-19||“Several families are in distress due to the death of earning members. Many families have come on the streets. Keeping this in mind, it has been decided to provide Rs 1 lakh compensation to any BPL family where an adult dies due to Covid-19. This will be given to one member per family,” Yediyurappa told reporters after a meeting with the Finance department, which he heads.  The CM said this would cost the state exchequer Rs 250-300 crore. “We’re giving this (compensation) for the first time in India. It shows that the financial situation is good and that’s why we’re able to provide this,” he said, adding that this would benefit the families of 25,000-30,000 adults who died due to Covid-19.  CID to probe milk scam Yediyurappa said the CID will probe the allegations of milk adulteration at the Mandya Milk Union Ltd (Manmul). “A preliminary inquiry has been ordered. A new managing director has been appointed there. Five erring officers have been kept under suspension. In all likelihood, the CID will probe this,” he said.  The irregularities, amounting to crores of rupees, were being done allegedly with the help of Manmul employees. One lakh litres of adulterated milk were supplied to Manmul every day. The adulterated milk was packed and sold to gullible customers under the Nandini brand name. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-give-rs-1l-for-bpl-family-that-lose-an-earning-adult-to-covid-19-997319.html
14-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||K-CET 2021 registrations open||The Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) is all set to receive applications for the Karnataka Common Entrance Test (K-CET) 2021 from Tuesday. Considering the pandemic situation, the KEA is making professional course seat aspirants submit applications through a mobile app that can be downloaded on their phones from the play store.  According to officials from KEA, there are no other changes in the application form compared to the previous year.  Free coaching The department of pre-university education, in association with SCH Foundation, is launching free online coaching for students who are aspiring to appear for various competitive examinations for admissions to professional courses, including K-CET. The coaching will be done in the name ‘Jnana Vignana Taranga’. Currently, around 60,000 students have been registered and students can register by logging into https://forms.gle/ydFjC1vAbGpq1F7i8. The classes will be held between 5 pm to 8 pm every day where over 100 subject experts will train the students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/k-cet-2021-registrations-open-997490.html
14-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sanchari Vijay revelled in complex roles||Sanchari Vijay, a national-award-winning actor, excelled in character-driven films. The 38-year-old, who hailed from Kadur taluk in Chikkamagaluru district, carved a decade-old film journey through experimental roles.  Toiling hard to find his space in Sandalwood, Vijay received his big break with B S Lingadevaru’s ‘Naanu Avanalla…Avalu’ (2015), based on Living Smile Vidya’s autobiography ‘I am Vidya’. The actor’s hard-hitting performance as a transgender person, shunned by family and society, earned him the national award. “He would live his characters. It’s a rare quality for an actor. He was also a kind soul,” Lingadevaru told DH on Monday.         Born as Vijay Kumar B, his acting skills were first honed by parents Basavarajaiah and Gowramma, who were active in performing arts. Making education his priority, Vijay studied engineering and taught computer science to diploma students. His decision to focus on acting brought him to Sanchari Theatre, a drama troupe established here in 2004. This association earned him the screen name Sanchari Vijay. Vijay struggled to find his footing in the film industry without any godfathers. However, his association with director Mansore changed the course of his career. In Mansore’s Harivu, Vijay produced a moving performance as a farmer who comes to Bengaluru to get treatment for his terminally ill son. The film won a national award in 2015.  Nathicharami, another national award-winning film by Mansore, reminded us of Vijay’s abilities. In a sensitive take on women's sexuality, Vijay brilliantly underplayed his character of a middle-aged man troubled by an unhappy marriage. In his 25-film career, there was a conscious effort to make a mark in complete commercial films. He aced the role of a cop in 6ne Maili (2018) and Gentleman (2019). His last best show came as a visually impaired person in Krishna Tulasi (2018). This showed that essaying complex characters was his forte. A promising career was cruelly cut short by a road accident. The Kannada film industry mourned Vijay’s passing and remembered not just his talent but also his hard work and generosity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sanchari-vijay-revelled-in-complex-roles-997491.html
14-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Admissions start today across Karnataka; schools expect few takers for lower grades||Even as school admissions for 2021-22 academic year starts across the state on Tuesday, private unaided schools expect fewer admissions for lower grades this time. Several schools have even decided not to conduct admissions for kindergarten for the 2021-22 academic year, considering the zero enrolment for lower grades during the previous academic year.  “It is not easy to engage younger children in online mode of schooling and many parents are not intending to enrol their children to lower grades,” said the principal of a private unaided school in Bengaluru. As explained by school principals, there were very few queries from parents seeking admissions to lower grades. “Though we are starting the admission process for all grades on Tuesday as per the notification issued by the department of public instruction (DPI), we have no hopes about getting children to kindergarten,” said another principal. D Shashi Kumar, convener of the Karnataka Private School Managements, Teaching and Non-teaching Staff Co-ordination Committee, said that during the 2020-21 academic year, admissions to lower grades were nearly nil. “Admissions took place for barely 2 per cent to 3 per cent of the seats in kindergarten last year. This year, we are not even expecting it to reach 2%.” “Not just kindergarten, admissions were slim even for primary level last year,” said Shashi Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/admissions-start-today-across-karnataka-schools-expect-few-takers-for-lower-grades-997492.html
14-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah demands Rs 5L ex gratia for Covid victims' families||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Monday urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to provide Rs 5 lakh as compensation to families that are bereaved due to Covid-19.  Siddaramaiah was reacting to Yediyurappa announcing an ex-gratia of Rs 1 lakh to BPL families whose breadwinners succumbed to Covid-19.  “I urge the CM to consider this as a national disaster and announce compensation of Rs 5,00,000 as per disaster relief norms,” the Congress leader said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-demands-rs-5l-ex-gratia-for-covid-victims-families-997493.html
14-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government to seek extension of GST aid beyond 2022||The Karnataka government will write to the Centre seeking an extension of the GST compensation beyond 2022. A decision in this regard was taken at a review meeting Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa chaired on the departments of commercial taxes and excise on Monday. According to sources, the request for extension will be made before the next GST Council, owing to the revenue shortfall faced by states. Due to economic slowdown amid the Covid-19 pandemic, revenue growth under the GST regime was below the expected level of 12 per cent per annum, leading to severe fiscal stress for the states. Despite adverse market conditions caused by the lockdown, the Commercial Taxes department has collected Rs 11,409 crore this fiscal, which is 14.92 per cent of the annual target of around Rs 76,400 crore. The Excise department has mopped up Rs 4,284.05 crore in April and May, against the annual target of Rs 24,580 crore. Yediyurappa said that tax collection was satisfactory and predicted an increase in revenue generation for the government once lockdown restrictions are lifted across the state. According to a release from the Chief Minister's Office (CMO), Karnataka stands second in the country in GST collections. The CM also directed officials to initiate strict measures to prevent tax leakage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-to-seek-extension-of-gst-aid-beyond-2022-997501.html
14-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sex CD case: Woman moves Karnataka High Court over Jarkiholi U-turn||The woman involved in the 'CD scandal' has moved the Karnataka High Court objecting to the FIR registered by Sadashivanagar police based on BJP legislator Ramesh Jarkiholi's complaint that there was a conspiracy in releasing the video clips. A single judge bench of Justice S Sunil Dutt Yadav, which heard the petition, ordered notice to the special investigation team and Jarkiholi. The case has been posted to June 21. "When the CD became public, Jarkiholi had claimed that it was a fake video and he had no connection with the woman in the video. He had registered a complaint on March 13 and had written a letter to the home minister on March 9. Based on the minister's direction, the SIT was formed. All this shows how influential Jarkiholi is and even SIT is subject to it," the woman said in the petition. U-turn The woman then noted that Jarkiholi has made a U-turn. "Seventy days after registering a complaint, Jarkiholi admits before the SIT that he was there in the video clip and the sex was consensual. The statement made after the release of CD and later are contradictory. He is now coming up with new stories to escape the charge of rape," she stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sex-cd-case-woman-moves-karnataka-high-court-over-jarkiholi-u-turn-997515.html
14-06-2021||West||JNPT has no record of mangroves in port area, reveals RTI||The country's largest container port Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) that has come up on the Uran coast across Mumbai harbour does not have any record of mangroves in its area. This shocking revelation has come through a response to an application under the RTI filed by environment NGO NatConnect Foundation. The JNPT response, signed by R A Mhatre, Deputy Manager (PPD) and Public Information Officer, said, “Details are not available”. In a related development, the State Environment Department asked the Raigad District Coastal Zone Monitoring (DCZMC) to probe into the allegation of massive mangrove destruction by JNPT SEZ in the Uran area in the absence of CRZ clearance, while the Mangrove Cell reminded the port management that it has to transfer mangroves under it to the Forest Department. “We sought the information since JNPT has been delaying the transfer of mangroves to the Forest Department despite the Bombay High Court order and the State government notifying all agencies to transfer mangroves for conserving them as reserved forests,” said B N Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation.  Kumar has filed his First Appeal under RTI against “misleading and wrong information”. The State Mangrove Cell has also reminded JNPT and CIDCO to initiate the process of transferring the sea forests under their respective jurisdiction, Virendra Tiwari, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, confirmed to NatConnect. The Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) has already confirmed in response to an RTI application by NGO NatConnect Foundation that JNPT SEZ does not have CRZ clearance for implementing the project. The Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) has given the environment clearance for the multi-product SEZ, but it does not mention a word about mangroves and wetlands, NatConnect pointed out. In view of this, environmentalists have, in a series of emails, drawn the attention of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to the destruction of mangroves and wetlands across Uran by JNPT SEZ. The CM has asked the Environment Department to look into the issues. “Environment Director Narendra Toke has, in turn, informed us that the complaints have been sent to the Raigad District Collector to be handled by the DCZMC,” Kumar said. In the wake of the delaying tactics of JNPT and CIDCO, NatConnect has appealed to Thackeray and Environment Minister Aditya Thackeray to intervene and force the handover process before more mangroves are destroyed. Kumar recalled that JNPT’s website had a chapter ‘Environment Push’ under which the port declared that it has 913.6 hectares of mangroves in its area. But this reference has, of late, been mysteriously deleted. NGO Vanashakti, which filed a contempt petition in the High Court, managed to preserve a screenshot of this statement. JNPT website however says, “The total land available with JNPT is around 3402 hectares out of this, 1147 hectares area (34 per cent) of the port is under green cover including mangroves.” This information was available as of June 8, Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/jnpt-has-no-record-of-mangroves-in-port-area-reveals-rti-997253.html
14-06-2021||West||Two Covid-19 patients get antibody cocktail in Mumbai's Wockhardt Hospital||The Wockhardt Hospital at Mumbai's Mira Road has successfully administered antibody cocktail therapy to two patients having a history of comorbidities. They were given one dose of the cocktail intravenously and both are stable, post-infusion. The monoclonal antibody cocktail treatment was approved in India in May in order to treat mild Covid-19 patients. It is the same treatment given to former US President Donald Trump last year – and this therapy is proving to be like a blessing for Covid patients, the hospital said. Two female Covid-19 patients above the age of 60 with comorbidities like diabetes, kidney disease, and high blood pressure were admitted to Wockhardt Hospital, Mira Road in May.  After counselling, the patients were intravenously administered antibody cocktail therapy. One patient recovered and got discharged while the other one is recovering faster and will be discharged soon. Dr Jinendra Jain, consultant physician, Wockhardt Hospital, Mira Road, said “The anti-body cocktail therapy is for those above the age of 65, home isolation patients having a SpO2 of 93, require no oxygen support but are at risk of developing a severe form of the infection owing to comorbidities such as obesity, diabetes, liver disease, heart ailments, and chronic lung disease. It can also be administered to having an immunocompromising condition or a weak immunity because of immune-suppressive treatment.” However, he pointed out that the therapy is not recommended in patients who have severe Covid-19 infection, require oxygen therapy and even ones with allergies.” Dr. Jain added, “Monoclonal antibodies are the concentrate extracted from plasma to fight Covid. Casirivimab and Imdevimab are monoclonal antibodies that tend to block the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2 by preventing Covid attachment and also the entry into human cells. 600 grams of both are mixed like a cocktail. It is administered intravenously or even subcutaneously (that is under the skin) like an injection. If it is given subcutaneously, these injections can be given to 4 spots in one’s body. A full dose of an antibody cocktail is given to the patient within 30 minutes. The patient will then be monitored for an hour to check for any reactions. The therapy works effectively when administered within 3-4 days of getting the infection when the virus replicates and multiplies.” “The treatment helps minimise the severity of the virus and plays a vital role in the treatment of high-risk patients before their condition deteriorates. We will encourage more and more patients to take this therapy and get back on track as early as possible,” said Dr Jain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-covid-19-patients-get-antibody-cocktail-in-mumbais-wockhardt-hospital-997290.html
14-06-2021||West||Atrocities case: Maharashtra govt extends protection from arrest to Param Bir Singh till June 22||The Maharashtra government will not arrest former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh till June 22 in a case registered against him under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, the Bombay High Court was told on Monday. Senior counsel Darius Khambata, who appeared for the Maharashtra government, told the high court that his previous statement on protecting the senior IPS officer from any "coercive action" in the case will be extended till June 22. Following Khambata's statement, a bench of Justices PB Varale and SP Tavade adjourned the hearing till June 22 on the pleas filed by Singh seeking quashing of an FIR registered against him by the Thane Police under the Atrocities Act and challenging preliminary inquiries initiated against him by the state government. The FIR was registered against Singh under the Prevention of Atrocities Act in April this year on a complaint lodged by Akola police inspector BR Ghadge. Ghadge, who belongs to the Scheduled Caste community, had alleged that Singh had conspired with others to implicate him in some cases of extortion after he refused to follow Singh's illegal orders to benefit some accused persons in a criminal case. In his other plea in the HC, Singh had challenged two inquiries initiated against him by the state government on charges of misconduct and corruption. The first inquiry order was passed on April 1 this year by then state home minister Anil Deshmukh for alleged violation of some All India Services (Conduct) Rules. The second order was passed on April 20 by Deshmukh's successor Dilip Walse Patil over allegations of corruption levelled against Singh.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/atrocities-case-maharashtra-govt-extends-protection-from-arrest-to-param-bir-singh-till-june-22-997325.html
14-06-2021||West||MVA government questions progress in Sushant Singh Rajput case||Coinciding with the first death anniversary of the Sushant Singh Rajput, the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi in Maharashtra questioned the progress made by the central agencies in unearthing the mystery behind the actor’s death. The ruling allies Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress alleged that the central agencies – like CBI, ED and NCB - were misused for political purposes. It may be recalled, the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA has come under severe attack from BJP, political parties of Bihar and social media platforms in the wake of the death of the actor on 14 June 2020 even as it was battling the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. “It has been a year today since the unfortunate death of Sushant Singh Rajput, 310 days since CBI started an investigation and 250 days since the AIIMS panel ruled out murder. When will the CBI declare the final conclusion? Why has the CBI kept a lid on it? CBI is under immense pressure from its political bosses,” state Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said. He also raised the issue of planting of gelatin-sticks laden car off the home of India’s top businessman  Mukesh Ambani and the death of the SUV owner Mansukh Hiran. “Similarly, when the Antilia plot was hatched by officers including Vaze who all are from the Mumbai CP office, why is NIA not able to nab the mastermind? Is this protection part of some deal? Why is Param Bir Singh not being interrogated? Why does the NIA ask for more time in court and does nothing?” he wanted to know. NCP chief spokesperson and state Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik accused the BJP of discrediting the Maharashtra government in the case as it wanted to get votes in the name of Sushant Singh Rajput in the Bihar assembly election last year. Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha member and spokesperson Priyanka Chaturvedi said: “It was not about a probe into what went wrong, but was more about hounding the MVA government, casting aspersions, launching a smear campaign" as a lot of stories have turned out to be fake.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-government-questions-progress-in-sushant-singh-rajput-case-997390.html
14-06-2021||West||Maharashtra: Man arrested for 'defamatory' post against Shiv Sena minister||A Thane resident was arrested in connection with a "defamatory" post on social media against Shiv Sena leader and Maharashtra cabinet minister Eknath Shinde, police said on Monday. The social media post also had the potential to spread enmity between two communities, a police official said, adding the man was arrested on Sunday and a case was registered at Srinagar police station under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for defamation and other charges. The accused had posted the alleged defamatory matter on the Facebook page of the minister, he said. Last year, a 40-year-old civil engineer, also from Thane, had allegedly posted a morphed photo of Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Jitendra Awhad, triggering a row. The engineer had claimed that he was taken to the bungalow of the minister instead of the police station, where he was thrashed by the minister's men.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-man-arrested-for-defamatory-post-against-shiv-sena-minister-997399.html
14-06-2021||West||Goa: PIL seeks panel to probe deaths due to O2 shortage||A group of petitioners has requested the Bombay High Court bench in Goa to set up a judicial commission to probe the deaths of nearly 100 Covid patients who died in May due to oxygen shortage. The bench has been hearing petitions from this group over shortcomings of the Goa government's efforts to contain the pandemic for over a month. The petitioners, headed by the South Goa Advocates Association, have also demanded an audit of Covid-related deaths in the state. Nearly 3,000 persons have died in Goa due to Covid-related complications, according to official figures by the state government. "Persons admitted in government hospitals have lost their lives only due to inadequate supply of oxygen. Some of these victims were the sole breadwinners of the family, some children have lost both their parents, etc. These victims need to be identified and their dependents/kin have to be adequately compensated depending upon their situation," the petitioners have said, adding that the Commission of Inquiry should be headed by a retired High Court judge and assisted by independent medical professionals and police personnel. "The Commission should not only trace the victims and the dependents but also determine the quantum of compensation to be individually paid to the dependants. The Commission be also tasked with identifying government officials, if any, who have acted in a negligent manner which has resulted in an inadequate supply of oxygen," the petitioners added. In May alone, 100 persons have died at the Goa Medical College, the state's apex government medical facility, due to lack of oxygen. After initially conceding that the deaths occurred due to oxygen shortage (confirmed to the media by the Health Minister), the hospital administration and state Health Secretary Ravi Dhawan have denied that the deaths could be linked to oxygen shortage. The petition has also urged the High Court to conduct a complete audit of the nearly 3,000 Covid deaths in the state, since the onset of the pandemic. "The state government should set up a committee comprising of professionals like doctors and statisticians to carry out a complete audit of the Covid-19 deaths in the state of Goa. Under-reporting of deaths during the pandemic has been a global phenomenon occurring due to human error under the enormous pressure exerted on the system by the pandemic," the petitioners have requested. "Such an audit will not only reveal the exact number of Covid-19 deaths but also help concerned authorities to save lives during the impending third wave of Covid-19," they added. The requests by the petitioners have been made after the Bombay High Court on June 11 directed them to make a list of issues related to Covid management that required judicial intervention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-pil-seeks-panel-to-probe-deaths-due-to-o2-shortage-997407.html
14-06-2021||West||Maharashtra reports 8,129 Covid-19 cases, lowest since March 2||Maharashtra on Monday reported 8,129 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest single-day count since March 2, taking the state's tally to 59,17,121, while 200 more deaths pushed the toll to 1,12,696, the health department said. The rise in fresh coronavirus cases was the lowest since March 2, when 7,863 infections were reported in the state. Over the last few days, the daily spike has been around 10,000. The state had reported 9,927 cases on March 9. A statement from the state health department said 14,732 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the count of recovered cases to 56,54,003. The state's Covid-19 recovery rate is 95.55 per cent and the case fatality rate is 1.90 per cent, the statement said. As many as 1,68,902 coronavirus tests were conducted during the last 24 hours, taking the number of samples examined so far to 3,82,15,492, it said. The state currently has 1,47,354 active cases of coronavirus, the statement said. Mumbai reported 530 new cases and 19 deaths, taking the tally to 7,16,190 and the toll to 15,202, the department said. The wider Mumbai division reported 1,457 cases and 30 deaths, pushing the infection tally to 15,64,779 and the toll to 30,601, it said. The Nashik division reported 787 Covid-19 cases, including 429 in Ahmednagar district 216 in Nashik district. The Pune division registered 1,804 cases, including 599 in Satara district, the statement said. The Kolhapur division recorded 3,027 cases, including 810 in Kolhapur district, 657 in Ratnagiri district and 666 in Sangli district. The Aurangabad division logged in 197 coronavirus cases, the Latur division 433, the Akola division 309 and the Nagpur division reported 115 cases of the viral infection, the statement said. Maharashtra's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 59,17,121; new cases 8,129, Deaths 1,12,696; Recoveries 56,54,003; Active cases 1,47,354; Tests conducted so far 3,82,15,492.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-8129-covid-19-cases-lowest-since-march-2-997544.html
