15-06-2021||Comment||Despite a written agreement to disengage, China is upping the ante||Exactly a year since the June 15 carnage at Galwan in which 20 Indian soldiers died fighting the Chinese, an eerie silence prevails on the borders between the two countries. China admitted, after eight months, to four casualties on its side. Both countries have mobilised forces extensively across the western sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), but also with an eye on at least 20 spots in other sectors across the nearly 3,488-km unresolved border. Despite the 11 rounds of corps commanders’ meetings in the border areas, and specifically even after the February 10 “written agreement” to disengage and de-escalate at “all friction points,” things are far from normal yet. Except in the Pangong Tso sector, troops are yet to disengage at several points along the LAC. China has mobilised thousands of troops in Depsang Plains, Gogra Heights and at other places, blocking Indian patrols’ traditional patrolling duties that stretch from Karakoram in the northwest to Chumar in the southeast of the Ladakh sector. A buffer zone was agreed to in other areas, resorting to a previous confidence-building protocol — of the two sides not patrolling in an area simultaneously. However, the military posturing in the past year has only intensified, and in the absence of any major diplomatic understanding and progress on disengagement on the ground, things could flare up at any time in the coming days and months. China escalated the situation by sending in additional troops or re-inducting troops in the forward areas on the border. An estimated 50,000-60,000 troops from the PLA Western Theatre Command’s 76th and 77th Group Army are mobilised, with the 6th Highland Mechanised Infantry Division from Kashgar and the 4th Highland Mechanised Infantry Division from Aksu tasked with operations in Aksai Chin. Second, China has deployed its latest, terrain-specific kinetic systems to wage mountain warfare with India. Thus, the lightweight 38-tonne Type 15 tanks were mobilised in large numbers, along with T-99, T-96B, WZ-551 armoured personnel carriers and the latest Dongfeng Mengshi vehicles since November last, in addition to converted 122-mm towed artillery guns, PCL-181 truck howitzers and PHL-03 multiple rocket launchers. China’s air force is also in overdrive, with surface to air missile systems such as FN-6, HQ-16, HQ-17, PG 59 and HQ7A deployed to counter Indian air power. It has also inducted its latest fighter aircraft — the J-20, J-20A, J-20B, J-10B and J-11 (Su-27), besides its Z-9 and Z-20 helicopters. There are 12 airfields facing India, five of them dual-use in nature and with fortified, underground shelters. Expansion of the runways and the PLAAF’s efforts to overcome high-altitude aviation problems have been spotted. China is also building heliports opposite Indian advanced landing grounds. A large number of Chinese drones, such as Y-9 and Y-20, are deployed in the area. China has also strengthened its non-kinetic responses through cyber, information and electronic warfare platforms. It has an advantage in ISR capabilities and a quantitative edge over Indian forces, but the PLA is saddled with professionalism issues among its ranks. As Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipan Rawat stated at the Raisina Dialogue in April 2021, China is attempting to change the status quo on the borders with disruptive technologies. The PLA has stepped up military exercises in the border areas. In July last, it conducted artillery exercises to test “long-range precision strikes and fire-assault capabilities in plateau environments.” Two months later, troops in Tibet conducted exercises to test “adaptability and strike capability in ultra-high-altitude areas.” An “emergency mission 2021” was conducted by the military and para-military forces in the Western Theatre Command. Twenty fighter aircraft — J-11 (Su-27) and others — conducted aerial exercises closer to the borders in the Ladakh sector earlier this month. This was followed by the 76th Brigade with helicopters and 77th “Tiger Brigade” with armoured exercises in Tibet. Army aviation units at Kunlun Mountains conducted exercises with Z-10 helicopters. China is also enhancing its outreach to the border areas through dual-use infrastructure build-up. It has already built nearly 118,000-km of roads in Tibet, with Ngari Prefecture, opposite Ladakh, getting the lion’s share of connectivity. Roads linking Nyingqi Prefecture, opposite Arunachal Pradesh, have also been built. On May 16, China connected the last border county in Tibet at Medog by a highway. The new 14th Five Year Plan has further allocations for building military infrastructure. In the Ladakh sector, China’s aim is strategic domination from Highway 219 in Aksai Chin. It has also built over 20 tunnels on the border with Pakistan. In 2006, it had inaugurated Tibetan railway to Lhasa, which has been extended to Shigatse and is now set to be connected to border areas. The People’s Daily newspaper advertised the transport of missiles by these railways as deterrence posture against India. To further militarise border areas, China is forcibly vacating Tibetan nomads from their traditional habitats and converting these into military bases and camps at Rutok, Gampa, Dingri, Shigatse, Ngamring, Nyalam and other counties, thus further engineering the demographic profile of the region. It has also implemented 628 “xiaogang” (well-off society) villages across the LAC, populating these with Han families. Since February, China is also raising a special Tibetan Army Unit from Ngari and Zamda areas. Beijing is also waging psychological warfare against India. A barrage of articles in the Communist Party-led publications have been warning India of the growing asymmetry in power relations, showcasing military exercises and equipment, and advising India to play “second fiddle” to China, focus on epidemic control and desist from moving closer to the US. As China was unable to clinch matters with India in the western sector, it has been invoking its “iron brother” Pakistan recently. Defence Minister Wei Fenghe visited Islamabad last December to “safeguard regional peace and security”. Prior to that, the all-powerful Central Military Commission Vice Chairman, Xu Qiliang, visited Pakistan in August and helped set up an artificial intelligence centre. These have led to speculation about a “two-front war” against India, both in the continental and maritime spheres. Thus, the continuing armed stalemate in the border areas over the last year suggest that there will be no quick resolution as China refuses to follow the protocols agreed upon since the 1990s. China’s emerging “zone of actual control,” instead of the Line of Actual Control that came into being since the 1993 agreement, gives an indication of the attempt to change the status quo. India needs to strengthen its all-round deterrence capabilities. (The writer is Professor in Chinese Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/despite-a-written-agreement-to-disengage-china-is-upping-the-ante-997609.html
15-06-2021||First Edit||Worrying gender gap in vaccination||There is a gender gap in vaccination. Indian women are lagging men in getting the jab. At present, there is a 15% gap between the number of men and women who have got at least one dose of vaccination. Worryingly, this gap has widened in recent months. On April 10, there was a 2% disparity between vaccinated men and women. This rose to 12% on April 24 and 24% on May 6. The gender gap in vaccinations is highest in Jammu and Kashmir, followed by Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. Kerala and Chhattisgarh deserve applause. Here, women have outperformed men in getting vaccinated. Karnataka has not done too badly. It has the fifth smallest gender gap in the country. There is scope for improvement, however. The gender gap in vaccinations cannot be attributed to the skewed sex ratio in the country. India has 5.7% more men than women in the population. Had the gender disparity in vaccinations been around 6%, we could have dismissed it as reflecting the country’s current gender statistics. Since the gender disparity in vaccination is far greater than 6%, there is reason for concern. One reason for women lagging men in vaccination is the structural problem in healthcare: it is highly gendered and doesn’t favour women. Families are less likely to prioritise the health and welfare of women than men. There is the gender gap in digital access, too. Women are less likely to own a mobile phone or know how to register on the CoWin app. Then, there is the perception that since men go out to work, their health must be protected and prioritised over that of women. Especially in rural India, women, who don’t often travel long distances for paid work, are seen to not need the Covid-19 vaccine as much as men. Worse, rumours have been circulating that the vaccinations disrupt a woman’s menstruation cycle and reduce her fertility. Such false and unverified messages have added to the general vaccine hesitancy and deterred many women from taking the vaccine. The government has woken up to the digital divide, albeit late, and has introduced walk-in vaccinations. Women will not require access to a smartphone or need to register on CoWin to get vaccinated. This should remove an important obstacle. Some experts have called for a door-to-door vaccination strategy, but this may not be a feasible option for now as those vaccinated need to be monitored for allergic and other reactions soon after vaccination. Instead, the government must step up its public campaign to fight myths and rumours about vaccination and promote it. ASHA workers, who are well connected to the community, should be roped in and incentivised to draw women into getting vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/worrying-gender-gap-in-vaccination-997605.html
15-06-2021||First Edit||Twitter must be transparent||The first requirement of a social media service is to be open and public in the real sense, by being transparent and credible in its operations and dealings. This responsibility is especially important when the service is big and has a large and diverse base, catering to millions of users with different views and interests. Twitter is one such service provider which has a large presence in the mind space of people but has sometimes been found wanting in being open. Some recent incidents have highlighted this: Twitter blocked local access to accounts of Punjabi singer Jazzy B and three others in response to a request under the Information Technology (IT) Act. It also sent a communication to cartoonist Manjul informing him that the authorities have flagged his social media account as posting content that violates laws. Twitter notifications to its account-holders lack transparency. No information is available in the public domain as to why it initiated action against Jazzy and Manjul. Manjul has done many cartoons on the Modi government's handling of the Covid pandemic. Twitter told the cartoonist, who has a large follower base, that the law enforcement authorities have sought action on his cartoons. It has not disclosed which agency has sought action, nor has it pointed out any particular cartoon that’s been deemed offensive to the authorities. It is believed that the request to Twitter to block Jazzy’s account was made on the charge that it was being used for pro-Khalistan propaganda. Even when the action is sought to be taken under the IT Act or any other law, there is the need for details about which agency has called for action and what the charges are. Former IAS officer Surya Pratap Singh and co-founder of fact-checking platform Alt News Mohammed Zubair have also got notices informing them that law enforcement agencies have sought action against their accounts. But they also have not been told which agencies have asked for it.  When it sends notice to account-holders, Twitter must make public who has made a complaint. Else, it becomes an infringement on the right of the account-holder. The reasons for action should be made known because they concern not only the account-holder but others who follow him. It is not just a matter between the account-holder and Twitter. A tweet is a public document and so actions related to it should be in the public domain. Twitter’s explanations about it and its clarifications are not very convincing. In the cases of Jazzy and Manjul, Twitter said it was taking action under local laws, without mentioning what the laws are. Twitter users have the right to know who wants the action taken, why and under what law. These cannot be Twitter’s secrets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/twitter-must-be-transparent-997888.html
15-06-2021||Hubballi-Dharwad||IndiGo flight's tyre bursts while landing in Hubballi, passengers safe||An IndiGo flight from Kannur experienced a nose wheel tyre burst after landing at Hubballi airport on Monday night. Fortunately, all five passengers and four crew members disembarked safely. The incident took place at 8:33 pm on Monday. IndiGo ATR 6E-7979 made an attempt to land at 8:03 pm but went on a go-around procedure due to rain and bad weather. It experienced a tyre burst after it landed half an hour later, according to the airport officials. "After the pilot communicated his suspicion about the tyre burst, the ATR and other emergency staff rushed to the runway and disembarked passengers and crew members. After confirming the nose wheel tyre burst, the aircraft was removed from the runway. Nobody was injured, and the runway was also not damaged," said Hubballi Airport director Pramodkunar Thackeray. The aircraft from Kannur was supposed to fly to Bengaluru, from Hubballi. The journey was cancelled. The flight is under maintenance now. Flight operations on Tuesday were not affected, he said. The DGCA would take a call on such incidents, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/indigo-flights-tyre-bursts-while-landing-in-hubballi-passengers-safe-997676.html
15-06-2021||In Perspective||How to withstand nature’s fury this monsoon||Amidst the pain of Covid-19, the agony of last year’s flood and landslides in coastal and hilly Karnataka might have evaporated from public memory. But the findings of the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) that as many as 23 taluks of western Karnataka are vulnerable to landslides must awaken us. We are up against a fresh set of challenges as the monsoon has arrived, while the government’s attention is only on pandemic management. The natural disaster management strategies of the government need to be remodelled quickly, based on recent experience. Otherwise, even right decisions may go wrong if delayed. Many recommendations have been put forth by experts. Bringing all types of natural disasters under the purview of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), ensuring operational transparency, setting aside adequate resources, empowering district-level disaster management task forces, are noteworthy among those recommendations. Assimilating new-age technologies like mobile computing and defence technologies are also advocated. The NDMA could certainly become effective by incorporating these inputs. Three more key suggestions are made here based on the lessons learnt during floods and landslides in Karnataka in recent years. The first one is about enhancing the reliability of disaster warnings at the micro-level. It is true that NDMA is empowered now with regional-level weather forecast and early warning systems. But the field experience shows that the scope for improving the forecast models still exists. We must recall that the loss of life and properties should have been reduced during last year’s flood in the remote pockets of the Western Ghats and coastal Karnataka, given the fact that it was forecast weeks earlier. Is it not a tragedy to see the people suffer, despite the availability of high-precision technologies like that of space, geo-science, information technology and environmental science? That means, however accurate the weather forecast at the macro-level, it often falls short in serving the needs of field-level management. All advanced tools and technology, therefore, must be brought on a single administrative platform so that location-specific micro-level forecast modules can be developed. Such customised disaster predictions can then be delivered to Grama Panchayats for timely interventions, with appropriate risk assessment and mitigation strategies. The second component is about making the natural disaster forecast system more comprehensive. It can be achieved on two fronts. One is by having cumulative risk assessment for a given location by considering all possible forms of disasters that may strike there. Heavy rain, for instance, may be followed by floods, landslides and so on. And the other is about making predictions sensitive towards local ecology. Rain of similar intensity, for instance, may cause differential impacts in two adjacent hamlets in the hilly terrains of the Sahyadri. The prediction models that are sensitive to soil type, topography, vegetation, micro-climate, land use regime, etc., can alone help the ground players in the task of early evacuation. Getting the right orientation on the optimum use of technology is the need of the hour. The final aspect is about ensuring active participation of people in the ground-level actions. One must recall that it is the tribal youth who carried the message of heavy rain forecast to each and every home in many remote pockets of the Western Ghats during the heavy downpour last year. Citizen groups like farmers’ organisations, Self-Help Groups (SHGs), Village Forest Committees (VFCs), Grama Panchayat-level Biodiversity Management Committees have proven their effectiveness many times during such calamities. The NDMA must synthesise a mechanism for involving local communities and civil society organisations. Such active participation of local communities can be crucial on many counts. Villagers who often show resistance to leave their much-loved homes or properties during floods, for instance, can only be persuaded to relocate by near and dear ones. When people lose their identity documents like ration cards, as happened in the North Karnataka floods in 2019, it is the local people who helped the authorities to fix the problem. They may reach the emergency spots well before government authorities do. It is high time, therefore, to ensure people’s participation, which may bring in a much-needed cushioning effect for the government’s response. The Government of Karnataka’s high-level expert committee on landslides has also recommended such interventions in its final report, submitted to the government recently. Before yet another round of disasters strike this monsoon, it would be better if all these issues are addressed. Let not the pandemic become an excuse for not doing so, as the fact remains that we are living in a world of multiple natural threats. Natural disasters can certainly be managed better if policy and practices are strengthened by integrating strategies. Be it the people of the coast, the Sahyadri hills or the interior plains, all deserve better governance and response when nature strikes. Let’s hope the government lives up to it this monsoon. (The writer is Director, Centre for Conservation Biology & Sustainable Development, Sirsi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/how-to-withstand-nature-s-fury-this-monsoon-997610.html
15-06-2021||In Perspective||Covid-19: Whither education, sans examinations?||The decision to cancel Class X and XII exams by CBSE, ICSE and most states was not unexpected. The general perception is that it was a good decision considering the present scenario. The anxiety was palpable everywhere. Now, students can heave a sigh of relief, at least temporarily. However, students who had set their sights high are disappointed. They have realised, to their dismay, that they will have to be satisfied with grades or marks way below their target. But it’s a relief that they will have an option to take an exam if they are not satisfied with their grades. This is more significant for students who are eager to get into premier professional institutions. A situation like this one demands the creation of a reliable testing system at all levels of higher education, both professional and general. The selection can be based on an entrance test and Class XII results with both having an equal weightage. This appears to be a viable option now. Another possibility, that has already been speculated, is ranking and selections based solely on an entrance test.  A situation such as the one we are facing now should set us thinking. Is this heavy reliance on year-end exams academically tenable and scientifically valid? Is it not high time we think about more viable and sensible alternatives? Many educational commissions have pointed out the drawbacks of a single summative exam and suggested alternatives, but they have been ignored all along. We need to think of continuous assessment, instead of summative. In fact, CBSE had introduced CCE (Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation) some years ago. It had both formative and summative assessments, which made it less strenuous but more meaningful for students.  Unfortunately, when the government changed, it was not implemented. If it were, we wouldn’t have been in the present imbroglio. The time has come to revive CCE with modifications. It has the potential to emerge as a viable alternative. Similar systems are followed in advanced countries and have stood the test of time. The cancellation of exams is a one-time measure, hopefully. It was repeated two years in a row for all the lower classes. Its consequences must be assessed. Are students learning enough? Are teachers teaching enough? We need to go deeper into the issue. We need to identify how learning has been affected owing to the long closure of schools, in spite of online classes. There is bound to be a significant hiatus in the learning curve. What are the remedial measures to be put in place once normalcy is restored?  With the exam mindset firmly in place, students are motivated only by the fear of exams, not by the love of learning. Students think of cramming something at the eleventh hour for the annual exams. This results in them not learning consistently and in a graded and progressive manner. In other words, they skip many rigorous steps that will consolidate meaningful learning and rely heavily on the shortcut to so-called success.  This is the most debilitating aspect of the system. Its consequences are visible in the steady erosion of academic standards. This is hardly noticed by the decision-makers, which is unfortunate. In the present system, learning is controlled by a negative stimulus. In fact, learning should happen as a result of the curiosity to learn and love of learning. School ambience that is conducive to learning and well-trained teachers are integral to achieve this. Schools must be devoid of undue pressure, punishment systems etc that are negative impulses.  What makes exams unpopular is the stress associated with them. This stress is largely because of the undue importance given to the one final exam. This results in parents and teachers constantly heaping pressure on children.  They do this with good intentions, but the consequences need not be alike for all students. Some take it in their stride and learn more, but many crumble. Even suicides take place because of exam pressure. Not all students can withstand pressure beyond a certain point. The appointment of counsellors in the school system is a logical step in tackling this problem, but it is yet to show discernible results, going by the statistics. The time has come to think of sensitive and intelligent schooling which emphasise continuous learning and testing, instead of cramming for year-end exams that decide a student’s future. We need to look for objective and fair evaluation tools in place of year-end exams. The need for this alternative cannot be ignored anymore. (The writer is Director, Little Rock Indian School, Brahmavar, Udupi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/covid-19-whither-education-sans-examinations-997882.html
15-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLA, team perform last rites of Covid victim in Puttur||A team led by Puttur MLA Sanjeeva Matandoor performed the final rites of a Covid-19 victim at Chikkaputtur Madivala Katte. The MLA and others were seen wearing PPE kits. Kanchana (52) of Chikkaputtur had succumbed to Covid at a hospital in Mangaluru on Sunday. Sanjeeva, along with members of MLA war room, conducted the last rites. The act of the MLA has been lauded by many people. The photo of MLA wearing a PPE kit during the final rites has gone viral on social media. The MLA's war room, set up during the second wave of Covid-19, has been helping people in distress and also by furnishing details on vaccines, food delivery for the needy. The war room has received over 2,000 calls since March this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mla-team-perform-last-rites-of-covid-victim-in-puttur-997579.html
15-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bridge to Mangalore airport develops cracks||Kavoor bridge, located on an arterial road connecting Mangalore International Airport to the city, was closed for traffic on Tuesday after the bridge developed cracks. Sources told DH that the bridge developed cracks after one of the pillars sank. The construction of a new bridge had just begun. Those travelling from the city towards Airport will have to take a detour via Baikampady and Jokatte. City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar said that the movement of vehicles and people on the bridge is prohibited. All those arriving from Udupi to Mangalore Airport should travel via Mulki-Kinnigoli-Kateel-Bajpe to reach the airport while those from Mangaluru should use Nanthoor-Vamanjoor-Gurpura-Bajpe to reach the airport.  The incident occurred around 3 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bridge-to-mangalore-airport-develops-cracks-997638.html
15-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rains in Mysuru bring mercury down to 21° Celsius||It rained for some time in Mysuru on Tuesday bringing down mercury levels. The maximum temperature was 28 degree Celsius, while the minimum was 21 degree Celsius. Mysuru and the surroundings in the region experienced pleasant weather. The climate has been cloudy with scattered rains in the region over the past few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rains-in-mysuru-bring-mercury-down-to-21-celsius-997769.html
15-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Without grace marks, ITI students left in the lurch||||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/without-grace-marks-iti-students-left-in-the-lurch-997902.html
15-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Just 'one or two' legislators unhappy, says Yediyurappa||Ahead of BJP national general secretary Arun Singh’s visit to Karnataka, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday asserted that there was no confusion in the party over his continuation in the top post. Singh, who is in charge of the party’s affairs in Karnataka, is scheduled to arrive in Bengaluru on Wednesday. He is expected to hold talks with ministers and legislators amid rumblings of discontentment about the administration. “There is no confusion in the party about change in leadership or any other issue. We are all together and united,” Yediyurappa told reporters.  He even downplayed the number of legislators who seem to have a problem with the way the administration functioned. “One or two might be unhappy. Singh will talk to them,” he said. Yediyurappa said Singh will meet all the party’s MLAs and MPs. “He has said he’ll meet anyone. He’ll be at the guest house. He will find out everything in detail,” the CM said, asking the media not to create confusion. On June 18, Singh will participate in the BJP core committee meeting. Last week, Singh dismissed speculation that Yediyurappa will be replaced. Singh’s visit to the state comes amid brewing disgruntlement among a section of BJP legislators. One of them, Hubli-Dharwad MLA Arvind Bellad, travelled to Delhi twice over the course of a month to meet senior party leaders. Also, the government’s chief whip V Sunil Kumar has publicly asked the party leadership to “provide us a platform” where legislators can air their grievances. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said Singh meeting the ministers was not for an evaluation. “It’s just a meeting. There’s no need to attach special meaning to it,” he said. Earlier in the day, JD(S) leader H D Revanna met Bommai. Both of them said their meeting was apolitical. “Revanna keeps coming. We discussed issues pertaining to his Hassan district and Holenarsipur constituency,” Bommai said. Revanna said he wanted to discuss with Bommai the development of a police station in his constituency pending for 40 years. “We’re old friends. Bommai was in my party before. We didn’t discuss politics,” Revanna said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/just-one-or-two-legislators-unhappy-says-yediyurappa-997721.html
15-06-2021||Main Article||Covid-19 vaccine nationalism misfired||Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, speaking at the World Bank Inter-Ministerial Meeting on December 10, announced, “India’s world-class research institutes have spearheaded the campaign against Covid-19 and are currently working towards facilitating capacity-building for producing, distributing and administering the vaccine. 260 vaccine candidates are in different stages of development globally. Out of these, eight are scheduled to be manufactured in India, including three indigenous ones. We have enthusiastically leveraged the support of international partners like Oxford University, UK, and Thomas Jefferson University, USA, for vaccine research with Indian entities, both public and private.” On January 3, the Subject Expert Committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation gave the ‘Restricted Emergency Approval’ for Serum Institute of India’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. It was noted that Covishield was the result of “transfer of technology” from Oxford/AstraZeneca, that the drug trials for it were conducted abroad and the vaccine was administered to 23,745 individuals above the age of 18, and a Phase II/III clinical trial on 1,600 participants in the country. But it was interim data. The CDSCO found the results of the Covishield trials in India to be commensurate with those overseas. But the clinical trial in India involving the 1,600 volunteers was to continue. In the case of Covaxin, the CDSCO said that Bharat Biotech shared the safety data of animal trials, and of Phase I and II clinical trials with a sample of 800 volunteers. It also said that Phase III trials were underway, and out of the sample of 25,800 volunteers, data for 22,500 was available till date, and it found it to be safe. It is based on this information that Covaxin was given approval “for restricted use in emergency situation.” The CDSCO has also given the reasons for giving permission to Covaxin: “…as an abundant caution, in clinical trial mode, to have more options for vaccinations, especially in case of infections by mutant strains.” And it added, “The clinical trial ongoing within the country by the firm will continue.” The third vaccine candidate, Novel Corona Virus-2019-n Cov-Vaccine, which is based on a DNA platform (whereas Covishield is based on Recombinant Chimpanzee Adenovirus vector, and Covaxin on Vero cell platform) was developed by Cadila Healthcare Ltd. The Phase I/II clinical trials involving 1,000 volunteers was ongoing, the interim data showed that it was safe and that it generated immunogenicity with three doses. And the Subject Expert Committee recommended the Phase III clinical trial, involving 26,000 volunteers. It is on January 9 that Prime Minister Narendra Modi presided over a high-level meeting of officials, including the Cabinet Secretary, Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister and the Health Secretary. And it was decided that priority groups would be the three-crore healthcare and frontline workers and 27 crore persons above the age of 50. On January 3, Serum’s Adar Poonawala said that he had a stock of 40 to 50 million vaccine doses which were ready to be dispatched, and that the company had the capacity to manufacture 50 to 60 million doses every month. And according to reports, 144 million vaccine doses were distributed to the states and Union Territories, of which 127 million were Covishield and 17 million Covaxin. The trouble is that the Modi government is keen to manage with these two vaccines under the misplaced belief that they symbolise ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. At a time when it was imperative to step up the rate of vaccination, it was rather unwise to depend on just two manufacturers. Of the two, Bharat Biotech is on weaker ground in terms of production capacity. The government’s thinking was based on a different perception. On January 3, Modi greeted the announcement about Covishield and Covaxin being given the green signal with the tweet: “It would make every Indian proud that the two vaccines that have been given emergency use approval are made in India! This shows the eagerness of our scientific community to fulfil the dream of an Atmanirbhar Bharat, at the root of which is care and compassion.” Strangely the tweet is dated 9.48 pm, January 2, 2021. The PM’s tweet was quite inaccurate. Covishield vaccine was developed at Oxford University and by the British pharma company, AstraZeneca. All that was done in India was the Phase III trial involving 1,600 volunteers, and the manufacture of the doses in large quantities. Modi had no option but to acknowledge Covishield and somehow appropriate it as Indian. The research and development wing of the Serum Institute of India had no contribution in developing Covishield. When the ‘interim’ results for the Phase III trials were announced for Covaxin on March 3, Dr Balram Bhargava, director of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said, “The bench-to-bedside journey of the completely indigenous Covid-19 vaccine in less than eight months’ time showcases the immense strength of Atmanirbhar Bharat [self-reliant India] to fight the odds and stand tall in the global public health community. It is also a testament to India’s emergence as a global vaccine superpower.” It indicates quite clearly that the Modi government was keen to use Covaxin to vaccinate India along with Covishield, but the pride of place belonged to Covaxin. The sense of pride in the making of Covaxin is quite justified, but it is a surprise that those at the helm did not think of producing Covaxin in sufficiently large numbers to be administered in India and in other countries. Of course, the mood of triumphalism was much before the second wave surge in the middle of April, and the government had to run hither and thither to buy other vaccines in the market. It was on April 13 that the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) gave Dr Reddy’s Labs in Hyderabad, the Indian collaborator of the Russian vaccine, Sputnik V, “restricted use in emergency situations” approval. National pride had to be set aside in the face of an emergency. It still remains a mystery, how and why did the field of eight vaccine candidates in December 2020 get reduced to two in January 2021? (The writer is a New Delhi-based political commentator)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/covid-19-vaccine-nationalism-misfired-997890.html
15-06-2021||National||DH Toon | Irony died a thousand deaths at G7 summit as India signed freedom of expression pact||The Group of Seven (G7) richest democracies and its partner countries including India on Sunday vowed to work together to create an open and inclusive rules-based international order, protect human rights and ensure freedom of expression, both online and offline, to help people live free from fear and oppression.  At the end of a three-day summit at Cornwall in the UK, the G7 and the guest countries identified rising authoritarianism, corruption, economic coercion, manipulation of information, cyber-attacks, politically motivated internet shutdowns, human rights violations, terrorism and violent extremism as major threats facing the globe. In a document titled "2021 Open Societies Statement", the countries described freedom of expression, both online and offline, as the freedom that safeguards democracy and helps people live free from fear and oppression.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-irony-died-a-thousand-deaths-at-g7-summit-as-india-signed-freedom-of-expression-pact-997603.html
15-06-2021||National||EAM Jaishankar meets Kenya’s top leadership, discusses security situation in Indo-Pacific||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Monday discussed the global and regional issues, including the security situation in the Indo-Pacific region, with Kenya’s top leadership and the two sides also recognised the importance of ensuring through shared endeavours greater security, safety and prosperity of the Indian Ocean Region. Jaishankar, who arrived in Kenya on Saturday on a three-day visit to strengthen India's relations with the major East African country, called on Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta and handed over a letter from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to him. "Assured the President that his focus on deeper people-to-people and business-to-business ties are also ours. Our defence partnership contributes to the safety and security of the Indian Ocean Region. Look forward to closer collaboration,” Jaishankar tweeted after the meeting. Assured the President that his focus on deeper people-to-people and business-to-business ties are also ours. Our defence partnership contributes to the safety and security of the Indian Ocean Region. Look forward to closer collaboration. He also met senior Kenyan ministers at the Ministerial Roundtable during which the two sides reviewed all aspects of the bilateral relationship and discussed building a comprehensive partnership between the two countries. The two sides "expressed their concern at the growing radicalisation and the increase in international terrorism and violent extremism in parts of Africa and Asia" and noted that terrorism in all its forms and manifestations are a "common threat to humanity", said a joint statement issued after the meeting. "The two sides held extensive exchanges on global and regional issues including the security situation in the Indo-Pacific region and the Horn of Africa," it said, amid growing Chinese assertiveness in the region. India and Kenya also reaffirmed their commitment to a rules-based multilateral system and underlined the important role of the United Nations in addressing global challenges. "As maritime neighbours, India and Kenya recognised the importance of ensuring through shared endeavours greater security, safety and prosperity of the Indian Ocean Region in mutual interest,” the statement said, noting that the appropriate institutions of the two sides will explore expanding cooperation in the area. The two sides also reviewed bilateral development cooperation and agreed to work together to enhance partnership through exploring further opportunities both in the government and private sector in the areas of health, environment, ICT, tourism, higher education, automotive, defence and security. The meeting was attended by Kenya's Foreign Minister Raychelle Omamo, Defence Minister Monica Juma, Trade and Industry Minister Betty C Maina, Information and Communication Technology Minister Joe Mucheru EGH, Energy Minister Charles Keter, Asst Treasury Minister Nelson Gaichuhie, Assistant Health Minister Rashid Abdi Aman and Interior Secretary Eng Karanja Kibicho. After the meeting, Jaishankar in a tweet thanked the senior ministers for their valuable contributions and appreciated the "ideas, enthusiasm and commitment" of all the participants. "Discussed building a comprehensive partnership at the Ministerial Roundtable today. Thank FM Raychelle Omamo for chairing," he tweeted. The joint statement hailed the cordial and historic relations between the two countries, underpinned by common values and strong people-to-people links dating back many centuries. "The two sides deliberated on the impact of Covid-19 situation globally and called for joint efforts to combat the disease as well as consolidate economic collaboration during the pandemic and post-Covid-19 period. They emphasised the need for equitable and affordable access to vaccines and ensuring treatment for all," it said. During the deliberations, Jaishankar recognised the Big Four Agenda of Kenya on manufacturing, affordable housing, universal health and food security, and underlined that India will further build upon its partnership taking these into account. Both sides reiterated their strong commitment to South-South Cooperation and expressed confidence that their bilateral partnership would be an exemplar, the statement said. The two sides acknowledged the recent rise in bilateral trade and noted the potential to further increase trade volumes and value. India and Kenya are currently serving in the United Nation Security Council as non-permanent members. They are also members of the Commonwealth. Kenya is an active member of the African Union, with which India has longstanding ties. "As UNSC members currently serving together, we have taken our closeness onto the larger global stage,” Jaishankar said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eam-jaishankar-meets-kenya-s-top-leadership-discusses-security-situation-in-indo-pacific-997611.html
15-06-2021||National||India signs joint statement for freedom of expression at G7 summit||The Group of Seven (G7) richest democracies and its partner countries including India on Sunday vowed to work together to create an open and inclusive rules-based international order, protect human rights and ensure freedom of expression, both online and offline, to help people live free from fear and oppression. At the end of a three-day summit at Cornwall in the UK, the G7 and the guest countries identified rising authoritarianism, corruption, economic coercion, manipulation of information, cyber-attacks, politically motivated internet shutdowns, human rights violations, terrorism and violent extremism as major threats facing the globe. In a document titled "2021 Open Societies Statement", the countries described freedom of expression, both online and offline, as the freedom that safeguards democracy and helps people live free from fear and oppression. The Group of Seven (G7) comprises the UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States. As chair of G7, the UK invited India, Australia, South Korea, South Africa to the summit as guest countries. The 27-nation European Union was also part of the summit. "We are at a critical juncture, facing threats to freedom and democracy from rising authoritarianism, electoral interference, corruption, economic coercion, manipulation of information, including disinformation, online harms and cyber attacks, politically motivated internet shutdowns, human rights violations and abuses, terrorism and violent extremism," the statement said. The summit took place in the backdrop of growing global concerns over China's expansionist behaviour. It said countries around the world are also facing threats to their social fabric from persistent inequalities and discrimination, including racism and resistance to gender equality. "In the midst of these threats, we will work together to create an open and inclusive rules-based international order for the future that promotes universal human rights and equal opportunities for all," the statement said. "Our democratic systems are strong and resilient, but we cannot be complacent – we address our own vulnerabilities and tackle common threats," it said. It also said that an effective multilateral system underpinned by principles of openness, transparency and accountability, including access to free and fair, rules-based trade, as well as collaboration on global challenges, including Covid-19 immunisation, is good of all.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-signs-joint-statement-for-freedom-of-expression-at-g7-summit-997618.html
15-06-2021||National||India logs 60,471 new Covid-19 cases; 2,726 deaths in 24 hours||India's daily Covid-19 cases continued to decline as the country saw 60,471 infections and 2,726 deaths in the past 24 hours, data published by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare showed. With this, the total cases climbed to 2,95,70,881, while the death toll stood at 3,77,031. The recovery rate climbed further up to 95.43 per cent, while the active cases dipped by 59,780 to 9,13,378. A total of 39,27,154 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine were administered on Monday. More to follow... Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-60471-new-covid-19-cases-2726-deaths-in-24-hours-997628.html
15-06-2021||National||SC closes criminal proceedings against Italian marines, transfers Rs 10 crore compensation to Kerala HC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday closed all criminal proceedings here against two Italian marines, who were accused of killing of two Indian fishermen off Kerala coast in 2012, after payment of Rs 10 crore compensation by Italy. A bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and MR Shah noted that as the international tribunal order, India has agreed to the compensation of 10 crores and Italy has already deposited the amount. “We are satisfied with the compensation and the ex-gratia paid over and above earlier. This is a fit case to close all proceedings in India under Article 142 of the Constitution," the bench said. The bench also said Italy must start criminal proceedings against the two marines under its jurisdiction immediately as per the international tribunal's order. The case details along with evidence will be provided by the Centre and the Kerala government, the court said. The top court ordered transfer of Rs 10 crore to Kerala High Court registry out of which Rs 4 crore each should be paid to the two victims’ families and Rs 2 crore to the boat owner. The bench added the High Court should appoint a judge to ensure the compensation is paid to the victims’ legal heirs. In February 2012, India had accused two Italian marines, Salvatore Girone and Massimiliano Latorre, on board the MV Enrica Lexie -- an Italian flagged oil tanker -- of killing two Indian fishermen who were on a fishing vessel in India's Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-closes-criminal-proceedings-against-italian-marines-transfers-rs-10-crore-compensation-to-kerala-hc-997644.html
15-06-2021||National||On first anniversary, Army pays tributes to soldiers slain in Galwan Valley clashes||The Indian Army on Tuesday paid homage to 20 soldiers killed in a face-off with China in Galwan Valley along the disputed border in Ladakh on this day last year. 20 Indian soldiers, mainly from the 16th Bihar Regiment including its commanding officer Colonel Santosh Babu, were killed in violent clashes with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh on 15 June 2020. The army men were killed after hand-to-hand combat broke out and eventually, hundreds of soldiers were engaged in combat using stones, batons, iron rods, and other makeshift weapons. A defence spokesperson said Fire and Fury Corps paid homage to the martyrs of Galwan on the first anniversary of the violent clash. “In a solemn ceremony, Major General Akash Kaushik, COS, Fire and Fury Corps, laid a wreath at the iconic War Memorial in Leh on the occasion,” he said. The nation will remain eternally grateful to these gallant soldiers who fought in the most difficult high altitude terrain and made the supreme sacrifice in service of the nation, the spokesperson added. The killing of the soldiers had sparked a war-like situation. It was cooled down following 11 rounds of military-level talks between India and China, with both countries agreeing to de-escalate. However, since then, Indian Army continues to be on high alert with its enhanced troop deployment of over 50,000 men on the ground in Ladakh. The LAC is poorly demarcated as the presence of rivers, lakes and snowcaps means the line can shift. The soldiers on either side - representing two of the world's largest armies - come face to face at many points.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/on-first-anniversary-army-pays-tributes-to-soldiers-slain-in-galwan-valley-clashes-997662.html
15-06-2021||National||Mad rush for US student visa interview slots causes glitches||The US embassy’s bid to fast-track visas for Indian students aiming to pursue higher education in the US has met with a few teething problems as a huge backlog of aspirants swarmed to the portal on Monday, resulting in a few technical hiccups. The US mission in India said on Sunday it would open visa interview slots to facilitate the legitimate travel of Indian students as a top priority in the next two months and that students headed to the US would not require any proof of Covid-19 vaccination to fly to the country. All they will need is a negative Covid test taken in the previous 72 hours, it was said. However, the huge rush for slots put the embassy’s systems under strain and led to technical difficulties. The embassy acknowledged some of the issues that anxious students may be faced with as the portal dealt with the enormous load, asking students not to “refresh too often”, as it could lock them out of their accounts.  The warning may have come too late for some students who were locked out of their accounts with no prior warning and implored the embassy to make an exception to unlock their accounts. We are aware of the high demand for student visa appointments. Please remember, do not refresh too often, as you may be locked out of your account. Appointments remain available at all posts, and we will continue to add appointments as conditions allow. Some frustrated students lashed out at the mission, faulting the organisation for being unprepared to deal with the influx of students even though it was aware of the high demand.  My account got locked without even a prior warning. Many others are facing this issue too. Request you to unlock the accounts, atleast this time. My account has been locked for 72 hours for refreshing,is there a way to unlock it.There is no suspicious activity behind it. I was simply trying to connect back to the servers and complete my booking .Please advise? Thanks Others asked the consulate for more information to ease panic and allow people to plan out their booking attempts accordingly. This is not something we expect from the US Consulate. Inspite of knowing about the high demand necessary steps have NOT been taken to ensure a smooth process and experience. IT infrastructure is terrible. Pls fix it. Though fears that they may be barred from foreign universities amid the pandemic have eased, students are rushing to get their documentation together to join US universities by August. Meanwhile, the French embassy has also invited students from India to apply for visas to study at universities in France.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mad-rush-for-us-student-visa-interview-slots-causes-glitches-997685.html
15-06-2021||National||Centre confirms first death following Covid-19 vaccination||The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday confirmed India’s first Covid-19 vaccine-related death, which happened on March 31 when a 68-year-old male who was inoculated with Covishield ten days ago, succumbed to the after-effects of the shot. A causality assessment report of 31 serious AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) cases reported in February and March, described the incident as the lone case of death due to a “vaccine product-related reaction” so far. Out of the 31 cases analysed by the national AEFI panel, there are 28 deaths of which only one has been linked to the vaccine whereas, in seven post-vaccination deaths, the cause of the death has been classified as “indeterminate”, suggesting the absence of evidence to link them to the vaccine. Such vaccine-related reactions have been seen in two other cases among the 31, but both patients who are in their 20s, recovered. One of them received Covishield and the other one Covaxin. Notwithstanding the death, benefits of Covid-19 vaccines far outweigh the miniscule risk, said NITI Ayog member Vinod Paul, who chairs the national task force on Covid-19 vaccination. "Both vaccines and the third vaccine (Russian origin Sputnik-V) fulfil the safety criteria. Don’t cast doubt on vaccination on the basis of one AEFI report. The risks are miniscule.” More than 26 crore Indians have received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine so far. But overall just about 4% of the Indian population (4.91 crore) have received both doses. India reported more than 26,000 AEFI cases and 488 post-vaccination deaths between January 16 and June 7. But barring one, none of such deaths is linked to the two vaccines, according to the experts who analysed such deaths. In India, the number of deaths reported following the Covid-19 vaccination is only 0.0002% of nearly 26 crore doses administered, which is within the expected death rates in a population. “It is important and pertinent to note that the mortality rates for those testing positive for Covid-19 disease is more than 1% and Covid-19 vaccination can prevent these deaths. The risk of dying following vaccination is negligible as compared to the known risk of dying due to Covid-19 disease,” the Union Health Ministry said in a statement. In the US, more than 30.2 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines were administered between December 14, 2020, and June 7, 2021, following which there are reports of 5,208 deaths (0.0017%) among the vaccine recipients. But a review of available clinical information, including death certificates, autopsy, and medical records, has not established a causal link to Covid-19 vaccines, says the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-confirms-first-death-following-covid-19-vaccination-997702.html
15-06-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi to deliver keynote address at VivaTech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver the keynote address at the fifth edition of 'VivaTech' on Wednesday.  The PMO noted that he has been invited as a guest of honour to deliver the keynote address and other prominent speakers at the event include French President Emmanuel Macron, Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez and ministers and MPs from various European countries.  The event will also witness the participation of corporate bigwigs like Tim Cook, CEO of Apple, Mark Zuckerberg, chairman and CEO of Facebook, and Brad Smith, president, Microsoft, among others. VivaTech is one of the largest digital and startup events in Europe, and it is held in Paris every year since 2016, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) noted.    It is jointly organised by Publicis Groupe, a prominent advertising and marketing conglomerate, and Les Echos,a leading French media group. It brings together stakeholders in technology innovation and the startup ecosystem and includes exhibitions, awards, panel discussions and startup contests.  The fifth edition of VivaTech is scheduled to be held between June 16 and 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-deliver-keynote-address-at-vivatech-997711.html
15-06-2021||National||Explained | Why is India losing sleep over record-high vegetable oil prices?||India, the world's top importer of vegetable oil, will have to spend billions of extra dollars this year to buy more costly cooking oil from overseas and is mulling cutting taxes on those imports to soften the blow to the economy, industry officials have said. The government is considering reducing taxes on vegetable oil imports after cooking oil prices hit record highs last month as it seeks to make food costs more affordable for its population of over 1.3 billion and keep price pressures at bay. Why have global edible oil prices rallied so much? Problems in the global production of key oilseeds coupled with rising biodiesel use have fuelled the global vegetable oil rally. Soyoil futures have jumped more than 70% this year after drought tightened US and Brazilian soybean supplies. The US Department of Agriculture has forecast global soybean stocks will fall to a five-year low of 87.9 million tonnes by September. Palm oil prices, the most widely consumed edible oil, also rallied 18% in 2020 after Covid-19 lockdowns curbed output from plantations in Southeast Asia. Benchmark futures in Malaysia touched 4,142 ringgit ($1,007.30) a tonne in mid-March, their highest since 2008. Poor rapeseed and sunflower seed harvests in Europe and the Black Sea region further tightened edible oil supplies, helping push global food prices to 10-year highs last month. Mirroring record global prices, domestic palm oil and soy oil rates have more than doubled in the past year. Why is India concerned? As the top edible oil importer, India spends an average of $8.5-$10 billion annually on imported vegetable oils and the recent price surge will only inflate its bloated import bill further. Vegetable oil is India's third-biggest import item after crude oil and gold. India's vegetable oil imports have surged to 15 million tonnes from 4 million only two decades ago, according to industry estimates. It could touch 20 million by 2030, trade and industry experts say, boosted by a growing populace with higher incomes and a taste for calorie-laden curry and fried food. Domestic oilseed production has failed to keep pace with demand, as farmers prefer to grow grains like rice and wheat, the price of which is guaranteed by the government. India produced about 10.65 million tonnes of edible oils in 2019-20, less than half of the roughly 24 million tonnes it consumed during that period, according to trade and government estimates. It imported the rest, buying around 7.2 million tonnes of palm oil from Indonesia and Malaysia, about 3.4 million tonnes of soy oil from Brazil and Argentina, and 2.5 million tonnes of sunflower oil, mainly from Russia and Ukraine. What has been the government's response? Soaring vegetable oil prices have further hit people already reeling from record fuel prices and lower incomes due to a devastating second wave of Covid-19 infections. The government has voiced support for greater domestic production of oil crops in recent years, and had been expected to unveil incentives for farmers willing to expand oilseed output in its latest annual budget plan. But the government has yet to come up with a viable plan to raise oilseeds production. India grows several oilseeds - mainly peanuts, soybeans and rapeseed (mustard) - but their prices are not guaranteed by the government like grain prices are. As a result, Indian output of rice and wheat is nearly six times greater than total oilseed output on average. The local vegetable oil industry has argued that the government, which earns about 350 billion rupees ($4.79 billion) from levies on edible oil imports, should set aside some of that to incentivise farmers to switch to oilseeds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-why-is-india-losing-sleep-over-record-high-vegetable-oil-prices-997719.html
15-06-2021||National||External Affairs Minister Jaishankar discusses bilateral cooperation with his Qatari counterpart||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday discussed bilateral cooperation and exchanged views on regional issues with his Qatari counterpart Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al-Thani during his second visit to the key Gulf nation in a week. Jaishankar met Mohammed, who is also Qatar's Deputy Prime Minister, in Doha, a day after he discussed the global and regional issues, including the security situation in the Indo-Pacific region, with Kenya’s top leadership. "Good to meet DPM & FM @MBA_AlThani of Qatar in Doha today. Appreciated Qatar's solidarity during the Covid second wave. Discussed our bilateral cooperation and exchanged views on regional issues," he said in a tweet. Jaishankar arrived in Kenya on Saturday on a three-day visit to strengthen India's relations with the major East African country. He called on Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta and handed over a letter from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to him. Before visiting Kenya, Jaishankar arrived on his first bilateral visit to Kuwait on Thursday. He held "productive discussions" with his Kuwaiti counterpart Sheikh Ahmed Nasser Al-Mohammad Al-Sabah on Thursday during which the two sides discussed a range of issues including health, food, education, energy, digital, and business cooperation. On his way to Kuwait, Jaishankar had a brief stopover in Doha on June 9. Jaishankar on Wednesday met Qatar's National Security Advisor Mohamed Bin Ahmed Al Mesned and thanked him for the Gulf nation's support and solidarity in India’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic "A pleasure to meet Qatari NSA Mohamed Bin Ahmed Al Mesned. Appreciate his insights on developments in the region and beyond. Thanked him for his support and solidarity in India’s fight against COVID," he had tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/external-affairs-minister-jaishankar-discusses-bilateral-cooperation-with-his-qatari-counterpart-997728.html
15-06-2021||National||All Haj 2021 applications cancelled in wake of Covid-19: Haj Committee of India||The Haj Committee of India on Tuesday announced that all the applications for the pilgrimage this year stand cancelled as Saudi Arabia has stated that only a limited number of people residing in the Kingdom will be allowed to perform Haj due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In a circular, the committee said that the Ministry of Haj and Umrah, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, has issued a statement informing that due to coronavirus pandemic conditions it has decided to allow citizens and residents inside the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia only to attend Haj this year in limited numbers and international Haj has been cancelled. "Hence it has been decided by the Haj Committee of India that all the applications for Haj 2021 stands cancelled," the circular signed by Haj Committee of India's Chief Executive Officer Maqsood Ahmed Khan read. Last year also the government had decided that Muslims from India will not travel to Saudi Arabia for Haj 2020 after the Kingdom conveyed that pilgrims should not be sent in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-haj-2021-applications-cancelled-in-wake-of-covid-19-haj-committee-of-india-997732.html
15-06-2021||National||Police use water cannons to disperse SAD-BSP workers in Mohali||Police on Tuesday used water cannons to disperse Shiromani Akali Dal and BSP leaders and workers when they were forcing their way to 'gherao' the residence of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh here. Protesters led by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal were shouting slogans against the Congress-led government over several issues including irregularities in the purchase of Fateh kits and alleged diversion of Covid-19 vaccine doses to private hospitals. It was the first joint protest of the SAD and BSP, days after both the parties had stitched an alliance for the 2022 Punjab Assembly polls. BSP state president Jasbir Singh Garhi was also present at the protest. Several Akali leaders, including Badal and Bikram Singh Majithia, were detained by police. Police personnel were deployed in strength and multi-layered barricades were put up on the road leading to the Chief Minister's residence. The SAD and BSP had planned to 'gherao' the CM's residence at Siswan in Mohali. Initially, scores of Akali and BSP protesters forced their way through the first layer of barricades. Police used water cannons when protesters tried to cross the second layer of barricades. In the melee, turbans of several protesters were tossed aside as police resorted to water cannons. Mohali Senior Superintendent of Police Satinder Singh was also present at the spot. Earlier, addressing the workers, SAD chief Badal slammed the state government over the issue of alleged irregularities in the purchase of Fateh kits and alleged diversion of vaccine doses to private hospitals. A 'Fateh kit' contains a pulse oximeter, thermometer, face masks, a steamer, sanitiser, Vitamin-C and zinc tablets and some other medicines for COVID-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-use-water-cannons-to-disperse-sad-bsp-workers-in-mohali-997739.html
15-06-2021||National||Small savings interest rate cut had Finance Minister, Election Commission nod: Report||The RTI reply revealed that the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) and the EC were in communication regarding approval for the rate cut as the DEA was mandated to seek clearance from the EC as per the model code of conduct during the Assembly polls, the publication reported. "For the first quarter of FY 2021-22 starting from April 1 and ending on June 30, the rates have been revised with the approval of Hon'ble FM, as per the confidential draft enclosed," the DEA letter allegedly read marked with the subject “revision of interest rates for small saving schemes”. The letter also reportedly ended with a line in bold that read, “The matter may be treated as urgent as the revision has to be affected from 1.04.2021.”  According to the report, the Election Commission gave it a green signal on the same day. On March 31, the government announced rate cuts on small savings schemes, including national saving certificates and public provident funds, by up to 1.1 per cent, in step with declining fixed deposit rates at banks, before backtracking on the decision as it faced almost an immediate backlash against the move. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman deemed it an “oversight.” Small savings schemes are the backbone assured investment plans for many aging or risk-averse Indians who rely on the safety of government-backed savings tools. The relatively high interest rates these instruments offer have become much more attractive as banks lower fixed deposit rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/small-savings-interest-rate-cut-had-finance-minister-election-commission-nod-report-997747.html
15-06-2021||National||Over 1.05 crore Covid vaccines available with states, UTs: Govt||More than 1.05 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and union territories while over 47,43,580 doses are in the pipeline and will reach them within the next three days, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. So far, the government of India has provided 26,69,14,930 vaccine doses to the states and UTs through the free of cost channel and direct state procurement. Of these, the total consumption, including wastage, is 25,67,21,069 doses, according to data available at 8 am on Tuesday. A total of 1,05,61,861 Covid vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered, the ministry said. "Furthermore, more than 47,43,580 vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days," it said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the government of India has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid vaccines free of cost. The government has also been facilitating the direct procurement of vaccines by the states and UTs. Vaccination is an integral pillar of the comprehensive strategy of the government of India for containment and management of the pandemic, along with test, track, treat and Covid-appropriate behaviour, the ministry said. Implementation of the Liberalised and Accelerated Phase-3 Strategy of Covid-19 Vaccination started from May 1. Under the strategy, every month, 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer would be procured by the government of India. It would continue to make these doses available to the state governments free of cost as was being done earlier, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-105-crore-covid-vaccines-available-with-states-uts-govt-997749.html
15-06-2021||National||As Covid-19 cases decline, Goa tourism industry demands SOPs for revival||Goa's tourism industry stakeholders have urged Chief Minister Pramod Sawant to grant a 100 per cent excise waiver in state excise, while also demanding additional SOPs like a waiver for tourism licence fees for two financial years, a reduction in GST tariff for tourism-linked industries and seeking relief in power tariff.  In a letter to Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, president of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa Nilesh Shah on Tuesday has also sought a 100 per cent refund for all visas for the next two years in order to make Goa an attractive tourism destination once the state opens up for tourism. "The second wave of the pandemic has hit Goa in a bad way, which has resulted in a shutdown of tourism operations in Goa for the past more than three months. This is in addition to the previous period of shut down in the last year which has not allowed the industry to operate for over one year," Shah said in his letter to Sawant. "The industry requires a 100 per cent waiver of excise fees – considering last year 2020-21 everyone paid full excise fees and a majority did not operate for almost seven months. Now with the additional three months of 2021-22 of business being shut and perhaps continuing being shut for the next couple of months, it will be almost one year of no business," the Association's president said in his letter on Tuesday.  The letter also roots for a similar waiver in tourism licence fees up to 2023-24 and SOPs vis a vis power consumption which includes reduced tariff from April 2021-March 2022 and facilitation of deferred payments – the electricity charges payable should be allowed to be deferred till April 2022 without any late charges -- in order to provide businesses with working capital to operate till March 2022. The letter has also urged Sawant to recommend to the central government to reduce Goods and Services Tax for the tourism sector. "Extension of moratorium on term loan EMIs up to March 31, 2022. This measure should be taken with the RBI to provide some relief against the covid-induced financial crisis," the Association said. The Association has also urged Sawant to reduce fuel prices in the state, which Shah said have "led to rise of basic commodity prices at a time when there is no income for most people." "100 per cent refund should be given on all visas between October 1, 2021, to October 1, 2023, through the tourism promotion and marketing budget. This will encourage the charter tourism business for the coming year & encourage travellers to travel to India. All other countries in direct competition with Goa, are taking such measures of waiving off visa dees," Shah has said. Tourism activity has virtually ground to a halt in Goa, with the onset of the second Covid wave which has resulted in an unprecedented number of infections as well as a steep spike in deaths linked to the deadly virus. The state's Covid statistics have, however, reported a decline over the last fortnight. The state currently has 4,406 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-covid-19-cases-decline-goa-tourism-industry-demands-sops-for-revival-997752.html
15-06-2021||National||Press Council of India seeks report from Uttar Pradesh authorities on death of TV journalist||The Press Council of India (PCI) has sought a report from the Uttar Pradesh government and police on the death of a TV journalist who had recently reported on the liquor mafia. According to Uttar Pradesh police, journalist Sulabh Srivastava died in a road accident in Pratapgarh after his bike rammed into a pole on Sunday. However, the opposition parties and the Editors Guild of India (EGI) have questioned the claim of the state police. The TV journalist had recently run a story about the liquor mafia in the region. Later, he reportedly wrote to the police seeking protection, apprehending a threat to his life. “Taking serious note of the death of journalist Sulabh Srivastava in Pratapgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Press Council of India chairman Justice Chandramouli Kumar Prasad has taken suo motu cognisance in the matter,” the Council said in a statement in Hindi on Tuesday. The Government of Uttar Pradesh, the state Director General of Police and the Superintendent of Police, Pratapgarh have been asked to send a report “based on the facts in the matter,” the council said. The death of the TV journalist in Uttar Pradesh has sparked a row with the opposition parties demanding a free and fair probe. While Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav has sought a high-level inquiry into the case, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati has called for a swift, impartial and credible probe. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has demanded a CBI probe into the case. The Editors Guild of India on Monday said that it was shocked by the “cavalier manner” in which the Uttar Pradesh Police was treating the mysterious death of the TV journalist.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/press-council-of-india-seeks-report-from-uttar-pradesh-authorities-on-death-of-tv-journalist-997753.html
15-06-2021||National||Gauhati High Court asks Assam government to spell out measures taken to prevent attack on healthcare workers||The Gauhati High Court has asked the Assam government to spell out measures undertaken for the protection of frontline health care workers following a "horrific incident of brutal attack" on doctors, nurses, and ward boys by attendants of a Covid-19 patient in the Udali Model Hospital, Hojai, on June 1.  A bench of Chief Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Manas Ranjan Pathak told the Assam government to ensure with immediate effect that no weapon or firearms be allowed inside a hospital.  The court also directed that proper notice of warning be put in every hospital and medical colleges about the consequences to be followed in law if doctors, nurses, para-medical, and medical students, working in medicare service institutions, as defined under the Assam Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage to Property) Act, 2011, were manhandled or attacked.  The court passed its order taking suo motu cognisance of the matter on a letter by a Supreme Court advocate, Sneha Kalita. The court asked the Assam government to file a progress report with regard to the incident within two weeks. It also sought to know the measures already undertaken and proposed to be undertaken to ensure that such incidents do not happen in the future. Senior advocate Vijay Hansaria and advocate Kalita submitted that suitable measures were required to ensure that such incidents do not occur in the future. In her letter to the Chief Justice, the woman advocate contended, in this Covid-19 pandemic situation, when everyone was looking up to the medical fraternity and healthcare workers as God on mother earth for the sake of saving lives of their patients, instances like the one was horrifying and no words can be enough to criticise it. She sought strong action against the culprits as such incidents were a huge threat to efforts to combat the pandemic, besides being in gross violation of human rights and fundamental rights.  She added that the viral video of "merciless assault" was "painful and shocking". Assam's Advocate General D Saikia submitted that as far as the incident of Udali was concerned, 24 accused were arrested within 24 hours. He said the state government was open to suggestions to prevent such incidents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gauhati-high-court-asks-assam-government-to-spell-out-measures-taken-to-prevent-attack-on-healthcare-workers-997755.html
15-06-2021||National||CSIR-IICT, Bengaluru pharma firm join hands to manufacture anti-Covid drug 2-DG||The CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) here and Bengaluru-based Anthem Biosciences Pvt Ltd have entered into an agreement for technology transfer and manufacture of anti-Covid drug 2-DG. Studies have shown that 2-DG demonstrated quick recovery and reduction in oxygen dependence among moderate and severely affected Covid patients. This drug, in the form of powder formulation, was earlier launched by Dr Reddy's Laboratories in India, IICT said in a release. Under the terms of the licence agreement, Anthem Biosciences Pvt Ltd, an integrated biopharmaceutical company, gets non-exclusive licence for the process know-how for synthesis of 2-DG (2-Deoxy-D-Glucose), it said. "The agreement is in line with CSIR's efforts to help people access various therapeutic options to combat Covid-19. CSIR labs have undertaken clinical trials of various repurposed drugs for the treatment of Covid-19," said Chandrasekhar, Director CSIR-IICT. Anthem Biosciences Pvt Ltd is in the process of filing an application for getting the approval from DCGI in New Delhi and will subsequently manufacture and commercialise 2-DG from their facilities located at Bommasandra, Bangalore and Harohalli, Kanakapura, Karnataka, the release said. Anthem Biosciences is in the forefront of working on niche and complex biopharmaceuticals, Ajay Bhardwaj, CEO and Founder the company said in the release. "We have hands-on experience in the development and manufacturing of prodrug of 2-DG API for a discovery research biopharmaceutical company from the USA. Because of our prior experience on 2-DG Prodrug, Post DCGI approval, we are geared up to supply multi-ton API to meet the immediate demand that might arise due to ongoing Covid-19 pandemic," he said. "We have also developed domestic vendors for key raw materials for uninterrupted supplies to manufacture 2-DG API. Alternatively, we have developed an in-house process for key raw materials as we foresee the short supplies of these materials in coming months," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/csir-iict-bengaluru-pharma-firm-join-hands-to-manufacture-anti-covid-drug-2-dg-997758.html
15-06-2021||National||Haryana govt extends schools' summer holidays till June 30||The Haryana government on Tuesday extended the summer vacation for all schools in the state till June 30. “All schools in the state will remain closed till June 30 as summer holidays have been extended,” Education Minister Kanwar Pal told reporters here after a state Cabinet meeting. According to an order issued by the Directorate of School Education last month, the state government had extended the summer vacation till June 15 after taking the coronavirus situation into account. Teachers, however, were allowed to attend school work from June 1. Asked about the declaration of the class 12 results, the minister said it would be out within a month. He said the class 12 results will be prepared on the basis of internal assessment and other parameters laid down by the Haryana Board of School Education. The Haryana government had earlier cancelled board examinations for class 12 due to a faster rise in coronavirus infection. The decision had come shortly after the central government had ordered the cancellation of the CBSE class 12 board exams amid the Covid-19 pandemic.  In an official statement, meanwhile, Pal added that a fixed amount would be provided to the government school students up to class VIII to purchase their textbooks. Since the process of awarding tenders for distribution of textbooks among students was taking a long time, the government has decided to give the money directly to students to buy their textbooks. Senior classes students are also being encouraged to give their old textbooks to students studying in junior classes, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-govt-extends-schools-summer-holidays-till-june-30-997779.html
15-06-2021||National||'Muslim man thrashed': Rahul says such cruelty shameful for society||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday reacted sharply to an incident in Ghaziabad in which an elderly Muslim man was allegedly beaten up and asked to chant 'Jai Shri Ram', saying such cruelty is shameful for both society and religion. In a video on social media, the elderly Muslim man has accused four men of beating him up, chopping his beard and asking him to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' in the Loni area of Ghaziabad. The Ghaziabad police said it has already registered an FIR and arrested a man, Parvesh Gurjar, for his involvement in this alleged incident which took place on June 5 but was reported to police two days later. Tagging a report on the incident, Rahul Gandhi said, "I am not willing to accept that true devotees of Lord Ram can do such a thing." "Such cruelty is far removed from humanity and is shameful for both society and religion," the former Congress chief tweeted in Hindi. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muslim-man-thrashed-rahul-says-such-cruelty-shameful-for-society-997796.html
15-06-2021||National||Selling Covaxin at overall average price of about Rs 250 only: Bharat Biotech defends high cost of Covaxin||Bharat Biotech International has said that the price of Rs 150 per dose at which it supplies Covaxin to the central government is “non-competitive and unsustainable in the long run.” In a statement on Tuesday, the biotech firm defended the high cost of Covaxin in comparison to other Covid-19 vaccines, and said that the premium price in private markets (Rs 1200 vs Covishield at Rs 600, pre-GST) “is required to offset part of its costs.” The government has recently capped the private sector jab at Rs 1,410 for Covaxin and Rs 780 for Covishield, including 5% GST and Rs 150 hospital service charges. BBI has said that out of the 40 million Covaxin doses it has supplied to date, less than 10% was catered to the private sector, “while most of the remaining quantity was provided to the state and central governments.”  “In such a scenario, the weighted average price of Covaxin for all supplies realized by Bharat Biotech is less than Rs 250 per dose. Going forward, about 75% of our capacities will be supplied to the governments, with only 25% going to the private hospitals,” the company stated. The Hyderabad-based company said it has invested over Rs 500 crore “at risk, from its own resources for product development, clinical trials and setting up of manufacturing facilities for Covaxin.” The private firm said it would pay royalties to the ICMR and National Institute of Virology (NIV), with respect to the provision of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, animal studies, virus characterization, test kits and partial funding for the clinical trial sites. Based on the product sales, royalties are also payable to Virovax towards the licensure of IMDG agonist molecules. “The urgent need to set up a significant number of manufacturing facilities and to divert existing ones for Covaxin has resulted in reduced production of other vaccines at our facilities, leading to a loss in revenues.” BBI added that activities towards the development of vaccines against newer variants is underway at its facilities. Highly complex production, low yields The Hyderabad-based company has attributed the high costs to the whole-virion inactivated vero cell vaccine Covaxin is, where the critical ingredient is based on live viruses requiring highly sophisticated, multiple level containment and purification methods resulting in significant process losses and low yields of a safe vaccine. The highly contagious nature of the live SARS-CoV-2 virus requires more stringent Biosafety Level-3 (BSL-3) containment facilities for manufacturing Covaxin. “Every batch of the manufactured product is subjected to more than 200 quality control tests, before its release. It is emblematic that Bharat Biotech has not sought indemnity from the government for any adverse events from Covaxin.” “Private sector vaccines optional” Bharat Biotech further said that the vaccine procurement by private hospitals is optional and not mandatory, though it gives a choice to citizens willing to pay for better convenience. “In our view, the question of product pricing is only of extraneous interest to all concerned, especially when the same vaccine is made available free of cost,” BBI said. The significantly higher pricing for private sector players is “purely due to fundamental business reasons, ranging from low procurement volumes, high distribution costs and retail margins among few others as explained above.” Citing such examples, BBI said that the Human Papillomavirus vaccine is priced for GAVI supplies at $ 4.5/dose (Rs 320), but is also available in the private market at about Rs 3500 / dose. “Rotavirus vaccines are supplied to the government of India at about Rs 60 per dose, but are also available in the private market at Rs 1700 per dose.” “Covid-19 vaccine prices internationally are varied between ~ $10 to ~ $37/dose, (~ Rs 730 - ~ Rs 2700/dose).”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/selling-covaxin-at-overall-average-price-of-about-rs-250-only-bharat-biotech-defends-high-cost-of-covaxin-997797.html
15-06-2021||National||NIA announces reward of Rs 10 lakh each for identifying 2 people for blast near Israeli Embassy||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday announced a reward of Rs 10 lakh each for the identification of two people captured on CCTV camera when explosive material was being planted outside the Israeli embassy here earlier this year, an official spokesperson said. The spokesperson said that the NIA was seeking information to help identify two individuals, as seen on CCTV footage, in connection with the case related to the explosion near the Israeli Embassy, New Delhi. "Any information in this regard leading to identification and arrest of the suspected individuals will be rewarded with cash of Rs 10 lakh on each," the spokesperson said. The NIA spokesperson also shared the drive where one can access the pictures and videos of the two people.  If someone recognises them, they can send an email to 'do.nia@gov.in', 'info.nia@gov.in' or call phone numbers 011-24368800 and 9654447345. A minor IED blast took place near the Israeli Embassy in the heart of Lutyens' Delhi on the evening of January 29. The case was handed over to the NIA on February 2. While no one was injured, some cars were damaged in the explosion that occurred about 150 metres away from the embassy on the Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Road in the very high-security Lutyens' bungalow zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-announces-reward-of-rs-10-lakh-each-for-identifying-2-people-for-blast-near-israeli-embassy-997800.html
15-06-2021||National||CEC Sushil Chandra stresses on error-free electoral roll||Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra on Tuesday underlined the importance of an updated and error-free electoral roll and said state chief electoral officers should make sustained year-round efforts to engage with new voters for registration, and other services like correction, change of address with existing voters. Addressing a virtual conference of chief electoral officers of all states and union territories, he stressed the importance of such periodic review meetings for revamping back-end systems so that voter centric services can be delivered swiftly and efficiently on priority. According to an official statement, Chandra said such CEO review meetings would be institutionalised and organised more frequently. The conference primarily focused on key thematic issues such as smooth, efficient and voter-friendly services, update and purity of the electoral roll, integration of IT applications, extensive voter outreach program, media and communication strategy, expenditure monitoring, legal issues, EVM and VVPAT storage-related infrastructure, and training and capacity building. Election Commissioner Rajiv Kumar said the CEOs of the states which recently went to polls should suggest ways of scaling up and integrating their successful best practices such as mobile apps for absentee voters, criminal antecedents and randomisation of polling and police personnel. He emphasised that protocols of SOPs for storage and movement of EVMs should be strictly adhered to and monitored by CEOs. He added that CEOs should ensure periodic physical inspection of EVM storage warehouses. Kumar also said that CEOs should send their suggestions and ideas for new reforms to be taken up in the identified verticals being examined by the core committee set up recently to learn from recent experiences. Election Commissioner Anup Chandra Pandey said the non-election period should be utilised by CEOs to consolidate and fill up gaps of manpower resources and Infrastructure, plan for communication and awareness activities and step up training and capacity building according to their state specific needs. EC Secretary-General Umesh Sinha reminded the CEOs that during the non-election period, the core work of purifying electoral rolls, redressal of grievances of voters, outreach activities for engaging with young and future voters should be taken up on priority so that CEO offices remain in full readiness for future elections. During the conference, chief electoral officers of Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal shared their experiences and lessons from conducting elections during the pandemic. The CEOs of Goa, Manipur, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh particularly briefed the Commission about various challenges, innovations and suggestions for upcoming assembly elections in their respective states. Elections in these five states are expected to be held sometime early next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cec-sushil-chandra-stresses-on-error-free-electoral-roll-997805.html
15-06-2021||National||Income Tax department revokes charitable organisation tax exemption of PFI||The Income Tax Department has revoked the tax exemption benefit given to Islamic organisation PFI after it found that its activities were allegedly "not genuine" as required to be undertaken by a legally notified charitable organisation. The department recently cancelled the registration of the Popular Front of India (PFI) granted under section 12AA (3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961. This was granted to the organisation in August 2012. An order issued by the department in March said the tax benefit for the PFI is being "cancelled/withdrawn" with effect from assessment year 2016-17. The order effectively means that the PFI will now have to pay income tax and those who donate to it will not enjoy income tax exemption. It can also go in for an appeal against the order before a higher authority of the department followed by the courts. The PFI, formed in 2006 in Kerala and headquartered in Delhi, has been under the probe scanner of various state police departments as well central agencies like the Enforcement Directorate and the National Investigation Agency on alleged charges of its and its members' involvement in money laundering crimes and terrorist activities. The department has taken away the tag of the PFI being a charitable institution as defined under section 12A read with section 12AA of the Income Tax Act and also under section 80G under the same law. While section 12A/12AA specifies the scheme of taxation exemption in respect of income of charitable or religious trusts or institution, section 80G allows income tax deduction to an individual who donates to such a notified charitable or religious institution. The department, the order said, found that the PFI "was not carrying out its activities as per objects of memorandum of association (MoA) of the assessee trust or institution" and that it allegedly violated provisions of section 13(1)(b) on "account of beneficiaries of assessee belonging to one particular religious community." The order also alleged that the activities of the organisation were "not genuine."  The PFI, while reacting to income tax proceedings, had earlier told PTI in a statement that it was "a registered organisation with lawful and transparent financial dealings and it abides by all statutory requirements, and annual income tax returns have been regularly filed before the authorities." It had said the contents of the tax department show cause notice earlier issued to it in this context were "highly prejudiced and indicative of the well-orchestrated agenda of the central government against the religious minority groups that refuse to dance to the tune of authoritarianism and communal fascism." The tax department order said that the PFI filed its income tax returns regularly between assessment year 2013-14 to 2020-21 and its MoA stated that it will undertake and promote "national integration, communal amity and social harmony and uphold the democratic setup, secular order and the rule of law in the country." Another of its notified MoAs states that it will "identify and check the menace or casteism, communalism and fascism."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/income-tax-department-revokes-charitable-organisation-tax-exemption-of-pfi-997806.html
15-06-2021||National||Those in 1-20 age group accounted for less than 12% of Covid-19 cases during both waves: Govt||Dismissing assumptions that children and the younger population were more affected in the second wave of Covid-19, the government on Tuesday said those in the 1-20 age group accounted for less than 12 per cent of the cases recorded during both the waves. Those aged 1-20 years accounted for 11.62 per cent of the total cases during the second wave (March 15 to May 25) as against 11.31 per cent in the first wave (July 1 to December 31), indicating not much difference in the proportion of those infected in this age-group, according to the data shared by the government at a press conference. The data showed that the 21-50 age group was the most affected category in both waves with the people from this category accounting for 59.74 per cent of the infections in the first wave as against 62.45 per cent in the second. As for people aged above 61 years, the proportion was 13.89 per cent in the first wave and 12.58 in the second wave. Presenting age bifurcation of cases in first and second waves, Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry, said the first wave saw 3.28 per cent cases coming from 1 to 10 years age group while it is 3.05 per cent in the second wave. The age group 11-20 years accounted for 8.03 per cent in the first wave and 8.57 per cent in the second wave. Amid fears about the possibility of children getting more affected if a third wave comes, the government said there appears to be no substantial evidence to indicate there will be severe infection among them but then highlighted that people of all age groups need to stay vigilant and follow precautions. Highlighting the improvement in the Covid-19 situation in the country, Agarwal further said that almost 85 per cent decline in daily new cases has been noted since the highest reported peak on May 7 and the number of districts reporting more than 100 daily cases have reduced from 531 as recorded in the week ending May 4 to 165 in the week ending June 13. There has been a decline of 75.6 per cent from the peak of Covid-19 active cases recorded on May 10 across the county. At present, there are 20 states and union territories where the Covid-19 active caseload is less than 5,000 and a drastic reduction is being noted in almost all states. Due to the restriction being imposed at the field level in terms of containment activities, a sharp decline of 78 per cent has been noted since the highest reported weekly Covid-19 case positivity of 21.4 per cent recorded between May 4-10 during the second wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/those-in-1-20-age-group-accounted-for-less-than-12-of-covid-19-cases-during-both-waves-govt-997809.html
15-06-2021||National||Galwan clash: Colonel Babu's statue unveiled in Telangana's Suryapet||A nine feet tall bronze statue of Colonel Bikkumalla Santhosh Babu was unveiled in Suryapet town of Telangana on Tuesday. Colonel Babu, the commanding officer of the 16th Bihar Regiment, died along with 19 other soldiers in a violent clash with the Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley, along the LAC in eastern Ladakh on June 15 last year. The nation's second-highest military medal Mahavir Chakra was conferred on Babu (posthumously) during the 2021 Republic Day events, for his gallantry in leading the Indian soldiers against the Chinese attack. The statue, erected at the Court Chourasta of his hometown, was unveiled by Telangana's municipal administration, IT and industries minister KT Rama Rao, in the presence of Colonel Babu's widow Santoshi, and other family members. A few days after Babu’s mortal remains were consigned to flames near Suryapet with full military honours, Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had visited the town to console the bereaved family and pay tributes to the martyr. The CM handed over a letter appointing Santoshi as a Group-I officer in the Telangana government. He handed over the documents allotting a 711 square-yards house site in the Banjara Hills area of Hyderabad to her. The CM also handed a cheque of Rs 4 crore to Santoshi and Rs 1 crore to Babu’s parents. The CM hailed the Colonel “for sacrificing his valuable life for the well being of the country."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/galwan-clash-colonel-babus-statue-unveiled-in-telanganas-suryapet-997810.html
15-06-2021||National||Delta plus a variant of interest, not concern, says Niti Aayog's V K Paul||The newly reported Delta plus strain of SARS-CoV-2 is only a “variant of interest” at the moment and not a “variant of concern” because not much is known about its transmissibility and virulence, Niti Aayog member Vinod Paul said on Tuesday. "This is a variant of interest that has not yet been classified as a variant of concern. A VOC is that in which we have understood the adverse consequences to humanity in terms of increased transmissibility and severity. This is not known yet about the Delta plus variant,” Paul said. “Scientifically the effect and change of Delta plus has to be watched through our INSACOG system. This has to be detected and we have to see its presence in the country.”  The Delta plus or AY.1 is a new variant of the rapidly evolving virus, which has acquired a new mutation known as K417N that may allow the pathogen to dodge a new class of Covid-19 medicines called monoclonal antibodies.  As of now, most of the 60 plus sequences of such a strain in a global database are from the USA and European nations with India and Nepal contributing a handful. As per the genomic data at the INSACOG, there are eight such cases in India. Paul said while INSACOG would keep a watch on the new strain, there is no way one could shoot the variants away. "What we need to do is to focus on our own behaviour, not give opportunities for the virus to spread, prevent crowding and parties, and wear masks. If we break the chain of transmission, then less variants will be formed,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delta-plus-a-variant-of-interest-not-concern-says-niti-aayogs-v-k-paul-997811.html
15-06-2021||National||S Jaishankar, Nirmala Sitharaman to headline UK’s India Global Forum||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman were on Tuesday confirmed as the headline speakers at a global event that will lay out India’s vision for post-pandemic growth. India Global Forum, organised from London as a hybrid event between June 29 and July 1, will bring together a range of worldwide experts, including World Health Organisation (WHO) Director-General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg and former CIA Director General David H. Petraeus, to cover India’s role in vaccine and medicine manufacturing as well as cooperation in crucial areas of climate change and an equitable global economic recovery. From India, other senior ministers set to address a host of sessions include Commerce & Industry Minister Piyush Goyal, Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari and Women & Textiles Minister Smriti Irani. “This year’s India Global Forum brings with it a sense of urgency and impatience about the radical actions needed now to shape a post-pandemic world,” said Manoj Ladwa, CEO of India Inc. Group, organisers of the forum. “It’s where the big global issues of climate change, economic recovery and opportunity, digital transformation, and tackling new age imperialist and fundamentalist threats get debated,” he said. In line with its “Future. Now. – Radical Actions for the Post Pandemic Era” theme, the sessions of the forum will cover Climate Action; Digital Future; Global Business; Economic Recovery; Health & HealthTech; Securing Supply Chains; and Global Leadership. From views on how the post-pandemic build back of the global economy can be used to accelerate the transition to a better and safer world, to so-called “Covidonomics” of navigating huge new debts, unemployment and ongoing healthcare risk, the event is being pegged as the first chance for such a high-level worldwide forum as India gradually emerges from a devastating second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-nirmala-sitharaman-to-headline-uk-s-india-global-forum-997812.html
15-06-2021||National||Surplus sugar, rice for ethanol production as India eyes 20% blending with petrol by 2025||India is set to double its ethanol distillation capacities by 2025 with the diversion of surplus sugar and rice till the country increases the production of maize, the preferred grain for manufacturing the alternative fuel. The government has also announced an interest subvention scheme to encourage the setting up of distilleries for manufacturing ethanol to boost its blending with petrol to the tune of 20% by 2023. Earlier this month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi advanced India’s targeted transition to 20% ethanol blending in petrol by five years to 2025. The government aims to introduce ‘E20’, as the 20% ethanol blended petrol is called, by 2023. The government has decided to divert surplus sugar and broken rice for the production of ethanol, a move that is expected to help sugar mill liquidate excess stock and allow payment of arrears due to farmers. “The use of rice (for ethanol production) is provided to give continuity and is a transitory phase so that if they do not have access to enough maize, then they can access rice,” Sudhanshu Pandey, Union Food Secretary, told reporters here. India currently has the capacity to produce 684 crore litres of ethanol and aims to increase it to 1430 crore litres by 2024-25. He said in the upcoming sugar season (2021-22) an estimated 35 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of sugar will be diverted for ethanol production, with an aim to raise this to 60 LMT by 2025. In the long term, the government plans to promote maize production for ethanol production, which would also help farmers get a better price for the grain. Currently, 60% of maize produced in the country is used as poultry feed, 20% for human consumption and 20% for the industry, Pandey said adding that the use of maize or producing ethanol was more profitable as it gives a better yield of the alcohol than rice. In 2018-19, ethanol production in the country reached 189 crore litres leading to 5% blending with petrol. In the current ethanol supply year 2020-21, the production was expected to reach 300 crore litres which would help achieve 8-8.5% blending with petrol. An estimated 1016 crore litres of ethanol would be required by 2025-26 to achieve 20% blending with petrol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/surplus-sugar-rice-for-ethanol-production-as-india-eyes-20-blending-with-petrol-by-2025-997821.html
15-06-2021||National||Gujarat govt gives 'clean chit' to BJP leaders for distributing Remdesivir||The Gujarat government in a preliminary inquiry report has given a "clean chit" to BJP leaders in Surat in connection with alleged hoarding of Remdevisir injections, which were distributed from the BJP office, during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic. The state government has said that the inquiry is still going on and statements of other involved persons are being recorded. The Vijay Rupani government submitted the report as an annexure in an affidavit filed in the high court in response to a PIL moved by the leader of opposition and Congress MLA Paresh Dhanani. The report mentions the recording of statements of Harsh Sanghvi, the BJP MLA from Majura constituency in Surat and national vice-president of BJP Yuva Morcha, and several other local leaders including Kishor Jindal, general secretary, Surat city and Niranjan Janjmera, BJP Surat city president BJP. However, the report doesn't mention the name of state BJP president C R Paatil who had announced the distribution of Remdesivir, an anti-viral drug, from his party's Surat office in April, when the demand had skyrocketed due to the pandemic. The report says that primary investigation doesn't suggest any violation of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 and any other rules. Dhanani has accused Paatil and Harsh Sanghvi of violating provisions of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, Pharmacy Act 1948 as well as Drug (Control) Act 1950, for "distributing Remdesivir injections" despite not having any legal rights of doing so under the acts. The affidavit has been filed by H G Koshia, commissioner of Food and Drugs Control, Administration, Gandhinagar. Koshia said, "Report (submitted on June 12) is preliminary, prepared solely on the basis of statements recorded so far and the documents produced along therewith and that, the said inquiry is still going on before the Assistant Commissioner, for recording of statement of other persons..." Meanwhile, Sanghvi has also filed an affidavit in the court defending the distribution of the injections from the party office. Defending himself, he said that the injections were made available "with the sole intention of compassion and humanity" and to save lives. "In fact, I have not personally distributed or procured the said injections but the injections were made available for humankind and saving human lives. The words "distribution" and "procurement"' and "dispensing" used by the petitioner are false, frivolous and concocted since they are wrong connotations intentionally, deliberately used by him to bring the act of "availability of the injections" look like there is a violation of Section 42 of the Pharmacy Act," Sanghvi stated in the affidavit. He also said that Dhanani's "petition is more of a publicity interest litigation rather than the public interest litigation since from the very case title of the petition the petitioner himself has portrayed that he is filing this petition not in his individual capacity, but as MLA of Amreli Constituency, Leader of Opposition, Gujarat Legislative Assembly."  On the other hand, state BJP president Paatil's lawyer told the high court that he would be filing the affidavit in a week's time. The court granted time. When the controversy erupted after Paatil announced the distribution of injections from the party office, chief minister Vijay Rupani had publicly said that he had no idea from where injections were procured and this was a question which only "Paatil would have known." Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-govt-gives-clean-chit-to-bjp-leaders-for-distributing-remdesivir-997826.html
15-06-2021||National||Injected Rs 3,000 crore in tribal economy over 2 years: Centre||The Central government has injected over Rs 3,000 crore in the tribal economy over the past two years to ensure a market for minor forest produce and artworks of home-bound tribal artisans. Tribal Affairs Minister Arjun Munda said over the past two years, the mechanism for marketing of minor forest produce through minimum support price and development of value chain has impacted tribal ecosystem in a big way. Munda was speaking at the inauguration of the headquarter of the Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation (TRIFED) in New Delhi. “In less than two years, 37,362 Van Dhan Vikas Kendras, subsumed into 2,240 Van Dhan Vikas Kendra Clusters of 300 forest dwellers each have been sanctioned by TRIFED out of which 1,200 clusters are operational,” a Tribal Affairs Ministry statement read. Through the Tribes India outlets, TRIFED has compiled a hamper of unique handicrafts, GI products, and immunity boosters from different parts of the country. “TRIFED is working consistently on its mission towards making the tribals self-reliant,” Pravir Krishna, Managing Director, TRIFED said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/injected-rs-3000-crore-in-tribal-economy-over-2-years-centre-997829.html
15-06-2021||National||Indian scientists say they didn't back doubling of Covid-19 vaccine dose gap||The Indian government doubled the gap between the two doses of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine without the agreement of the scientific group that it said recommended the increase, three members of the advisory body told Reuters. The ministry of health announced the decision to change the gap from 6-8 weeks to 12-16 weeks on May 13, at a time when supplies of the shot were falling short of demand and infections were surging across the country. It said the extended gap was recommended by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), based on real-life evidence mainly from Britain. Yet the NTAGI scientists, classified by the government as three of the 14 "core members", said the body did not have enough data to make such a recommendation. M.D. Gupte, a former director of the state-run National Institute of Epidemiology, said the NTAGI had backed increasing the dosing interval to 8-12 weeks - the gap advised by the World Health Organization. But he added that the group had no data concerning the effects of a gap beyond 12 weeks. "Eight to 12 weeks is something we all accepted, 12 to 16 weeks is something the government has come out with," he added. "This may be alright, may not be. We have no information on that." This was echoed by his NTAGI colleague Mathew Varghese, who said the group's recommendation was only for 8-12 weeks. The health ministry, citing the head of NTAGI's working group on Covid-19, said that the dosing decision was based on scientific evidence. "There was no dissenting voices among the NTAGI members," the ministry said on Twitter. Government health officials told a news conference on May 15 the gap was not increased to address a vaccine shortage but was a "scientific decision". J.P. Muliyil, a member of the seven-strong Covid working group, said there had been discussions within the NTAGI on increasing the vaccine dosage interval but that the body had not recommended 12-16 weeks. "That specific number was not quoted," he said, without elaborating. N.K. Arora, the Covid working group head, declined to comment to Reuters on its recommendations but said all its decisions were taken collectively by the NTAGI at large. A NEGVAC representative said it "respects the decisions of the NTAGI and use them for our work", declining to elaborate. Real-world data released early last month by South Korea showed https://www.reuters.com/world/asia-pacific/skorea-says-astrazeneca-pfizer-Covid-19-vaccines-87-effective-after-first-shot-2021-05-05 that one dose of the vaccines from AstraZeneca and Pfizer was 86.6 per cent effective in preventing infections among people aged 60 and older. Muliyil said this increased confidence within the advisory body that delaying a second shot would not be harmful. The AstraZeneca vaccine accounts for nearly 90 per cent of the 257.5 million vaccine doses administered in India. The dispute over doses comes amid criticism from some scientists that the government had been slow to respond to a new virus variant that led to a spike in infections in April and May. The government has denied being slow to react, saying state-run laboratories had studied variants in real time and shared data with local authorities to allow them to take the necessary action. Shahid Jameel, a top Indian virologist who recently quit a government panel on virus variants after criticising New Delhi over its response to the pandemic, said the authorities should clarify their position on the reasons for the decision to double the gap between doses. "In a situation where we have a variant of concern spreading, we should really be vaccinating people at scale and making sure that they are protected," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-scientists-say-they-didnt-back-doubling-of-covid-19-vaccine-dose-gap-997831.html
15-06-2021||National||Novavax Covid-19 vaccine efficacy data promising, encouraging, says Centre||The government Tuesday said the efficacy data of Novavax vaccine against Covid-19 is promising and encouraging and its clinical trials are in an advanced stage of completion in India. Addressing a press conference, NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul said the data available in public domain also indicates the vaccine is safe and highly effective. "What we are learning from the available data is that this vaccine is very safe and it is highly effective but what makes this vaccine relevant for today is the fact that this vaccine will be produced in India by Serum Institute," he said. There is preparatory work already accomplished by the Serum Institute and they are also conducting a bridging trial which is in advanced stages of completion, Paul said. "I am also hoping that they will also start trials on children which is of a special interest to all of us. The pace of vaccination should see a renewed energy from next week onwards when we will realign our efforts, state efforts and effective scale up at ground level is expected. Teams both at the Centre and state are working on building new guidelines for high speed coverage of the vaccination across the country," he added. Novavax Inc, which has a vaccine manufacturing agreement with Serum Institute of India, on Monday said its Covid-19 vaccine candidate was highly effective with 90.4 per cent efficacy overall and also showed high efficacy against predominantly circulating variants. The vaccine candidate 'NVX-CoV2373' demonstrated 100 per cent protection against moderate and severe disease, 90.4 per cent efficacy overall, and met the primary endpoint in its PREVENT-19 pivotal Phase 3 trial, Novavax said in a statement.   The study enrolled 29,960 participants across 119 sites in the US and Mexico to evaluate efficacy, safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine, it added. The vaccine demonstrated 93 per cent efficacy against predominantly circulating variants of concern and variants of interest, Novavax said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/novavax-covid-19-vaccine-efficacy-data-promising-encouraging-says-centre-997834.html
15-06-2021||National||FinMin officials to meet Infosys team on June 22 to discuss IT e-filing portal glitches||Finance ministry officials will meet representatives of Infosys on June 22 to discuss issues and glitches in the new income tax e-filing portal as users continue to face inconvenience even after a week of its launch. Members from ICAI, auditors, consultants and taxpayers will also be part of the interactive meeting, during which the Infosys team will answer queries, clarify issues and receive inputs on the working of the portal, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said in a statement on Tuesday. "Senior officials of the Ministry of Finance will be holding an interactive meeting on the 22nd of June, 2021 between 11:00 AM to 01:00 PM with Infosys (the vendor and its team) on issues/ glitches in the recently launched e-filing portal of the Income Tax Department. "Other stakeholders including members from ICAI, auditors, consultants and taxpayers will also be part of the interaction," it said. ICAI is the apex body of chartered accountants. As taxpayers continued to face issues with the portal, the Income Tax Department on Monday eased certain norms for filing tax forms for remittances by allowing manual filings. "The new portal has been fraught with several technical glitches/ issues leading to taxpayer inconvenience. Written representations on the problems/ difficulties faced in the portal have also been invited from the stakeholders. "Representatives from Infosys team will be present to answer queries, clarify issues and receive inputs on the working of the portal, to remove glitches and sort out issues faced by the taxpayers," CBDT said in the statement. The new portal, 'http://www.incometax.gov.in"www.incometax.gov.in', was launched on June 7, with the IT Department, as well as the government, saying it was aimed at making compliance more taxpayer-friendly. Users complained of technical issues while using the site from the very first day and not everything has been fixed even after a week, chartered accountants had said, adding that taxpayers were unable to view past e-filed returns and many features/ facilities continue to be marked 'coming soon'. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman herself had asked Infosys and its Chairman Nandan Nilekani to fix the technical glitches. A day after the launch of the portal, social media users had flagged glitches to the finance minister. The minister took to Twitter and asked Infosys and its Chairman to fix the problem. Replying to the tweet, Nilekani had said Infosys is working to fix the glitches. In 2019, Infosys was awarded a contract to develop the next-generation income tax filing system to reduce processing time for returns from 63 days to one day and expedite refunds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/finmin-officials-to-meet-infosys-team-on-june-22-to-discuss-it-e-filing-portal-glitches-997835.html
15-06-2021||National||Turmoil outside LJP Bihar HQ; Chirag supporters deface rebels' posters||A factional feud within the Lok Janshakti Party played itself out on the streets of the Bihar capital on Tuesday when loyalists of Chirag Paswan stormed the party's state headquarters and vented spleen against the five MPs who had staged a political coup of sorts on the previous day. The Wheeler Road office of the LJP, situated a few hundred yards from several vantage locations of the city, bore witness to posters and banners of its Lok Sabha members Pashupati Kumar Paras, Prince Raj, Veena Devi, Chandan Kumar and Mehboob Ali Kaisar being blackened and torn down by irate party workers who dubbed the rebels as "traitors". Confusion seemed to prevail over who controls the party, on a day when Chirag, the national president, ordered disciplinary action against the five parliamentarians after they came out in revolt against him and got him removed as the leader of the party in the House. "We are angry as we were stopped from entering the premises. It was locked from inside by those who have switched loyalty and joined the Pashupati Kumar Paras camp", said an angry Chirag loyalist who waited outside until occupants of the LJP office gave in and opened the gates for the visitors. Paras, the youngest brother of the party's founding president Ram Vilas Paswan, had approached Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, armed with the support of other party MPs, with the request that he be recognized as the leader of the LJP. He also expressed displeasure over his nephews seemingly untenable stance of opposing Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and his JD(U) while claiming loyalty towards Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP and the NDA which the saffron party leads. Police were called in to keep the situation under control at the LJP office where another Chirag loyalist fumed, "Paras seems to have grown too ambitious. If he was so keen on heading the party, he should have begged before our Sahib. He is magnanimous enough and would have allowed his uncle to fulfil his petty desire." Besides Paras, other rebel MPs had similarly blamed Chirag for the turn of events, pointing out that the young president's brinkmanship in the assembly election had "harmed the NDA, of which we are a part". Chirag, a second-term MP from Jamui, had begun to exhibit his dislike for the Bihar Chief Minister during the nationwide lockdown last year when he accused Nitish Kumar of not doing enough for migrants unlike his counterparts in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. As assembly polls approached, and Paswan senior breathed his last, Chirag declared that he was going to take on the JD(U) boss claiming that the people of Bihar no longer wanted him as CM and that he was doing the same to help the BJP form its own government. Although there were speculations that the young LJP chief had the BJPs tacit backing, the saffron party and its top leaders found his antics too hot to handle and sought to distance themselves from his electoral stance and backed Nitish Kumar to the hilt. Interestingly, outside the LJP office, slogans denouncing the Bihar Chief Minister also rent the air as loyalists of Chirag alleged that Paras and other rebels were acting at the behest of Nitish Kumar who is known for taking no prisoners and wanted to extract "revenge". Tuesday's events at the LJP's headquarters here indicated that the factional fight would intensify in days to come and the situation may further turn ugly when Paras group is expected to organise a national meet at the office soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/turmoil-outside-ljp-bihar-hq-chirag-supporters-deface-rebels-posters-997842.html
15-06-2021||National||Will talk about late father: Natasha Narwal's brother after she gets bail||After Pinjra Tod activist Natasha Narwal was granted bail by the Delhi High Court in a northeast Delhi riots case, her brother Aakash on Tuesday said the news made him feel both sorrowful and relieved. The siblings lost their father Mahavir Narwal to coronavirus last month. Natasha was granted interim bail for three weeks after her father's death and had surrendered in Tihar after the bail period ended. "I came to know at 11 pm yesterday (Monday) that the bail order was listed for today. I couldn't react at that time. I was happy that the case was coming up for hearing but was not sure about the outcome," Aakash, who is five years younger than Natasha, told PTI. After hearing that his elder sister has got bail, Aakash said he felt "relieved". "When dad passed away, I was extremely sad that Natasha could not speak to him. I am very sure that his last thoughts would have been of Natasha," he said. "The news of the bail order hit me both with relief and sorrow. In normal circumstances, it would have been a celebration, but I couldn't help but think every other minute how happy our father would have been to see his daughter," he said. Natasha was arrested in May last year along with fellow Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita and booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act in connection with the northeast Delhi riots. Recalling the time she was out on interim bail, her brother said even though he had tested negative for coronavirus, he was not in a state to talk to her. "It was only when her bail period was about to end, I gathered the strength to talk to her in the last one or two days. Now we will be able to have a heart-to-heart talk about our dad," Aakash said. Devangana's mother, Kalpana Kalita, hailed the release of the duo and called it a "victory of democracy", something which Akash also concurred with. "The bail order itself, though, was strong and powerful. After one year of injustice and tragedies, my respect and belief in the judiciary system is restored and I hope this order becomes a precedent for future court matters," he added. A bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani on Tuesday set aside trial court orders denying bail to JNU students Devangana and Natasha, and allowed their appeals by admitting them to regular bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-talk-about-late-father-natasha-narwals-brother-after-she-gets-bail-997854.html
15-06-2021||National||Rajnath Singh to speak at regional security meet on June 16||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will virtually address a meeting of a grouping comprising 10-nation ASEAN and some of its dialogue partners  on Wednesday. Singh is likely to present India's views on dealing with major security challenges facing the region at the ASEAN Defence Ministers' Meeting Plus (ADMM-Plus). "Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh will participate in the ASEAN Defence Ministers' Meeting Plus (ADMM-Plus) tomorrow morning via video conferencing facility," his office tweeted. ADMM-Plus is a platform comprising 10-nation ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) and its eight dialogue partners -- India, China, Australia, Japan, New Zealand, Republic of Korea, Russia and the United States. The inaugural ADMM-Plus was convened in Hanoi in 2010. The defence ministers then had agreed on five areas of practical cooperation to pursue under the new mechanism, including maritime security, counter-terrorism, humanitarian assistance and peacekeeping operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-to-speak-at-regional-security-meet-on-june-16-997892.html
15-06-2021||National Politics||UP journalist death: Priyanka Gandhi writes to CM Yogi Adityanath, demands CBI probe||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday shot off a letter to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and demanded a CBI investigation into the death of a journalist under “mysterious circumstances”. Priyanka said journalist Sulabh Srivastava was found dead under mysterious circumstances near a brick kiln in Pratapgarh district of Uttar Pradesh while returning from a reporting assignment. She said the journalist had reported on illicit brewing of liquor which had angered the local liquor mafia. “I request you to order a CBI inquiry in this matter. Action should be taken against the nexus of liquor mafia and administration which has taken roots across the state,” Priyanka said in a letter to the chief minister. “The fact that a journalist faces threat from the liquor mafia after reporting on such incidents indicates that the rule of law in the state has lost its supremacy,” she said. Priyanka is the AICC General Secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh and is tasked with the revival of the Congress’ fortunes in the state that goes for elections early next year. Congress has been out of power in the state for more than three decades and managed to win seven seats in a 403-member assembly in 2017. Priyanka has been targeting the Uttar Pradesh government over its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, law and order situation in the state among a host of other issues. She said a day before he was murdered, the journalist had written a letter to the additional director general of police, Prayagraj zone, expressing concern about his and his family's safety and stating that the local liquor mafia was angry with his news report on illicit liquor. The Congress leader said there have been reports from several parts of the state on deaths due to consumption of spurious liquor. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-journalist-death-priyanka-gandhi-writes-to-cm-yogi-adityanath-demands-cbi-probe-997674.html
15-06-2021||National Politics||Sukhbir Singh Badal detained during protest in Punjab||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal has been detained by Punjab Police during a protest against the state government in Siswan, according to ANI. Badal along with SAD supporters held a protest against Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on June 15. Supporters of SAD tried to break the barricading while Punjab police used water cannons to control the heat. The protest took place outside the CM’s residence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sukhbir-singh-badal-detained-during-protest-in-punjab-997684.html
15-06-2021||National Politics||Ayodhya land deal: AAP's Sanjay Singh claims house 'attacked' by BJP supporters||Days after highlighting "corruption" in the purchase of land in Ayodhya by the Ram Temple Trust, AAP's Rajya Sabha floor leader Sanjay Singh on Tuesday said his house in the national capital near Rashtrapati Bhavan was "attacked" and his nameplate was blackened by BJP supporters. The nameplate at the 129, North Avenue residence, located very close to Rashtrapati Bhavan, was blackened by two persons who also tried to forcibly enter the premises after raising slogans. "My house has been attacked. Listen carefully, BJP supporters, no matter how much hooliganism you indulge in, I will not allow the funds collected for constructing the Ram temple to be stolen even if I am killed," Singh said on Twitter soon after the incident. He said the incident took place at his residence which is "just 100 metres away from the Rashtrapati Bhavan". "I want to tell the BJP government that I will repeat what I have said about the corruption in the land deal by Ram Temple Trust even if there are more attacks," he told reporters. A senior police official said two persons were taken into custody in connection with the incident. No one was injured in the incident. "An attempt was made to deface the nameplate at the residence of Sanjay Singh, MP. Two persons have been detained in this regard. No physical injury has been caused to anyone. Further investigation is on," Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav tweeted. Singh had alleged that Shriram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust General Secretary Champat Rai had purchased 1.208 hectares of land worth Rs 2 crore in Ayodhya's Bag Bjaisi village for Rs 18.5 crore with the help of trust member Anil Mishra. It was purchased from people who had brought it for Rs 2 crore just minutes before, he alleged while demanding a CBI and Enforcement Directorate probe into the incident. The Trust has denied the allegation. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ayodhya-land-deal-aaps-sanjay-singh-claims-house-attacked-by-bjp-supporters-997713.html
15-06-2021||National Politics||Chirag Paswan removed as LJP party chief||Chirag Paswan has been removed as Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief. Lok Sabha Secretariate has named Pashupati Kumar Paras as the Leader of LJP in place of Chirag Paswan. The development comes a day after five of the six Lok Janshakti Party MPs in Lok Sabha joined hands against their leader Chirag Paswan and elected Pashupati Kumar Paras, the youngest brother of Paswan's late father and party founder Ram Vilas Paswan, in his place, causing a big churn in Bihar politics.  Chirag Paswan shared a letter written to his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras in March this year in which he said how his uncle's anger at Chirag becoming party President had saddened his father. "I tried to keep the party founded by my father and the family together but failed. Party is like mother and nobody should betray it. People are supreme in a democracy. I thank those who keep trust in the party," said Chirag Paswan, indicating his resolve not to give up after he was ousted from the party post. National General Secretary of LJP Abdul Khaliq announced the dismissal of the five MPs from the primary membership of the party after a national executive committee meet. He authorised Chirag Paswan to take all decisions in the party for coming Assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chirag-paswan-removed-as-ljp-party-chief-997730.html
15-06-2021||National Politics||Still no clarity on Galwan Valley incidents: Sonia Gandhi||On the first anniversary of Galwan violent face-off with Chinese troops, Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday there was still no clarity on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s assertions that no transgression had taken place in eastern Ladakh. Gandhi remembered the supreme sacrifice made by Indian troops in the Galwan valley and reminded the Prime Minister that details on the progress made to restore status quo ante were yet to be shared with the nation. “The disengagement agreement with China appears to have worked entirely to India’s disadvantage so far,” the Congress President said. “Having patiently waited for the government to come clean and inform the nation about the circumstances in which the unprecedented incident happened and reassure the people that the sacrifice of our brave jawans was not in vain, the Congress Party reiterates its concern that no clarity is yet available and the Prime Minister’s last word on the subject a year ago was that no transgression had occurred,” she said. Gandhi urged the government to take the nation into confidence and ensure that their performance was worthy of the commitment of the soldiers who were standing bravely and resolutely at the borders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/still-no-clarity-on-galwan-valley-incidents-sonia-gandhi-997737.html
15-06-2021||National Politics||Ayodhya land deal: Madhya Pradesh Congress leader KK Mishra seeks registration of FIR against Trust officials||A Congress leader from Madhya Pradesh has lodged a complaint with the Indore Police seeking registration of an FIR on the charge of "fraud" against officials of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust alleging they "misappropriated" Rs 16 crore in buying a piece of land for the Ram temple project in Ayodhya. MP Congress Committee general secretary and media in-charge KK Mishra on Tuesday said he had lodged the complaint on Monday night at Chhatripura police station in Indore. Referring to media reports, Mishra said, "Officials of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust had misappropriated around Rs 16 crore while purchasing the land for the Ram temple construction project. For this act, an FIR should be registered against the officials of the Trust on charges of breach of trust and fraud under the Indian Penal Code". “I am proud to be a Sanatani Hindu and had donated Rs 1,000 this year for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya," he told reporters. Confirming that Mishra had submitted a complaint, Chhatripura police station in-charge Pawan Singhal said that appropriate legal action will be taken on this complaint as per directives of senior police officers. The allegation that the land worth Rs 2 crore was bought at an inflated price of over Rs 18 crore by Shriram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust for the Ram temple premises in Ayodhya was made by Aam Aadmi Party's Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh and a former minister in the Samajwadi Party government, Pawan Pandey. While strongly refuting the allegations related to the land deal, Trust general secretary Champat Rai on Monday said the organisation was committed to full transparency and dismissed the allegations as politically motivated and aimed at spreading disinformation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ayodhya-land-deal-madhya-pradesh-congress-leader-kk-mishra-seeks-registration-of-fir-against-trust-officials-997741.html
15-06-2021||National Politics||Turf war in LJP escalates as Chirag Paswan expels all five rebel MPs but loses position of party president||In clear indications that turf war in the Ram Vilas Paswan's party LJP will continue, Chirag Paswan camp held a meeting of the national executive and announced the expulsion of five MPs of the party including his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, who rebelled and removed him from the national party president post a day after replacing him from as the floor leader in Lok Sabha. Chirag, whose last-minute move to restore peace on Monday failed after he was not given an audience by Paras at his Delhi residence, put out an emotional tweet and released a letter he had written to Paras in March this year, reminding everyone how the latter had sulked at his elevation as party president and how this had saddened Ram Vilas Paswan then. "I tried to keep the party founded by my father and the family together but failed. Party is like a mother and nobody should betray it. People are supreme in a democracy. I thank those who keep trust in the party," said Chirag Paswan in his letter, indicating his resolve not to give up and to go to people, claiming his inheritance to Paswan's legacy.  Chirag also said that people are supreme and thanked those who have faith in the party. Soon he chaired a meeting on Zoom of LJP national executive which noted that the five rebel MPs of the party---Pashupati Kumar Paras, Beena Devi, Chandan Kumar Singh, Mehboob Ali Qaiser and Prince Raj (Chirag's cousin) have taken part in the "anti-party activities"  and decided as "disciplinary action" to  "remove them from the primary membership of LJP with immediate effect". Besides, the meeting also authorised Chirag to make decisions regarding the course of action about coming Assembly polls in UP, Goa, Uttarakhand and Punjab.  Paras camp named don-turned-politician Surajbhan Singh, a former Lok Sabha MP as working president of LJP and decided to hold a meeting of the party in Patna next few days to elect a full-time new party chief. Surajbhan Singh is elder brother of Lok Sabha MP from Nawada Chandan Kumar Singh, whose meeting with Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar in February this year had kicked up speculations of a rift in LJP. The swift movement by both factions to take control of the party came a day after the Lok Sabha Secretariat recognised Paras, the leader of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) in the House in place of Chirag. Both sides will also be moving the Election Commission soon to claim that their factions are real LJP. All the six Lok Sabha MPs of LJP including Chirag and Pashupati Paras are from Bihar and Parad had for a long time held the position of LJP Bihar chief, having the organization in an iron-like grip till Chirag rose in the hierarchy and finally became the party's national President in 2019 when his father Ram Vilas Paswan was alive. While the embers of family feud begun to brew then, senior Paswan could keep it in check when he was alive. His death in the middle of Bihar polls and the stand of Chirag against Nitish Kumar, a move which ended up benefitting BJP but undermining both JDU and LJP,  substantially marginalised Chirag's position within the party. In the March letter, Chirag had complained that his uncle did not back him when he tried to implement the agenda of Bihar 1st and Bihari 1st and toured across the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/turf-war-in-ljp-escalates-as-chirag-paswan-expels-all-five-rebel-mps-but-loses-position-of-party-president-997789.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||Committed to transparency, don't fall for misinformation: Ram temple trust on Ayodhya land deal||Amid allegations that the Ram Temple trust paid an inflated price for a plot of land in Ayodhya, its general secretary Champat Rai on Monday said the organisation was committed to full transparency. Rai, the general secretary of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, said the land at the centre of the controversy was bought to rehabilitate persons who had sold their plots to expand the Ram Temple complex. “Those levelling allegations did not bother to reach out to the Trust to understand the facts of the matter which has led to confusion. All devotees of Shri Ram are requested not to believe any misinformation campaign,” he said. Rai insisted that the price the Trust had paid for the 12,080 sq mtr of land parcel was much lower than the market rate. He said the difference in the registration amount was on account of the original owners of the land executing their agreement with the present vendors at the rate agreed upon at different times – 2011, 2017 and 2019. Rai said once the original owners settled their sale deed with the current vendors, the Trust registered the agreement promptly and with complete transparency. According to a PTI report from Ayodhya, some local dealers claimed that the market price for the 12,000-square metre plot bought in March was actually three times the amount the Trust had paid. Some property dealers said the land the trust bought for Rs 18.5 crore is worth Rs 5,000 per square foot. Local dealer Saurabh Vikram Singh put its market price at over Rs 60 crore. Administration sources said the initial deal goes back to 2017, before land prices rocketed in Ayodhya following the Supreme Court verdict.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/committed-to-transparency-dont-fall-for-misinformation-ram-temple-trust-on-ayodhya-land-deal-997567.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||UP journalist death: Police passing off cause of death as accident, Editors Guild alleges||The Editors Guild of India (EGI) on Monday accused the Uttar Pradesh police of passing off the death of a TV journalist as being caused by an accident, claiming they did not pay any heed even though he had informed them about the danger to his life. In a statement, the guild said it is shocked by "the cavalier manner" in which the Uttar Pradesh police is treating the "mysterious death" of Sulabh Srivastava in Pratapgarh. According to the police, Srivastava died on Sunday after his motorcycle rammed into a pole in Pratapgarh. He was returning from Ashrahi village under Lalganj police station area when the incident took place. The journalist had recently run a story about the liquor mafia. The guild said Srivastava, who was threatened by the liquor mafia for exposing their wrongdoings, had recently written a letter to the police expressing grave apprehensions for his life. The journalist believed that some people were following him, it said, adding the authorities paid no heed to his fears. Srivastava died a couple of days after writing the letter to the police, it said. "The police is passing off his death as being caused by an accident, claiming that his bike rammed into a handpump," the guild charged. The EGI said the journalist's death comes at a time when media is facing "increasing pressures from the central and the state governments who insist that they follow the official narrative regarding the administration's handling of the pandemic". What is further worrying is that the police and the local authorities "liberally and unjustifiably" use laws such as sedition and the UAPA to file charges and arrest journalists, the editors' body charged. "This is against the spirit of the judgement given by the Supreme Court in Kedar Nath Singh case and reiterated in the recent sedition case against Vinod Dua," the EGI said. It alleged that journalists and cartoonists critical of the government are also being targeted on social media as pressures are being mounted by the government on these platforms to remove such critical journalists on the specious ground that they are violating the law of the land. "All of this is contrary to the commitments that Prime Minister Narendra Modi made at the G-7 summit to democracy, openness and against authoritarianism," the EGI said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-journalist-death-police-passing-off-cause-of-death-as-accident-editors-guild-alleges-997598.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC grants bail to activists in Delhi riots case, says line between right to protest and 'terrorist activity' getting blurred||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday granted bail to 'Pinjra Tod' activists Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, and another person Asif Iqbal Tanha, in a case related to larger conspiracy for Delhi riots, lodged under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.   A bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup J Bhambhani held that prima facie, no offence under Sections 15, 17 or 18 of the UAPA was made out on the basis of the material on record in the present case against the three accused.   The court, referring to screenshots of WhatsApp chats of the accused filed in the charge sheet, noted the allegations against them were based on “stretched inferences” and “alarming and hyperbolic verbiage”. "We can discern no specific or particularised allegation, much less any material to bear out the allegation, that the appellant incited violence, what to talk of committing a terrorist act or a conspiracy or act preparatory to the commission of a terrorist act as understood in the UAPA," the bench said, granting bail to Narwal. In a strong observations, the court said it is constrained to express, that it seems that in its anxiety to suppress dissent, in the mind of the state, the line between the constitutionally guaranteed right to protest and terrorist activity seems to be getting somewhat blurred.  “If this mindset gains traction, it would be a sad day for democracy," the bench said.   The court also noted that the charge sheets have already been filed against the accused with 740 witnesses and the trial was yet to commence in the case. While granting bail to Tanha, the court said, “Foisting extremely grave and serious penal provisions engrafted in Sections 15, 17 and 18 of the UAPA frivolously upon people, would undermine the intent and purpose of the Parliament in enacting a law that is meant to address threats to the very existence of our Nation. Wanton use of serious penal provisions would only trivialise them.” The court allowed bail to the three persons, in separate orders, subject to personal bond of Rs 50,000 and two local sureties. Other conditions included surrendering of passports and not indulging in activities which could hamper the case. Tanha is a student pursuing graduation at Jamia Millia Islamia. He was arrested in the Delhi riots case under UAPA in May 2020 and has been in continuous custody since then. Narwal and Kalita are PhD scholars at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), who are associated with the 'Pinjra Tod' (Break the Barrier) Collective. They have also been in custody since May, 2020. The case pertained to Delhi police investigation into the "larger conspiracy", which led to the riots and killings of more than 50 people and injuries to hundred others in February, 2020. According to police, the three accused along with other accused persons, conspired to cause disruption, and disturbance in law and order at an unprecedented scale.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-grants-bail-to-activists-in-delhi-riots-case-says-line-between-right-to-protest-and-terrorist-activity-getting-blurred-997645.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||Private agency faked 1 lakh Covid-19 tests during Kumbh Mela: Report||Days after a probe was ordered by the Haridwar district administration into alleged fake Covid tests during the Kumbh Mela, reports have surfaced that over 1 lakh tests were forged by a private agency. “Addresses and names were fictional. Almost 530 samples were taken from ‘House Number 5’ in Haridwar. Is it possible for a house to have over 500 residents? Bizarre addresses have been given — House number 56 Aligarh, House number 76 Mumbai,” an official who is part of the investigation told the publication. The official also said, “Phone numbers were fake too. People in Kanpur, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and 18 other locations shared the same phone number.” One of the world’s largest religious gatherings, the Kumbh was held in the state from April 1 to 30, and the notified Kumbh area covered various places in Haridwar, Dehradun and Tehri districts. A committee headed by Chief Development Officer Saurabh Gaharwar has been constituted to look into the allegations and submit a report within 15 days, Haridwar District Magistrate C Ravishankar said on Saturday. Payment to all labs which had been assigned the responsibility of conducting tests -- RT-PCR and rapid antigen -- during the Kumbh has been withheld for the time being due to the ongoing investigation, he said. Preliminary investigations into the alleged irregularities had been conducted by Chief Controlling Officer of Covid Cases Abhishek Tripathi, who recommended a detailed probe into the matter. “The agency was supposed to submit the samples to two private labs. The labs are also under investigation,” Kumbh Mela health officer Dr Arjun Singh Sengar told the daily. According to health secretary Amit Negi, the investigation report has been forwarded to the Haridwar DM. “Several irregularities have been found. We will take action after receiving a detailed report from the DM in 15 days,” said Negi. The 200 sample collectors employed by the agency turned out to be students and data entry operators in Rajasthan, who had never been to Haridwar. “A sample collector has to be physically present to collect samples. When we contacted the sample collectors registered with the agency, we found 50% of them were residents of Rajasthan, many were students or data entry operators,” said an official. “One sample collector was someone enrolled in a skill development training programme at a government authorised centre in Hanumangarh. Upon inquiry, he told us that he had never been to Kumbh. He said he had been given the data by his instructor who had asked him to upload it as part of his training,” according to the investigation report. The labs apparently faked the tests to meet the daily testing quota of 50,000 tests set by the Uttarakhand High Court during the Kumbh, sources said. Twenty-two private labs had been hired for the purpose by the district health department to conduct testing during the festival. When contacted Haridwar's Chief Medical Officer, S K Jha, said, "Kumbh area extends up to Rishikesh. Until the probe ordered by the district administration is complete, it is difficult to say at what level the alleged irregularities were committed." (With agency inputs) Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/private-agency-faked-1-lakh-covid-19-tests-during-kumbh-mela-report-997653.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||Liquor not allowed to be served in hotels, restaurants in Delhi: Excise department||Booze lovers will have to wait for some more days before they could enjoy drinks at their favourite spots, as serving liquor at bars in hotels, clubs and restaurants in the city is yet not allowed, clarified Excise department. With a significant improvement in the Covid-19 situation in the national capital, liquor shops and restaurants that were closed after the imposition of lockdown in April have reopened now. "Bars in the hotels, clubs and restaurants are not allowed to open till further orders," stated a clarification issued by the Excise Department of Delhi government on Monday. All liquor shops in markets, malls and market complexes (outside containment zones) are allowed to operate between 10 am to 8 pm, it said. The liquor vends in the city reopened in Delhi on June 6. The clarification was issued in view of queries about bars in hotels, clubs and restaurants after Delhi government allowed restaurants to reopen from Monday, an official said. The restaurants permitted to serve takeaways have now been allowed to run with 50 per cent seating capacity on a trial basis till June 21. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in its order on Sunday stated that markets and restaurants will be under close watch for strict implementation of Covid appropriate behaviour and other guidelines. If cases of coronavirus start increasing in the city, the restrictions may be clamped again, it said. The DDMA also directed that liquor, pan, gutkha, tobacco should not be consumed in shops, malls, markets, market complexes, restaurants and other such places. A close watch and supervision will be maintained on the overall functioning of markets, market complexes, malls and restaurants by district magistrates, DCPs and other officers. In case it is found that Covid appropriate behaviour is not being followed in the markets, market complexes, malls, restaurants and if the number of Covid-19 cases start increasing in Delhi, they will be closed without any loss of time, warned the DDMA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/liquor-not-allowed-to-be-served-in-hotels-restaurants-in-delhi-excise-department-997670.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi defies social distancing norms, doctors say brace for Covid-19 'explosion'||In the national capital of New Delhi, thousands of commuters crowded into underground train stations and shopping malls on Tuesday, prompting some doctors to warn it could lead to a resurgence in Covid-19 infections. Major cities have begun lifting strict lockdowns as the nationwide tally of new infections has dropped to its lowest level in more than two months. But disease experts and doctors have cautioned that a race towards resuming business as usual would compromise vaccination efforts as only about 5 per cent of all 95 crore eligible adults have been inoculated. Doctors say Delhi's near-complete re-opening is concerning. The city's authorities have said they would reimpose strict curbs if cases rise. Thousands died in the capital in May, as oxygen supplies all but vanished and families pleaded on social media over scarce hospital beds. People paid 20 times the usual price to secure ambulances and hearses, many died in parking lots, and morgues ran out of space. "Delhi's top #mall saw a footfall of 19,000 people last weekend- as soon as it reopened. Have we gone totally mad?" Ambrish Mithal of Max HealthCare in New Delhi said on Twitter. "Wait for #Covid19 to explode again- and blame the government, hospitals, country." In the early hours of Tuesday, Delhi's underground rail network put out alerts on Twitter about peak traffic and longer waits, responding to angry commuters angry about long queues. After a strict five-week lockdown in Delhi, authorities have fully re-opened shops and malls and allowed restaurants to have 50 per cent seating. Suburban rail networks can run at 50 per cent capacity, and offices have been partially reopened. Vaccinations have slowed, however; the city government said inoculation centres for people ages 18-44 would start shutting down on Tuesday, as doses were scarce. "Delhi ought to have unlocked far more scientifically. We are inviting trouble!" Arvinder Singh Soin, a surgeon and leading liver transplant specialist, said on Twitter. Nationwide, India reported 60,471 new Covid-19 infections over the past 24 hours, the lowest number since March 31, data from the health ministry showed. The country's total Covid-19 caseload now stands at 29.57 million, the second-highest globally behind the United States. India added 2,726 deaths overnight, taking the overall tally to 377,031, data showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-defies-social-distancing-norms-doctors-say-brace-for-covid-19-explosion-997673.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||40 Jammu and Kashmir Administrative Services officers to be inducted into IAS||About 40 officers of Jammu and Kashmir Administrative Services (JKAS) are soon being inducted into Indian Administrative Service (IAS) following which they will get AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram Union Territories) cadre. It will be after a gap of nine years that the induction process will be done. Among the officers to be inducted into the IAS, a few have already retired from the service. The General Administration Department (GAD) of J&K government, which functions as nodal agency for the induction, has formally set the process in motion. “Stagnation of Jammu & Kashmir Administrative Service officers is being addressed. In last 2-3 months 200+ have got promoted. More in offing. Their induction into IAS is under process. In return all should dedicate themselves in the service of people wherever they are posted (sic),”Commissioner secretary, GAD, Manoj Dwivedi, tweeted. Besides benefiting the JKAS officers, their induction into IAS will also help the J&K government to overcome shortage of IAS officers in the UT. Till the end of last year, out of stipulated cadre strength of 137 IAS officers, there were only 58 serving officers in J&K and of these, at least nine were on deputation to the government of India. Sources said the JKAS officers who will be inducted into the IAS, will get the AGMUT cadre. After the revocation of special status under Article 370 and bifurcation of the erstwhile J&K state into two union territories (UTs) in 2019, Union Home ministry merged J&K cadre into AGMUT in January this year. “Tentative vacancies worked out reveal that about 35-40 JKAS officers are likely to be inducted into the IAS and will be allotted different years of induction,’’ they said and added the 1999 batch of the JKAS is likely to be the major beneficiary of inductions. However, at the same time, decks will be cleared for inductions of 2000 and 2001 batch of JKAS officers, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/40-jammu-and-kashmir-administrative-services-officers-to-be-inducted-into-ias-997678.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||Citizenship notification: Supreme Court gives two weeks' time to IUML to file rejoinder ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted two weeks' time to Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) to respond to the Union government's contention that its May 28 notification was meant for legal migrants and had nothing to do with the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), 2019. A bench of Justice Indira Banerjee and M R Shah allowed a plea by senior advocate Kapil Sibal on behalf of IUML that the affidavit filed by the Union government was served upon them only on Monday and they required time to file their rejoinder. The court agreed to grant two weeks' time to the IUML, which filed an application, questioning the validity of the notification which allowed citizenship to non-Muslims from Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Bangladesh. The plea claimed the order was illegal as the matter related to challenging the CAA was pending before the top court.  Attorney General K K Venugopal appeared for the Centre in the matter. On Monday, the Union government maintained that the said notification, issued on several representations, does not provide for any relaxations to the foreigners and applies only to those who have entered the country legally with valid passports and visas.  After the notification, Collectors of 29 districts and Home Secretaries of nine States would be able to exercise powers of the central government to grant citizenship to the specified category of foreigners, it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/citizenship-notification-supreme-court-gives-two-weeks-time-to-iuml-to-file-rejoinder-997687.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||HC refuses to give custody of minor husband to wife||The Allahabad High Court has refused to give the custody of the minor husband to his wife holding that the marriage was voidable and allowing so would amount to sanctioning cohabitation between a major and a minor. But as the boy/husband, who is 16 years of age, was not willing to live with his mother, the court also did not give his custody to her either. The court directed the authorities concerned to arrange for the boy's stay in a state facility like a shelter home till February 4, 2022, till he attains the age of majority. It clarified that after February 4, 2022, he can stay with whomsoever he likes, including his wife. Justice J J Munir passed the order while allowing the petition filed by the boy's mother, a native of Azamgarh, who had claimed her son’s custody. The petitioner mother's plea was that the minor boy did not have the legal competence to marry the girl and the marriage was void, as per law. Earlier, the boy was produced before the court on September 18, 2020, in the matter. The court, while recorded his statement, had then observed, “No doubt that the boy was never under any kind of coercion to stay with his wife or the other respondents, who are claimed to be detaining him illegally. He also does not appear to have been enticed away.” However, the court went on to refuse the request of the minor boy to allow him to remain in the custody of his wife. The wife had also given birth to a child of the minor boy. The court said, “The POCSO Act makes cohabitation of a minor boy with a major girl an offence, which would certainly be committed, if the boy is in the custody of his wife.” “The custody or care of a minor, that inherently makes or has the potential of making the minor the victim of an offence and his adult guardian an offender under the Act of 2012 (POCSO Act), cannot be regarded as a custody or arrangement made to ensure the welfare of the minor,” it added. The court gave the latest judgment on May 31, 2021, and it was uploaded on its website on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-refuses-to-give-custody-of-minor-husband-to-wife-997688.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||MP: 'Fake' Favimax tablets seized from Gwalior wholesaler; Thousands may be in circulation, says official||Authorities seized a consignment of allegedly spurious Favimax tablets used in the Covid-19 treatment from a wholesaler here in Madhya Pradesh following an input given by the Odisha government, an official said on Tuesday. Authorities also seized the stock of some other medicines on Monday night and sent their samples for testing, he said. A Madhya Pradesh Food and Drug Administration (FDA) official said 35,000 of the 40,000 Favimax (Favipiravir) tablets received from a firm in Odisha had already been sold by the wholesaler in Gwalior after receiving the stock in April this year. “About 500 tablets of Favipiravir were seized from a wholesale medical shop located at MK Plaza in Gwalior. The stock was seized and we have sent the samples to a laboratory to ascertain whether they are fake,” Drug Inspector Dilip Agrawal told reporters. He said Odisha's Drug Controller had informed the Bhopal office that a consignment of fake Favimax tablet had been supplied to a medical firm in Gwalior. "The action was taken following this information,” he added. "It was informed that Favipiravir, a key content, was not found in the seized Favimax tablets," Agrawal said, adding the allegedly fake tablets were supplied by a firm registered with a fake address. He said the Gwalior-based wholesaler had received a consignment of 40,000 Favipiravir tablets in April this year and sold about 35,000 of these tablets to various medical stores in the city since then.  Agrawal said the wholesaler claimed to have returned the rest 5,000 tablets to the supplier. "Prima facie, Favipiravir, which is a key content, was not found in these tablets. The tablets supplied by the wholesale drug store to retailers are being recalled," Agrawal said, adding authorities also seized the stock of Medioxy-300, Sneeze, Meditharat 500, Ceefit A3LB from the wholesale medical shop on Monday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-fake-favimax-tablets-seized-from-gwalior-wholesaler-thousands-may-be-in-circulation-says-official-997712.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||Man lynched over suspicion of cow smuggling in Rajasthan; 10 held||Ten persons have been arrested for allegedly lynching a man on suspicion of cow smuggling, police said on Tuesday. A 25-year-old man was beaten to death and another seriously injured when a mob attacked them in Chittorgarh district on Sunday night while they were taking three oxen to Madhya Pradesh for farming purpose. “A case was registered against 19 persons and 10 of them have been arrested so far,” Circle Officer, Begun Rajendra Jain said. They were arrested on Monday night. He said the accused are local villagers, who on preliminary probe said that some people informed that cows were being smuggled and everyone started chasing the pick-up van. “When the vehicle was stopped, the mob thrashed them. Babu Bhil and Pintu Bhil were rushed to a hospital in critical condition where Babu Bhil succumbed to injuries,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-lynched-over-suspicion-of-cow-smuggling-in-rajasthan-10-held-997720.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||12 Faridabad cops booked over death of 24-year-old man||Twelve Faridabad Police personnel have been booked after the family of a 24-year-old man alleged that he was assaulted in police custody leading to his death, police said on Tuesday. While the FIR names station house officer, two sub-inspectors, two assistant sub-inspectors and two head constables, other five personnel of the cybercrime police station have not been identified. In a complaint to Nuh Police, Junaid's family has alleged that Faridabad Police had kept him in custody on the night of May 31 and allegedly beat him before he was released on June 1. Junaid, who had been picked up by Faridabad Police along with some others in a cybercrime case, died on June 11. His family alleged that he bore several injuries on his body when he returned home on June 1. He was taken to a doctor but after his condition deteriorated, the family decided to take him to a hospital in Hodal on June 11. He died on the way, according to the complaint. Nuh Police, on the complaint of Junaid's mother, on Sunday registered a case under Indian Penal Code sections 302 (murder), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) against station house officer, two sub-inspectors, two assistant sub-inspectors and two head constables, police said here on Monday. The FIR also includes five other unnamed police personnel of Faridabad Police from the cybercrime police station, they added. “The viscera of the deceased has been sent to a laboratory to ascertain the cause of the death. The report is awaited,” Deputy Superintendent of Police, Punhana, Shamsher Singh said. He said further investigations are under progress. Faridabad Police have denied the allegations of torture of the man in its custody. Junaid, along with five others, had been taken into custody in connection with a financial fraud case. While one among them was arrested, others including Junaid were released, according to police. However, Junaid's family has alleged that he was returning from a wedding in the evening on May 31 along with five others when Faridabad cybercrime police station personnel allegedly intercepted them and took them to the police station where he was beaten up while in custody It also alleged that said that on June 1 Junaid's brother had gone to the police station to get him released, but he was made to sign on several blank papers there. Villagers and family of Junaid had held a protest near his Bichhor village here on Saturday during which some protesters had allegedly pelted stones at police personnel and damaged a police vehicle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12-faridabad-cops-booked-over-death-of-24-year-old-man-997733.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||J&K: Political activist in ‘preventive custody’ for being ‘threat to peace’||A 50-year-old political activist from Ganderbal district of Jammu and Kashmir has been kept in “preventive custody” for being a threat to peace, police said on Tuesday. The activist is in police custody even after being granted bail by a court in a case registered against him for allegedly saying he had no expectations from officers who belong to outside Jammu and Kashmir posted in the union territory. Sajad Sofi, a resident of Wani Mohalla in Safapora area of the central Kashmir district was booked under section 153 of the Indian Penal Code for speaking his mind during a public interaction with one of the advisors of Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha. Sofi, who led a delegation of about half a dozen people to a public 'darbar' of advisor Baseer Ahmad Khan on Thursday, told him that people could have expectations from local officials like him and seek answers from them but what could he hope from officers who belong to outside the region. “I can have expectations from you because you are a Kashmiri and you can understand us. I can grab you by the collar and seek answers. But what expectations can I have from officers who are outsiders?” he told Khan, according to the police report. Sofi’s reference apparently was towards Ganderbal's Deputy Commissioner Krittika Jyotsna -- an IAS officer of the 2014 batch of the Uttar Pradesh cadre. She was sent to J-K on inter-cadre deputation in February this year for a period of two years along with her husband Rahul Pandey, who is also an IAS officer and is the Director of the UT's Information Department. The activist’s remarks reportedly angered the deputy commissioner. The police report said that Jyotsna stood up from her seat and “strongly objected”. “The circumstances of the incident and from the statements, a crime under 153A of the IPC is made,” the report said. After the public hearing -- darbar -- was over, Sofi was booked under section 153-A of the IPC and arrested. Section 153- A of the IPC deals with 'promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc’ and 'doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony'. Sofi was granted bail by a local court here on Saturday, saying “bail is a rule and its rejection is an exception”. “Bail in non-bailable crime cannot be refused without assigning strong reason although bail is a discretion of the court and discretion of bail cannot be exercised arbitrarily. “The allegedly committed crime attributed to the applicant does not carry life imprisonment or death penalty debarring this court to exercise discretion of bail in favour of the applicant. As such, this court has a sufficient reason to exercise discretion of bail in favour of the applicant,” the court said. However, even after Sofi was bailed, the police took him into custody. Police said he is in “preventive custody” for being a “threat to peace”. “Sofi is under preventive custody under Section 107 and 151 (of IPC),” Senior Superintendent of Police, Ganderbal, Suhail Munawar told PTI. He said there were apprehensions of “breach of peace, so he (Sofi) was taken into custody”. The SSP, however, said the “small-level political worker” had no previous crime record.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-political-activist-in-preventive-custody-for-being-threat-to-peace-997734.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan to set up Vedic Education and Sanskar Board soon||The Rajasthan government will soon set up a Vedic Education and Sanskar Board to revive the knowledge of Sanskrit scriptures and Vedas, officials said on Tuesday. The board is likely to be formed in next four to five months. A committee, formed to define aims, objectives and functioning of the board, has submitted its report to the state government, Minister of State (MoS) for Sanskrit Education Subhash Garg said, adding modules will be presented before the board based on the report. He said the Vedic board would come into function after approval from Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. The Congress government, in its election manifesto for 2018 State Assembly elections, had promised to set up the board and to take measures in order to promote Sanskrit language. In January this year, Gehlot announced to expedite the process to encourage students to carry out research on Vedas. By taking such initiatives, the Congress-led regime in the state was performing better than the previous BJP government, the MoS said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-to-set-up-vedic-education-and-sanskar-board-soon-997738.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||Smog tower at Anand Vihar missed deadline due to lockdown, will be ready by August 31: Officials||The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has sought three more months to complete the construction of a smog tower at Anand Vihar here, officials said. Though the agencies had sought special permission to continue the construction work during the lockdown, the restriction on the movement of manpower and material led to some delay, a senior CPCB official said. "We have sought three more months to complete the work. The smog tower will be ready by August 31," he said. The Supreme Court had earlier allowed time till June 4 to complete the construction of the 25-metre-high structure. Another smog tower is coming up at Baba Kharak Singh Marg, Connaught Place. Last week, Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai had said the second wave of Covid-19 delayed the construction of the smog tower at Connaught Place and it will now be ready by August 15. Tata Projects Limited (TPL) is building the two smog towers with technical support from IIT-Bombay, which, in collaboration with IIT-Delhi, will validate their performance. NBCC India Ltd. has been appointed as project management consultant. The CPCB is the nodal agency for the tower at Anand Vihar, while the Delhi Pollution Control Committee is the nodal agency for the one coming up at Connaught Place. The two towers will have 1,200 air filters each developed by experts at the University of Minnesota in the United States — which also helped design a 100-metre-high smog tower in Xian, China. The smog towers, being built at a cost of Rs 22 crore each, are estimated to reduce concentration of PM2.5 up to 70 per cent in a 1-km radius around them. The SC had in January last year directed the central government to construct a smog tower to reduce pollution at Anand Vihar and the Delhi government to install another such structure at Connaught Place in three months. In August, the apex court had reprimanded the Centre and state government for missing the deadline for completing the construction of two smog towers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/smog-tower-at-anand-vihar-missed-deadline-due-to-lockdown-will-be-ready-by-august-31-officials-997742.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||BSP stares at yet another split; Rebels likely to join SP||At least six BSP legislators on Tuesday met Samajwadi Party (SP) supremo Akhilesh Yadav triggering speculations of yet another split in the Mayawati-led party ahead of the next assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, scheduled to be held nine months later.  One of the rebel legislators Aslam Raini said that they were planning to form their own outfit under the leadership of outsed BSP MLA and former UP minister Lalji Verma, expelled from the party by Mayawati a few days back along with former UP president of the BSP, Ram Achal Rajbhar. ''Lalji Verma will be our leader....other rebel MLAs will also join us soon,'' he claimed. The rebels need the support of at least 12 legislators to effect a split in the 18-member BSP legislature party. As many as 11 BSP legislators had either deserted the party or were expelled by Mayawati.  Most rebels were inclined to join the SP but they were awaiting more desertions from the BSP legislature party so that the Anti-defection Act did not apply to them.  According to sources in the SP, Akhilesh has assured the rebel BSP MLAs of nomination in the next assembly election.   BSP is not a stranger to splits. In the past, the party had split on several occasions since its formation in 1984. Barely ten years after its formation, the BSP had suffered its first split when Raj Bahadur, one of the founding members of the party, had parted ways with 20 legislators and formed a new outfit. It experienced another split in 2003 when around a dozen party MLAs defected to the SP and helped the latter form government in the state. BSP had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in alliance with the SP and had managed to win ten seats in UP. It was then expected that BSP and SP could fight the 2022 assembly poll in UP together. The bonhomie between the two arch rivals was short lived and they parted ways soon after the LS polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsp-stares-at-yet-another-split-rebels-likely-to-join-sp-997748.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||Gurugram vaccinates nearly 60% as private centres step up||Haryana’s Gurugram has vaccinated nearly 60 per cent of its over 15-lakh-strong population against Covid-19 as private vaccination centres have recently begun playing a major role in covering a major part of the district’s residents with at least one dose. Gurugram had inoculated 8.85 lakh people by Monday through a network of 77 government hospitals and 66 private medical facilities, according to the Co-WIN website. More than 11 per cent of the district has been jabbed with a second dose, far ahead of the nation's current rate that still languishes below 3 per cent, and also in excess of Haryana’s 4.2 per cent. Gurugram accounts for an astounding 15.3 per cent of all vaccine doses in the state, with Faridabad a distant second with a 9.6 per cent dosage share. One of the standout features of Gurugram’s vaccine drive has been the ratio of private vaccination centres to government hospitals. The district has almost 9 vaccinations run by private players for every 10 government hospitals. Neighbouring Delhi, as a whole, has less than two government hospitals for every 10. The participation of private players also reflects in the share of vaccine doses being doled out as private hospitals had administered almost 2.5 times more doses than government hospitals this month up to June 13. However, this was mostly because government hospitals did not carry out vaccinations for those between the ages of 18 and 45 since their workers were taking part in sero survey training. Still, private hospitals accounted for nearly a quarter of vaccinations in May. In a boost to the performance of private hospitals, officials in the district have allowed private hospitals to conduct vaccinations for the 18-44 age group 24x7, according to media reports. The Haryana Health Department has also claimed that vaccine wastage in the state was around 2-3 per cent, which would put it among the lowest in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gurugram-vaccinates-nearly-60-as-private-centres-step-up-997760.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||28 seaplane routes, 14 water aerodromes under development in India: Centre||The Centre on Tuesday said a total of 28 seaplane routes and 14 water aerodromes across the country are in various stages of development with an investment of Rs 450 crore. The seaplane routes under the regional connectivity scheme and the water aerodromes in Gujarat, Assam, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep are at various stages of development, Union Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said. Aimed at developing seaplane flight services in India to promote tourism, the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) and the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) in New Delhi. Under the regional connectivity scheme UDAN (Ude Desh ka Aam Naagrik), financial incentives from the Centre, state governments and airport operators are extended to selected airlines to encourage operations from unserved and underserved airports, and keep airfares affordable, Puri said. This MoU envisages the development of non scheduled/scheduled operation of seaplane services within the territorial jurisdiction of India under UDAN. As per MoU, a Co-ordination Committee with officials of MoCA, Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways (MoPSW) and Ministry of Tourism (MoT) is to be set up for timely completion of operationalisation of seaplane services at various locations. Puri said the MoU is a formalisation and the beginning of an institutional process to develop seaplane services in India. Puri asked his ministry's officials to operationalise the seaplane routes as soon as possible because of their immense potential. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on October 31 last year inaugurated SpiceJet's seaplane service between the Statue of Unity near Kevadiya in Gujarat's Narmada district and Sabarmati riverfront in Ahmedabad. Due to Covid-19, the seaplane service has not been operational for the last two months, said Union Minister of Ports, Shipping and Waterways Mansukh Mandaviya, who was also present at the MoU signing event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/28-seaplane-routes-14-water-aerodromes-under-development-in-india-centre-997768.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||Inflammatory speeches, road blockades not uncommon when there is widespread opposition: Delhi HC||The making of inflammatory speeches, organising chakkajams (road blockades), and such like actions are not uncommon when there is widespread opposition to Governmental or Parliamentary actions, the Delhi High Court said on Tuesday. The high court said that protests against Governmental and Parliamentary actions are legitimate; and though such protests are expected to be peaceful and non-violent, it is not uncommon for protesters to push the limits permissible in law. “Even if we assume for the sake of argument, without expressing any view thereon, that in the present case inflammatory speeches, chakkajams, instigation of women protesters and other actions, to which the appellant is alleged to have been party, crossed the line of peaceful protests permissible under our Constitutional guarantee, that however would yet not amount to commission of a 'terrorist act' or a 'conspiracy' or an 'act preparatory' to the commission of a terrorist act as understood under the UAPA,” a bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup J Bhambhani said.  The High Court made the observations while granting bail to JNU student and Pinjra Tod (Break the Cage) activist Devangana Kalita, who was arrested last May under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in connection with a case of larger conspiracy related to the communal violence in north east Delhi during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act. “In our reading of the subject charge-sheet and the material included in it, therefore, prima-facie the allegations made against the appellant are not even borne-out from the material on which they are based. “We are afraid, that in our opinion, shorn-off superfluous verbiage, hyperbole and the stretched inferences drawn from them by the prosecuting agency, the factual allegations made against the appellant do not prima facie disclose the commission of any offence under sections 15, 17 and/or 18 of the UAPA,” the bench said. It said that on a reading of the portions of the subject charge-sheet it found that the appellant's name appears along with that of several other alleged co-conspirators and even the instructions and directions allegedly issued by the main accused persons are not directed to the appellant. The high court debunked the "misconception" that merely because section 45 of the UAPA mandates an independent review of the evidence gathered by an independent authority appointed by the Central government that legal requirement in itself obviates the need for the court to apply its own independent mind. “Where court finds that an act or omission is adequately addressed and dealt with by the ordinary penal law of the land, the court must not countenance a State agency 'crying wolf'," the bench said. “Since courts often tend to fall into this error, it is extremely important to bear in mind the words of the Supreme Court that grant of bail cannot be thwarted merely by asserting that an offence is grave, since the gravity of the offence can only beget the length of the sentence, which may be awarded upon conclusion of the trial," it said. The high court said that as a member of certain women's rights organisations and other groups, the appellant did participate and help organise protests against the CAA and the NRC in Delhi. “Considering however, that the right to protest is a fundamental right that flows from the constitutionally guaranteed right to assemble peaceably and without arms enshrined in Article 19(1)(b) of our Constitution, surely the right to protest is not outlawed and cannot be termed as a 'terrorist act' within the meaning of the UAPA,” the bench said. While granting bail to Kalita, the bench said considering the educational background, profile and appellant's position in life, “we also see no reason to suspect or apprehend that the appellant is either a flight risk or that she will indulge in evidence tampering, or witness intimidation, or will otherwise impede the trial in any way.” “Due notice is also taken of the fact that the appellant was not arrested in the subject FIR for nearly three months after the date of its registration. In the circumstances, we see no reason, basis or justification to detain the appellant in judicial custody in the subject FIR any longer,” the bench said. Imposing several conditions on her, the bench directed Kalita to furnish personal bond of Rs 50,000 with two local sureties in the like amount, to the satisfaction of the trial court. It directed Kalita, an activist of Pinjra Tod (Break the Cage), which was founded in 2015 with an aim to make hostels and paying guest accommodations less restrictive for women students, to furnish to the Investigating Officer/S.H.O. a cellphone number on which the appellant may be contacted at any time and shall ensure that the number is kept active and switched-on at all times. The bench also imposed a condition that Kalita shall not contact, nor visit, nor offer any inducement, threat or promise to any of the prosecution witnesses or other persons acquainted with the facts of case. It said charges are yet to be framed and there are around 740 prosecution witnesses who would have to be examined during trial and there is hardly any doubt that the process will take a very long time as none of the witnesses have so far been examined. The prevailing pandemic and the consequent truncated functioning of courts, will only add to the delay, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/inflammatory-speeches-road-blockades-not-uncommon-when-there-is-widespread-opposition-delhi-hc-997771.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||Taj Mahal to reopen from June 16, 650 visitors allowed at a time||At the Taj Mahal, which will reopen for visitors from Wednesday, only 650 people will be allowed to enter the premises at a time, officials said on Tuesday. All the centrally protected monuments, museums and sites closed for around two months due to the Covid pandemic will reopen on June 16, an Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) order issued on Monday said. While 650 tourists will be allowed inside the Taj Mahal premises at one point of time so that Covid-19 protocols are followed, such restrictions will not be in place for other monuments, District Magistrate, Agra Prabhu N Singh said. Superintending Archaeologist, ASI, Agra Circle, Vasant Kumar Swarnakar told PTI that the monument premises will be sanitised three times in a day. "Masks will be mandatory for the tourists. Thermal screening of tourists would be done at gates and they would be sanitised before entering the monument premises," he added. "The visitors will not be allowed to touch any object in the monument premises and they would have to follow social distancing norms," said Swarnakar.  "Tickets will only be booked online and no ticket counter will be open," he said, while also advising tourists to bring their own water bottles and carry sanitisers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/taj-mahal-to-reopen-from-june-16-650-visitors-allowed-at-a-time-997780.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||Crowds throng markets as Delhi unlocks; Experts warn of disastrous third wave||With masks on their chins and a disregard for social distancing, a large number of people are stepping out of their homes in Delhi which is witnessing a phase-wise unlocking of Covid-19 lockdown, prompting doctors to warn about a possibly disastrous third wave of infection. The footfall in malls, shopping complexes and markets is increasing rapidly and to the dismay of health officials, there appears to be an utter disregard for Covid-appropriate behaviour. Videos and images of serpentine queues at metro stations and over-crowded markets and malls in the national capital have made it to social media in which a number of people are seen without masks or wearing them incorrectly, apparently due to an over-confidence in the dwindling number of Covid-19 cases. A month ago, a severe Covid-19 wave ravaged the capital which saw the collapse of the health system such that people scrambled for oxygen and hospital beds. "This is a nightmare. If this kind of behaviour continues, the third wave will be too disastrous for life," a senior official said. The restrictions were further eased from Monday with an announcement by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal after a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, which allowed the opening of restaurants with 50 per cent capacity and opening of shops in malls and markets adopting the odd-even method among others. Earlier, Metro services were also allowed with 50 per cent seating capacity while cinema halls and parks are still closed. In local markets like the Sadar Bazar in north Delhi, hundreds were seen with social distancing going for a toss while no authorities were seen to enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour. Metro stations have witnessed serpentine queues in the last two days with Monday recording 13.30 lakh people buying tickets on Monday as against 10.13 lakh on Friday, a working day, and 6.38 lakh on June 7 when the suspended services resumed. Dr Ambrish Mithal of Max Healthcare tweeted on Tuesday morning, "Delhi’s top mall saw a footfall of 19,000 people...as soon as it reopened. Have we gone totally mad? Wait for Covid-19 to explode again and blame the government, hospitals, and country." He did not name the mall. A viral video showed a huge crowd at the Pacific Mall in west Delhi. There was no official word on the number of people who visited the mall. A leading liver transplant specialist Arvinder Singh Soin tweeted on Monday, "Delhi ought to have unlocked far more scientifically. We are inviting trouble!" Rush was seen in markets like Ramesh Nagar market in West Delhi and Laxmi Nagar in East Delhi. “More people are coming out. There is business happening. But the problem I find is that most of them are not wearing masks properly and if I point it out, they just ignore,” said Praveen Kumar, a shopkeeper.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crowds-throng-markets-as-delhi-unlocks-experts-warn-of-disastrous-third-wave-997781.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||UP reduces night curfew timings by two hours from next week; Restaurants, malls allowed at 50 pc capacity||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday decided to give relaxation of two more hours during the night 'corona curfew' across the state from June 21 with the improvement in the Covid-19 situation. From next Monday (June 21), the night curfew hours will be effective from 9 pm to 7 am. So far, the restrictions were effective from 7 pm to 7 am the following day. During the meeting to assess the Covid-19 management, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed relaxation of two more hours in the curfew period, Additional Chief Secretary (Information) Navneet Sehgal said in a statement. "Amidst the improved conditions of Covid infections, further relaxation will be given in the corona curfew from coming Monday, June 21," he said. Besides, restaurants and malls can be opened at 50 per cent capacity with strict compliance of Covid protocol, Sehgal said. Similarly, permission will also be given to open parks and operate street food kiosks, etc. he said, while adding that setting up Covid help desks at these places will be mandatory. The detailed guidelines regarding the new system would be issued in time, Sehgal said. According to a government statement, CM Adityanath told the meeting that the pandemic situation in the state is getting better with every day and the spread of the virus has now weakened, but the risk of infection still remains. He said all necessary arrangements are being made to prevent a possible third wave of the pandemic and a special programme of door-to-door distribution of medical kits for children below 18 years has been started from Tuesday. "This is a very important programme. Medicine kits should be provided to the monitoring committees by the minister in-charges in the districts. When the monitoring committees give medicine kits, the details like names, addresses, phone numbers, etc. of the beneficiaries should also be obtained," the CM told the officials. Earlier on June 9, the government had directed continuation of the night curfew from 7 pm to 7 am while giving certain relaxations in the curfew period in all 75 districts of UP. On Monday, 74 more fatalities in UP took the death toll in the state to 21,858 while 339 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 17,02,937.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-reduces-night-curfew-timings-by-two-hours-from-next-week-restaurants-malls-allowed-at-50-capacity-997786.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||Out on bail, rape accused targets same girl in Jaipur||A 17-year-old rape victim was allegedly raped by the same accused here, police said on Tuesday. The incident occurred on Monday night, they said, adding the man has absconded. “He took her to a house in Bagru and raped her. The girl was rescued after a complaint was made by her parents,” Station House Officer (SHO) Rajesh Bapna said, adding a case was lodged at Kardhani police station in this regard. Earlier, two cases of abduction and rape were registered against the accused on the complaint of the same girl. According to police, the man was arrested in the previous case and a chargesheet filed against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/out-on-bail-rape-accused-targets-same-girl-in-jaipur-997791.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||Restaurants, cinema halls, gyms in Punjab to reopen with 50% capacity||As the Covid-19 positivity rate dropped to two per cent in Punjab, the state government on Tuesday eased restrictions, allowing restaurants, cinema halls and gyms to operate at 50 per cent capacity beginning Wednesday. According to an official statement, 50 people are allowed at weddings and cremations. Earlier, 20 persons were allowed for such gatherings. Under the fresh guidelines, which will remain in effect till June 25, daily night curfew will be in place from 8 pm to 5 am and weekend curfew will be imposed from 8 pm on Saturday up to 5 am on Monday across the state, the statement said. Earlier, the night curfew was from 7 pm to 6 am. Chairing a virtual Covid-19 review meeting, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh ordered the reopening of all restaurants, cafes, coffee shops, fast food outlets, cinema halls, gyms at a maximum 50 per cent capacity, subject to all their employees having received at least one dose of vaccination. Air-conditioned buses can also ply with 50 per cent occupation. Bars, pubs and 'ahatas' (tavern) shall, however, continue to remain closed, the statement said. All educational institutions will also continue to be closed. District authorities have been asked to determine opening timings of non-essential shops on the basis of the local situation while ensuring that crowds are avoided. The authorities shall also continue to ensure strict implementation of all the extant directives of the government on Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, the chief minister added. On Monday, Punjab had recorded 629 fresh cases, taking the infection tally to 5,88,525.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/restaurants-cinema-halls-gyms-in-punjab-to-reopen-with-50-capacity-997792.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||Leopard that mauled four-year-old girl in Budgam captured; family raises concern||The Forest Department on Tuesday claimed to have captured a leopard that mauled four-year-old Adda Mir earlier this month in the outskirts of the city, officials said here. A senior official of the Wildlife Department, Rashid Naqash, said that the captured leopard was the same that had killed Adda after picking her from the lawn of her house at Ompora housing colony 11 days ago. The officials said teams had been tracking the pug marks of the female cat which weighs around 80 kilograms. However, the family and people in the locality of Ompura of Budgam district raised their doubts over the claim and said when the pug marks had not even been taken, how could they come to the conclusion that it was the same leopard. The animal was captured from a nursery in the office complex of Budgam deputy commissioner, which is three kms from the place where the incident took place on June 3, they said. The leopard was spotted in the vicinity of the complex a few days back. The family members, including Adda's father, Muddasir said that he had accompanied the forest and wildlife personnel during their visits and there was no forensic team with them. "Now I wonder where have they taken and matched the pug marks from," he said. A sobbing Muddasir said that he did not want any other child from the vicinity to be mauled by the leopard and requested the authorities to ensure that no more animals were present in the locality, which has a government housing colony, three villages and some colleges. "I don't want to see any parent suffering the way we are," he said and appealed to the authorities to be sure and not make a remark just to ease the mounting pressure on them. "After all, it's a matter of human life," he said. Muddassir, along with other people in the locality, said that five leopards had been spotted in March this year on a CCTV in the area. "Isn't that a reason for worry for all the people living in the area," another resident Aijaz asked. The tragic death of Adda, who used to call herself as 'Adda Rani', shook the Kashmir valley as it underlined human-animal conflict because of rapid forest destruction. Adda, dressed in her favourite 'Barbie dress', was mauled by the leopard when she was preparing for the cake cutting ceremony of her seven-year-old brother Ali. However, the celebration of June 3 came to an abrupt halt when her heart-wrenching shrieks pierced the silent evening. The next day Adda's body parts were recovered from an adjacent nursery-turned-forest, leaving a grieving family behind.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/leopard-that-mauled-four-year-old-girl-in-budgam-captured-family-raises-concern-997793.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||Chandigarh eases Covid-19 restrictions, shops to remain open till 7 pm||The Chandigarh administration on Tuesday further eased Covid restrictions, allowing all the shops in the city to remain open till 7 pm. “All shops will remain open from 10 am to 7 pm. Shop owners will ensure that Covid protocol is duly followed,” an official statement said. On June 8, the administration had allowed all shops to remain open from 10 am till 6 pm. During a review meeting on Tuesday, the city administration decided to impose the nigh curfew between 10:30 pm and 5 am. Earlier, it used to be on from 10 pm to 5 am. Now, the restaurants can remain open with 50 per cent capacity from 10 am till 10 pm. On Monday, Chandigarh registered 50 coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 61,160. In the meeting, the officials were told that the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) will conduct a sero survey on persons below the age of 18 years as they have not been vaccinated. “The results of sero-survey could be useful in devising future strategy of vaccinating this age group,” the statement said, adding such a survey targeted for paediatric group has not been conducted anywhere in the country. In view of the apprehensions of third wave hitting this population, the study could be used in devising a strategy, it said. Sero survey or seroprevalence studies are based on the analysis of antibodies collected through blood sample collection||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chandigarh-eases-covid-19-restrictions-shops-to-remain-open-till-7-pm-997802.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||AIIMS Delhi to resume OPD services from June 18 in phased manner||Almost two months after it closed down its OPD services, AIIMS Delhi has decided to resume the operations latest by June 18 in a phased manner. Heads of Departments of all clinical departments have been requested to provide a proposed number of new and follow-up OPD patients per day who are to be given online/telephonic appointments, according to an order issued by the AIIMS medical superintendent on Tuesday. As of now, OPD registration will be done only for such patients who are having prior online/telephonic appointments and a decision to allow walk-in registrations will be taken later after reviewing the Covid-19 situation, it said. "In view of considerable decrease in Covid-19 cases, it has been decided by the director AIIMS to re-start the OPD services in a phased manner at the earliest but latest by 18th June 2021 (Friday)," the order stated. All HoDs have been requested to provide the requisite information within two days of issue of the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aiims-delhi-to-resume-opd-services-from-june-18-in-phased-manner-997814.html
15-06-2021||North and Central||Pilot loyalist MLA praises Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot's leadership||Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, who was with dissident leader Sachin Pilot during his rebellion against Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot last year, on Tuesday expressed faith in the CM's leadership. He also said that Pilot would not move to the BJP and the issue of resentment in Congress was being "exaggerated". “I consider Sachin Pilot as my leader. Ashok Gehlot is above him. He is the chief minister so he will have to be considered as the leader, even Sachin will also have to consider him as the leader,” he told reporters at his residence in Jaipur when asked whether he considers Pilot as his leader. The remarks come amid rumblings in the Pilot camp over the "delay" in meeting the demands made by the faction last year. Sharma is the third Pilot loyalist MLA after Virat Nagar MLA Indraj Gurjar and Todabhim MLA P R Meena who have praised Gehlot for work done in their constituencies in recent days. On a possible cabinet expansion in the state, the senior MLA said nine cabinet births are vacant and 25 legislators are eyeing the posts. He said it was for the chief minister to take a decision on who should be included into the cabinet, whether they are the MLAs who came from the BSP, independents or those who are with Pilot. Commenting on the present political situation in the state, he said the issue is being exaggerated while adding that Pilot will not go to BJP. “Pilot himself has not said anything till date and only the MLAs accompanying him are speaking. No one has any control over their companions,” he said, adding that the matter will be resolved soon. The former minister also rejected the allegation of Chaksu MLA Ved Prakash Solanki that the phones of MLAs were being tapped. He said if there is any phone tapping, then those whose phones have been tapped should come forward. On the question of the AICC panel formed to resolve issues raised by the Pilot camp last year, he said the committee should sit and decide the matters with both Gehlot and Pilot. He said that committees are formed to "pacify" and everyone knows what happens to them. The Sardarshahar MLA said he went to Manesar during the rebellion last year to support Sachin Pilot because his work was not being done by the government in his constituency but now it is happening. Sharma was booked last year by the Special Operations Group (SOG) of Rajasthan Police after audio clips surfaced regarding a conspiracy to topple the Ashok Gehlot government. However, the SOG later dropped the sedition charge and handed over three cases related to the attempts to topple the government to the state Anti-Corruption Bureau for investigation of horse trading allegations. The senior MLA was among 19 MLAs, including Pilot, who had rebelled against Gehlot in July last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pilot-loyalist-mla-praises-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlots-leadership-997824.html
15-06-2021||Oasis||Soak in the minute joys||Recently, a relative was raving over a raft of lockdown-related woes. “These days I’m not myself. Maybe, because of boredom, I’m always bickering and going ballistic over bagatelle matters unlike before, wherein I bubbled with lots of beans and brio. My spouse, too, who was singularly phlegmatic earlier, has now turned super tetchy, with spasms of splenetic outbursts. Why, even my canine pet, who had in him that real calm is now all restless, getting ruffled and rattled, even on sighting a bird.” Surprisingly, this isn’t a solitary case, as there are several people stating, there has been a startling change in their entire persona after being shackled indoors for weeks. This in turn is triggering umpteen fears (real or imaginary), unsettling thoughts, emotions, unfounded ennui and anxieties.   Incidentally, the main culprit behind many of our mental maladies is our utter dependency on myriad things. Once we get addicted to something, the absence of it can obviously fling us into a formidable vortex of festering despair. The dependency could be, on the services of domestic help, moseying about the malls, gallivanting around the globe, savouring scrumptious delicacies in swanky restaurants, etc. In fact, the ‘degree of our distress’ directly depends upon our dependency level. That is why, many of us are detecting a dreadful negative change within, because of a dozen of things, which we were once deadly dependent upon, have now turned downright inaccessible. However, what is to be remembered here is, we, by mere ranting, cannot really redeem, reverse, repair or rectify any predicament. So, instead of getting mindlessly swamped by mood-enervating moans (of missing out on major joys), why not merrily soak in the minute joys of present moments? Well, there are thousands of such teensy joys that can tangibly revivify our spirits/moods. Like, revelling in the delight of relishing some real hot cuppa, riffling through sundry books, indulging in rigorous home-workouts, watching some riveting flicks, et al. And, once our body and mind are in fine fettle, lo! The world would be at our feet and happiness at our fingertips.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/soak-in-the-minute-joys-997875.html
15-06-2021||Panorama||Tejpal case: Stereotypes trumped law||On 21 May 2021, the court of the Additional Sessions Judge, Mapusa, acquitted journalist Tarun Tejpal after a long drawn trial. Tejpal, the former editor-in-chief of Tehelka was accused of raping and molesting his employee at a hotel on the 7th and 8th of November, 2013. The victim alleged that Tejpal raped her on the7th and attempted to rape her again on the 8th. Both the incidents were alleged to have occurred inside the hotel's elevators. The police had filed a chargesheet against Tejpal but the court acquitted Tejpal after faulting the investigation and disbelieving the victim's testimony.  While Tejpal could be innocent, the manner in which the court arrived at its decision is deeply problematic. The judgment is premised on stereotypes and riddled with errors. One of the most problematic features of the case is that the judge ignored the law on a rape victim's privacy and character. Over the past few decades, the law has been amended and interpreted to prevent the victim's sexual history and character from being relevant in rape trials. For instance, Section 53A of the Indian Evidence Act stipulates that the victim's character and previous sexual experience with any person shall not be relevant to ascertain whether the sexual encounter was consensual or not. Also, Section 146 of the Act stipulates that a victim shall not be questioned on her 'immoral character' during her cross-examination. The Supreme Court has repeatedly cautioned trial courts not to cast aspersions on the victim's character and morals. These directions have been blatantly violated. For instance, the judge has reproduced the victim's private messages and WhatsApp conversations and opined that "it was entirely the norm for the prosecutrix to have flirtatious and sexual conversations with friends and acquaintances". Relying on this and the victim's admission that in the past, she has had such conversations with Tejpal, the judge concluded that they had a 'flirtatious conversation' on the night of the alleged rape. Reproducing extremely personal WhatsApp messages in a public document like a judgment is an egregious breach of the right to privacy, especially when they are not relevant for the case. Furthermore, the judge disclosed the victim's email address, her mother's name and her husband's name, and thereby indirectly disclosed the victim's identity. This violates Section 228A of the IPC and the directions of the Supreme Court which prohibit the disclosure of the rape victim's identity.  Another disturbing aspect is the onerous expectations from a victim of sexual assault. The language and tone of the judgment make it seem as if it was the victim who was on trial. It is a settled position of law that minor contradictions in a victim's statements are not grounds to disbelieve her. However, trivial contradictions in her statements to the court, the police and her employers have been heavily cited to discredit her version of events. For instance, the judge highlighted the fact that she initially claimed to have 'picked up' her undergarment after the incident but later stated that she 'pulled it up'. The judge went on to record that "such glaring contradictions cannot be expected from an educated journalist". The judge also seems to have expected her to remember the time taken by the elevator to arrive at different floors and the buttons pressed by Tejpal during the sexual assault. The judge also attached importance to the fact that she did not forcefully resist Tejpal's advances despite being a fit woman and a yoga trainer.  Strangely, the judge suspected the victim of 'doctoring' the events merely because she consulted eminent lawyers and the National Commission for Women before complaining to the police and recording her statement before the Magistrate. The right to seek legal aid is a fundamental right and it is quite natural for victims to consult lawyers before initiating proceedings. This being the case, it is perplexing why the judge was suspicious of the conversations between the victim and her lawyers.  Judgments like this have ramifications on society as a whole. It signals to victims of sexual assault that they ought to be prepared to relive the trauma during the trial and that they run the risk of getting their privacy violated. Furthermore, if courts expect victims to be sterling witnesses who remember minute details when cross-examined after half a decade, the victims may lose faith in the criminal justice system and not report crimes. Judges ought to be gender-sensitised periodically and also be held accountable for blatantly ignoring the mandate of the law. Justice dispensation based on stereotypes and personal beliefs has no place in a civilized legal system.  (The writer is a lawyer and holds an LLM in Law & Development from Azim Premji University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/tejpal-case-stereotypes-trumped-law-997599.html
15-06-2021||Panorama||A code of conduct||If nothing else, the pandemic has given us greater opportunities than before to reflect. The solitariness thrust upon us has forced us into turning inwards. In the face of the great suffering that surrounds us, the question uppermost in one’s mind is, "What lies at the core of my beliefs?." It is not a question that is easily answered. The planet we live on is a huge one. Geographically and historically, we live in well-differentiated groups. We have a plethora of religions, traditions, languages and rituals, each having a character and importance of its own. Society and societal rules also have a bearing on the behaviour of people. Added to these are the aspirations of the young as opposed to the expectations of the experienced. It is no wonder then that differences arise, sometimes so bitter that they lead to hatred, destruction and even war. Religion, the gateway to the unknown, can on its own lead us into opposing camps. As infants, we are greatly influenced by our parents’ beliefs and ideas. Only on maturity do we care to examine them. However, the indelible imprints made on our psyches cannot be erased completely. Geography and history together have divided us into several nations that will not tolerate intrusions or interference. We may preach unity, but it is the division that we practise. Deep within us though is a voice that tells us we humans belong to the ‘the family of man’. The blood that runs in each of us is red and, like Shakespeare’s Shylock pointedly asked his tormentor, "If you prick us, do we not bleed?." Ironically, it is the pandemic that has brought this to our notice. It has spread globally, infecting all nations regardless of religions, beliefs and creeds. It has reminded us that we must stand together and rise against all evils, caring whole-heartedly for each other. We now see how everything we do, even things that appear most insignificant— breathing out, wiping our hands, cleaning up a mess— affects everyone and everything else. Indeed, we soil in unison and save in unison. If only we could bear this in mind in all that we do, it would do well as a code of conduct for now and for all times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-code-of-conduct-997600.html
15-06-2021||Panorama||Full-fledged economic recovery to take hold in July, says Niti Aayog VC Rajiv Kumar||Many agencies have lowered forecasts for India’s economic growth for the current financial year in view of the devastating second wave of Covid-19. A few days ago, even the Reserve Bank of India cut the country’s growth forecast steeply to 9.5 per cent. However, Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar is sanguine that growth will pick up pace from this month itself. He expects a “full-fledged” economic recovery starting July. If a third wave of the pandemic does not hit the country, Kumar also sees the current financial year ending with double digit growth. Kumar says his optimism arises from the government’s commitment to the vaccination programme, which he believes will be critical to accelerate the economy. On the issue of cutting taxes on petrol and diesel, whose prices have hit the roof, he tells DH’s Annapurna Singh that the issue of lowering fuel taxes is a complicated one as it concerns both the central and state governments. We are hopefully at the tail-end of the second wave of Covid-19. Many believe that the economy has not suffered as much this time around as it did in the first wave. But there are certain large segments, especially the informal sector, that have suffered silently. How do you see the economy panning out here on? As the second wave subsides, economic activity will pick up pace across the majority of states. This is already visible in major centres of economic activity such as Mumbai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, etc. I expect full-fledged economic recovery to take hold in July. And as happened after the first wave subsided, the strength of this economic recovery may also surprise us. Of course, it depends very much on whether or not the pandemic re-emerges and on the pace of vaccinations. Given the expected acceleration in vaccination, I am confident that the third and fourth quarters will see strong economic activity, especially in exports and infrastructure sectors, including real estate and construction. Many rating agencies and brokerages have cut India’s growth forecast for FY22. The RBI, too, did so recently by one percentage point. What is your expectation? Based on the above assumptions, I expect GDP in FY22 to be in double digits. You may expect the agencies which have recently lowered their estimates to revise them upwards after the festival season. Fear of a third wave of Covid looms large. How do you see the government preparing for it? Quickening the pace of vaccination is said to be critical to economic recovery. The pace of vaccinations is, without doubt, the single most important determinant of economic recovery. The government has already announced its new vaccination policy and measures for ensuring an adequate supply of vaccine doses. In the past, we have already achieved a high of 43 lakh vaccinations in one day. This will surely be further accelerated as states, now assured of their supply of doses, pick up the gauntlet and reach new levels of vaccination. Does the Niti Aayog prescribe measures to cushion the impact of the pandemic on the informal sector? Many believe that the RBI has done its bit and now it is the government’s turn. The RBI has certainly done its bit, and the monetary policy has done the heavy lifting. But it has been supported by an active fiscal policy. This is demonstrated in the high fiscal deficit for FY21 at 9.5 per cent. The Finance Minister has repeatedly assured us that the government will do whatever is required to ensure that economic activity is strengthened and the recovery as it emerges is given the necessary momentum with additional public expenditure and outlays, especially in sectors that have high employment generating potential and maximum backward and forward linkages in the economy.  During the second wave, questions were raised over the lack of a proactive role by the Niti Aayog. A BJP MP also felt that unlike the erstwhile Planning Commission, which used to chip in with significant inputs during crises, Niti Aayog’s role has been lacklustre. This is the first time I am getting such feedback. I surely don't agree with it. I don't wish to enumerate all that NITI Aayog has contributed to the overall government efforts. Suffice it to say that we are doing the best we can and see ourselves as an integral and effective member of Team India. Petrol and diesel prices have hit the roof and are impacting the common man. Though the rise in prices to some extent reflect the rising global crude prices, tax rates on fuel are among the highest in the world. Do you think the government needs to do something to bring down tax rates, given that inflation could rise?  As you have said, these prices depend entirely on global price trends. In the domestic economy, these are market-determined. The issue of lowering tax rates is a complicated one as it concerns both the central and state governments. Additionally, the fiscal space has to be kept in mind.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/full-fledged-economic-recovery-to-take-hold-in-july-says-niti-aayog-vc-rajiv-kumar-997607.html
15-06-2021||Panorama||Covid-19: Sex workers in acute crisis||Even after twenty years as a sex worker, Paliamma* (42) had not encountered a situation that she could not overcome but the coronavirus pandemic has caused immeasurable damage which she fears there is no recovery from. “Even during the HIV epidemic, there was a way to continue with my work. With adequate protection, I found a way to feed myself. Now there seems to be no hope,” she adds.  The lockdowns, this year and the last, have been devastating for her. Even her regular clients have abandoned her. “I understand that they just want to keep themselves safe but how do we survive this?” she asks. Every night in the last two months, she remembers worrying about what she would be feeding her two children.“Some NGOs have been distributing ration kits, which has kept us alive until now. We don’t know what the future will look like,” she says.  Already vulnerable and now left without a livelihood, many sex workers fear what the next few months will bring. For a year now, work has become next to nil, for others like Paliamma, this has meant an inability to pay rent, pay school fees for her children and sometimes skipping meals. House owners, who usually are reluctant to rent to sex workers, have been asking them to vacate. In a more extreme situation, Hafisa* (37), a sex worker from Raichur, has been choosing which of her illnesses to treat. She is HIV positive. With no bus facilities, she has had difficulty travelling to the centre that distributes her antiretrovirals for free. Left with no other option, she chooses to buy from a pharmacy nearby. “A tablet costs Rs 12 per day. I also have a heart condition and the medication costs Rs 12 per day, I have no income at all, so I’ve chosen to stop the heart medication,” she says. With three children to look after, she often worries that she might be making a wrong decision that could eventually mean that her children would have to fend for themselves. Hafisa feels guilty about not being able to pay for her children’s school fees or for gadgets for them to attend online class, “education is a way to protect them. Even that avenue is not available now.” For more than a year now, her three children have had no way to attend online classes or school.  The Supreme Court last year ordered the state governments to supply dry rations to sex workers who were registered with the National AIDS Control Organisation without insisting on producing ID cards. However, this is yet to be implemented according to Nisha Gulur, vice president of the National Network of Sex Workers. “There is zero support from the government for people from our community, sex workers are in widespread distress,” she says. For now, civil society organisations like Sangama, Sadhana Mahila Sangha and others have organised their volunteers to distribute dry ration kits to provide some relief to a few but even that would not cover other cooking expenses for gas, electricity and vegetables. “People living with HIV also need access to nutritional food. Rice, pulses and aata are just bare necessities, they also need vegetables and fruits for a balanced diet,” adds Gulur.  The Karnataka government announced a one-time cash assistance of Rs 3,000 to provide relief to unorganised workers. However, no such benefit has been extended to sex workers even though the National Human Rights Commission had classified sex workers as informal workers last year in July.  Officials from the Women and Child Development department were unavailable to comment.  Insensitivity  Even before the new rounds of lockdown that came with the onslaught of the second wave, when Dhruthi M*, a sex worker based in Bengaluru, ventured out, she was mercilessly lathi-charged and called names. “The kind of things I am called. One officer even told me to go die as ‘my kind’ were the ones spreading the virus,” she recounts, adding that venturing out for anything during this time is most likely elicit this kind of response. Actions that not only caused physical injuries but were also deeply dehumanising.  Many sex workers like Dhruthi have first-hand accounts of insensitive behaviour that the police and other government authorities display, even claiming that that sex workers had to pay a daily fee to keep some police officers from arresting them. Paliamma says that this kind of insensitivity always comes down to a lack of respect for their profession, “they have no idea of the conditions that led us to take up these jobs,” she says. Married off at the tender age of 14, Paliamma lost her husband at the age of 18 by when she already had two children to look after. “I tried everything, but nothing worked, eventually I came to this profession and was able to feed my children all these years,” she says.  Hafisa says, “They don’t like to look at us, they just want to sweep us up under the rug and forget that we exist but we also have stomachs and we also go hungry, we also have children to look after and people who depend on us.”  (*Names have been changed to preserve privacy)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/covid-19-sex-workers-in-acute-crisis-997871.html
15-06-2021||Panorama||Biodiversity key to human well-being||Despite the pledge to halt the loss of biodiversity and ecosystem services, most countries have failed to achieve the 20 Aichi Biodiversity targets as stated in the UN’s Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011-20. Degradation of biodiversity and ecosystems has continued unabated if not accelerated during the last decade. The recent Global Assessment of Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services conducted by the Intergovernmental Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) notes that one million species are at the risk of extinction during the coming decades. Out of 18 ecosystem services evaluated except for agricultural, fish and bioenergy production and material harvest, all services reported negative trends between 1970 to 2019. According to the Centre for International Forestry Research, each year the world loses $6.3 trillion worth of ecological services due to the degradation of forest and land. If unchecked this will have an adverse impact on economies, ecosystems, lives and livelihoods. It will also jeopardise the achievement of Sustainable Development Goals. Biodiversity provides several goods and services that are critical to human well-being and good quality of life. The genetic pool that it contains helps develop new crop varieties and drugs which assume relevance to combat the adverse effects of rapid environmental change. Nature helps reduce vulnerability to climate change, extreme weather events and health risks such as zoonotic diseases. For instance, a recent UN report estimated the direct economic losses due to disasters between 1998 to 2017 at $2.98 trillion (in 2017 $) of which climate-related losses accounted for 78 per cent of these losses (UNISDR 2018). The United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity is now in the process of formulating the post-2020 biodiversity strategy. In this background, the UK government in March 2019 commissioned an independent global review headed by Sir Partha Dasgupta of the University of Cambridge to assess the economic value of biodiversity and to identify actions that will simultaneously enhance biodiversity and economic prosperity. The report calls for a paradigm shift in the way we think, act and measure economic success and to protect and enhance our prosperity and the natural world. It calls for institutional, financial and educational reforms to improve the outcomes for nature. Governments assess progress or well-being in terms of Gross Domestic Product (GDP). GDP, however, is a flawed measure since it does not consider how environmental degradation or income distribution impact long term well-being. For instance, a barrel of oil or a tonne of iron ore extracted today is counted as an addition to GDP. Being non-renewable resources, these resources once extracted are no longer available for future generations and hence will constrain long-term economic growth and welfare. Traditional national income accounts consider depreciation of man-made capital but not of natural capital even though its depletion will affect long-term well-being and sustainable development. While there have been initiatives to incorporate sustainability concerns in national accounts such as the UN’s System of Environmental Economic Accounting or Green GDP these are yet to gain wide acceptance by governments. The review argues that to accurately measure well-being one ought to consider the concept of inclusive wealth which covers not only produced capital (factories, machines, roads) and human capital (skills and knowledge) but also natural capital such as soils, forests and lakes. Tracking the changes in these three forms of assets will better capture social well-being. The coverage and investments in Protected Areas (PAs) need to be increased in both land and sea. According to the report, to protect 30 per cent of the world’s land and oceans and manage them effectively by 2030, would require an average investment of $140 billion annually which is just about 0.16 per cent of global GDP and less than a third of the current global subsidies that support activities that destroy nature. The benefits from this would be immense such as lowering climate and health risks. Let alone increase the coverage of PAs, the report notes that only 20 per cent of existing PAs are managed well. It calls for greater involvement of indigenous people and local communities in the management of PAs. Maintaining our current living standards would require 1.6 Earths which is unsustainable. This calls for a shift towards a sustainable food production system, decarbonising our energy and transport systems, reordering our consumption and production patterns and reducing food wastages estimated at 1/3rd of global food production to lower our carbon footprint. Further, we need to reduce perverse subsidies (globally estimated at $4-6 trillion annually) that favour destruction of nature. It calls for increased financial flows and implementation of Payment for Ecosystem Services schemes to reward those who conserve and supply ecosystem services. Businesses and financial institutions are increasingly concerned about nature-related financial risks and their impact on their production and revenues. They, therefore, need to incorporate sustainability concerns to hedge their businesses and institutions from these risks. The report calls for an increase in green investments and nature-based solutions to address climate and health risks which are cost-effective and have several co-benefits such as generating employment opportunities and help in Covid-recovery stimulus programmes. To connect people with nature, the review calls for reforming our educational system whereby the study of natural history is made part of the curriculum from the early stages. Ultimately, all citizens should be naturalists. It calls for empowering citizens to ensure better outcomes for nature. Sadly, in our country citizens who champion environmental or social causes are slapped with sedition cases and branded as anti-nationals and terrorists. Despite swearing by environmental conservation, it is lamentable that India has been weakening its environmental regulations and promoting policies to destroy nature. Even after ten years, the Kasturi Rangan Committee’s recommendation to notify 37 per cent of the Western Ghats as an ecologically sensitive area has not been implemented due to opposition from politicians and those with vested interests.  (The author is an economist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/biodiversity-key-to-human-well-being-997884.html
15-06-2021||Right in the Middle||Spectacles and memories||The most poignant and profound objects a departed person leaves behind is his spectacles. Every time I look at the picture of the specs with circular rims and curved temple tips on our currency, I think solemnly of Gandhiji. I have with me a collection of specs worn by my late father, grandfather and grandmother. The latest addition to this collection was the well-polished and well-kept speckless specs of my late brother. Photos fade. Letters turn yellow, brittle and break into pieces of a jigsaw puzzle. The dress worn by the departed cannot be preserved for a long time. The one thing that stands the test of time as a memento is specs. Whenever I feel like seeing my late father and grandparents, I look at their specs. My father’s very personality was his specs. His’ resembled that of Rajaji's— my father was a fan of Rajaji. He suffered from chronic myopia. Before going to bed he would place his specs in the velveteen box with utmost gentleness as if it were a baby. I hardly saw him without his specs— they became a permanent feature of his face. My maternal grandfather who was a sketch artist wore an old metal-rimmed reading glass. The only thing I have now to remind me of him is these specs since the only photo I had of him was eaten away by ants. Whenever I peer through its yellowish lens I see him sitting on the floor of our Kanchipuram house, bending over a spread-out white sheet drawing designs for the weavers of silk sarees. My grandmother wore her glasses only when she had to thread a needle and when she went through Bhagavad-Gita. My younger brother who as my father started wearing glasses very early in life was harassed by students of his class. He used to defend himself against those who made fun of him by telling them “I wear glasses because I read a lot. You don’t wear glasses because you are not scholars like me. Only the above-average respectable people wear spectacles” I started wearing glasses in my mid-thirties. Even though I kept intact the specs of my father, grandparents and my brother, I have little hope that my specs would also receive the same treatment from my son because he is as practical as I am sentimental.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/spectacles-and-memories-997594.html
15-06-2021||Right in the Middle||Military slang||When we veterans meet, the military slang quickly returns with full glory and fervour. At reunions, slangs help break the ice that could pile up when contacts between old pals become infrequent and irregular. The ‘Fouji Lingo’ plays a great role in reconnecting us. The slang once freely used in the camps returns to take the center stage. We get back to slang to celebrate our past, revive memories and bring back the camaraderie and bonds that once existed in the barracks.  Our defence forces inherited everything, nut bolt, and stock from British India’s armed forces when they left our shores. Emulating the time-tested Royal Armed Forces was the best course to follow as it stood in good stead when the English built their empire. However, only the Indian Air Force opted to continue with the queen’s tongue and continues to use English as a lingua franca in its camps.  Military slang might sometimes look impious and offensive to our civilian counterparts. Some might well say that the lingo borders on vulgarity. The “F” word was not at all a taboo in the camp, not the least a foul-mouthed insult but an omnipresent strong prefix which when used before a pronoun “it” meant “who cares’ and when used before “off”  meant “go away”. Military barracks were once predominantly male bastions. So the slang had the freedom of not hurting the sentiments of the opposite sex. Now, as more and more women join the armed forces, the slang would certainly undergo reforms, albeit at the expense of losing the ease and the lustre once associated with it. The military men are known to be chivalrous and their vocabulary has to be sensitive to the feelings of their sister soldiers. Yet it could be interesting to note how the drill-master shouts extempore when someone goes out of step or how the guard commander reacts when he finds the sentry on guard not alert enough. However, I am sure, more innocuous and harmless acronyms and euphemism like AWOL (Absent Without Leave), Furlough, Civvies, Roger, Recce (for reconnaissance) Chappathi-Cut (for crew cut) would continue to hold their pride of place in the camps.  Slang words come in handy in difficult situations. Military slang is coined to optimise communication and flavoured with a tinge of humour.  Slang helps the soldiers to laugh away difficulties and lighten the pressure cooker situations. Reusing the slang words at veterans’ reunions would instantly remind a soldier of the path he had trodden, wherever he may find himself now. Veteran’s reunions are simply re-living old times. You feel overwhelmed by the presence of friendly strong men, who still swear by military values, around you. And then, we leave the venue, recharged and rejuvenated by the renewed bonds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/military-slang-997877.html
15-06-2021||Second Edit||An unwieldy coalition takes power in Israel||With the new government winning a confidence vote in parliament, Israel has escaped, at least for now, a return to yet another general election. A coalition of eight very disparate parties, including the far-right and the far-left, led by Naftali Bennett has come to power. The new government is an important milestone in Israeli politics. It is the first time that an Arab Islamist party, Ra’am, is part of the ruling coalition in Israel. It is the first time in a dozen years that Likud leader Benjamin Netanyahu will not be part of the ruling coalition. Analysts are describing his ouster from power as the end of an era. However, the swearing-in of a government minus Netanyahu may not represent a major change as several coalition members were allies of Netanyahu in the past. Prime Minister Bennett, for instance, was his chief of staff and a protégé. A shared determination to oust Netanyahu brought the coalition’s constituents together. There is little else that unites them, which means that Israel has entered another period of political instability. Netanyahu will aggressively pursue toppling the government, which has only a razor-thin majority. The ouster of Netanyahu presents Israel with an opportunity to rebuild democratic processes and institutions that were destroyed under his increasingly authoritarian rule. With Netanyahu treating the Knesset with disdain, Israel’s parliamentary democracy was functioning like a presidential system. A course correction is expected now. Coalitions also compel partners to moderate their positions to survive in power. Bennett is an ultra-right nationalist, even more so than Netanyahu. He has called for annexation of parts of the territory captured by Israel in the 1967 war. But it is expected that he will be circumspect about espousing such positions now as his leftist partners and Ra’am would walk out of his coalition if he does. He will need to adopt a centrist, more pragmatic, approach if he wants to hold his coalition together. Published coalition agreements show that the new government will focus on economic and social issues, including passing a budget — Israel has not had a budget in two years, thanks to political turmoil – and building new hospitals, etc. It can be expected to avoid precipitating contentious issues like the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, which could see the coalition fall apart. However, there are issues that Bennett cannot and must not avoid. Relations between Israeli Arabs and Jews have soured. There were violent clashes between the two communities in recent months and tensions are simmering. Dealing with this problem may threaten the government’s survival, but not addressing it will be dangerous for Israel and regional peace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/an-unwieldy-coalition-takes-power-in-israel-997606.html
15-06-2021||Second Edit||Monsoon bright spot in a time of gloom||The India Meteorological Department’s confirmation of an above-normal monsoon in its second stage forecast provides welcome relief because an adverse monsoon would be bad for the economy and the people in pandemic times. The IMD has said that the rainfall would be 101 per cent. of the Long Period Average (LPA) this year as against 109 per cent. in 2020 and 110 per cent. in 2019. In its first stage forecast in April, the IMD had said that the 2021 monsoon is expected to be normal at 98 per cent. of the LPA. If the latest prediction turns out to be correct, the country will have a third consecutive year of normal monsoon. The last time this happened was in the 1996-1998 period. The IMD has based its revised forecast on the observation that some monsoon-related phenomena in the Pacific Ocean, like the El Nino, would be neutral this year. A bountiful monsoon will be good for agriculture, which is the only sector that held up when all other sectors of the economy went down last year. The IMD’s territorial forecast of rainfall also points to a benevolent agricultural year. The projection is that rainfall will be normal in southern and north-west India, above normal in central and parts of eastern India, and below normal in the north-east. The below-normal rainfall in the north-east may not have a major negative impact because the average rainfall there is usually more than in other parts of the country. The above-normal monsoon in central India is especially beneficial because agriculture in those parts is largely rain-fed. Plentiful rainfall is good for crops like oilseeds, pulses and coarse cereals which are mainly grown in low-irrigation areas. It is likely that there will be another bumper harvest this year. The IMD has started a new forecasting model this year which will give advance information about the spatial distribution of rain. It will make monthly predictions, starting this month, about the progress of the monsoon across the country, and this will help agriculture and all other activities on which the monsoon has a bearing. The predictions have to be correct and dependable so that plans can be made either to make use of the rain or to prevent its harmful impact. Medium and short-term forecasts are of immense value, and the IMD needs to improve its capabilities to make them. Early warnings will help make preparations to counter problems like floods and landslides or to counter situations arising from a pause or failure of monsoon. Such warnings will be particularly important and useful at a time when the focus of attention will be on fighting the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/monsoon-bright-spot-in-a-time-of-gloom-997889.html
15-06-2021||South||How a tribal school in Kerala offers regular classes amidst Covid-19||While all government schools and colleges in Kerala as well as many states are remaining shut owing to Covid, one primary school situated in a remote tribal village is conducting regular classes. Government Tribal Lower Primary School at Edamalakkudy, the first tribal panchayat of Kerala, which is situated in the forest areas of Idukki district, is the lone government school having regular classes now. Headmaster Vasudevan Pillai told DH that since the panchayat was situated deep in the forest and internet connectivity was very poor, online classes were not practical. Though efforts were made last year to play recorded classes, it also involved practical difficulties as one had to walk 14 kilometres through the forests to reach the panchayat. The learning process of the students was also affected. Hence the students were asked to turn up to the schools and the parents were also cooperating. Following intensive door-to-door awareness campaigns by the teachers over the years, the student strength of the school has been increasing year after year. This academic year, 24 new students joined first standard, taking the total strength of the school to 124. Apart from the classes up to standard four, a Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) centre offering parallel education for fifth to seventh standards is also attached to the school. There are only four teachers and two temporary teachers from the panchayat itself for the SSA. Congress MP Dean Kuriakose, who is the local MP, has initiated sprucing up the existing infrastructure of the school recently. The walls of the schools were painted and other infrastructure refurbished. He said that efforts were being made to construct a new building for the school by roping in the CSR funds of a public sector undertaking. Edamalakkudy panchayat managed to keep Covid at bay by imposing self quarantine by the people of the hamlets and by preventing entry of outsiders to the hamlets right from the initial days of Covid last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/how-a-tribal-school-in-kerala-offers-regular-classes-amidst-covid-19-997750.html
15-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu prepares for possible third Covid-19 wave||Though experts are split in their opinion on a possible third wave of Covid-19 infections, Tamil Nadu has decided not to dismantle the infrastructure created to handle the huge rush of patients in the past two months, besides focussing on setting up permanent pediatric facilities in all government hospitals. The state is also augmenting ICU and oxygen-supported beds in government hospitals and in new facilities created to handle the second wave, even as the new DMK dispensation is offering incentives to those who manufacture oxygen and Covid-19-related equipment to set shop in the state. As the oxygen demand peaked to over 600 MT in May during the second wave, the government has now set up small oxygen plants within hospital premises, and in interior districts with support from various businesses to supply to government hospitals across the state. Besides augmenting the infrastructure, Chief Minister M K Stalin has also formed a Task Force headed by former Health Secretary R Poornalingam and consisting of top epidemiologist Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil, and former Director of Public Health Dr K Kolandaswamy, to assist the government in fighting the novel coronavirus. With reports suggesting that children could be the worst hit during the third wave, the Tamil Nadu chapter of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) has also pitched in to complement the government’s efforts by imparting training to paediatricians on treating children for Covid-19. The state chapter of IAP has decided to set up Covid-19 paediatric cells in all 38 districts that will serve as a helpline, while it is also training paediatricians on the treatment protocol and how to handle children with the multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C), a post-Covid-19 disease associated with children. Dr K Rajendran, Head of the Department of Pediatrics & Neonatology, Kovai Medical Center & Hospital, Coimbatore, told DH that the IAP has developed a 45-minute online training module for paediatricians and nurses to handle cases of Covid-19 in children. “The module has been prepared, and we want all paediatricians and nurses in the state, both government and private health care providers to undergo the training. Since Covid-19 cases are categorised into mild, moderate, and severe, those who handle patients should know the treatment protocol and the concept of zero-delay,” Rajendran, also honorary secretary of IAP, TN chapter, said. He also added that the association was taking a list of paediatric ICU beds available in the state so that they can guide people when they call the district helpline in case of an emergency. He also insisted on taking steps to start early vaccination for children after a vaccine has been approved. “Though there is no specific indication, we are prepared (for a third wave) as we know people tend to move around when relaxations are eased. Since the nature of any virus is to keep mutating, we have decided not to dismantle any Covid-19 infrastructure. We will also keep augmenting the existing infrastructure,” Dr J Radhakrishnan, Health Secretary, told DH. He said the government is also focussing on bringing about behavioural change among people till the time vaccination reaches an “appropriate level.” Tamil Nadu was one of the worst affected states during the second wave as it added over 10 lakh positive cases in just two months, and reported over 14,000 deaths during the same period. With testing remaining at 1.80 lakh samples a day, the cases are showing a decline for the past few weeks. “While we are focused on permanent augmentation of ICU and oxygen-supported beds across the state, we are also adding paediatrics wards to all district government hospitals to handle any surge in cases among children, though there is no specific research that says children will be affected in the future,” Dr Radhakrishnan added. Dr Kolandaswamy, who was Director of Public Health in the initial months of the Covid-19 pandemic, said the task force has suggested the government keep increasing the number of ICU and oxygen beds, besides focussing on vaccination. “The state government’s decision to increase the number of oxygen plants is a welcome move and the requirement for oxygen during a possible third wave will be much more than the second wave. Vaccination is the key to fight the virus, but if we don’t vaccinate enough people when the third wave hits, keeping the maximum number of oxygen-supported beds ready will help immensely,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-prepares-for-possible-third-covid-19-wave-997763.html
15-06-2021||South||AIADMK belongs to everyone, not one community: Sasikala attacks Palaniswami||AIADMK is moving towards establishing itself as a party of “one particular community” and cadres are not enjoying it, ousted general secretary V K Sasikala said on Tuesday, in a direct attack on her one-time protégé Edappadi K Palaniswami. The former chief minister has been accused of placing leaders from his Gounder community in all key positions in the AIADMK, side-lining leaders from other castes. The criticism that the AIADMK has willingly embraced the tag ‘Gounder party’ gained credence after the party won 29 of the 50 seats at stake in the Western region, riding high on the “vote our man” (EPS) plank. In a telephonic conversation with Sivanesan, an AIADMK cadre, from Theni district on Tuesday, Sasikala spoke in detail about how she was “back-stabbed” by everyone after she went to jail, why she “stepped aside” from politics and the necessity for her to come and “retrieve” the party.  She also criticised the move to expel party cadre for speaking to her and blamed the present leadership for the loss in the assembly elections. The latest audio clip came a day after the AIADMK accused her of “enacting a drama” to re-enter the party and expelled 16 cadres who spoke to her over the phone. “The party is moving towards one particular community. This is the biggest complaint I get from cadres who speak to me over the phone. Even those from the western region complain the same, and something has to be done. AIADMK is a party that is for all (communities), and it has remained so since the days of (MGR and Jayalalithaa),” Sasikala told Sivanesan. Sasikala also hinted that she would have nominated O Panneerselvam as the Chief Minister in 2017 after he bid to occupy the top post failed if he had not rebelled against her. “He went on his own, otherwise I would have made him the (CM),” she said.    Gounders and Mukulathors, the community to which Sasikala and OPS belong, are traditional supporters of the AIADMK. But, the Gounders began to dominate the party after Palaniswami took over as Chief Minister in 2017 much to the discomfiture of the Mukulathors, who still complain about their side-lining in private. Political observers feel Sasikala talking about the “one community” issue is a clear attempt at consolidating the Mukulathors under her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-belongs-to-everyone-not-one-community-sasikala-attacks-palaniswami-997807.html
15-06-2021||South||Kerala relaxes Covid-19 lockdown from June 17||The coronavirus-induced lockdown enforced in Kerala since May 8 will be relaxed further from June 17 as the test positivity rate (TPR) has been declining. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the total shutdown on Saturdays and Sundays would continue and stringent restrictions would be imposed at local body wards on the basis of TPR. All government offices and institutions would be allowed to function with 25 per cent staff on a rotation basis. Private establishments would be allowed to work with 50 per cent of staff on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Industrial and agriculture activities would be allowed, while the construction sector was already exempted. Bars and liquor shops will be allowed to function from 9 am to 7 pm based on booking slots. Only parcel service was likely to be allowed, details of which would be announced soon. Malls, indoor activities with gatherings, tourism and entertainment programmes would not be allowed. Maximum participation in marriages and deaths would continue to remain at 20. Vijayan said that since lockdown was implemented in the initial stages of Covid's second wave, a major surge in the cases could be averted. TPR in the state that went up to 27.8 per cent has now come down to 11.76 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-relaxes-covid-19-lockdown-from-june-17-997836.html
15-06-2021||South||Lakshadweep filmmaker Aisha Sultana flays social media campaigns against her for false claims||A filmmaker from Lakshadweep Aisha Sultana, against whom a sedition case has been registered recently, has flayed social media campaigns claiming she was a Bangladeshi. Sultana has warned of legal action against those spreading misleading campaigns against her. Sultana alleged that the campaign against her was in retaliation to the protest she raised against the BJP government at the Centre as well as the Praful Khoda Patel administration of Lakshadweep. She said that fake profiles in her name with nativity given as Bangladesh were also being created by vested interest groups. She also shared on social media screenshots of some misleading campaigns against her stating that she was a Bangladeshi Hindu by birth, a Pakistani inhabitant Muslim who migrated to Lakshadweep. She commented that many were struggling to make her a Bangladeshi. Meanwhile, the Kerala High Court sought a report from the Lakshadweep administration on the sedition case against Sultana. The report was sought on an anticipatory bail plea she filed, which would be considered on June 17. The Kavaratti police registered the case on the basis of a petition filed by BJP Lakshadweep president Abdulkhader Haji citing a remark of Sultana in a TV channel discussion that Covid-19 surge in Lakshadweep due to decisions of administrator Praful Khoda Patel was a "bioweapon". She was issued a notice to report at the police station on June 20. Sultana said in the petition that the sedition charges against her were baseless as she only reacted against various decisions of the Lakshadweep administration as she also hailed from the island.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lakshadweep-filmmaker-aisha-sultana-flays-social-media-campaigns-against-her-for-false-claims-997891.html
15-06-2021||State||CET performance will not be a criterion for B.Sc admission: Karnataka Deputy CM C N Ashwath Narayan||Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan on Tuesday said that the idea to make Common Entrance Test (CET) performance as the criteria for admission to Bachelor of Science (BSc) course has been dropped. Narayan, who also holds the Higher Education portfolio and held a meeting with Vice-Chancellors, with regard to academic activities, clarified that the idea to make CET marks as the parameter for admission to B.Sc has been dropped, his office said in a release. Earlier, it was said that in view of the cancellation of the 2nd PUC (class 12) examination, the department of higher education had been mulling to make CET marks as the basis for admission to the B.Sc courses. The government had recently decided to cancel the 2nd PUC exams this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Apart from this, matters related to finding ways to accommodate the number of students whose number will be increased for the degree courses, implementation of e-Office software were among the other subjects that were discussed, the release added. The universities of the state have been asked to act towards starting the undergraduate courses from the current academic year, as per NEP, Narayan said, this year the number of students seeking admission will increase as the 2nd PUC examination is cancelled. If the universities start 4-year graduate courses, that will help to accommodate more students and it is also an opportunity at the right time for varsities to initiate this, he said. Further, the Unified University College Management System, a web portal-based software developed by the department of e-Office has been given permission to go on the trial run from June 25. Keeping in mind the calendar of events, it has been decided to dedicate 'The Unified University College Management System' by July 15, and to facilitate this, the trial will be conducted, Narayan said, as he asked all the concerned institutions to be ready with this system by July 15. He also directed all the vice-chancellors of the universities to do all the correspondence with the government only through e-Office mode and told them that it has been made mandatory to implement it. The DCM also said that Vice-Chancellors have been asked to begin admission for the first-year degree courses in the first week of October as per the calendar. It was discussed in the meeting about conducting semester exams that are pending because of Covid, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cet-performance-will-not-be-a-criterion-for-bsc-admission-karnataka-deputy-cm-c-n-ashwath-narayan-997778.html
15-06-2021||State||'No proposal to waive agrarian loans': B C Patil||Much will be riding on the agriculture sector again this year as the lockdown pushed people back to villages. Agriculture Minister B C Patil talks to Akram Mohammed of DH on measures to optimise yield and offer fair prices to farmers in the market. Excerpts: What is the outlook this year for the agriculture sector that recorded growth last year? This year, too, good rainfall is forecast for the state, which is expected to be better than the rainfall previous year. By the end of May, the state received an average of 155 mm rainfall. This year, pre-monsoon showers were good and we received 254 mm rainfall, which is 64% above normal. This is a good sign as it has helped sowing. Farmers often complain about the availability of fertilisers, seeds and other products. We have sufficient stock this year. For the sowing season, overall demand of Karnataka is 6.3 lakh quintal seeds, against which we have a stock of 7.74 lakh quintal. Similarly, we have adequate stock of key fertilizers as sowing will pick up during the month. Dependency on agriculture has risen as jobs in urban areas have reduced due to the lockdown. Any special focus on agriculture? The government has been focusing on the sector. We’ve been offering subsidies to farmers under various schemes, providing mechanised tools such as tractors etc. Cash incentive of Rs 6,000 is transferred under PM Kisan Samman Yojana, and Rs 4,000 under CM Kisan Samman Yojana. Despite good yield, the primary concern of farmers remains the market. Last year, despite good yields farmers suffered because of the lockdown. There are similar concerns this year. All the food grains produced were sold last year. Even this year, the government is doing all it can to help the agrarian community. All industries were closed, save for farmers activities. Even transportation of farm goods were allowed. In rural areas, even before lockdown was relaxed fertilizers, seeds and related stores were allowed to remain open till 12 noon when other shops shut by 10. The Israeli model of agriculture proposed by the H D Kumaraswamy-led coalition government has been scrapped due to lack of funds. Will the BJP government pursue it, especially for farmers in arid regions? To help such farmers, we’re offering up to 90% subsidy for micro-irrigation projects. Last year, the Finance department had discontinued state’s 40% subsidy for such projects. This was taken up at a recent meeting with the CM where we highlighted that subsidy has gone down from 90% to 50%. The CM directed the Finance department not to stop funds for farmer-related projects. There are complaints that only a handful of farmers benefit from the PM Fasal Bima Yojana and that insurance claims are not honoured. All insurance claims till 2019-20 are cleared. The insurance amount is based on the past crop-cutting experience. The companies determine a threshold income based on average crop yield of a land over the past seven years. In some places yield will be good and it’ll be bad in other places. But, farmers don’t understand the criteria used to disburse insurance and feel that they are being cheated. Is there a proposal to waive crop loans as farmers are in distress? We’re providing interest-free loans through the cooperation department to help farmers. There’s no proposal for a loan waiver. Farmers groups have raised complaints of skyrocketing fertilizer prices. Cost of key raw materials used to manufacture fertilizers has increased, after which the government has increased subsidy. Earlier, subsidy amount was Rs 500 for one bag of fertilizer. It is now Rs 1,200 subsidy per bag. We are offering fertilizers at old rates to farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-proposal-to-waive-agrarian-loans-b-c-patil-997817.html
15-06-2021||State||II PU repeaters move HC, challenge exams only for them||The High Court on Tuesday ordered notice to the state government on a petition filed challenging the decision to hold examinations only for second PUC repeaters after the Covid-19 situation is eased. The Department of Pre-University Education had announced its decision to promote regular/fresher students of second PUC while holding examinations only for repeaters.   A division bench, headed by Justice B V Nagarathna, asked the state government to make its stand clear on the issue by June 17. The bench asked whether it is possible to consider the second PUC marks to promote even the repeaters. The petition alleged that it would amount to discrimination if only repeaters and private candidates are asked to take up the examinations. The petition is filed by S V Singre Gowda who is secretary of Jnanamandira Education Trust in Bengaluru. The petition claimed that repeaters/failed II PU candidates are being forced to write examinations, whereas fresh candidates have been promoted without any examination. The petition said that discriminatory yardsticks are adopted by the DPUE by proposing to hold examinations only for repeaters/failed students. The petition has prayed for a direction to the state government to treat repeaters equally by determining their merit based on marks obtained in the first PUC. The petition claimed there are about 95,000 students who will have to appear for the examinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ii-pu-repeaters-move-hc-challenge-exams-only-for-them-997819.html
15-06-2021||State||Universities, colleges told to finish all exams soon||||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/universities-colleges-told-to-finish-all-exams-soon-997822.html
15-06-2021||State||Convene Vrishabhavathi stakeholders meeting, HC directs govt||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday directed the Additional Chief Secretary to the government’s Commerce and Industries Department to convene a meeting of all stakeholders on the issues surrounding the Vrishabhavathi river valley. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka directed the officials to discuss the recommendations of the interim report submitted by CSIR- National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) on rejuvenating the Vrishabhavathi river. The court asked Bengaluru Urban district authorities to conduct a survey and to demarcate the river’s buffer zone area. Among the short- and long-term measures recommended by the NEERI report are the disposal of domestic and industrial wastewater effluents and solid waste, besides removing encroachments. The court adjourned the hearing to July 13. The hearing is taking place on a PIL filed by city-based advocate Geetha Misra, seeking direction for the rejuvenation of the river.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/convene-vrishabhavathi-stakeholders-meeting-hc-directs-govt-997837.html
15-06-2021||State||JSW land deal: HC says action is subject to PIL's outcome||The High Court on Tuesday said that any further action on the proposal to sell 3,667 acres of land in Toranagal in Ballari district to JSW Limited will be subject to the outcome of a PIL. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, was hearing the PIL filed challenging the decision of the state cabinet to sell the land. The government submitted that though the proposal to sell was decided in the cabinet meeting held on April 26, it was not confirmed in the subsequent cabinet meeting. The bench had directed the government to clarify the stand during the last hearing. The petition is filed by K A Paul. The petitioner claimed that the government is selling the land at the lowest rate. He also claimed that some of the ministers in the cabinet had opposed the move.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jsw-land-deal-hc-says-action-is-subject-to-pils-outcome-997840.html
15-06-2021||State||53-year-old Maravoor bridge on NH 67 develops cracks||Asection of Athrady National Highway 67, connecting Mangaluru and Mangalore International Airport (MIA), remained out of bounds for vehicles after the 53-year-old Maravoor bridge developed cracks in the wee hours of Tuesday. Eyewitness told DH that the bridge across Phalguni (Gurupura) river developed cracks after the eight pillar sank. Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar said that due to the cracks, the bridge has been declared unsafe and the movement of all vehicles on the bridge was prohibited. Thus, vehicles arriving from Udupi to Mangalore Airport should ply via Mulki-Kinnigoli-Kateel-Bajpe to reach the airport, while those from Mangaluru should use the Nanthoor-Vamanjoor-Gurpura-Bajpe to reach the airport.  District In-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary, accompanied by Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) Mayor Premananda Shetty, and PWD officials, inspected the cracks on the bridge. Later, he told media persons that the government had released Rs 50 crore to upgrade the stretch into a four-lane. Thus, the construction of a new bridge next to the existing old bridge had begun. The four-laning project also included carrying out repair works on the existing bridge, he said. Expert committee to submit a report PWD officials and a team from Planning and Road Asset Management Centre (PRAMC) had already inspected the old Maravoor bridge. “As the old bridge had to be closed for traffic for over three months it was decided that repair works will be carried out only on completion of new bridge in February 2022,” he said and added that an expert committee will be submitting a report within two days. Based on the committee’s report a decision will be taken on whether to carry out repair works on the old bridge or build a new bridge. Earlier, MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, Moodbidri-Mulki MLA Umanath Kotian, DK Depeuty Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V, among others, had visited the bridge. ‘Cracks due to sand mining’ Sashidar Shetty of National Environment Care Federation (NECF) blamed sand mining as the main reason behind the sinking of pillar and bridge developing cracks. He recollected that within six months after submitting a 6,000 page report on illegal sand mining in the district to chief secretary, Lokayukta, the Malarpatna bridge had developed cracks. “18 months after the report, Maravoor bridge developed cracks,” he said and added that if public did not wake up more bridges would sunk and develop cracks. SDPI Moodbidri-Mulki president Asif Kotebagilu charged that the ongoing unscientific work on the new bridge had resulted in the bridge developing cracks. SDPI president demanded a probe and urged government to open the bridge for public at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/53-year-old-maravoor-bridge-on-nh-67-develops-cracks-997899.html
15-06-2021||State||Stress on reducing Covid positivity in Udupi||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesha said that the goal is to reduce Covid-19 positivity rate to 0.05% in Udupi by June 21. He was interacting with officials after visiting the community health centre in Hebri. “People should strictly adhere to unlock guidelines. Only those shops that are permitted should remain open. The life of people is important. All should adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in the interest of others,” he stressed. The police and the tahsildars have been directed to strictly adhere to unlock guidelines. If the Covid-19 positivity rate goes below 5% then a decision will be taken on relaxing all restrictions. Right now, the positivity rate is 6% in the district. People should cooperate. The DC inspected the oxygen storage, generator room, ambulance and swab collection centre. On delay in registering the hospital’s ambulance, he assured the hospital authorities that he would to speak to the RTO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/stress-on-reducing-covid-positivity-in-udupi-997901.html
15-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sanchari Vijay brain-dead, family to donate organs||National film award winner Sanchari Vijay, 38, who was critically injured in a bike accident on Saturday night, was declared brain-dead on Monday. According to a statement by the Apollo Hospitals group at 8.20 pm, “there is irreversible complex damage” to his brain.  The actor’s family has decided to donate his organs.   Vijay was returning to his residence on Bannerghatta Road with his friend Naveen when their bike skidded and hit an electric pole. Vijay was riding pillion. Both were reportedly not wearing helmets. Doctors said Naveen is out of danger. Jayanagar traffic police have registered a case against Naveen. Further probe is on. Apollo Hospitals said in their bulletin that the next step was the retrieval of Vijay’s organs and transplant procedures to recipients as per protocols. "The result has been conveyed to the family and the jurisdictional police for further processing. Jeevasarthakathe officials are here for all the procedures. The next step is the retrieval of organs and then transplant procedures to the recipients as per protocols which will happen at various hospitals including Apollo Hospitals," the bulletin said. Lijamol Joseph, Chief Transplant Coordinator, Jeevasarthakathe, the state organ transplant body that facilitates cadaver organ donation, told DH, "As per protocol, the patient should be found to be brain-dead twice with a gap of six hours. Our first assessment was done at 12.30 pm when he was found to be brain-dead. The second assessment was done at 7.50 pm. We're awaiting the organ advisory teams' opinion on the viability of his kidneys, liver, heart valve and corneas."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sanchari-vijay-brain-dead-family-to-donate-organs-997559.html
15-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Enhanced Delta+ Covid-19 variant seen in Karnataka, five other states||A dangerous new Covid-19 variant that is potentially resistant to certain drugs has been found in Karnataka and other states with experts stressing the need for close monitoring of the situation. Research suggests that the new variant, which is officially designated B.1.617.2.1 (or alternatively as AY.1) was first spotted in India on April 5. Since then and up to May 15, seven additional sequences were identified in five other states, besides one from Karnataka. Experts told DH that the increased mobility of people in March and April prior to the lockdown imposed on April 27, could have triggered the mutation, especially as it is a derivative of the B.1.617.2 “Delta” variant which experts already blame for driving the second wave. Speaking as an independent authority, associate professor Amit Singh, head, Centre for Infectious Disease Research, Indian Institute of Science (IISc), said the larger the scale of the infections, the more opportunity for a virus to add a “gain of function” mutation. “This is a mutation which gives a typical virus increased transmissibility, virulence, immunogenicity,” he said. Well known virologist Dr V Ravi, who is also the chairman of the state’s Genomic Surveillance Committee, said that there was precedent to show that previous variants of the novel coronaviruses obtained same mutations independently across various geographic regions.  Dr Vishal Rao, also a member of the Committee, said that the state does not know how many of the sequences are coming from airline passengers of the ongoing “air bubble” international flights and how many are coming from hospitals. “There is no data. We also need to get clinical correlation by monitoring ICUs and hospitals to find out what the genomic pattern and behavior is. We are not keeping our ears to the ground,” he said. What is known is that the sequences have been found in states which reported some of the highest incidences of Covid-19 cases in the second wave: Karnataka, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu. Odisha also found one sequence. The largest number of sequences found so far have been in Tamil Nadu (three sequences found out of 562 genome samples). In Karnataka, the sole sequence was found among 1,115 samples. At the same time, the number of Delta+ sequences being found in India are increasing. Up to June 11, six sequences had been made public. This rose to seven on June 13 and finally to eight on Monday. Some 158 sequences of the Delta+ have been found across 11 countries to date: Nepal, Portugal, Poland, Switzerland, Japan, Russia, Turkey, the UK, the US and Canada. The first global cases were found on March 29. Resists monoclonal antibody cocktail? What makes Delta+ a concern is that it has picked up a key new mutation in the S protein according to scientists at Delhi’s CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology. This allows it to evade an immune response. The new variant is also potentially resistant to monoclonal antibody cocktail, which has been hailed as a cure.\||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/enhanced-delta-covid-19-variant-seen-in-karnataka-five-other-states-997560.html
15-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM B S Yediyurappa hints at further relaxation in Covid-19 restrictions in Karnataka||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday indicated that there will be further relaxation in lockdown restrictions in the state after June 21, when the current Covid-19 guidelines come to an end. "After analysing the situation today and tomorrow, we will look into what is to be done, with the situation improving, and what all to be relaxed further and we will do it," Yediyurappa said in response to a question about the next phase of unlocking in the state. According to official sources, the chief minister is likely to take a decision in this regard, after taking into account advice by the state's Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), consisting of experts, and after consulting senior ministers and officials of his government, before the end of this week. The government had last week issued fresh guidelines that extended the Covid-19-induced lockdown measures in 11 districts, which have a high positivity rate, till June 21, while some relaxations were announced in the rest of the state from June 14. It had also said that the Covid-19 curfew (daily) will be imposed from 7 pm to 5 am and the weekend curfew will be imposed from 7 pm on Friday to 5 am on Monday, after June 14.  The eleven districts where strict lockdown measures have continued are Chikmagalur, Shivamogga, Davangere, Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Hassan, Dakshina Kannada, Bengaluru Rural, Mandya, Belagavi and Kodagu. Among the relaxations announced by the government in the remaining 19 districts of the state include the opening of parks and industrial units with riders, extending the duration of shops selling essential goods, permission for autos and taxis to ply with a maximum of two passengers, among others. The relaxation in lockdown measures is in place from 6 am on June 14 to 6 am on June 21. The Karnataka government had initially announced 14 days 'close-down' from April 27 but subsequently imposed a complete lockdown from May 10 to May 24 as the Covid-19 cases continued to spike. Citing lockdown yielding results and experts' advice, it was further extended till June 7 and then again till June 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-hints-at-further-relaxation-in-covid-19-restrictions-in-karnataka-997735.html
15-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||DKS demands Ram Mandir trust to return donations||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar on Tuesday demanded Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust to return the donations received from devotees and others. Speaking to reporters after meeting Suttur seer Shivaratri Deshikendra Swami in Mysuru he said,''The trust members have shamed the nation and its culture by misusing the funds donated in good faith for the construction of Ram Mandir. The Union government and the Uttar Pradesh government should refund the donations." “People of all sections of the society have donated between Rs 1 to Rs 10 to lakhs of rupees. It is for the proposed Ram Mandir and not for money laundering. They have cheated the people and also the God,” Shivakumar said. “In the last one year, the price of petrol has been hiked 51 times. In a span of just one month, it has been increased 17 times. Petroleum products are cheaper in many other nations, including the USA, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Nepal. But, Indians are looted by hiking the price of petroleum products. The BJP-led NDA government is a pick-pocket dispensation,” he said. Shivakumar said that the recent squabble between two IAS in Mysuru was proof that the administrative machinery in Karnataka had collapsed. “If such incidents happen in a district like Mysuru what will be the condition of other districts? There is no coordination between Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and his ministers. The CM is holding meetings as per his convenience. Where are the ministers?” he asked. On the delayed announcement of a compensation of Rs 1 lakh to BPL families whose breadwinners die due to Covid-19, he asked the government to reimburse the bills paid to private hospitals for treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dks-demands-ram-mandir-trust-to-return-donations-997766.html
15-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Now, you can buy liquor from clubs across Karnataka||Karnataka on Tuesday allowed clubs to sell liquor while maintaining that “no other activities” will be permitted there.  Clubs refer to those that have a CL-4 excise licence to sell liquor.  “Takeaway of liquor permitted from clubs strictly adhering to Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, no other activities permitted in the clubs,” said an addendum to the Covid-19 containment guidelines issued by Principal Secretary (Revenue) N Manjunatha Prasad.   Till now, the government had permitted only retail liquor shops (CL-2 and CL-11C) to sell alcohol. Citizens are permitted to buy liquor from these stores between 6 am and 2 pm throughout the week, according to guidelines that are valid till June 21.  The addendum issued Tuesday also allowed offices of the Department of Space located in Bengaluru and those of the Principal Accountant General to function with 50 per cent staff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/now-you-can-buy-liquor-from-clubs-across-karnataka-997783.html
15-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Fund crunch hits K'taka govt scheme to provide eggs to pregnant women, kids||The state government’s ambitious programme of providing eggs for ensuring adequate nutrition to pregnant women and children between 3 and 6 years has hit a roadblock owing to insufficient allocation and irregular disbursal of funds. As the money released is inadequate, anganwadi workers are forced to spend out of their pockets to keep the government programme running, workers lamented. This comes even as Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has directed the anganwadi workers to focus on nutrition of children ahead of the third wave of Covid-19. The government provides up to 25 eggs per month for pregnant women, and 20 for children between three and six years. However, the government provides only Rs 5 per egg, while the market price ranges anywhere between Rs 6 and Rs 8. Not only are anganwadi workers bearing the cost difference from their own pockets, even the allocated funds are not released for months together, the workers said.  According to the recent National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5), during 2019-20 about 35.4% of Karnataka’s children up to 5 years are stunted, 19.5% are wasted and close to half of the pregnant women (45.7%) between 15 and 49 years are anaemic. Even though the government provides rice, pulses and other food material to these beneficiaries, eggs are an important source of nutrition. Anganwadi workers said they had seen visible improvement of health in beneficiaries consuming eggs regularly.  Sunanda H S, general secretary of Karnataka State Anganwadi Workers’ Association told DH that in many districts the government had not released funds for 3-4 months at a stretch. “We wanted to stop the supply of eggs altogether as our workers were digging into their salaries to keep this running. However, owing to the pandemic, we decided that we should ensure adequate nutrition to pregnant women and young children,” she said. Several of them end up spending anywhere between Rs 2,000 and 3,000 from their salaries, to ensure that all the beneficiaries get eggs as per the scheme envisaged by the government. Considering that an anganwadi worker’s salary is Rs 10,000 and that many of them are the sole breadwinners in their families, it’s a pinch on their pockets, according to Kalavathi, a worker from Biligere project, Nanjangud taluk.  The coastal districts face an additional challenge as the price of eggs goes up during monsoon. “Since fish isn’t available in this season, the price of eggs goes up to Rs 8 per egg,” said Susheela Nada from Udupi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fund-crunch-hits-ktaka-govt-scheme-to-provide-eggs-to-pregnant-women-kids-997820.html
15-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Won't ply buses even after Karnataka unlock, say private operators||The private bus operators have decided not to resume operations even if the government relaxed lockdown measures. The Karnataka Private Bus Owners’ Federation president Rajaverma Ballal, in a press release, stated that the state government had not come to rescue of private bus operators during the Covid crisis. “The government did not come to our rescue even though we have been reeling under crisis for the past one year. While diesel prices have skyrocketed, the government is not permitting to increase the bus fare We are not ready to suffer more losses. Therefore, the government should call for talks and hear our grievances,” the press release said. The press release said that the private bus operators had now parked their buses in sheds declaring them not worthy for use and have submitted document to the transport department for tax exemption. Now, thousands of rupees have to be spent to bring the vehicles back on to roads. More than 50,000 workers of private bus transports are in trouble due to loss of livelihood. The government, which declared Covid relief for workers of all other sectors, gave no aid for the private bus staff.  “We have extended a helping hand when the government was facing trouble. Now it is the turn of the government to pay us back failing which we will not ply the buses,” the Federation said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/wont-ply-buses-even-after-karnataka-unlock-say-private-operators-997906.html
15-06-2021||West||Rickshaw Ambulance: Now, autos with oxygen facility in Pune||Taking the concept of autorickshaw ambulances further, businessman Dhananjay Datar, popularly known as Masala King, has spearheaded an initiative called ‘Rickshaw Ambulance’ which is fitted with oxygen cylinders and other facilities for Covid-19 patients. Datar, CMD, Al Adil Group, UAE, jointly promoted the facility along with Swadesh Sewa Foundation and Baghtoy Rickshawwalla Forum -- both Pune-based NGOs. Under this initiative, a fleet of 25 autorickshaw ambulances equipped with oxygen cylinders and other medical equipment has been readied for transporting the Covid patients who are in critical condition and need oxygen while shifting them from their homes to a nearby hospital. These rickshaw ambulances will provide service initially in the sister-cities of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad and surrounding areas, including Mulshi, Mawal, and cities like Bhor, Ahmednagar and Sangli. The promoters have set a goal to increase the number of rickshaw ambulances from 25 to 100 in the near future. “Since the pandemic is not over yet, we should be more alert to provide medical care to the needy sections of society. We should not forget the miserable conditions of patients who were deprived of oxygen in critical conditions and suffered a lot. I am sure that the rickshaw ambulances will serve the purpose,” said Datar. Elaborating on the concept, Dhanashree Patil, the coordinator of the initiative and founder of Swadesh Sewa Foundation said, “The recent second wave of Covid-19 has made us realise the importance of oxygen in critical conditions. Also, another prominent aspect underlined was the importance of transporting the patients who need oxygen to nearby hospitals immediately. The unavailability of oxygen cylinder or an ambulance in time leads to serious problems and may even cause a patient to lose his life.” According to her, the families of oxygen-deprived patients panic in such situations. Sometimes the problem occurs when a patient’s home is located in a small alley. “Due to the narrow road, ambulances can’t reach many places. These autos are a solution," she said. A team of expert doctors is also contributing and helping in our initiative. This team will continuously remain in touch with rickshaw ambulance drivers and will guide them. The team of drivers is already trained under the guidance of these doctors for carrying out activities like using a pulse oximeter, checking the level of oxygen by handling an oxygen flow meter, and supplying oxygen to the patient in the right quantity. Dr Keshav Kshirsagar, founder of Baghtoy Rickshawwalla Forum said: “Our drivers will transport the patients while adhering to the pandemic guidelines. Every rickshaw ambulance will carry only one patient. The driver will wear a mask and the vehicle will be sanitised completely. This service will be free of cost for those who can’t afford the fare, and for others, it will be moderate.” Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rickshaw-ambulance-now-autos-with-oxygen-facility-in-pune-997650.html
15-06-2021||West||Retired Navi Mumbai police officer kills one son in fit of rage, injures other||In a shocking incident, a retired Assistant Sub-Inspector shot dead one of his sons while another son escaped after he opened fire in a fit of rage at his residence in the adjoining satellite township of Navi Mumbai. The accused Bhagwan Patil (73) lived with his eldest of three sons, daughter-in-law and his wife in Sector 3 in Airoli in Navi Mumbai. His second son Vijay (33) resides at Vasai in Palghar while youngest Sujay (31) stays in Navi Mumbai. The incident took place late on Monday evening when there was an argument within the family over insurance payments. The Rabale police station arrested Patil on charges of murder, attempt to murder under Indian Penal Code, besides the Arms Act. While Vijay took 2 bullets one each in his abdomen and shoulder, one grazed past Sujay inflicting minor injuries. According to the police, the two sons stayed away due to frequent quarrels at home. On Monday, Vijay received a call from an insurance company which was related to Patil’s car. He then called Patil to discuss the same, however, it resulted in an argument. Thereafter, Vijay and Sujay together came to their parents’ house around 6.30 pm after they had a heated argument with their father.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/retired-navi-mumbai-police-officer-kills-one-son-in-fit-of-rage-injures-other-997675.html
15-06-2021||West||Descendants of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj meet over Maratha reservation||In a significant development, the two law-maker descendants of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj met in Pune to take forward the demand of reservation for the Maratha community. The descendants of the legendary Maratha warrior - Chhatrapati Udayanraje Bhosale of Satara and Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje Bhosale of Kolhapur - met in Pune, the cultural capital of Maharashtra. While Chhatrapati Udayanraje is a BJP Rajya Sabha member, Sambhaji Chhatrapati is a President-nominated Rajya Sabha member. The Monday meeting of the two 13th descendants of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharashtra is being described as significant as it comes barely a week after a delegation of the Maharashtra government led by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi. “The demand for the reservation to the Maratha community has been pending for long…we met to discuss the issue and talked about how to take it forward,” said Chhatrapati Udayanraje. “We had a detailed discussion over the issue of Maratha quota and almost on all the major points we are on the same page," said Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati. The duo demanded that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government should convene a special session of the Maharashtra legislature to discuss the issue. “The state government lacks the will to find a solution to the reservation issue. If it continues to delay the decision on the demands of the Maratha community, it will lead to violence. The government will be responsible,” said Chhatrapati Udayanraje, adding that it would be very difficult for them to pacify the community. On his part, Sambhaji Chhatrapati urged the government to seek clarification from the Supreme Court regarding the jobs of those who were selected before the interim stay order on the Maratha reservation in September last year. Last month, the Supreme Court struck down the 2018 Maharashtra law granting quota to Marathas in admissions to colleges and government jobs, terming it as "unconstitutional", and held there were no exceptional circumstances to breach the 50 per cent reservation cap set by the 1992 Mandal Commission verdict.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/descendants-of-chhatrapati-shivaji-maharaj-meet-over-maratha-reservation-997697.html
15-06-2021||West||New modus operandi of drug-mixed cakes baffles NCB in Mumbai||The sensational discovery of “cakes with drugs” in Mumbai has shocked the investigators, prompting the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to intensify the probe. On Saturday, the federal anti-drug agency arrested three persons after a raid in a bakery at Orlem, Malad in Mumbai. During the raid conducted on the bakery on Saturday night, ‘brownie weed cakes’, ‘edible pot brownie' and ‘weed pot brownie’ weighing 830 grams along with 35 gram of marijuana were seized. In the last three days of investigations, the NCB has found that custom-made drug cakes were being delivered to some high-profile people. A massive manhunt has been launched to track down the “mastermind” behind the racket. The NCB intercepted three individuals, including a woman and Jagat Chaurasia, who has been identified as the supplier. Chaurasia was arrested in Bandra on the same night and found to be in possession of 125 grams of marijuana. “This is the first-of-its-kind case that we have detected…further investigations were in progress,” NCB’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede said. “This is the first case in India in which the edible weed is used for baking cake. One may not be able to distinguish between regular baked goods and those containing cannabinoids which tend to have a slightly green tinge and often emit a faint cannabis smell,” NCB sources said. “A cannabis edible or edible weed pot brownie is a food product (either homemade or produced commercially) that contains cannabis extract as an active ingredient. Edible weed pots are a way to consume cannabis. Cannabis edibles may affect people for a longer period than smoked cannabis,” a NCB statement said. “The important base to all food edibles is that it has fat that has been infused with THC (a psychoactive compound in cannabis). In other words, any food that contains butter, oil, milk, or any fatty substance can be turned into an edible. Examples of cannabis-infused foods include baked goods, candy, potato chips, and more,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/new-modus-operandi-of-drug-mixed-cakes-baffles-ncb-in-mumbai-997705.html
15-06-2021||West||NIA arrests 2 more in Ambani bomb scare case||The NIA has arrested two more persons in connection with the twin cases of planting a gelatin sticks-laden car near the residence of India’s top businessman and the murder of the car owner Mansukh Hiren. The two accused were identified as Santosh Atmaram Shelar and Anand Pandurang Jadhav. Both are residents of Kurar village in Malad suburb of Mumbai. They were produced before a special NIA court, which has remanded them to the federal agency’s custody till June 21. The duo was suspected to the part of the conspiracy. However, the exact details of their roles are not yet available. Besides them, five persons including dismissed Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze has been arrested by the NIA. It may be recalled, last week, the special court in Mumbai had last week gave 60 days extension to the NIA to file its charge sheet. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nia-arrests-2-more-in-ambani-bomb-scare-case-997709.html
15-06-2021||West||Contractor's employee 'sick' after Shiv Sena MLA makes him sit on water-logged road||Days after the supervisor for a civic contractor was forced to sit on a waterlogged road and garbage was thrown at him, at the behest of a Shiv Sena MLA in Mumbai, he claimed to have contracted an infection and developed difficulty in breathing after the incident. Justifying his act, Chandivali MLA Dilip Lande had said the contractor was supposed to clean the nullah in Sanjay Nagar area in Kurla properly which he had not done leading to water-logging during rains. After the video of Saturday's incident went viral, Lande said he wanted the "contractor" to realise his responsibility. However, it turned out that the man who was made to sit on the waterlogged road was Narpat Kumar (26), a temporary supervisor working with a civic contractor. Kumar told PTI that he had filed a written complaint about the incident with the Ghatkopar police station. "I have contracted some kind of infection. I am also facing difficulty in breathing after the incident," he claimed. According to Kumar, he was admitted to a private hospital in suburban Borivali on Saturday night and discharged on Monday night. "I am going back to my native place in UP today. My family was shocked when they learnt about the incident after watching the video and they haven't slept for the past two days. Therefore, I am going to see them," he said. Kumar said he started working with the contractor just a month ago after returning from his village in Uttar Pradesh, but the last week's incident left him shocked. He claimed Lande and his supporters had also threatened him.   In his complaint with the police, Kumar stated the concerned drain was cleaned just eight days before the incident, but somebody again dumped garbage into it. In the video, Lande can be heard telling the man, later identified as Kumar, to sit down in the water and asked some civic workers present there to throw garbage on him. "Why did your boss not come? Sit there and call your boss. I have been calling your boss for the past one hour and he did not turn up. There has been water-logging here for the past eight days. Do the cleaning work now. Sit here until your boss comes,” Lande had said. Speaking to reporters, Lande later said, "The contractor was supposed to clean Sanjay Nagar nullah, which he has not done properly. When the area started getting water-logged during the rain, I called him, but he did not come. When some Shiv Sainiks and I started working towards clearing the drain and the road, the contractor arrived." The MLA's act invited criticism from Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council Pravin Darekar who demanded that the Maharashtra Chief Minister clarify if such behaviour was justified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/contractors-employee-sick-after-shiv-sena-mla-makes-him-sit-on-water-logged-road-997715.html
15-06-2021||West||Maharashtra govt pushes for mega township near Mumbai||The City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) has given a major push to the Navi Mumbai Airport Notified Influenced Area (NAINA), a massive township that is coming up around the upcoming airport near Mumbai. The Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA), greenfield international airport is coming up at Ulwe Kopar-Panvel in the Raigad district. The NAINA project is to be developed over 371 sq km land – covering 175 villages – surrounding the new airport. Among the 11 town planning schemes proposed under this project, plan 1-3 are being implemented at various levels while CIDCO has appealed to the landowners under plan no. 4-11 to submit their consent letters at the earliest for prioritising the development. “CIDCO aims for fast and transparent development of NAINA town development plans. This project will prove to be unique in the town development sector, along with the participation and cooperation of landowners,” said Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, VC & MD, CIDCO. “CIDCO will be developing this environment-friendly, modern and well planned equipped with residential, commercial, educational facilities. CIDCO will act as a facilitator for this project,” said Dr Mukherjee. The main feature of town development plans under the NAINA project is that it will be developed on a participatory basis rather than land acquisition. The landowners under this scheme will contribute equal lands. Landowners coming under a town planning scheme will get a 40 per cent developed plot from their original land and the carpet area will be the same as the original land. Thus, landowners will gain a complete return on their lands. CIDCO will develop roads, playgrounds, schools, gardens, growth centres and facilities over the remaining 60 per cent of land. Landowners will surely get 40 per cent of their land, even if the land is affected by any reservation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-pushes-for-mega-township-near-mumbai-997784.html
15-06-2021||West||Three terrorists sentenced to 10 years of imprisonment||A special court in Mumbai has sentenced three persons to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment for conspiring and hatching a conspiracy to target top Hindu leaders, politicians, police officers and journalists across big Indian cities like Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. The three convicts are - Mohammed Akram alias Imran Khan alias Khaled and Mohammed Muzammil, Mohammed Sadiq. They are members of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Harkat-ul-Jihad-e-Islami (HUJI). Additional Sessions Judge D E Kothalikar, who presides over a special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court, found them guilty under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Arms Act. However, two others - Mohammad Irfan and Mohammad Illiyas - were acquitted for want of evidence. They were arrested by the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) of the Maharashtra Police on 31 August 2012 in what is known as the Nanded LeT case. On 24 June 2013, the NIA took over the investigations of the case. Investigations have revealed that Mohammed Akram went to Saudi Arabia under the guide of seeking employment as a driver with the help of wanted accused Mohammed Abdul  Majeed, who hails from Hyderabad and now settled in Riyadh in Saudi Arabia. During his stay there, Mohammed Akram was introduced to various LeT operatives including absconding accused Siddiqui bin Usman alias Abu Hanzala alias Abdul Bari, Furkhan Bhai alias Abdullah alias Abu Saad alias Afzal alias Akbar, both residents of Hyderabad and Mohammed Saeed Faisal alias Ustad alias Umar alias Zaikr, a native of Bengaluru, now settled in Saudi Arabia. “The accused, including Mohammed Akram, had held conspiracy meetings in Riyadh and Dammam, Saudi Arabia, to target top Hindu politicians, politicians, police officers and journalists in various parts of India including Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Nanded,” the NIA said. Mohammed Akram was tasked to identify the “suitable targets” to old colleagues from Nanded Mohammed Muzammil and Mohammed Sadiq. They travelled to various places but were subsequently arrested in India before they could execute the conspiracy, the NIA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/three-terrorists-sentenced-to-10-years-of-imprisonment-997832.html
