16-06-2021||Analysis||Jitin Prasada exits Cong in UP, party gets a shiver in Rajasthan||Halfway through its term, the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in Rajasthan appears to be approaching an air pocket again as the Sachin Pilot issue resurfaces. Pilot, who was Deputy Chief Minister of Rajasthan, had staged a rebellion less than a year ago, in July-August 2020, but had walked back into the party after its central leadership assured him that his demands would be addressed. The last week exit of yet another ‘young’ leader of the Congress in another state – Jitin Prasada, for long considered to be close to Rahul Gandhi, left the party to join the BJP in Uttar Pradesh – gave Pilot an opportunity to remind the party leadership that the assurances given to him had not been kept. This time, though, Pilot let MLAs supporting him do the talking. As soon as Prasada announced his exit from Congress, the media immediately smelled the trouble brewing in Rajasthan. Sure enough, MLAs of the Pilot camp went public with their grievance, making statements on public platforms and social media. Pilot himself, however, was attempting to douse the fire before it went out of control, attending the Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee's virtual meeting, led by state party president Govind Singh Dotasra, around the same time as Prasada formally joined the BJP last Wednesday. Two days later, Pilot participated in a Congress protest against the Centre over rising fuel prices. MLAs loyal to Pilot were present at the protest, including Mukesh Bhakar, Ramniwas Gawriya, Hemaram Choudhary and former MLA Rameshwar Dudi. Interestingly, in late May, Hemaram Choudhary had submitted his resignation from the Assembly to the Speaker. Choudhary said he had been anguished over some issues and the alleged stoppage of development work in his constituency. Meanwhile, Chaksu MLA Ved Prakash Solanki has alleged that some Congress MLAs from both the Pilot and Gehlot camps were talking about their phones being tapped. Choudhary and Solanki were among the 18 MLAs who were part of Pilot’s rebel group last year. Pilot had only days before Prasada’s exit reminded his party leadership, during an interview to an English daily, that the issues he had flagged last year had not yet been resolved. Amid growing impatience in his camp over the delay in cabinet expansion and other appointments, Pilot flew to Delhi on Friday, reportedly to meet the Congress high command. Earlier that day, responding to a journalist’s question on a claim made by UP BJP leader Rita Bahuguna Joshi that he, too, would soon join her party, Pilot retorted: “I have also heard this. Rita Bahuguna Joshi has said that she has spoken with Sachin, it is possible that she has spoken with Sachin Tendulkar. She doesn’t have the guts to speak with me.” "A three-member panel was appointed to address (Pilot’s) demands, but it has not met since August. It's been almost 11 months and MLAs feel that we are being neglected," a senior Congress leader told DH on condition of anonymity. More recently, it was expected that the matter would be resolved after by-elections in Rajasthan in April. Two months have passed since, but the Congress panel – one of whose members, Ahmed Patel, who was Sonia Gandhi’s go-to man for political troubleshooting, died of Covid in November last – has not uttered a word on its recommendations.    Having done nothing to resolve the Pilot issue, the Congress once again finds itself facing the tough challenge of keeping its Rajasthan unit, and government, together. While the rift between the two camps is widening, its impact is being felt on governance. Nine ministerial berths have been vacant for over a year now, and those departments are being run by bureaucrats. These portfolios, which were headed by Pilot and two of his loyalists, Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena, include the PWD department, Rural Development, Tourism, Panchayati Raj, Food and Civil Supplies, etc. Patience, says Congress Accommodating Pilot loyalists within the party's organisational structure and the government could calm tempers. Congress spokesperson Supriya Srinate, however, recently counselled patience, saying that the party had made Pilot the country's youngest deputy CM and so he should wait if he wants more. Such statements aren’t exactly endearing to Pilot’s MLAs. Pilot’s loyalists, who supported him during the political tussle last year and were left in the lurch at the end of it, are irate over the delay in cabinet expansion and other appointments. "Our patience has run out. A cabinet expansion that was on the cards has been pending for the last one year. It is clear that CM Gehlot is resisting it. Even party postings have been delayed. Moreover, half of the commissions are being headed by bureaucrats,” another Congress MLA from the Pilot camp told DH on condition of anonymity. Other than Pilot camp MLAs, the six former BSP MLAs who supported the Gehlot government during the political storm last year, are also waiting for cabinet expansion. But Gehlot isn’t about to give in to Pilot. His camp is making attempts to win over Pilot loyalists to their side. "The cabinet expansion could have helped bring about a truce, but it has been delayed due to Covid and the bypolls. The Pilot loyalists, who claim that they are not being heard, should realise that the way they went about the revolt last year was wrong. Instead of reaching out to their own party leaders, they reached out to the BJP. In Punjab, the crisis in Congress was solved in 10 days because Navjot Singh Sidhu reached out to Capt Amarinder Singh, not to the BJP,” senior political analyst Om Saini said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/analysis/jitin-prasada-exits-cong-in-up-party-gets-a-shiver-in-rajasthan-998231.html
16-06-2021||First Edit||G7 address: That language sounded strange, Mr PM||We live in a linguistically and semantically challenged world where words mean exactly the opposite, mean different things to different people, or are empty sounds with no meaning. It is a matter of debate whether the politicisation of languages has created entire new languages of falsehood and misrepresentation, but there is no doubt that the new lexicon is used to misrepresent some of the great ideas of humankind which have evolved through history and civilisation. So, freedom sometimes means unfreedom, democracy means dictatorship, and any year becomes 1984. That is why Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s words at the G-7 summit sound as strange as a different language from a different country, spoken by a strange leader. Modi told the leaders of the world’s major democracies that India is a natural ally in defending the shared values from a host of threats stemming from “authoritarianism, terrorism and violent extremism, disinformation and economic coercion”. He highlighted India’s civilisational commitment to democracy, freedom of thought and liberty. The Prime Minister also endorsed an ‘Open Societies’ declaration which states that “We are at a critical juncture, facing threats to freedom and democracy from rising authoritarianism, electoral interference...manipulation of information, including disinformation, online harms and politically motivated Internet shutdowns, human rights violations and abuses,” and commits the signatories to “freedom of expression, both online and offline”. The Prime Minister may have sought to deceive himself or to deceive others when he signed the pledge because most of the threats to free society listed in the declaration are real in India, with support and endorsement from the State, members of the government and leaders of the ruling party. Criticism is spelt as sedition, citizens are sent to jail for speaking against the government, opposition leaders are raided because they are in the opposition, popular mandates are upturned and institutions that underpin democracy are weakened. Last year, India had the most internet shutdowns in the world. All freedoms have declined. Disinformation is used to drown facts and disguise truth. The Prime Minister would agree that all this does not go well with the letter and spirit of the pledge he signed, without violence to the meaning of the words. If he means to honour the pledge he made at the high table, he should live down much of the last seven years of his governance. He should go back to a book the people of this country gave unto themselves many years ago, which is a much better guide to open society than the G-7 document, and honour the pledges made therein. If he does so, he can save the commitment he has twice made to protect, preserve and defend that book and his signature on the G-7 paper from the ironies and contradictions they are caught in now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/g7-address-that-language-sounded-strange-mr-pm-998232.html
16-06-2021||In Perspective||Israel’s coalition of patriotic traitors||Israel’s new government must be a puzzle for anyone who thinks of the Jewish state as a racist, fascistic, apartheid enterprise. Issawi Frej is Arab and Muslim and used to work for the Peace Now movement. Now he’s Israel’s minister for regional cooperation. Pnina Tamano-Shata is Black: The Mossad rescued her, along with thousands of other Ethiopian Jews, from hunger and persecution when she was a small child. She’s the minister for immigration and absorption. Nitzan Horowitz is the first openly gay man to lead an Israeli political party. He’s the health minister. At least one deputy minister, as yet unnamed, is expected to be a member of the Raam party, which is an outgrowth of the major Islamist political group in Israel. As for Benjamin Netanyahu, “King Bibi” has finally left office — churlishly, bitterly, pompously — but in keeping with the normal democratic process. He faces criminal indictments in multiple cases. His immediate predecessor as prime minister, Ehud Olmert, spent 16 months in prison on corruption charges. It’s some fascist state that subjects its leaders to the rule of law and the verdicts of a court. Meanwhile, Mahmoud Abbas, president of the Palestinian Authority, “postponed” elections in April. He’s in the 17th year of his elected four-year term of office. A new government, even one as fragile and fractious as Israel’s, is always an opportunity for a course correction. But the course correction Israel most needs is not the one its critics generally suppose. Netanyahu lasted in office as long as he did not because Israelis wanted a strongman or someone who would crush the Palestinians. He lasted because he was, in many ways, good at the job. Over his 12 continuous years in office, the Israeli economy roughly doubled in size. Last year’s Abraham Accords brought the overarching Arab-Israeli conflict to a near conclusion, even if the Israeli-Palestinian conflict remains unsolved. Despite periodic battles with Hamas, there were no all-out wars. Israelis were more secure in their persons during the Netanyahu years than they had been in the decade prior. And Israel’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign was the envy of the world. Against Iran, Israel conducted arguably the most successful covert-ops campaign in modern history. With respect to Palestinians, Netanyahu avoided both the territorial concessions demanded by the left and the reoccupation of Gaza desired by the extreme right. Towards the United States, Netanyahu defied Barack Obama and got what he wanted from Donald Trump: The American Embassy in Jerusalem, recognition of Israeli sovereignty in the Golan Heights, and US withdrawal from the 2015 Iran nuclear deal. None of this may square with the wishes of Western elites or progressives, whose obsession is for a Palestinian state. But what Israelis wanted in the last election wasn’t a Palestinian state, which is a good idea in theory but (for now) a terrible idea in practice. What Israelis want is a better form of politics, the one area in which Netanyahu conspicuously failed. It’s a politics freed of his habits of demagogy, vilification, sleaziness and sheer pettiness, which is ultimately what brought him down. That’s the promise of the new government. It’s led by Naftali Bennett, a right-winger and former director of the settlers’ council who is the first religiously observant Orthodox Jew to be prime minister. It’s anchored by Yair Lapid, a centrist and former TV journalist who epitomises secular Israel. It got into power thanks to the support of the Raam party’s Mansour Abbas, a religiously conservative Muslim who has implicitly given a stamp of endorsement to a government whose policies — especially toward Palestinians — he surely opposes. It includes members who are to the right of Likud and to the left of Labor. It’s difficult to think of any coalition government, in any country, that is as ideologically diverse. It’s also easy to suppose that nothing holds it together beyond a shared loathing of Netanyahu, who remains the Leader of the Opposition. It wouldn’t take much to bring the new government down and return him to power. But there is also an opportunity in the new government, and it holds lessons for other Western democracies gripped by partisanship and paralysis. Nearly all members of the new coalition had to sacrifice a point of political or moral principle, break ranks with some of their own constituents and get branded as traitors to their respective movements in order to make this coalition possible. They are ideological turncoats, at least to those who think of ideological purity as a virtue. Being willing to abandon a ferocious conviction for the sake of a pragmatic compromise used to be considered a virtue in democracy. Ideological treason can also be a form of civic patriotism. In what’s supposed to be one of the free world’s most factionalised, tribalised, internally divided countries — Jews, Arabs, secular, national-religious, ultra-Orthodox, Mizrahi, Russian, Druze and so on — an Israeli government is giving civic nationalism a go. It may or may not work. But like so much else in Israel, it deserves more respect than it is likely to get.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/israel-s-coalition-of-patriotic-traitors-998234.html
16-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tigress found dead in Bandipur Reserve area||A 10-year-old tigress was found dead near the Olakallare forest area, which comes under the Bandipur Tiger Reserve in Gundlupet, Chamarajanagar district. A territorial fight is suspected to be the reason behind its death, according to Forest Department officials.  Veterinarian Dr Wasim Mirza, who conducted the post-mortem, said that all the organs of the tigress are intact. The exact reason for the death will be known after the results, according to Bandipur Project Tiger Director S R Natesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tigress-found-dead-in-bandipur-reserve-area-998113.html
16-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid patient, who was sexually assaulted, dies of infection||A 25-year-old Covid-19 positive woman, who was allegedly assaulted by a private ambulance driver, died of the infection at Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) on Wednesday. On June 8, Premakumar alias Pintu (25), a private ambulance driver and filter bed resident, allegedly attempted to force himself on the woman by removing the urine pipe in the hospital. He fled from the scene after the patient woke up and screamed for help. Brahnapur police arrested the accused and remanded him to judicial custody. "Bouncers have been appointed in GIMS to avoid clashes between the GIMS staff and the attendants of the patients. Their services have not been terminated despite a clamour that police or private security staff should be appointed in lieu of the bouncers. "How did a private ambulance driver go into Covid ward and attempt rape? Who is responsible for the security lapse? Why did senior officials keep silent despite the incident," asked Dalit Madiga Samnvaya Samiti State President Lingaraj Tarafile. GIMS Director Kavita Patil was not available for comment despite repeated calls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-patient-who-was-sexually-assaulted-dies-of-infection-998183.html
16-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||19 families threaten mass suicide over denial of land||Frustrated by social boycott and denial of farming land by taluk administration, around 19 families belonging to low caste have threatened mass suicide in Mayatammana Muchudi village of Shikaripur taluk on Wednesday.  A team of officials led by tahsildar Kaviraj destroyed crops grown by these families on 'bagair hukum' land using a tractor. Dejected over it, the families threatened that they would end their lives if farming land is not given to them. Later, the team returned fearing mass suicide. The families have been cultivating 'bagair hukum' land bearing the survey number 128 for the past 40 years.   They had submitted applications seeking title deeds in 1991 but were denied land rights.  They alleged although they have been cultivating on two to three acres of land, the concerned officials allotted the land to all other families citing that it is revenue land. A villager, Veeresh, said, "We are not allowed to work as daily wage workers in the village. Those who hire us are slapped a fine of Rs 25,000. People belonging to upper castes are allotted more than ten acres of land. But we are not allotted even a single acre of land. We too have the right to live on this earth. "So, we must be allotted farming land to earn our livelihood. Tahsildar promised to resolve the issue after MP B Y Raghavendra returned to the taluk from Bengaluru. If we are not allotted land, we would end our lives together," he warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/19-families-threaten-mass-suicide-over-denial-of-land-998220.html
16-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two farmers electrocuted in Shikaripur||Two farmers were electrocuted while they were working at a farming land in Karnataka's Shikaripur taluk on Wednesday.  The deceased have been identified as Kumara Naik (35) and Shekhara Naik (35), residents of Harogoppa camp, Shikaripur. They came in contact with an electric wire of a borewell that was lying on the ground due to strong wind and died. Rural police registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-farmers-electrocuted-in-shikaripur-998229.html
16-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Elephant found dead near Tiger Reserve area||The carcass of a male elephant was found in the K Gudi range on Tuesday, at a distance of 100 metres from the Tiger Reserve area. The range comes under the Biligiri Ranganathaswamy Temple (BRT) Tiger Reserve limits. It is said that the tusker might have been around 10 years old. There were no external injuries found on the carcass, according to Forest department personnel. BRT Deputy Conservator of Forest G Santosh Kumar said, "Post-mortem has been conducted on the elephant. It is suspected that the jumbo might have died of excessive consumption of tender bamboo shoots, resulting in the accumulation of cyanogenic glycoside, and death. The viscera has been sent to the lab for testing", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/elephant-found-dead-near-tiger-reserve-area-998240.html
16-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||It’s true some want B S Yediyurappa gone as Karnataka CM, says Eshwarappa||Senior Karnataka BJP minister K S Eshwarappa on Wednesday admitted that there were calls within the party for Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s removal, and said that the high command would take a final decision on this.  Eshwarappa’s statement comes ahead of BJP national general secretary Arun Singh’s visit to Bengaluru. Singh is in charge of the party’s affairs in Karnataka and he is expected to hold talks with ministers, legislators and party workers during his 3-day visit.  “It’s true that some have proposed that the CM should be changed. Some others want (Yediyurappa) to continue. Some even went to Delhi,” Eshwarappa, the rural development & panchayat raj minister, told reporters. He also conceded that there were problems in the party. “I’d be lying if I said there are no problems. Singh is coming expressly to solve the problems,” he said.  Eshwarappa is the second minister to have publicly conceded that there are attempts being made to unseat Yediyurappa. Late last month, Revenue Minister R Ashoka had said there were attempts to have Yediyurappa removed.  Eshwarappa is known to have a love-hate relationship with Yediyurappa. In April, Eshwarappa went to Governor Vajubhai R Vala with a formal complaint against Yediyurappa’s “direct interference” in the affairs of his department, which was an unprecedented show of discord.  “MLAs, ministers and office-bearers will meet Singh and express whatever problems they have,” Eshwarappa said. When asked if there would be a change in leadership after Singh’s visit, he said: “I don’t know. Whatever the high command decides will be final.” According to Eshwarappa, problem-solving was a virtue in the BJP. “Because there are problems, the national leadership is stepping in to solve them. This shows that the BJP is a party where there’s someone to sort out issues,” he said. “Look at the Congress. Chamarajpet MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan wants Siddaramaiah to contest from his constituency. He even says Siddaramaiah will be the next CM. If Khan is deciding everything, what’s the need for a formal party set up,” he asked.  Meanwhile, BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel told reporters that Yediyurappa will continue as CM for the next two years. He said Singh will hold talks with ministers. “Whoever wants to meet Singh can do so. MLAs can talk to him individually,” he said.  On June 18, Singh will take part in the state BJP core committee meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/it-s-true-some-want-b-s-yediyurappa-gone-as-karnataka-cm-says-eshwarappa-998047.html
16-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress takes dig at Arun Singh over his visit to Karnataka||The Congress on Wednesday took a a dig at BJP national general secretary incharge of Karnataka Arun Singh over his visit to the state, claiming that instead of serving the people, he was coming to resolve bickering within the ruling party. Arun Singh is slated to hold a meeting with Ministers of B S Yediyurappa cabinet on Wednesday. He will confer with the MLAs of the ruling party on Thursday and address the party's state core committee on Friday before winding up his three-day visit. Amidst speculations in some quarters about leadership change in Karnataka, Singh had recently ruled out replacing the Chief Minister and asserted that Yediyurappa will continue in the top post. A section of the BJP is believed to be pushing for unseating Yediyurappa. Earlier, Yediyurappa had said that he will continue in the top post as long as the BJP high command has confidence in him, and he had no confusion about it. The Congress in Karnataka tweeted ahead of Singh's visit: "Dear Arun Singh, you are rushing here to hold a 'Platform Panchayat meeting' (Katte Panchayat) but don't you have the time to address the grievances of people? From the day one of coming to power, this government has been making news about squabbling and not any achievements." The opposition party alleged that the BJP's internal strife has hit a climax at a time when the state was facing serious problems. It charged the BJP with having no time to think about price rise, unemployment, third wave of coronavirus, black fungus disease, hardship faced by farmers, economic downturns, but 'lots of time for power struggle.'||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-takes-dig-at-arun-singh-over-his-visit-to-karnataka-998052.html
16-06-2021||Main Article||Women and work: From Cinderella to Ella||Let us begin with meanings: Cinderella; noun / Cin.der.el.la: One who is used as a drudge by step motherly treatment and suffers undeserved neglect Ella; noun / El.la: One suddenly lifted by perseverance from obscurity to significance Time is of the essence of life and not in recent memory has this manifested in as stark a manner as this past year. Its two principal characteristics— finiteness and irreversibility — make it invaluable, especially for the majority of households for whom the borders between work, family and social life are blurred. Time, in a flailing economy like ours— comprising disparate and desperately poor households — should be viewed as of important economic value to underline the social and economic implications of time allocation. Indeed, several regression models point to the intimate correlation between time use and economic development. In this backdrop, the findings of the ‘Time Use in India - 2019’ Survey (TUS) of the National Statistical Office (NSO) generates important insights with implications for public policy. The TUS is the first national survey of its kind conducted by the NSO and was carried out between January-December 2019. The sample covered about 5,000 villages, 4,000 urban blocks and over 138,000 households. The TUS measures participation and time spent by people in India in paid activities, unpaid work, learning, and self-care activities, amongst others. It provides estimates of indicators of time use for both rural and urban areas, with different levels of disaggregation across gender and demography. If put to good use, this data can be invaluable in policy formulation, decision support, and analytics for a wide range of stakeholders, and can help the states to design and implement targeted social and economic interventions, engaging the community. Its standout use are the insights it provides on the widespread gender inequalities related to time allocation, life cycle, and the measure of the economic impact of time use on social development. The findings suggest that there is no more important issue than to find ways to mainstream gender in the labour market and therefore in development praxis. The principal findings from the TUS relate to the asymmetry between paid and unpaid work and between men and women in work and time use, and thus raise important questions. Three highlights from the report suffice for our purpose: First, on average, a woman does over seven hours of unpaid domestic work and care work in a day, relative to a little over two hours by a man. The domestic chores that reduce women to kitchen rags, like Cinderella, include cooking, cleaning, housekeeping and care-giving. How are we going to deal with the unpaid domestic-care work problem in itself? From the woman’s perspective, it is quite simply the problem of time poverty. If all her time in the day goes in unpaid work, leaving her little time to do much else, what might she possibly do to achieve the status of an autonomous economic agent? From the economy’s perspective, this represents an opportunity cost, compelling us to come to terms with how we might value women’s unpaid work in wage terms and ensure their productivity inclusiveness in our economic models. Second, the participation rate for women in employment and related activities is a mere 19 per cent in rural areas and, even worse, an abysmal 16 per cent in urban areas. While rising incomes and education levels can account for some of the observed decline in female labour force participation rate, the evidence points to scarcity of jobs and gender-unequal social norms that severely constrain women’s agency, mobility and work. Evidence also points to discrimination of women in the labour market. Labour market inequality in the context of women and employment is far bigger than mere numbers and encompasses complex issues including the quality of employment, gender wage gap, informality, and the feminisation of work. The central actionable question really is whether we can establish, at least for the informal labour market— more kinds of work and workplaces are being rendered informal— a tax-funded social protection system for women workers.  Third, the participation rate of women in the age group 15-29 in learning activities stands at a measly 22 per cent in rural areas, and a suboptimal 32 per cent in urban areas. This begs the question why, despite the targeted skilling of women, and higher education enrolments, is the female labour force participation rate declining? And in particular, why is the decline sharper in rural India? The consequences, from a public policy and programme design perspective, should not be missed. There is a remarkable mismatch between the work a woman wants to do, and the skill sets she can acquire. So, what should be the pedagogical approach to functional literacy and skill development for women? Time allocation varies across countries, but each society has a unique time-use character— generated by its own culture, traditions, and levels of education— and in India, it is one that renders women non-autonomous, non-economic agents. For too long we have consigned women, with stepmother-like treatment, to the drudgery of unpaid domestic work and undeserved neglect. If there is just one insight that we can draw from the TUS, it is that the future pace and direction of economic growth in India will be predicated in no small measure on two factors: from a quantitative perspective, the direct correlation between the GDP/capita and women’s paid work participation rate; and from a qualitative perspective, the direct correlation between GDP/capita and women’s work-hour productivity. We would do well to focus with singularity of purpose on encouraging women in the workforce across sectors, and at once, on gender sensitive functional literacy and skills. This is an opportunity that State and non-State actors must not let pass, to recognise that work cannot be understood without examining how gender is embedded in all social relations; and that the current development path India is on risks leaving women behind. Together, we must persevere to enable women to transform from Cinderella to Ella. (The writer is Director, Public Affairs Centre)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/women-and-work-from-cinderella-to-ella-998237.html
16-06-2021||Mysuru||Not a time for change in leadership: B C Patil||Karnataka Agriculture Minister V C Patil has said that this is not the right time for a change in leadership. The Minister told reporters that at this time when there is a Covid-19 pandemic, it is not right for a signature campaign demanding a change in leadership. Karnataka BJP in-charge Arun Singh will conduct a meeting of the ministers in Bengaluru and all the issues will be resolved there, he said. He also denied the allegation of Minister K S Eshwarappa that 17 MLAs from JD(S) and Congress, who joined BJP created confusion in the party. "Such question will not arise at this time. Eshwarappa has been supporting us since the beginning," he said. Patil also said that Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar must clear his stand rather than creating confusion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/not-a-time-for-change-in-leadership-b-c-patil-998060.html
16-06-2021||National||Mandatory gold hallmarking to come into force from June 16||The Centre on Tuesday said mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery and artefacts will come into force from June 16 in a phased manner and initially will be implemented in 256 districts. A decision in this regard was taken after a meeting chaired by Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal with industry stakeholders. In November 2019, the government had announced that hallmarking of gold jewellery and artefacts would be made mandatory across the country from January 15, 2021. But the deadline was extended for four months till June 1 and later till June 15 after the jewellers sought more time in view of the pandemic. Gold hallmarking is a purity certification of the precious metal and is voluntary in nature at present. "Mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery is going to come into force from tomorrow, June 16, 2021," Consumer Affairs Secretary Leena Nandan told PTI. It will be implemented in a phased manner and initially in 256 districts of the country which have Assaying marking centres, she said adding that industry concerns were addressed in the meeting. Jewellers with annual turnover of up to Rs 40 lakh will be exempted from mandatory hallmarking, said a statement issued after the meeting. From June 16, jewellers in 256 districts will be allowed to sell only 14, 18 and 22 carats of gold jewellery. The BIS has been running a hallmarking scheme for gold jewellery since April 2000. Around 40 per cent of gold jewellery is being hallmarked currently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mandatory-gold-hallmarking-to-come-into-force-from-june-16-997915.html
16-06-2021||National||Railways plans to boost mobile train radio communications||As the government permits to allocate five MHz spectrum to railways, the national transporter is hoping that it will boost mobile train radio communications and enhance safety and improve movement on its network. The project will considerably boost the safety of trains as well as movement across the network, and it will be completed in the next five years at an estimated investment of Rs 25,000 crore, Sanjeev Mittal, Member Infrastructure, Railway Board, said here. The spectrum will provide long-term evolution (LTE) based seamless communication between staff on running trains and traffic controllers and maintenance personnel, he said. The Union Cabinet recently approved the allocation of 5 MHz spectrum in the 700 MHz band to railways for improving its communication and signalling systems. Mittal said that the spectrum allocation is for public safety and security services at stations and in trains. It brings a strategic shift in the railways' operations and maintenance regime. It will help in improving safety and increasing the line capacity to accommodate more trains using existing infrastructure, he said. The purpose of LTE for the Indian Railways is to provide secure and reliable voice, video and data communication services for operational, safety and security applications, he said. The system will help in the deployment of a modern cab-based signalling system with automatic train protection which will increase safety and throughout train operations and also help during fog, he said. LTE will be used for mission-critical voice communication with seamless connectivity in train operations between the driver, guard, station master, train traffic controller and maintenance staff, the railways said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-plans-to-boost-mobile-train-radio-communications-997922.html
16-06-2021||National||LJP row gets murkier; sexual exploitation charge in Chirag's letter||The escalating family feud in late Ram Vilas Paswan's party could lead to a further ugly turn, whose indication emerged in the letter released on social media by the ousted party President Chirag Paswan. In the letter, Sr Paswan's son alleged that a woman leader of LJP was accusing Prince Raj of sexual exploitation and was engaged in blackmailing. Prince Raj is the son of late Ram Vilas Paswan's younger brother late Ram Chandra Paswan), who is one of the five Lok Sabha MPs of the party, who rebelled against Chirag. "I discussed this matter with you since you are an elder in the party but you ignored even this serious matter.  After you ignored it, I advised Prince to go to the police so that the truth can come out and whoever is guilty gets punished, " he said. Immediately after the letter, a video surfaced on a YouTube channel in which the woman leader, who later joined the JDU, is heard saying she will "reveal many secrets" related to the LJP leadership, when the time comes. The video is an old one. She also says in the video that nobody in LJP appreciated her hard work for the party barring LJP MP Mehboob Ali Kaiser. Kaiser is among the MPs, who have rebelled against Chirag. After Team Chirag announced the expulsion of five Lok Sabha MPs, Paras dismissed it saying, "everybody makes such claims. Lok Sabha is supreme. The Lok Sabha Speaker has accepted our claim to make me as floor leader of the House." After Chirag's letter was out, Paras said "the change of leadership happens in every party. It is part of the democratic system. 99 percent workers, MPs, MLAs wanted the LJP to remain part of the NDA. There was huge anger over the party fighting the Assembly polls outside NDA."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ljp-row-gets-murkier-sexual-exploitation-charge-in-chirags-letter-997923.html
16-06-2021||National||New audio tapes of Sasikala surface on social media||The release of audio tapes of a purported conversation between ousted AIADMK leader V K Sasikala and certain party members on Tuesday may raise a political storm in Tamil Nadu. She criticised the expulsion of the party members and also said that she would have retained AIADMK leader O Panneerselvam as chief minister had he not stepped down. The latest audio clips emerged on social media a day after the AIADMK, which tasted defeat at the hands of archrival DMK after being in power for a decade, expelled 17 members. The AIADMK on Monday, while warning of disciplinary action against those who interacted with the ousted interim general secretary, expelled 17 members, including party spokesman V Pugazhendhi. Most of those expelled were said to have spoken to her. In the clip, Sasikala was purportedly heard saying that she has the responsibility to save the party and re-establish the rule of Amma (late chief minister J Jayalalithaa). "I am confident that I will be able to set the party in order as you are with me. The AIADMK should be strong even if it turns 100 years old. We will definitely bring in Amma's rule," she said. Also, she said she would meet the party workers once the pandemic recedes. "Till then, take care of yourselves and your families, besides those around. Be safe, wear face masks," she urged. "Party members are important to me. I will definitely return," she said. Sasikala announced she will stay away from politics only "with the intention of seeing the AIADMK retain power". Going by the way things are happening (in the party), the time for her to stage a come back has come, she said. To a question from the caller, she said party coordinator O Panneerselvam resigned on his own in February 2017. "I would have retained him, had he not resigned," she was heard saying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-audio-tapes-of-sasikala-surface-on-social-media-997933.html
16-06-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Spinners who can bowl beamers for Cabinet'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has held deliberations with Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J P Nadda amid speculation about a reshuffle in the Union cabinet, an exercise Modi has not undertaken since forming the government for a second time in May 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-spinners-who-can-bowl-beamers-for-cabinet-997946.html
16-06-2021||National||‘I weep all the time’: Trauma lasts beyond India’s Covid peak||By Saritha Rai “I lost my father to Covid, I’m very stressed because I have so many responsibilities.” “I saw so many deaths when I was in the ICU. I wake up to the sound of the ventilator beeps in the night. I don’t know why I’m alive.” “I lost my mother-in-law to Covid. I shouldn’t have argued with her all the time. I feel so guilty that I can’t sleep, I weep all the time.“ This is a sampling of the cries for help from workers in today’s India. The country is going through the world’s worst Covid-19 outbreak, a tragedy exacerbated by the trauma of seeing family and friends suffer as so many other countries emerge from the pandemic. Now Indian tech companies, which support Wall Street banks and Silicon Valley giants, are trying to figure out how to address the mental health fallout for a generation of young workers. Vijay Laxmi has never seen anything like it. The 31-year-old is an in-house psychologist at the tech services giant HCL Technologies Ltd., the source of the testimonials. She now counsels as many as 40 employees a week, four times the number during the first Covid wave last year. She’s had to ration her time and make sessions shorter because of the overwhelming demand. For years, her job involved coaching staff through annual reviews or soothing love-struck employees around Valentine’s Day. Now, she sees people with trauma so debilitating they’re struggling to get through the next day. In one recent case, a 30-something employee was hit with severe insomnia and anxiety after losing her mother-in-law to Covid-19. The two had squabbled constantly and the younger woman felt intense guilt over her behavior. “Employees are gripped by fear from the suddenness and the intensity of the second Covid wave,” she said. “The shortage of ICU beds, oxygen and medical supplies only adds to the anxiety and panic.” While India’s coronavirus outbreak has infected 29 million and left more than 350,000 dead, the effect on citizens’ mental health has spread even wider. Tech companies like HCL realise the psychological impact on workers and their families will endure beyond the pandemic’s peak. HCL and peers like Infosys Ltd. and Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. have long been at the vanguard of employee welfare in India, in part because of a philosophy that a healthy workforce tends to lead to a healthy business. Managers stress work-life balance, while in-house psychologists like Laxmi have been standard for years. But even these companies aren’t sure how to navigate Covid’s desolation. Tens of thousands of employees who worked assiduously though the pandemic’s first wave are now reporting panic attacks, phobia, extreme mood swings and incapacity. The companies’ task is more difficult because employees are toiling through harrowing circumstances while clients in places like New York and San Francisco begin to resume normal lives. “During the weeks when the wave climaxed, many companies estimated a 50% to 60% productivity drop,” said Ashutosh Sharma, vice president and research director at Forrester Research Inc., which studies employee productivity. Amid fears that such issues could damage India’s $194-billion tech services industry -- the country’s most important -- companies are trying everything from more therapy and counseling apps to yoga and mindfulness sessions. They’re even coaching managers to take it easy on staff, at least for now. “So many young people are traumatised after seeing death up close,” said Apparao V.V., chief human resources officer at HCL, whose clients include Cisco Systems Inc., Airbus SE and University of California, Berkeley. “Many don’t recognise what they’re going through.” One relatively new treatment that’s catching on is counseling via smartphone apps, which offer sessions through chatbots or one-to-one coaching with live counselors. Google-backed Wysa, one such startup, has tripled its active users over the past year to 3,00,000. “At least 50% of the workers in any company are dealing with some kind of grief,” said Jo Aggarwal, co-founder and chief executive officer of Wysa, whose AI-guided bot provides 24-hour support. “No company can bury their head in the sand after such a mass tragedy.” The startup has increased its client base from one company pre-Covid to 30 currently. Consultant Accenture Plc, with 2,00,000 staff in India, and analytics provider Fractal Analytics Inc. are among those whose workers are reaching out for help with issues like insomnia, anxiety and grief. Tata Consultancy Services, Asia’s largest outsourcer, is experimenting too. It’s conducting yoga and meditation sessions for employees, and delivering well-being nudges digitally to their desktops. It’s re-training managers to become what they call “Emotional Health first aiders,” so they’ll show more empathy and sensitivity to colleagues stricken with grief and depression. The outsourcer Mphasis Ltd. is treating the crisis like an all-hands emergency. The firm developed its own wellness app called Reach for staff and put together a No-Panic Covid mental wellness handbook. It also set up a telephone support line with professional counselors for its 30,000 employees in May -- which now handles as many as 10 calls an hour. Nitin Rakesh, the company’s CEO, said companies everywhere should give special consideration to the toll of the last 18 months on the human psyche. “This is a time for all of us to be compassionate leaders,” said Rakesh. “The second wave of Covid-19 has disproportionately impacted India, making it imperative to provide timely resources and offer the maximum protection possible to all our colleagues and their families.” Rakesh, who’s based in New York, is personally reaching out to employees every day. There is a cultural hurdle companies need to cross as they help staff. Consulting a psychologist or a psychiatrist is often taboo in India so companies sometimes camouflage their support. Workers are given access to “life coaches,” not psychologists, and they’re measured on a “happiness index,” rather than an anxiety or depression scale. This may be one of the draws of a smartphone app like Wysa. Employees can tap the service with anonymity; if they use an AI bot, they don’t even communicate with another human being. Yet Aggarwal, the startup’s CEO, says the collective trauma that India is going through is also changing the culture of the country. The grief, anxiety and trauma are so widespread there is more openness to treatments. “Something is very different now,” she said. “Covid has opened the doors to workplace conversations about mental health.” There’s a generational issue too. At HCL, the median age of the workforce is 28 so many of the employees who have lost family members and are feeling overwhelmed are quite young. “IT companies will have to lead the way in India in sensitising employers,” said Laxmi. “We have a long way to go.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-weep-all-the-time-trauma-lasts-beyond-india-s-covid-peak-997960.html
16-06-2021||National||Fuel prices up again after a day of remaining static||A day after remaining unchanged following a record hike in rates, fuel prices rose again slightly on June 16, with petrol in Mumbai rising from Rs 102.58 per litre to Rs 102.82 per litre and diesel rising from Rs 94.70 per litre to Rs 94.84 per litre. Petrol in the national capital Delhi is now priced at Rs 96.66 a litre (after a 25 paise rise) while diesel costs Rs 87.41 a litre, up by 13 paise. Bhopal continued to shock with a further increase in petrol prices to Rs 104.85 per litre while diesel is priced at Rs 96.05 per litre. In Bengaluru, the petrol rate was just shy of Rs 100, costing Rs 99.89 per litre and diesel costs Rs 92.66 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. The increase in prices is due to a combination of rising international oil prices and central and state taxes. In the international crude market, oil prices rose on Wednesday, with Brent gaining for a fifth consecutive session, as falling stockpiles and a recovery in demand encouraged investors. Brent crude was up 69 cents, or 0.9 per cent, at $74.68 a barrel by 0200 GMT, having risen 1.6 per cent on Tuesday. US crude gained 66 cents, or 0.9 per cent, to $72.78 a barrel, after rising 1.7 per cent in the previous session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fuel-prices-up-again-after-a-day-of-remaining-static-997963.html
16-06-2021||National||Monuments, museums under ASI to reopen on Wednesday||The ASI had shut down 3,691 monuments and sites from April 15 due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The ASI said in its order that the monuments, sites and museums would be reopened “in strict compliance with the executive orders, if any, issued by State/District Disaster Management Authority”. Tickets to the monuments will be available online and visitors will have to book slots beforehand. Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel on Wednesday said the Ministry had given the go-ahead for their reopening and that visitors would have to follow Covid-19 related protocols. With DHNS inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monuments-museums-under-asi-to-reopen-on-wednesday-997964.html
16-06-2021||National||Twitter loses 'safe harbour' shield in India over non-compliance to IT rules||Twitter has lost its 'safe harbour' protection in India over non-compliance with IT rules and failure to appoint key personnel mandated under the new guidelines, despite repeated reminders, and the platform will now be liable for action under the Indian Penal Code for third party unlawful content, sources said. Earlier this month, the government had given one last chance to Twitter to comply with the new IT rules, that came into effect on May 26, and had issued a stern warning that failure to adhere to the norms will lead to the platform losing exemption from liability under the IT Act. Sources in the government confirmed that Twitter has lost the safe harbour immunity, as it failed to comply with the IT rules, and appoint key executives under the new guidelines. While the resident grievance officer and the nodal contact person nominated by the company, is not an employee of Twitter Inc in India, the Ministry had also not received any concrete information on Chief Compliance Officer, the name, or details, sources said. Another source said that Twitter's intermediary status and the legal shield it had, ended automatically on May 26, given its non-compliance with new guidelines. Same is true for any other social media platform, which has not complied with the requirement under the IT rules. The government has confronted Twitter over multiple instances in the past months, including during the farmers' protest and later when it tagged political posts of several leaders of the ruling party BJP, as "manipulated media", triggering a sharp rebuke from the Centre. The last flashpoint was the delay in complying with the IT rules that mandate large digital platforms to undertake greater due diligence as well as appoint a grievance officer, a nodal officer and a chief compliance officer. These personnel have to be residents of India. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), on June 5, had said that Twitter's refusal to comply with the rules demonstrated the microblogging site's "lack of commitment and efforts towards providing a safe experience for the people of India on its platform". The IT Ministry had earlier questioned Twitter over not providing information about the Chief Compliance Officer as required under the Rules. Also, the resident grievance officer and the nodal contact person nominated by the company, is not an employee of Twitter Inc in India as prescribed in the rules, the ministry had flagged. When contacted, Twitter did not comment on queries related loss of the intermediary status. Twitter on Tuesday said it has appointed an interim Chief Compliance Officer and the details of the official will be shared directly with the IT Ministry soon. The US-based company had assured the Indian government last week that it is in advanced stages of finalising the appointment of chief compliance officer, and that it would submit additional details within a week. That deadline ended on Monday. A Twitter spokesperson on Tuesday said the company continues to make every effort to comply with the new guidelines, and is keeping the IT Ministry apprised of progress at every step of the process. Meanwhile, the government has contended that the office address in India mentioned by Twitter is that of a law firm, which is also not as per the rules. "Despite being operational in India for more than a decade, it is beyond belief that Twitter Inc has doggedly refused to create mechanism that will enable the people of India to resolve their issues on the platform in a timely and transparent manner and through fair processes, by India based, clearly identified resources," the IT ministry had said in its notice earlier this month. The ministry had on June 5, also said that though with effect from May 26, 2021, "consequences follow" given Twitter's non-compliance with rules "however, as a gesture of goodwill, Twitter Inc is hereby given one last notice to immediately comply with the rules, failing which the exemption from liability available... shall stand withdrawn and Twitter shall be liable for consequences as per the IT Act and other penal laws of India." The Ministry had warned Twitter that non-compliance will lead to "unintended consequences", including Twitter losing exemption from liability as intermediary under the IT Act. Twitter has an estimated 1.75 crore users in India, as per data cited by the government recently. The new IT rules mandate large digital platforms to undertake greater due diligence, and make them more accountable and responsible for the content that is hosted. Social media companies will also have to take down flagged content within 36 hours, and remove within 24 hours content that is flagged for issues such as nudity and pornography under the new rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-loses-safe-harbour-shield-in-india-over-non-compliance-to-it-rules-997970.html
16-06-2021||National||India logs 62,224 new Covid-19 infections, 2,542 deaths||A single day rise of 62,224 new coronavirus infections were reported taking India's total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,96,33,105, while the active cases were recorded below nine lakh after 70 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,79,573 with 2,542   fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed The active cases further declined to 8,65,432 comprising 2.92 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 95.80 per cent.    A net decline of 47,946 cases has been recorded in the Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. 19,30,987 tests were conducted on Monday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 38,33,06,971. The daily positivity rate dropped to 3.22 per cent. It has been less than five per cent for nine consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 4.17 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 34th consecutive day.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,83,88,100, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.28 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 26,19,72,014 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on  November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-62224-new-covid-19-infections-2542-deaths-994625.html
16-06-2021||National||Terrorism, radicalisation gravest threats to peace and security in the world: Rajnath Singh||Terrorism and radicalisation are the gravest threats to peace and security in the world and a collective approach is required to combat the challenges, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Wednesday. In a virtual address at the ASEAN Defence Ministers' Meeting-Plus (ADMM-Plus), Singh called for strong action against those encouraging, supporting and financing terrorism and provide shelter to terrorists, seen as a veiled reference to Pakistan. "Terrorism and radicalisation are the gravest threats to peace and security that the world is facing today," he said. The defence minister said India, as a member of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), remained committed to combating financing terrorism. "India shares global concerns about terrorism and believes that, in an era when networking amongst terrorists is reaching alarming proportions, only through collective cooperation can the terror organisations and their networks be fully disrupted, the perpetrators identified and held accountable," hes said. ADMM-Plus is a platform comprising 10-nation ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) and its eight dialogue partners -- India, China, Australia, Japan, New Zealand, Republic of Korea, Russia and the United States. Talking about the Indo-Pacific, Singh called for ensuring a free, open and inclusive order in the region based on respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity of nations, peaceful resolution of disputes through dialogue and adherence to international rules and laws. "India has strengthened its cooperative engagements in the Indo-Pacific based on converging visions and values for promotion of peace, stability, and prosperity in the region," he said. "Premised upon the centrality of ASEAN, India supports utilisation of ASEAN-led mechanisms as important platforms for implementation of our shared vision for the Indo-Pacific," the defence minister added. The inaugural ADMM-Plus was convened in Hanoi in 2010. The defence ministers then had agreed on five areas of practical cooperation to pursue under the new mechanism, including maritime security, counter-terrorism, humanitarian assistance and peacekeeping operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/terrorism-radicalisation-gravest-threats-to-peace-and-security-in-the-world-rajnath-singh-997992.html
16-06-2021||National||Assam CM joins micro-blogging platform Koo in Assamese||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma joined microblogging platform Koo and launched the Assamese language on the site on Wednesday. "I am delighted that Koo App has launched Assamese language on Koo with me joining the platform. The app is enabling the people of Assam to voice their thoughts and opinions in their mother tongue. Looking forward to engaging with people on the Koo app. I will be Kooing my opinions, announcements and many more updates here. I wish Koo the very best in their future endeavours," said a statement quoting Sarma.  The statement was issued by Koo. Founded in March 2020, Koo is a homegrown micro-blogging platform. Available in multiple Indian languages, people from across different regions in India can express themselves in their mother tongue on the site. Users can connect with Sarma on his handle @himantabiswa. With the launch of Koo App in Assamese by the Chief Minister, many celebrities and thought leaders of the state are expected to join the platform soon. They will be interacting with the people of Assam in the Assamese language on the platform, said the statement.  Aprameya Radhakrishna, co-founder and CEO of Koo, said, "I’m sure the people of Assam would love to interact with him and each other on Koo and exchange thoughts around various topics. Assam is a very large state with a population of over 30 million and the people have a high affinity towards their language. Koo will be one of the few platforms where they will be able to connect with each other, exchange thoughts in Assamese and make new friends too.” Mayank Bidwatka, co-founder of Koo said they have enabled the Assamese keyboard on Koo making it very easy for the users to connect with each other in their mother tongue. "They will be able to create, share their thoughts in audio and video formats too, apart from text. This multi-modal creation is unique to Koo. I hope to see a large population from the state use this platform to connect with each other in a way like never before!”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-cm-joins-micro-blogging-platform-koo-in-assamese-998002.html
16-06-2021||National||Covishield dose interval under discussion: NTAGI working group chairman||India will revisit the dosage interval for the Covishield vaccine and take appropriate action based on emerging data, N K Arora, chairperson of the working group of immunisation advisory body NTAGI, said. Describing the Covid and vaccination situation as "very dynamic", he said in a statement that the emerging evidence and reports regarding the efficacy of partial versus full immunisation are also under consideration. On the decision to increase the gap between two doses of Covishield from four-six weeks to 12-16 weeks, he said the move was based on scientific decision and there was no dissenting voice among the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) members. "Covid-19 and the vaccination are very dynamic. Tomorrow, if the vaccine platform tells us that a narrower interval is better for our people, even if the benefit is 5-10%, the Committee will take the decision on the basis of merit and its wisdom. On the other hand, if it turns out that the current decision is fine, we will continue with it," Arora said. The decision to increase the gap lay in the fundamental scientific reason regarding the behaviour of adenovector vaccines, a Union Health Ministry statement quoted him as telling DD News. In the last week of April, the data released by Public Health England, United Kingdom's executive agency of the Department of Health, showed that vaccine efficacy varied between 65 and 88 per cent when the interval is 12 weeks. "This was the basis on which they overcame their epidemic outbreak due to the Alpha variant. The UK was able to come out of it because the interval they kept was 12 weeks. We also thought that this is a good idea since there are fundamental scientific reasons to show that when the interval is increased, adenovector vaccines give a better response. Hence the decision was taken on May 13, to increase the interval to 12-16 weeks," he said. This also gives flexibility to the community, since everyone cannot come at precisely 12 weeks or so, he added. “We have a very open and transparent system where decisions are taken on a scientific basis. The Covid Working Group took that decision, with no dissenting voice. This issue was then discussed threadbare at an NTAGI meeting, again with no dissenting notes. The recommendation was that the vaccine interval has to be 12-16 weeks," he said.   Arora said the earlier decision of four weeks was based on the bridging trial data available then. He also cited that the increase in the gap between two doses was based on studies that showed higher efficacy with an increase in gap. Initial studies on Covishield were very heterogeneous. Some countries like the UK went for a dose interval of 12 weeks when they introduced the vaccine in December 2020, he said. "While we were privy to this data, when we had to decide our interval, we went for four weeks interval based on our bridging trial data which showed a good immune response. Later we came across additional scientific and laboratory data, based on which after six weeks or so, we felt we should increase the interval from four weeks to eight weeks since studies showed that vaccine efficacy is about 57 per cent when it is four weeks and about 60% when it is eight weeks,” he said.   On why the NTAGI did not increase the gap earlier to 12 weeks, he said, “We decided we should wait for ground-level data from the UK (the other biggest user of AstraZeneca vaccine).” He also said that there were other examples like Canada, Sri Lanka and few other countries which are using 12-16 weeks interval for AstraZeneca vaccine which is the same as Covishield vaccine, the statement said.   On the protection from single-dose versus two doses, Arora explained how emerging evidence and reports regarding the efficacy of partial versus full immunisation was being considered by NTAGI. “Two-three days after we took the decision to increase the dosage interval, there were reports from the UK that single dose of AstraZeneca vaccine gives only 33 per cent protection and two doses give about 60 per cent protection; discussion has been going on since mid-May whether India should revert to four or eight weeks," he said.   He also said that it was decided to establish a tracking platform to assess the impact of the vaccination programme. "When NTAGI took this decision, we also decided that India will establish a vaccine tracking platform -- to assess not only the impact of the vaccination programme, but also the type of vaccine and interval between doses, and what happens when someone is fully/ partially immunised. This is very important in India since around 17-18 crore people have received only one dose, while around 4 crore people have received two doses,” he said.   Arora referred to a study by PGI Chandigarh which compared the effectiveness of partial versus full immunisation. A PGI Chandigarh study very clearly shows that vaccine effectiveness was 75 per cent for both partially immunised and fully immunised. So at least in the short run, effectiveness was similar whether you are partially or fully vaccinated. This was in relation to the Alpha variant which had swept Punjab, north India and came to Delhi. This also meant that even if you received only one dose, still you are protected.”   Results from the CMC Vellore study are similar, he says. “Another very important study by CMC Vellore, Tamil Nadu which covers most of the current epidemic wave India experienced in April and May 2021 shows that if somebody is partially immunised, vaccine effectiveness of Covishield is 61% and with two doses, the effectiveness is 65% -- and there is very little difference, especially since there is some degree of uncertainty involved in these calculations,” he said.   Arora said that besides PGI and CMC Vellore studies, two other studies are coming up from two different organisations here. “And both these studies show that breakthrough infection with one dose is around 4 per cent, and around 5 per cent with two doses, basically hardly any difference. And the other study shows that 1.5- 2 per cent breakthrough infections,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covishield-dose-interval-under-discussion-ntagi-working-group-chairman-998021.html
16-06-2021||National||Chirag Paswan writes to LS Speaker over Paras's appointment as LJP chief||Lok Janshakti Party leader Chirag Paswan has contested Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla's decision to name Pashupati Kumar Paras as the leader of the party in the House, saying it is "contrary" to provisions of his organisation.  In a letter written on Tuesday, Paswan also informed Birla of the party's decision to expel five MPs, who have joined hands against him, and urged the Speaker to review the earlier decision and issue a new circular naming him as the LJP leader in the Lok Sabha.  "Since Article 26 of the Constitution of Lok Jan Shakti Party empower Central Parliamentary Board of the party to decide who would be Leader of our Party in Lok Sabha, hence, the decision of announcing Sh. Pashupati Kumar Paras MP as Leader of LJP party in the Lok Sabha is contrary to provision of Constitution of our party," he wrote.  Paswan's paternal uncle Paras has been elected as their leader by the five of party's six MPs in place of him.  Both factions have now moved to control the party and project their group as the real LJP, founded by Paswan's father Ram Vilas Paswan.  While the wing led by Chirag Paswan has expelled the five MPs from the party, the rival group has removed him as its president.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chirag-paswan-writes-to-ls-speaker-over-parass-appointment-as-ljp-chief-998030.html
16-06-2021||National||Shocked by Covid deaths, young Indians rush for life insurance||Like many other twenty-somethings in India, Beverly Coutinho kept postponing buying a life insurance policy, until a surge in Covid-19 cases and deaths made her confront her own mortality. "I saw people my own age dying, which prompted me to get life insurance immediately," says Coutinho, a 24-year-old senior executive at a public relations agency in Mumbai. "I wouldn't want my family to be in situation where they have to scramble for funds if something happens to me." The official count puts the number of deaths due to Covid-19 at 3,80,000, the third highest after the United States and Brazil, though experts say India's numbers are grossly underestimated due to the low levels of testing for the virus and more people have probably died in India than anywhere else in the world. When a devastating second wave of the pandemic peaked in India during April and May, the numbers of people aged between 25 and 35 buying term insurance was 30% higher than in the previous three months combined, said PolicyBazaar. Term insurance purchases via online insurance aggregator InsuranceDekho's website rose 70% in May compared with March. Insurers did not reveal how many plans they sold citing business confidentiality, but many said it was in the "high thousands". "The current pandemic has led to higher awareness around the need for financial protection and the inadequacy of the current insurance coverage," Niraj Shah, chief financial officer of HDFC Life Insurance, said. Shah's firm said it had seen more demand for protection products by the under-35 age group since the pandemic first struck India, around 15 months ago. Industry executives say enquiries about insurance plans have rocketed despite the second wave of infections subsiding, probably due to strong prospects of a third wave given the slow start India made to the mammoth task of vaccinating its people. Behaviour changing Stock market investors still appear uncertain whether buying shares in life insurers is a good bet during a pandemic. Since the start of the year the benchmark NSE Nifty 50 index has gained 13.5%, while shares in HDFC Life Insurance are up just over 2%, SBI Life Insurance has risen around 10% and ICICI Prudential Life Insurance has climbed nearly 18%. "In the longer term, investment in insurers make sense as the awareness has risen about insurance," said Saurabh Jain, assistant vice president research at SMC Global Securities in New Delhi. But he added that high valuations and a rise in number of claims due to the first and second wave were a concern. Despite the lack of firm numbers on growth in the life insurance market, industry analysts see behaviour changing among middle class families in a country that has traditionally seen poor levels of coverage. "After clothes, food and home, insurance has now become the fourth pillar for a middle class family," Ankit Agrawal, InsuranceDekho's founder and chief executive, said. Life insurance penetration among India's population stood at 2.82% in 2019, compared with 2.15% in 2001, the latest annual report from the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority showed. That is still well down from a global average of 3.35% in 2019, but then a large section of India's 130 crore people lack disposable income to set aside for insurance, a situation made even more acute by the economic fallout from the pandemic. Term insurance plans are popular in India because they are often cheaper and pay the family if the insured dies within the policy's payment period, though there is no maturity benefit if they outlive the plan. Demand for other kinds of insurance, including various medical cover, has also risen. "If someone was thinking about buying insurance, they are actually doing it now," said Avneesh Sukhija, a senior financial analyst at BNP Paribas India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shocked-by-covid-deaths-young-indians-rush-for-life-insurance-998036.html
16-06-2021||National||Co-WIN registration for Covid-19 vaccine not mandatory, clarifies Centre||The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare announced on Tuesday that pre-registration of Covid-19 vaccination is not mandatory and anyone above 18 years of age can ‘walk in’ to get their vaccination. "Anyone, aged 18 years or more, can directly go to the nearest vaccination centre where the vaccinator performs the on-site registration and provides vaccination in the same visit. This is also popularly known as 'walk-ins'," the government said. It also stated, “The facilitators such as health workers, or ASHAs, also mobilize beneficiaries in rural areas and those residing in urban slums, for on-site registration and vaccination directly at the nearest vaccination centres.” In case one needs further assistance, they can contact helpline number 1075. The move will enable equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines in rural areas where people don’t have smartphones or internet connectivity. Out of the 28.36 crore people registered on Co-WIN for vaccination until June 13, 16.45 crore registered on-site mode. "Out of the total 69,995 vaccination centres so far classified by states on Co-WIN as rural or urban, 49,883 vaccination centres, i.e. 71 per cent, are located in rural areas," the ministry added. The vaccination per million population in tribal districts of the country is higher than the national average. It also mentions that out of 176 tribal districts, 128 have good vaccination coverage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/co-win-registration-for-covid-19-vaccine-not-mandatory-clarifies-centre-998038.html
16-06-2021||National||Covid-19: You'll need negative RT-PCR report to enter these states, UTs||As states are witnessing a drop in Covid-19 positive cases after almost two months, administrations are easing lockdowns and other curbs. Unlike after the first wave of Covid-19, many states are being cautious and easing the curbs in a phased manner. Andaman & Nicobar Islands Any passenger travelling to Andaman and Nicobar Islands by air must have a mandatory negative RT-PCR test taken 48 hours ahead of journey. All arriving passengers will have to take a rapid antigen test, and undergo compulsory 7-day quarantine period, even with negative RT-PCR test. Any person violating the quarantine guidelines shall be liable to be fined to the tune of Rs 5,000/- each time. Passengers bound for Swaraj Dweep, Shaeed Dweep and Little Andaman need to have 10 days of home quarantine. Andhra Pradesh No RT-PCR test required is required for air-bound travel, but all passengers must undergo mandatory thermal screening prior to travel, and register themselves on www.spandana.ap.gov.in. All asymptomatic passengers will have to undergo home quarantine for 14 days. There are no restrictions on intra-state or inter-state travel by road as per latest guidelines issued by the state government. No RT-PCR tests required for travelling by railways, but home quarantine is suggested for persons discharged from institutional quarantine. Asymptomatic passengers can opt for home quarantine. Home quarantine is also suggested for passengers arriving from low and high-risk areas. Arunachal Pradesh No RT-PCR test is required for travelling intra and inter-state via road. Road transport to begin with 30 per cent capacity with Covid-appropriate behaviour. Inter-state travellers must procure one-time exit pass from the District Covid Control Room. Assam No RT-PCR test required for flyers, but thermal screening and rapid antigen test will be conducted on arrival. All passengers will undergo 7-day home quarantine regardless of arrival airport test result. No RT-PCR test required for railways passengers or those travelling by road. However, railways passengers who show symptoms will undergo medical examination upon arrival. If necessary, they will undergo isolated institutional quarantine.Pregnant women, elderly persons (aged 75+), person arriving due to death rituals, children below age 10, and Divyang do not have to undergo institutional quarantine provided they are asymptomatic. Bihar Those taking flights to Bihar will be subject to thermal screening on arrival. Passengers coming from Maharashtra, Punjab, Kerala to Patna need a negative RT-PCR test 72 hours prior to departure. Passengers arriving at Gaya from Maharashtra, Punjab, Kerala and New Delhi are required to carry out RT-PCR test 72 hours prior to departure. 10 days of home quarantine is mandatory for passengers coming from Maharashtra, Punjab, Kerala, Delhi & NCR. All passengers arriving from the states of Delhi, Gujarat & Madhya Pradesh will be tested for Covid-19 & those found positive shall be directed to follow the SOP issued by the Health Department, Government of Bihar. The following Passengers will be exempted from the Covid-19 testing. 1) Passengers holding Negative Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) report conducted within 72 hours before departure. 2) Passengers holding Negative RT-PCR report conducted within 72 hours before departure. 3) Passengers holding Covid-19 vaccination certificate or having been administered with both the doses of vaccination and have completed 14 days after the second dose. No RT-PCR test is required for railway passengers, but everyone will be subject to health and thermal screening upon arrival. If they are symptomatic, passengers will be sent to quarantine center where they will be tested. Chandigarh It is mandatory for air passengers arriving in Chandigarh from other states/UT to carry a negative RT-PCR report not earlier than 72 hours from an ICMR approved laboratory or be in possession of vaccination certificate (at least one dose) over 2 weeks old. The RT-PCR timeline starts from the swab collection time. Chhattisgarh Airline passengers to Chhattisgarh are required to carry RT-PCR negative minimum 96 hours before travel or provide proof of full vaccination. Passengers without the above documents will be tested on arrival and remain in home isolation till a report is available. There are no restrictions on intra-state or inter-state travel as per latest guidelines issued by the state government. No RT-PCR test is required for railway passengers, but everyone will be subject to health and thermal screening, and if symptomatic, will have to go to Isolation center. Delhi Airline passengers originating their journey from any city/airport in Maharashtra will require RT-PCR negative report from ICMR accredited labs done within last 72 hours. Passengers with negative result must remain in quarantine for 14 days. Government officials and employees are exempted from quarantine if asymptomatic. There are no restrictions on intra-state or inter-state travel as per latest guidelines issued by the state government. All persons arriving from the state of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana in NCT of Delhi via railways must undergo mandatory government institutional quarantine/paid quarantine for 14 days at facilities established/identified by the concerned District Magistrate. Any person who has been fully vaccinated and produces certificate to the effect or having negative RT-PCR Report (not older than 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey) shall be allowed home quarantine for 7 days. Goa  All flight passengers arriving in Goa must carry a negative RT-PCR negative report. The test must be conducted within last 72 hours from ICMR accredited labs. A full vaccination certificate or Covid-19 negative report from an RT-PCR test taken up to 72 hours before entering Goa is mandatory for people coming from outside Goa via roadways. All railway passengers will be checked for proof of full vaccination or negative Covid report conducted within 72 hours of arrival. Residents of Goa, persons arriving for work (proof of employment is necessary), and people arriving for a medical emergency are exempt from the above requirements Gujarat No RT-PCR test rquired for flights, but passengers will be subject to thermal screening on arrival. All passengers arriving to Surat must install the SMC Covid-19 Tracker App, and fill out the Novel Corona Self Reporting form. A Covid-19 negative report from an RT-PCR test taken upto 72 hours prior to entering Gujarat is mandatory for people coming from outside Gujarat via roadways. Haryana No RT-PCR test required for flights, but all asymptomatic passengers must undergo a mandatory home quarantine for 14 days. There are no restrictions on intra-state or inter-state travel via roadways as per latest guidelines issued by the state government. No RT-PCR test is required for rail passengers, but symptomatic passengers will undergo a health check up at nearest hospital/health centre to the station. Himachal Pradesh All asymptomatic passengers arriving via airlines with negative RT-PCR/TRUNAAT/CB-NAAT test taken 96 hours prior to travel are exempt from quarantine, and asymptomatic passengers from high-risk Covid cities must undergo 7 days of institutional quarantine + 7 days of home quarantine. A negative RT-PCR Report in the last 72 hours is required for all passengers travelling to the state via roads. In case of failure to do so, 14 day mandatory home/institutional quarantine. No inter-state bus movement is allowed. All passengers arriving from hot spots via trains will be subjected to the protocol of home/institutional quarantine for a period of 14 days since entry into the state or earlier if they test negative for Covid-19 on the 6th/7th day after entry. Jammu and Kashmir All flight passengers arriving at Jammu & Kashmir will have to undergo Covid-19 antigen test through RT-PCR method or Rapid Antigen test, and until they return a negative result, passengers must undergo home quarantine for 14 days. No RT-PCR test is required for entry via roads, but antigen test is being conducted on the borders. All railway passengers will be RT-PCR tested upon arrival, and placed in mandatory quarantine until they obtain a negative result. Jharkhand Passengers arriving via flights from Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab will require RT-PCR/RAT negative report from ICMR accredited labs done within last 72 hours. Passengers without negative report will undergo testing at airport. Mandatory 7-day quarantine for all passengers. As per the order all intra and inter-state buses will not run till 10th June 2021. Karnataka Incoming flight passengers must carry a mandatory RT- PCR negative report if they have symptoms of Covid-19. Passengers arriving from Maharashtra, Punjab, and Kerala via trains must present a negative RT-PCR test no older than 72 hours. Children below 2 years, and short-term passengers such as passengers arriving for death rituals, constitutional functionaries, and healthcare professionals, will be exempt from providing a negative RT-PCR certificate. Kerala  Travellers coming in via flights from other states must have negative for Covid-19 with an RT-PCR test within 72 hours of travel. For arrivals at Calicut airport, RT-PCR testing can be arranged at airport. Passengers shall bear the expense of the test and remain in paid or home quarantine till results are available. Passengers travelling via roads need to carry RT-PCR test within 48 hours entering Kerala. If not, they should proceed to self-quarantine till the issue of RT-PCR test results. If they are not willing for RT-PCR, they must undego room isolation for 14 days. All railway passengers must produce their RT-PCR negative Covid test certificate along with their train ticket. Ladakh All asymptomatic airway passengers will be exempted from quarantine if they are carrying a Covid-19 negative certificate by an ICMR authorised lab issued within 48 hours before arrival. All other passengers will have to undergo mandatory home quarantine for 7 days. Madhya Pradesh Passengers entering via flights must carry a negative RT-PCR certificate not older than 48 hours. All passengers are subject to 14 days of institutional be compulsory for the flights arriving in Indore from Maharashtra. Passengers without RT-PCR test report will be tested on arrival at Indore Airport. Negative RT-PCR certificate, not older than 72 hours, shall be compulsory for the flights arriving at Bhopal from Maharashtra. Passengers without RT-PCR test report will be compulsorily tested at Bhopal Airport. There are no restrictions on intra-state or inter-state road travel as per latest guidelines issued by the state government. No RT-PCR test is required for train passengers, but all passengers are subject to 14 days of institutional quarantine. Maharashtra The Maharashtra government has made it mandatory for people flying in from other states to come with a negative RT-PCR test report conducted within 48 hours of travelling. Without a negative RT-PCR report, the passenger will not be allowed to board the flight. Covid-19 negative report from an RT-PCR test taken up to 48 hours before entering Maharashtra is mandatory for all the passengers entering via roads. All passengers are required to show a negative RT-PCR test conducted within 48 hours prior to arrival at railway stations. Passengers arriving without a negative RT -PCR test will be subject to a rapid antigen test upon arrival at all stations. Manipur  All passengers must present a negative RAT/RT-PCR/True Nat/CB- NAAT Covid-19 test report taken within 72 hours prior to arrival at the airport. Meghalaya RT-PCR test will be conducted for all arriving passengers on chargeable basis at the airport. In case passenger is not carrying a negative Covid-19 report on arrival (not earlier than 72 hours prior to arrival). Mizoram Passengers must carry a negative Covid test (RT-PCR) within 96 hours from arrival at the airport. Passengers without a negative Covid report will be subjected to a Rapid Antigen Test at entry point. Nagaland Nagaland has given an option of negative RT-PCR/TrueNat/CBNAAT report no older than 72 hours of arrival at the airport. In case one fails to produce a negative Covid-19 test report, the state will put them in compulsory 10-day quarantine. No RT-PCR test is required for rail passengers, but all passengers arriving at Dimapur will be segregated district-wise at the entry point, thermally screened and those asymptomatic will be transferred to the quarantine centers in the respective districts. Odisha All passengers must present a negative Rapid Antigen Test/RT-PCR report or final vaccination certificate obtained within 48 hours before entering Odisha via flights. Passengers arriving without negative reports must undergo 7 days quarantine. As per the order all intra and inter-state buses will not run till 17th June 2021. All passengers travelling via railways from West Bengal will have to undergo institutional quarantining mandatorily for 14 days. If passengers are able to produce a negative Rapid Antigen Test or RT-PCR report or vaccination certificate then institutional quarantine will be reduced to seven days. Punjab It is mandatory to carry a negative RT-PCR report of not more than 72 hours old or a Vaccination certificate (at least one dose) over 2 weeks old for passengers arriving via flights. There are no restrictions on intra-state or inter-state road travel as per latest guidelines issued by the state government. No RT-PCR test required for railways, but all passengers will undergo a health screening prior to boarding train, and must undergo 14-day quarantine upon arrival. Rajasthan All passengers arriving at Jaipur airport must have their RT-PCR (negative) report with them no earlier than 72 hours upon arrival. In case passenger arrives without a negative RT-PCR report, they will be tested upon arrival and must quarantine until report is obtained, and if the test comes back positive, the passenger must undergo quarantine for 14 days. All passengers arriving at Jaipur railway station must have their RT-PCR (negative) report with them, no older than 72 hours upon arrival. Passengers arriving without a negative RT-PCR test must quarantine for 15 days. Sikkim Although not mandatory, tourists arriving via flights are advised to carry a RT-PCR /TrueNat Negative Test Certificate, not older than 72 hours prior to entry. Tamil Nadu Passengers coming from all other states, except Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, and Puducherry, must have Auto E-Pass along with a negative RT-PCR report not earlier than 72 hours at the time of departure. In case the passenger arrives without a RT-PCR report, Covid testing shall be done free of cost at Coimbatore airport. No RT-PCR test is required, but an E-pass has been mandated for road travellers entering Tamil Nadu till 13th June 2021. Telangana No RT-PCR test required for flyers, but passengers must install and use the Aarogya Setu app. There are no restrictions on intra-state or inter-state road travel as per latest guidelines issued by the state government. No RT-PCR test required, but all railway passengers who travel to Telangana will be medically screened at the destination station on arrival by a medical team. All asymptomatic passengers shall be made to undergo 14 days home quarantine and the passengers will be stamped accordingly, and all symptomatic passengers shall be taken to government quarantine for further examination. Tripura Tripura requires a negative Covid-19 certificate from tests done by RT-PCR/True NAAT/CBNAAT and conducted 72 hours prior to boarding flights. Passengers from Maharashtra will go through a mandatory RAT test upon arrival. All Symptomatic passengers must undergo 14 days quarantine. There are no restrictions on intra-state or inter-state road travel as per latest guidelines issued by the state government. Uttar Pradesh Uttar Pradesh requires a mandatory Covid-19 negative test report done by RT-PCR within the last 72 hours for passengers arriving from only Kerala and Maharashtra. Any passengers found with symptoms and not carrying a negative RT-PCR report will only undergo an RT-PCR test at Varanasi Airport. There are no restrictions on intra-state or inter-state road travel as per latest guidelines issued by the state government. Uttarakhand Covid test will be done upon arrival for airway passengers from Maharashtra, Kerala & Gujarat. All passengers will be exempted from home quarantine if they arrive with an RT-PCR/True NAT/CBNAAT/Antigen test with a negative report no older than 96 hours before arrival. It is mandatory to carry a negative RT-PCR test report done 72 hours prior to arrival in the state for people travelling via road to the state from areas reported as risky like Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Haryana, UP, Delhi, and Rajasthan. Persons travelling via trains from Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab. Karnataka. Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Rajasthan are advised to carry negative RT-PCR test report (test done 72 hours prior to the time of arrival). West Bengal West Bengal requires an RT-PCR negative test report conducted within 72 hours of departure of flights. In case one fails to get the negative RT-PCR test report, they will have to undergo 14 days of quarantine. Only emergency cases will be exempted from prior testing. However, they will have to get themselves tested on arrival at the airport at their cost. Children are not exempted from an RT-PCR test. No RT-PCR test required for road travel, but all incoming travellers must follow Covid-19 appropriate protocol in all public places, transport, etc., which will be ensured by regulating authorities. Train passengers must mandatorily possess an RT-PCR negative test report for a test conducted within 72 hours of departure. All passengers traveling with a negative RT-PCR test will have to home quarantine for 7 days. Passengers found symptomatic will be RT-PCR tested and will quarantine accordingly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-youll-need-negative-rt-pcr-report-to-enter-these-states-uts-998039.html
16-06-2021||National||Railways forms flood relief team||As the monsoon continues to pose challenges in the Mumbai metropolitan region’s railway network, the Railway Protection Force has formed a Railway Flood Relief Team (RFRT) equipped with motorised boats and trained manpower. The RFRT will work in coordination with the headquarters of Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR). The objective is to provide relief in case of floods in railway networks, predict and wherever possible, prevent disasters, mitigate their impact and effectively cope with the consequences by designing effective, realistic and coordinated planning and increase the overall effectiveness. As such, five motorised inflatable boats with all accessories and safety equipment have been procured and stationed at various vulnerable locations. These boats can be moved to any location wherever required for immediate response. Each FRT team consists of one Sub-Inspector/Assistant Sub-Inspector and six other staff. So far, 15 RPF staff (five women and 10 men) have been trained by NDRF. Training is being provided to more RPF personnel. The team will be always in readiness during the monsoon -- from June to October every year. The teams will continuously monitor the rainfall especially during the days of high tide or when heavy rain is predicted by the Meteorological Department and move to where flooding is reported irrespective of whether the train is held up or not. The team shall maintain liaison with their counterparts in Civil Administration, GRP, Disaster Management Authorities and Control Room.  In addition to this, RPF have formulated a well-detailed SOP for the RFRT Meanwhile, Alok Kansal, General Manager of CR and WR in presence of Arun Kumar, Director General, RPF, Railway Board, New Delhi, reviewed the preparedness at Talao Pali Lake in Thane on monsoon preparedness. Kansal and Kumar hey inspected the mock drill conducted by RFRT at Talaopali Lake demonstrating rescue and relief of passengers in a train held up in a waterlogged area.  They also interacted with the RFRT personnel and encouraged them. Ajoy Sadany, Principal Chief Security Commissioner, CR, P C Sinha, Principal Chief Security Commissioner, WR, Shalabh Goel, Divisional Railway Manager, Mumbai Division, and other officials were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-forms-flood-relief-team-998040.html
16-06-2021||National||Centre rubbishes claims of newborn calf serum in Covaxin, says social media posts twisted facts||Newborn calf serum is used only for the preparation and growth of vero cells. Serum from bovine and other animal are standard enrichment ingredient used globally for vero cell growth, it said. Vero cells are used to establish cell lives which help in the production of vaccines. This technique has been used for decades in developing vaccines against polio, rabies, and influenza. After growth, the vero cells are washed in water and with chemicals, also technically known as buffer, multiple times to make them free from newborn calf serum. The vero cells are then infected with coronavirus for viral growth, the health ministry said. The vero cells are completely destroyed in the process of viral growth. Thereafter, the grown virus is also killed (inactivated) and purified, it said. The killed or inactivated virus is then used to make the final vaccine. No calf serum is used in the formulation of the final vaccine, according to the statement. "Hence, the final vaccine (Covaxin) does not contain newborn calf serum at all and the calf serum is not an ingredient of the final vaccine product."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-rubbishes-claims-of-newborn-calf-serum-in-covaxin-says-social-media-posts-twisted-facts-998045.html
16-06-2021||National||Among major districts, Chennai leads in second-dose Covid-19 vaccine coverage||As India finds its footing after a ferocious second Covid-19 wave, the country must begin to brace itself for a potential third wave in a matter of months, according to health experts. Vaccination has been hailed as the most formidable tool to ward off cases of serious infection that might see a spike in the country’s death toll. However, efforts to ramp up vaccination across the country have reflected in terms of hard data. India has lagged other countries in terms of percentage of persons vaccinated despite administering the greatest number of doses in absolute terms, grappling with its substantially larger population. When it comes to the second dose and full vaccination, India has vaccinated less than 4 per cent of its population so far. Among major districts, Chennai, Kolkata and Gurugram lead the charge in terms of second-dose coverage. Chennai has fully vaccinated nearly 13 per cent of its population, while Kolkata and Gurugram trail closely behind, having given jabs to 12 per cent and 11.8 per cent of their respective populations. Gurugram also has the highest single-dose coverage at close to 60 per cent, owing largely to a high number of private vaccine centres. Trivandrum and Delhi have vaccinated nearly 9 per cent of their citizens with two doses, though Delhi’s population is about five times larger. In Bengaluru (comprising Bengaluru Urban and BBMP), 7.8 per cent of people have taken two jabs. Mumbai fares similarly to Delhi in terms of first-dose coverage of about 28 per cent, but its second-dose numbers are much lower at 6.8 per cent. However, Gujarat’s Ahmedabad has had a particularly poor showing regarding second-dose administration with a measly 1.8 per cent, faring little better on the first-dose front with numbers below 10 per cent. Policymakers in the country have clearly shifted their strategy towards inoculating as many people as possible with a single dose of the vaccine, believing the strategy would provide at least some degree of protection against the disease. However, with the emergence of newer, more infectious variants, several medical experts have advised that full cover was the need of the hour and single doses may not be enough to shield people against more virulent strains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/among-major-districts-chennai-leads-in-second-dose-covid-19-vaccine-coverage-998046.html
16-06-2021||National||Covid-19: Centre keen to start Covovax vaccine trials for children||The Centre is keen to start clinical trials of Serum Institute of India (SII)-manufactured Covovax Covid-19 vaccine, developed by US-based firm Novavax, in children. The country is preparing for a suspected third wave of Covid-19, in which kids are said to be more vulnerable. NITI Aayog member health Vinod K Paul said, in a press conference, that SII has accomplished its preparatory work and is also “conducting a bridging trial already, which is in advanced stages of completion”. "I am also hoping that they will start trials on children, which is of special interest to all of us,” he added. Paul’s comments come a day after US-based firm Novovax reported 90.4 per cent efficacy of its Covid-19 vaccine in the Phase 3 trials on 29,960 participants in US and Mexico. In the trials, the vaccine candidate 'NVX-CoV2373' showed an efficient result of 100 per cent protection against moderate and severe Covid-19 infection. Even in the third-phase trials in UK, the vaccine has shown great result -- 96 per cent efficacy rate. “What we are learning from the available data is that this vaccine is very safe and it is highly effective. But what makes this vaccine relevant for today is the fact that this vaccine will be produced in India by Serum Institute," Paul said. SII’s CEO Adar Poonawalla hopes to launch Covovax in India by September if it receives a nod from the regulatory board. Stanley C. Erck, president and CEO of Novovax, said on Monday that it’ll initially distribute its vaccine in low-and middle-income countries, including India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-centre-keen-to-start-covovax-vaccine-trials-for-children-998050.html
16-06-2021||National||Sonu Sood, Zeeshan Siddique projected as messiahs without verifying if Covid drugs were legally supplied: Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed the Maharashtra government to scrutinise the role that local Congress MLA Zeeshan Siddique and actor Sonu Sood played in procurement and supply of anti-Covid drugs to citizens, following their SOS calls and appeals on social media. The high court also observed that "these people (celebrities) projected themselves as some kind of messiahs without verifying if the drugs were spurious or if the supply was legal." A bench of Justices S P Deshmukh and G S Kulkarni issued the direction to the Maharashtra government after state Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni told the HC that it had registered a criminal case at the Mazgaon metropolitan court against a charitable trust, BDR Foundation, and its trustees for supplying anti-Covid drug Remdesivir to Siddique even though the trust did not have requisite licence. Kumbhakoni said that Siddique had been merely diverting the drug to citizens, who had approached him, so no action had been taken against him yet. He further said that Sonu Sood had received the drugs from several pharmacies located inside the private Lifeline Care Hospital in Goregaon. Pharma company Cipla had supplied Remdesivir to these pharmacies and inquiry into it was still going on, Kumbhakoni said. He was responding to previous orders of the high court passed while hearing a bunch of public interest litigations (PILs) on several issues related to the management of drugs and resources required to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. The HC had directed the state government and the Centre to probe how celebrities and politicians had managed to procure and distribute anti-coronavirus drugs to the public when the supply of the same was scarce and was supposed to be allocated to states by the Union government. On Wednesday, the HC asked if initiating action against the charitable trust was adequate and should the state not look further into the roles played by Siddique, Sood, and any other celebrities concerned? "We would expect the state government to scrutinise their actions. We want you to very seriously examine their roles," the high court said. "Since both were dealing directly with the public, was it possible for the public to ascertain the quality or source of these drugs?" it said. The HC referred to a news story published on Wednesday, which said that a private housing society in the city had said that it had probably been cheated and provided spurious anti-Covid-19 vaccines by those who had carried out a vaccination drive for its residents. "We don't want any such incidents. Such things should not happen because of the existence of a parallel system. These are situations with which we are not too happy," the high court said. "These people (celebrities) projected themselves as some kind of messiahs without verifying if the drugs were spurious or if the supply was legal. In both these cases, we expect the State Govt to scrutinise their actions," the HC said. The high court will next hear the plea further on June 25.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonu-sood-zeeshan-siddique-projected-as-messiahs-without-verifying-if-covid-drugs-were-legally-supplied-bombay-hc-998051.html
16-06-2021||National||Gujarat accident: PM Modi announces ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh for kin of deceased||Prime minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday condoled the loss of lives in a road accident in Gujarat's Anand district and announced that an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each would be provided to the next of kin of the deceased. Two children and seven adults were killed in the road accident after the car in which they were travelling collided with a truck near Indranaj village in Anand district on Wednesday morning, police said. Apart from the two children, who were in the age group of three to five years, two women also died in the accident, they said. "Saddened by the loss of lives due to a road accident in Anand district in Gujarat. Condolences to those who lost their near and dear ones," Prime Minister Modi was quoted as saying in a tweet by his office. An ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund would be provided to the next of kin of those deceased, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-accident-pm-modi-announces-ex-gratia-of-rs-2-lakh-for-kin-of-deceased-998053.html
16-06-2021||National||Twitter failed to comply with IT rules, deliberately chose path of non-compliance: Prasad||IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Wednesday said Twitter failed to comply with intermediary guidelines and has "deliberately" chosen the path of non-compliance despite being granted multiple opportunities. Lashing out at the micro-blogging platform over non-compliance, Prasad said that it is "astounding" that Twitter that portrays itself as the flag bearer of free speech, chooses the path of deliberate defiance when it comes to the Intermediary Guidelines. "There are numerous queries arising as to whether Twitter is entitled to safe harbour provision. However, the simple fact of the matter is that Twitter has failed to comply with the Intermediary Guidelines that came into effect from the May 26," Prasad said in a series of posts on homegrown microblogging platform Koo. There are numerous queries arising as to whether Twitter is entitled to safe harbour provision. However, the simple fact of the matter is that Twitter has failed to comply with the Intermediary Guidelines that came into effect from the 26th of May. The minister also tweeted on the issue. Prasad asserted that Twitter was given multiple opportunities to comply with the rules, but deliberately chose the path of non-compliance. "Further, what is perplexing is that Twitter fails to address the grievances of users by refusing to setting up process as mandated by the law of the land. Additionally, it chooses a policy of flagging manipulated media, only when it suits, its likes and dislikes," he said. The minister said that what happened in Uttar Pradesh was illustrative of Twitter's "arbitrariness" in fighting fake news. "While Twitter has been over-enthusiastic about its fact-checking mechanism, its failure to act in multiple cases like UP is perplexing as well as points towards its inconsistency in fighting misinformation," he said. It is pertinent to mention that an FIR has been filed against Twitter over an incident in Ghaziabad's Loni where an elderly man was allegedly assaulted. Prasad said that Indian companies, be it pharma or IT or others that go to do business in the US or in other countries overseas, voluntarily follow the local laws. "Then why are platforms like Twitter showing reluctance in following Indian laws designed to give voice to the victims of abuse and misuse," the minister questioned. The culture of India varies like its large geography, he said, adding that in certain scenarios, with the amplification of social media, even a small spark can cause a fire, especially with the menace of fake news. "This was one of the objectives of bringing the Intermediary Guidelines," Prasad said. In a major setback to Twitter, the microblogging platform has lost its 'safe harbour' protection in India over non-compliance with IT rules and failure to appoint key personnel mandated under the new guidelines, despite repeated reminders, and it will now be liable for action under Indian Penal Code for third party unlawful content. Earlier this month, the government had given one last chance to Twitter to comply with the new IT rules, that came into effect on May 26, and had issued a stern warning that failure to adhere to the norms will lead to the platform losing exemption from liability under the IT Act. The IT Ministry had questioned Twitter over not providing information about the Chief Compliance Officer as required under the rules. Also, the resident grievance officer and nodal contact person nominated by the company is not an employee of Twitter Inc in India as prescribed in the rules, the ministry had flagged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-failed-to-comply-with-it-rules-deliberately-chose-path-of-non-compliance-prasad-998070.html
16-06-2021||National||Opposition questions Centre on doubling vaccine dosing gap||Opposition party Congress on Wednesday questioned the decision by Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government to double the gap between the doses of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, asking whether it was prompted by a vaccine shortage. On Tuesday, Reuters reported that the government had increased the gap without the agreement of the scientific group that it said recommended the move, citing three members of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) advisory body. Congress leaders, including former party president Rahul Gandhi, said the government was trying to cover up a vaccine shortage. "India needs quick & complete vaccination," Gandhi said in a tweet. India needs quick & complete vaccination- not BJP’s usual brand of lies & rhyming slogans to cover-up vaccine shortage caused by Modi Govt’s inaction. The AstraZeneca shot accounts for nearly 90 per cent of the 257.5 million vaccine doses administered in India, where some states have curtailed vaccination programmes over supply constraints. The government said that the gap was increased based on scientific evidence and that the issue had been discussed in detail by members of NTAGI as well as its working group on Covid-19. "We have a very open and transparent system where decisions are taken on scientific basis," said N.K. Arora, chairman of the working group, according to a government statement on Wednesday. Arora said that the decision to expand the gap to up to 16 weeks had been made to provide "flexibility" for those who may not be able to get the second dose at 12 weeks. But NTAGI members told Reuters that the group had no data concerning the effects of a gap beyond 12 weeks, and Arora also did not cite such a study in Wednesday's statement from the federal health ministry. India's health minister, Harsh Vardhan, said that India has a robust mechanism to evaluate data, reiterating that the decision to increase the gap was based on science. "It's unfortunate that such an important issue is being politicised!" he said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-questions-centre-on-doubling-vaccine-dosing-gap-998072.html
16-06-2021||National||Gujarat hospital staff allegedly removed for rejecting sexual advances; govt orders probe||Some contractual women attendants employed at a state-run hospital in Gujarat’s Jamnagar alleged on Wednesday that they were removed from service by their supervisors for rejecting their "sexual advances", prompting Chief Minister Vijay Rupani to order an inquiry into the charges. The announcement about the inquiry was made by the Minister of State for Home, Pradeepsinh Jadeja, after a cabinet meeting in Gandhinagar. Talking to reporters, some women attendants of the Jamnagar-based Guru Gobind Singh Government Hospital, who were hired on contract through an outsourcing agency, alleged earlier in the day that they were removed from service by their supervisors for rejecting their sexual advances. One such woman attendant told reporters that the supervisors used to send "friendship offers" through ward boys. She claimed that the attendants, who rejected such advances, were sacked by the supervisors without paying them any salary for around three months. The issue came up for discussion during the state cabinet meet on Wednesday. After the meeting, Jadeja announced the formation of a three-member committee to probe these allegations. "Some women attendants of GG hospital have alleged that they were sexually harassed and molested... They also complained about indecent demands. Taking cognisance of the matter, the chief minister has asked the district collector and Commissioner of Health to form a three-member committee to probe these allegations,” the minister told reporters. A Sub Divisional Magistrate, Assistant Superintendent of Police of Jamnagar and Dean of Jamnagar medical college will be part of the committee, Jadeja said, adding that further action will be taken based on the inquiry report. Meanwhile, Leelaben Ankoliya, chairperson of Gujarat State Commission for Women, has asked the District SP to submit within three days a detailed report about these allegations.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-hospital-staff-allegedly-removed-for-rejecting-sexual-advances-govt-orders-probe-998073.html
16-06-2021||National||PM to launch customised crash course for Covid frontline workers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch a customised crash course programme for Covid-19 frontline workers on Friday through video conferencing, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said. The launch will commence the programme in 111 training centres spread over 26 states, the PMO said. Prime Minister Modi will launch 'Customized Crash Course programme for Covid-19 Frontline workers' on June 18 at 11 am through video conferencing, it said. The launch will be followed by the prime minister's address. the Union minister of skill development and entrepreneurship will also be present on the occasion.  The programme aims to skill and upskill over one lakh "Covid warriors" across the country, the PMO said. The training will be imparted to them in six customised job roles namely home care support, basic care support, advanced care support, emergency care support, sample collection support, and medical equipment support.  The programme has been designed as a special programme under the central component of the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana 3.0, with total financial outlay of Rs. 276 crore, the PMO said. The programme will create skilled non-medical healthcare workers to fill the present and future needs of manpower in the health sector, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-to-launch-customised-crash-course-for-covid-frontline-workers-998074.html
16-06-2021||National||Delhi Police moves SC against HC order granting bail to 3 student activists in riots cases||Delhi Police on Wednesday approached the Supreme Court challenging the June 15 order by the Delhi High Court granting bail to three student activists in a case of larger conspiracy related to the northeast Delhi riots last year. The HC had ordered the release of Jamia Milia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, and two JNU scholars Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, saying prima facie no case was made against them in the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. The police questioned the approach adopted by High Court, saying the three separate bail judgements, were without any foundation and appeared to be based more on the social media narrative than the evidence gathered and elaborated in the charge sheet.  "The misdirection of the High Court is writ large from the observation that the present case was foisted in anxiety to suppress dissent," the police contended, adding this was "an insinuation, albeit unfounded and perverse," and was "beyond the purview of the bail petition".  In its appeal, the police said, "The High Court has not only conducted a mini-trial but has also recorded perverse finding which is contrary to the record and the arguments made during the hearing of the case."  "Unfortunately, the High Court has decided the case on a pre-conceived and a completely erroneous illusion, as if, the present case was a simpliciter case of protest by students," it added.  The February 2020 riots, triggered after a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act, had claimed the lives of 53 people and left hundreds injured. All three activists were in jail for over one year. The police claimed the High Court completely lost sight of the evidence and statements, which clearly made out "a sinister plot of mass-scale riots being hatched by the three accused along with other co-conspirators".   The police contended that the High Court's view that provisions of UAPA can only be applied to deal with matters of profound impact on the ‘defence of India’, nothing more and nothing less, was "an irrelevant consideration to grant bail to the accused". “Secondly, it will have far-reaching consequences for cases investigated by NIA and other investigating agencies. The order is thus unsustainable in law and deserves to be stayed," the police said. The police are likely to mention the matter on Thursday seeking a stay of the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-moves-sc-against-hc-order-granting-bail-to-3-student-activists-in-riots-cases-998077.html
16-06-2021||National||Most drugs for treating adult Covid-19 patients not recommended for children: MoFHW||Drugs such as ivermectin, hydroxychloroquine, favipiravir and antibiotics like doxycycline and azithromycin prescribed for adult Covid-19 patients have not been recommended for treating children, according to a government guideline issued on Wednesday. In anticipation of likely intermittent surges in the number of Covid-19 cases, the government has come out with guidelines for operationalising Covid-care services for children. The recommendations include augmenting existing Covid care facilities to provide care to children with acute coronavirus infection. According to it, once vaccines are approved for children, those with comorbid conditions having more severe manifestations of Covid-19 and poorer outcomes should be a priority group for immunisation. About the treatment of children, the guidelines by the Union Health Ministry said most drugs used in adults such as ivermectin, hydroxychloroquine, favipiravir and antibiotics such as doxycycline or azithromycin have not been tested on children for prevention or treatment of Covid infection among them. "Therefore, these are not recommended in children." The guidelines stated it is anticipated that there may be intermittent surges in the number of coronavirus cases. "A combined effort from the private and public sector is needed to handle any surge (in cases) in the future after the withdrawal of the lockdown, school reopening or as a third wave over the next three to four months. The basic principles of equity and dignity of care should be followed," it said. The guidelines said estimates for additional bed capacity for pediatric care may be calculated based on peak daily cases in different districts during the second wave of the Covid-19 infections. From this, projections for pediatric cases and the number of admissions required can be derived, it said. "It is desirable to augment the existing Covid-care facilities to provide care to children with acute Covid. This will need additional pediatric-specific equipment, infrastructure and pediatric formulations. "Also, an adequate number of trained manpower -- both doctors and nurses -- should be provided. The health authorities should initiate capacity building programmes for appropriate pediatric care. In standalone paediatric hospitals, separate arrangements, for example, separate beds for paediatric Covid care need to be set up," the guidelines said. It is desirable to designate specific areas in the Covid facilities for pediatric care and parents should be allowed to accompany the child there. "For children with Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome who test negative for acute Covid, care has to be provided by the existing pediatric facilities. These facilities also need augmentation especially HDU and ICU services," it said. The document provides guidance about additional requirements for infrastructure, equipment and manpower. Noting that a majority of children have asymptomatic or mild illness and can be managed at home by parents, it said treatment for symptomatic patients include paracetamol for fever and monitoring conditions such as measuring respiratory rates, difficulty in respiration, oral intake and oxygen saturation. "In a community setting, ASHA and MPW should be involved for management of children at home and also monitor to assess the need for referral and admission," the guidelines said. The document stressed on imparting training to community health workers for picking up the red flag signs. Also, all stakeholders, including the community, should be educated by the information education communication. For improving the quality of care and for capacity building, the guidelines recommended hand-holding of district hospitals and other facilities by medical colleges. "A few centres may be designated as regional centres of excellence for Covid care and research. These centres can provide leadership in clinical management and training. Telemedicine could be harnessed for reaching out to a large number of facilities," it said. To ensure data collection at all levels and transmission from community to higher centres, the document recommended that a national registry be launched for pediatric Covid. "There is a need to encourage and facilitate research in the area of pediatric Covid and this could cover various aspects of management. Similarly, issues of optimal treatment for MIS-C need to be addressed by clinical trials, such as comparison of low dose with high doses steroids, comparison of steroids with IVIG and others," it added. The guidelines said that based on sero-surveillance reports, Covid-19 infection in children above 10 years of age occurs in a similar frequency to that of adults, even though among the confirmed cases less than 12 per cent are individuals less than 20 years of age. "Children have less severe disease than adults. In the majority, the infection is asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. It is uncommon to have moderate to severe Covid among healthy children," it noted.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/most-drugs-for-treating-adult-covid-19-patients-not-recommended-for-children-mofhw-998097.html
16-06-2021||National||PM Modi lauds mother for following Covid norms, isolating from child to protect him from coronavirus||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has hailed a mother of a six-year-old boy for her courage and positive thinking as she isolated herself from her son after contracting Covid-19. Pooja Verma, who lives in Sector-6 of Ghaziabad, tested positive for the coronavirus along with her husband, Gagan Kaushik. Verma, her husband and their six-year-old son live in a three-bedroom apartment and after contracting Covid-19 in April, the couple made a tough decision and decided that all three would be isolated in separate rooms. This was not easy for the six-year-old who longed for his parent's love while unable to understand what the coronavirus was or what Covid-related norms meant and what was the need for this isolation, Verma said. He kept on wondering what wrong had he done that he had to stay in a room separate from his parents, she said. In a letter to the prime minister, she narrated her ordeal as a mother who had to stay away from her child, through a poem she had penned. The prime minister wrote back to her and while asking about the wellbeing of her family, said, "I am happy that even in difficult circumstances, you and your family have fought this disease by adopting Covid-compliant behaviour with courage." He said the 'shastras' have also taught us not to lose patience and to maintain courage in times of adversity. Lauding the woman's poem, the prime minister said it expressed the worry and anxiety of a mother when she is away from her child. Prime Minister Modi expressed confidence that with her courage and positive thinking, Verma will continue to move forward and successfully face any challenge that comes in life. Due to the strict isolation undertaken by the couple, their son did not contract Covid-19, Kaushik said. He said his wife and he have fully recovered.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-lauds-mother-for-following-covid-norms-isolating-from-child-to-protect-him-from-coronavirus-998100.html
16-06-2021||National||No dissent on 12-16 week gap on Covishield, but experts question the outer limit||The Union Government on Wednesday asserted that its decision to expand the vaccination gap of 12-16 weeks between two doses of Covishield was taken on the basis of a unanimous recommendation of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), which perused available scientific information, even though a section of medical experts questioned the outer limit of 16 weeks. There was no dissent by any member of the NTAGI and the Standing Technical Sub-Committee when it recommended a gap of three months for the second dose, the government said in a statement, countering a report that alleged three NTAGI members were against such a suggestion. However, neither the government nor N K Arora, the chairperson of the NTAGI working group on immunisation gave any scientific explanation on imposing the outer limit of 16 weeks. Experts said there was no evidence for gains in the vaccine’s efficacy if the second dose has been delayed to 16 weeks instead of to 12 weeks or to 14 weeks. On his part, Arora said the 16 week limit was chosen due “flexibility” as everyone could not be given the jab by the 12th weeks. “(Based on the UK experience) a decision was taken on May 13, to increase the dose interval to 12- 16 weeks. This also gives flexibility to the community, since everyone cannot come at precisely 12 weeks or so,” he added. India and the UK are the two biggest consumers of the Covishield (AZD1222). In a subsequent NTAGI meeting on May 28, Arora pointed out Canada and Spain too had imposed a four month outer limit on the second dose of Covishield. However, no scientific study was shared on why such an outer limit was chosen. Other experts, however, pointed out that delaying the second dose would allow more people to get the first dose, particularly at a time when vaccines are in short supply. A recent study at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, has found that the effectiveness of Covishield is 61 per cent after one dose and 65 per cent  in overall protection. The small difference, said the researcher, implied that the gains from prioritising first doses would be greater than the risks of delaying second doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-dissent-on-12-16-week-gap-on-covishield-but-experts-question-the-outer-limit-998102.html
16-06-2021||National||From DDLJ to Chellam Sir: I&B Ministry's '#IndiaFightsCorona' Twitter handle uses pop culture references to spread awareness||"Ja Simran ja, jee le apni zindagi... Par yaad rahe: Mask, sanitizer aur do gaz ki doori ka palan zaroor karna!" -- Sounds familiar, but not quite? This is Amrish Puri's iconic dialogue in the climax of Bollywood blockbuster movie Dilwale Dulhaniya Le Jayenge, but with a Covid-19 twist. The Government of India’s Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, which has an exclusive Twitter handle for Covid-related updates called ‘#IndiaFightsCorona’, is now using pop culture references to spread awareness on the pandemic. Recently, the page has been using references from popular Bollywood movies and OTT series to make people aware of the protocols of Covid-19, while tickling the funnybone. To spread the message of the mandatory three-point rule -- sanitizing hands, wearing masks and social distancing -- of Covid-19, the handle shared the following tweet: सिमरन: बाबूजी, मैंने वैक्सीन की दोनों डोज़ लगवा ली है, अब मुझे बाहर जाने दीजिये बाबूजी... Then, there is Roshesh Sarabhai from the legendary Sarabhai vs Sarabhai series sharing a poem, in his inimitable style, on Covid-19: अगर बाहर का Task है ज़रूरी,तो नाक और मुँह पर लगाना Mask है ज़रूरी,किसी को आएं कोरोना के लक्षण,तो डॉक्टर से करना Ask है ज़रूरी, Family Man Season 2's Chellam Sir, aka India's new 'Google', also did his part in spreading awareness on the ongoing vaccination drive in India:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-ddlj-to-chellam-sir-ib-ministrys-indiafightscorona-twitter-handle-uses-pop-culture-references-to-spread-awareness-998103.html
16-06-2021||National||PM Modi calls for 'repair and prepare' as India emerges from Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday called for focus on 'repair and prepare' as the nation emerges out of a devastating pandemic. "Over the past year, we have witnessed a lot of disruption in different sectors. Much of it is still there. Yet, disruption does not have to mean despair," he said at VivaTech Summit. "Instead, we must keep the focus on the twin foundations of repair and prepare," he said referring to the need to augment healthcare infrastructure in the country as well as prop up the economy. Indian economy suffered its worst contraction in decades in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021, as the pandemic-induced lockdown impaired economic activity. The government, however, continued with the reforms that would help sustain higher growth rates after the world emerges from the pandemic. India implemented huge reforms across sectors - from mining to space, from banking to atomic energy, he said. "This goes on to show that India as a nation is adaptable and agile, even in the middle of the pandemic." "India offers what innovators and investors need," Modi said. "I invite the world to invest in India based on the five pillars of talent, market, capital, eco-system and culture of openness." Stating that India's strides in the world of tech and start-up are well-known, he said the country is home to one of the world's largest start-up eco systems and several unicorns have come up in recent years.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-calls-for-repair-and-prepare-as-india-emerges-from-covid-19-998104.html
16-06-2021||National||Centre denied approval to Delhi to probe deaths due to oxygen shortage: Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said the Centre has denied approval to a committee set up by the Delhi government to probe deaths caused by the lack of oxygen during the second wave of Covid-19 and award compensation to the families of the deceased. He urged the Centre to not obstruct the formation of the committee. The Delhi government had sent the file seeking approval for the four-member committee to LG Anil Baijal. Sisodia said, "The Centre has refused to grant approval for the formation of the committee. The Centre only interferes with the work of state governments. Why doesn't it allow the state governments to function?" Earlier, the Delhi government had said the committee would provide compensation of up to Rs 5 lakh to families of those who died due to oxygen shortage. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-denied-approval-to-delhi-to-probe-deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortage-sisodia-998106.html
16-06-2021||National||Over 2,000 children in Kerala lost single parents in Covid-19||Over 2,200 children in Kerala were found to have lost either their father or mother due to Covid-19 so far. While the Centre and Kerala governments have till now announced support schemes only for children who lost both parents, which so far comes to around 75 in Kerala, sources in the Kerala Women and Child Development (WCD) Department said that the condition of many children who lost either their father or mother was equally pathetic. Hence support schemes for such children were also very important. So far 2,200 children in Kerala were found to have lost either father or mother and the numbers are likely to go up further as the data compilation is progressing. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the other day that the Centre was likely to announce some support schemes to families that lost breadwinners to Covid-19.  Government sources said that the District Child Protection Officers (DCPO) in the state have already started collecting details of children who lost either their father or mother due to the pandemic. The state was exploring the scope of extending support schemes like 'Vignana Deepthi' that offers monthly assistance of Rs 2,000 to children for education as well as other sponsorship programmes. A DCPO told DH that the situation of many children, who lost either their mother or father, was really pathetic. Most of these families were financially and socially weak and in many cases, the sole breadwinner of the family succumbed to the pandemic. Teenage girls, who lost their mothers to Covid-19, need additional protection and care. Options of shifting children living in vulnerable conditions to shelter homes were also being initiated. The DCPOs are visiting such houses to understand the problems and take appropriate measures. Meanwhile, though the Centre and state announced support schemes for children orphaned by Covid-19, the implementation of the schemes is still pending as guidelines need to be issued by the government to identify the beneficiaries. While the government announced a support scheme for children who lost their father and mother due to Covid, there are instances where children under the care of a single parent losing the parent to Covid. Some children might have been under the care of grandparents or any close relatives who died due to Covid. All such factors need to be taken into consideration while finalising the guidelines for the support schemes, a WCD official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-2000-children-in-kerala-lost-single-parents-in-covid-19-998110.html
16-06-2021||National||First body retrieved from flooded Meghalaya coal mine||A body was retrieved on Wednesday afternoon from the flooded coal pit in Meghalaya's East Jaintia Hills district where five miners were trapped since May 30, an official said. The body was retrieved from the bottom of the 152- meter-deep pit by divers of the Indian Navy and NDRF, the district's Deputy Commissioner E Kharmalki told PTI. It is yet to be identified but suspected to be of one of the trapped miners, he said. The Navy on Tuesday detected two objects, which they suspected to be as bodies of the miners, he said. The operation to retrieve the second "suspicious object" was called off as the visibility in the water was affected during the retrieval of the first body, the official said. "They are expected to resume the retrieval of the second suspected body on Thursday when the visibility under water improves," he said. The water level in the pit also rose considerably as there was heavy overnight rainfall in the area, he said. Ten high-powered pumps have been deployed to dewater the main shaft and a nearby shaft that are connected underneath at the seams, Kharmalki said. A team of 13 personnel of the Navy last week joined the rescue teams of NDRF, SDRF and the Fire Services deployed at the accident site since May 30. The Navy brought with them their ROV -- an unmanned search vehicle deployed in the deep waters. The ROV had in 2019 retrieved three bodies of the 15 miners trapped deep inside another flooded coal mine, located about 20 km further at Lumthari. At the illegal mine in Umpleng, four of those trapped are from Assam and one is from Tripura. Six others, who narrowly escaped the onrush of the water during a dynamite explosion deep inside, were sent to their homes in Assam, Kharmalki said. Dynamite was used to break the coal seams, which accidentally either hit a water body or another nearby flooded mine, inundating the mine and trapping the five miners, officials said. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had banned the hazardous rat-hole coal mining and transportation of coal in Meghalaya in 2014. The rat-holes are dug horizontally across the coal seams. To reach the coal seams, coal miners dig deep vertical shafts to take out the coal to the top of the surface. The district police have arrested Shining Langstang, the mine owner, and charged him with violation of the NGT order. The 'Sordar' (mine manager) is on the run and a lookout notice has been issued since he was the one who brought migrant workers from Assam and Tripura to work in the illegal mine, a senior police officer said. Based on the account of the survivors, an FIR was registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-body-retrieved-from-flooded-meghalaya-coal-mine-998112.html
16-06-2021||National||Another lion dies of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu zoo||Another lion at the Arignar Anna Zoological Park (AAZP) in Vandalur near here, succumbed to SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday morning. Confirming the death of the Asiatic male lion named Pathbanathan, aged 12 years, the Deputy Director of AAZP said the lion was housed in the safari area of the park. "Samples of the said lion had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 as per the report of National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, communicated on June 3. The lion has been under intensive treatment since then," he said in a statement. This is the second tragedy that struck the zoo which lost a nine-year-old lioness Neela due to coronavirus on June 3.  Since the detection of the infection among animals, the zoo management has been involved in hectic efforts to prevent its spread among other animals. On Monday, the zoo authorities said three lions were responding to the treatment very slowly. However, all endeavours were being made by the team of zoo veterinarians in coordination with the experts of TANUVAS to ensure that they recover, the AAZP had said. Owing to Covid-19 infection on its premises, the park launched measures to contain the spread by introducing thermal scanning, social distancing, UV irradiation of feed, complete vaccination of zoo staff againstCorona. Animal enclosures were sanitised and the staff was mandated to wear the PPE kit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/another-lion-dies-of-covid-19-in-tamil-nadu-zoo-998116.html
16-06-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Adani Group stocks lose more ground||In your evening news brief, Adani Group stocks lose more ground; 5,000 youths in Delhi to be trained as health assistants and Karnataka minister says not a time for a change in leadership.  Shares in companies controlled by Gautam Adani fell again on Wednesday, adding to their losses stemming from a media report that said accounts of three foreign investor funds that own stocks had been frozen. The companies involved had rejected the report earlier this week, calling it "blatantly erroneous." Adani Enterprises, Adani Green Energy, and Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone fell as much as 3.3% to 4.7% on Wednesday, while shares of Adani Total Gas, Adani Transmission and Adani Power hit their lower circuit limits.   The Delhi government will train 5,000 youths to assist doctors and nurses as part of preparations for a possible third wave of Covid-19, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday. The health assistants or community nursing assistants will be imparted two weeks' basic training in nursing and lifecare. The training will start from June 28 in batches of 500 candidates.   Karnataka Agriculture Minister B C Patil has said that this is not the right time for a change in leadership. The Minister told reporters that at this time when there is a Covid-19 pandemic, it is not right for a signature campaign demanding a change in leadership. Karnataka BJP in-charge Arun Singh will conduct a meeting of the ministers in Bengaluru and all the issues will be resolved there, he said. Source: DHNS/ PTI/ Reuters||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-adani-group-stocks-lose-more-ground-998120.html
16-06-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Doubts over vaccine dose gap arise||The Health Ministry had announced the decision to change the gap from 6-8 weeks to 12-16 weeks at a time when vaccine supplies were falling short and infections were surging across the country. It said the extended gap was recommended by the NTAGI, based on real-life evidence, mainly from Britain. Yet the NTAGI scientists, classified by the government as three of the 14 "core members", said the body did not have enough data to make such a recommendation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-doubts-over-vaccine-dose-gap-arise-998128.html
16-06-2021||National||Net direct tax mop up doubles to more than Rs 1.85 lakh crore so far this fiscal||The net direct tax collection has doubled to over Rs 1.85 lakh crore so far this fiscal, mainly driven by personal income tax and advance tax mop up, the I-T department said on Wednesday. The net direct tax collection also includes corporate income tax (CIT) collection at Rs 74,356 crore and Personal Income Tax, including Security Transaction Tax (STT) at over Rs 1.11 lakh crore. The net direct tax collections (after adjusting refunds) between April 1-June 15 stood at Rs 1,85,871 crore, compared to Rs 92,762 crore over the corresponding period of the preceding year, representing an increase of 100.4 per cent over the collections of the preceding year, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said in a statement. Refunds amounting to Rs 30,731 crore have been issued in current fiscal. The gross collection of direct taxes for this fiscal stood at over Rs 2.16 lakh crore, compared to Rs 1.37 lakh crore in the corresponding period of the preceding year. The gross corporate income tax (CIT) mop up stood at Rs 96,923 crore and personal income tax (PIT) stood at over Rs 1.19 lakh crore. While Advance Tax mop up stood at Rs 28,780 crore, Tax Deducted at Source was at Rs 1,56,824 crore. Self-Assessment Tax stood at Rs 15,343 crore and Regular Assessment Tax at Rs 14,079 crore. "Despite extremely challenging initial months of the new fiscal, the Advance Tax collections for the first quarter of the FY 2021-22 stand at Rs 28,780 crore against Advance Tax collections of Rs 11,714 crore for the corresponding period of the immediately preceding Financial Year, showing a growth of approximately 146 per cent," the CBDT said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/net-direct-tax-mop-up-doubles-to-more-than-rs-185-lakh-crore-so-far-this-fiscal-998132.html
16-06-2021||National||Ajanta and Ellora Caves to reopen for tourists from June 17||With the improvement in the Covid-19 situation, world heritage sites of Ajanta and Ellora Caves along with three other historical monuments in Aurangabad district of Maharashtra will reopen for tourists from Thursday after remaining shut for more than three months, an official said on Wednesday. The district administration has capped the number of tourists visiting each of these five monuments, including Bibi-Ka-Maqbara, Aurangabad Caves, and Daulatabad Fort, to 2,000 in two sessions per day in the morning and afternoon. Booking of tickets will be allowed online and tourists are expected to follow the pandemic guidelines. Given a steady decline in the number of coronavirus positive cases, the Archaeological Survey of India had announced the reopening of all Centrally protected monuments, sites and museums from Wednesday. "Following the orders of the ASI, Aurangabad district Disaster and Management Authority (DDMA) chief and district collector Sunil Chavan has given a green signal to reopen the tourist spots in Aurangabad from June 17 as the cases dipped," the official told reporters. However, temples and other religious places under the jurisdiction of the ASI will continue to remain shut in the Aurangabad district. The official said the Covid-19 case positivity rate in Aurangabad city has come down to 0.45 per cent whereas the same is 4.27 per cent in rural areas of the district. The current oxygen bed occupancy rate in the district, which has 1,438 active cases, is 10.80 per cent. "We reviewed the tourist footfall at the above five monuments and also the case positivity rate. These monuments will reopen for tourists from June 17. Booking of the ticket shall remain online. Guides and others working near these monuments will have to undergo RT-PCR tests in the coming days. However, this test is not mandatory for those who are fully vaccinated," the collector said in a video. On the parameters of the case positivity rate and occupancy of oxygen beds, Aurangabad city falls under Level-1 of the five-level unlock plan of the state government allowing the maximum easing of curbs whereas rural areas fall under the level-2 category of limited restrictions. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ajanta-and-ellora-caves-to-reopen-for-tourists-from-june-17-998136.html
16-06-2021||National||ED arrests ex-Maharashtra MLA in bank fraud-linked money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested former Maharashtra MLA Vivekanand Shankar Patil in a money-laundering case linked to an alleged fraud of over Rs 512 crore in a Panvel-located cooperative bank, officials said on Wednesday. They said Patil (66) was arrested by the central probe agency around 8:15 pm on Tuesday as he was allegedly not cooperating with the investigators during questioning at the ED office in the Ballard Estate area here. The former MLA from the Peasants and Workers Party was arrested under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and produced before a court here that sent him to ED custody till June 25. The ED's money-laundering case is based on an FIR registered against Patil and about 75 others in February last year by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Navi Mumbai police that alleged irregularities to the tune of Rs 512.54 crore in the Karnala Nagari Sahakari (cooperative) Bank that is headquartered in Panvel in the neighbouring Raigad district. Police had named Patil, the former chairman of the bank who had represented the Panvel and Uran constituencies in the Maharashtra Assembly in the past, as an accused along with its vice-chairman, chief executive officer and several others who had obtained loans from the bank. The alleged fraud came to light after an audit of the bank was carried out on the directions of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in 2019-20, the ED said in a statement. "The audit revealed that Patil was siphoning off funds since 2008 from the bank through 63 fictitious loan accounts to the loan accounts of the Karnala Charitable Trust and the Karnala Sports Academy, which were founded by him." "It was found that the management of the bank was under the control of Patil and in order to siphon off the funds, Patil used some old accounts of the bank, got these accounts renewed and large amounts were transferred from these accounts to the said trust accounts," the ED alleged. No collateral securities, it claimed, were taken against such loans and no correspondence was made with the revenue authorities regarding the payment of stamp duty for the purpose of purchasing immovable properties for which the loans were obtained. "This made the loans unsafe or unsecured and all the loan accounts from where funds were transferred to the said trust were found to be NPAs (non performing assets). "It was further observed that without following the KYC (know your customer) norms and other RBI guidelines, the said loans were sanctioned and disbursed at the instruction of and for gains by Patil," the agency said. The police, in its FIR, had pressed charges such as criminal breach of trust and cheating among others under the provisions of the Indian Penal Code, the Cooperative Societies Act and the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors Act. The bank is stated to have been established in 1996 under the Cooperative Banks Act after Patil received a licence from the RBI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-arrests-ex-maharashtra-mla-in-bank-fraud-linked-money-laundering-case-998147.html
16-06-2021||National||PIL filed in Supreme Court for health warning on packaged foods, beverages||BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay also asked the court to direct the Food Safety and Standard Authority of India (FSSAI) to examine WHO recommendations on fat, salt and sugar intake and prepare a comprehensive report on the health impact assessment within three months. His plea contended that if the Centre introduced the rule to display a warning on the packet of the food items with excess fat, sugar or salt, citizens might be able to stop the spread of various non-communicable diseases such as obesity and cholesterol which are caused due to consuming such food.  Such measures have been implemented in many countries like the US, Australia and New Zealand and the change was evident from the first year, resulting in a drop of 3-15% in the cases of such diseases, it claimed. "In India, 60 per cent of total deaths are caused due to the lifestyle which involves problematic working hours and use of junk food items. Our 10 per cent of calorie intake comes from packed foods and beverages. Various researches have been conducted on the display of warning on food items. In Mexico alone, this system led to a decline of 15 per cent in obesity which estimates to around 15 lakh people," the plea said. It further contended that the injury to citizens was extremely large here due to inaction of the Centre and the FSSAI, and the Right to Health guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution was being brazenly offended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-supreme-court-for-health-warning-on-packaged-foods-beverages-998152.html
16-06-2021||National||Covid-hit family in UP starves at home, hospitalised||A Covid widow who lost her job due to the pandemic and her five children have been admitted to a hospital in Aligarh, apparently after going without food for days. Doctors at the Malkhan Singh District Hospital said the six family members were barely able to talk or stand up when they were admitted on Tuesday by some Good Samaritans.  The mother, Guddi (40), told mediapersons that after having lost her husband, who was the sole breadwinner, to Covid last year, she had been somehow eking out a living by working in a lock factory. That too shut down a few months ago.  After the news surfaced, District Magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh rushed a team of officials to investigate the matter and extend relief, an official release said. After losing her job, Guddi said her eldest son Ajay (20) started working as a daily wage construction worker but due to the lockdown in April during the second wave of coronavirus, he too lost his job and all sources of income dried up. As no one was able to move out of their house located at Mandir ka Nagla under Sasni Gate police station area, Guddi said that for nearly eight weeks, they survived on 'chapatis' which their neighbours used to give them. However, 10 days back even such mercies ended and "the entire family went without a single meal", she said. The DM has sent a team of three officials led by Sub Divisional Magistrate Kunwar Bahadur Singh to investigate the matter and "provide immediate relief including foodgrain, other food items and a sum of Rs 5,000 to the affected family”, the release said. He said that the matter is being investigated and further action will follow soon. Meanwhile, Sunil Kumar who runs a social organisation 'Hands for Help' has also come forward to provide ration. Vishnu Kumar Bunty of Manav Upkar Sanstha, which has been helping people hit by the coronavirus pandemic, has demanded a probe into this incident. He said a door-to-door survey should be held to trace those whose livelihoods have been hit by the recent lockdowns.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-hit-family-in-up-starves-at-home-hospitalised-998155.html
16-06-2021||National||Cabinet hikes DAP fertiliser subsidy by Rs 700 per bag||The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday approved a Rs 700 per bag hike in subsidy for Di-ammonium Phosphate (DAP) fertiliser for the year 2021-22. With a rise in global prices, the actual price of DAP reached Rs 2,400 per bag, Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya told media persons after a Cabinet meeting. "However, farmers will continue to get DAP at the old rate of Rs 1,200 per bag,” he said, adding that the Centre has decided to increase the subsidy to Rs 1,200 per bag. One bag of DAP has 50 kilograms of fertiliser. The increase of subsidy would result in an additional cost of Rs 14,775 crore to the exchequer, he said.   Last month, the Centre decided to increase subsidy on DAP fertiliser by 140 per cent. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Briefing the media, Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilisers Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday said the Cabinet has approved increasing the subsidy amount for DAP fertiliser for the benefits of farmers. The subsidy for DAP fertiliser has been increased to Rs 1,200 per bag from Rs 500 per bag to provide relief to farmers, he said. Last year, the actual price of DAP was Rs 1,700 per bag, on which the central government was giving a subsidy of Rs 500. The companies were therefore selling the fertiliser to farmers at Rs 1,200 per bag. Mandaviya said that in the case of urea, the maximum retail price (MRP) is fixed while the subsidy amount keeps changing. On average, he said the government is providing Rs 900 per bag subsidy on urea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-hikes-dap-fertiliser-subsidy-by-rs-700-per-bag-998158.html
16-06-2021||National||Centre approves Rs 4,000 crore 'deep ocean mission'; ISRO to develop special under-water capsule||In many ways, it would be similar to a space capsule that ISRO has developed to ferry Indian astronauts to space -- but instead of going up this titanium sphere will go six km down under the ocean to search for valuables. The Ministry of Earth Sciences has roped in space scientists to design and develop a capsule that will dive more than 6,000 mt in the Indian Ocean, carrying three men with sensors and tools to look for polymetallic nodules containing copper, nickel, cobalt and manganese worth millions. The Union Cabinet on Wednesday sanctioned Rs 4,077 crore for the 'deep ocean mission' to scour the depth of the Indian Ocean for commercially exploring such nodules. The mission seeks to develop technologies required for the day when the International Seabed Authority, a UN organisation, will release the protocols for commercial deep sea mining. "We have to develop deep sea mining technologies and a manned submersible for the mission. Such technologies are strategic in nature and not available off-the-shelf. We have to develop them in-house,” M Rajeevan, secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences told DH. Indian Space Research Organisation and a few industries have been roped in for the manned submersible, which would be a titanium sphere capable of withstanding an enormous amount of pressure at 6,000 mt depth. It will also have an oxygen supply system, under-sea surveillance systems and electronics. "Because of its experience of building the space capsule, we have partnered with ISRO to develop the titanium sphere. Also, ISRO has experience in designing the safety systems that would be needed in a manned submersible,” said Rajeevan. The International Seabed Authority had allocated India a 75,000 sq km area in the southern Indian Ocean for commercial exploration of polymetallic nodules found on the ocean floor. However, India can not start mining unless rules are framed by the authority. Absence of appropriate technologies is also a big bottleneck. “The technologies required for deep sea mining have strategic implications and are not commercially available. Hence, attempts will be made to indigenise technologies by collaborating with leading institutes and private industries,” the Union Cabinet says in a press note. Over the last few years, India was in talks with the US and Japan seeking technical know-how for deep sea mining and the manned submersible. Both declined. A channel of discussion has now opened with Russia, which also possesses such technologies. Another key component of the mission is to explore and identify hydrothermal vents along the Indian Ocean mid-oceanic ridges that are potential sites of mineral formation. A special research vessel with instruments capable of withstanding high temperature at such vents -- nearly 500 degrees Celsius -- would be constructed at an Indian shipyard under this mission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-approves-rs-4000-crore-deep-ocean-mission-isro-to-develop-special-under-water-capsule-998160.html
16-06-2021||National||SC 'shocked' on non-listing of bail plea for over 1 year||The Supreme Court has expressed its "shock" over the non-listing of bail plea of an accused in the Punjab and Haryana High Court for over one year, saying this is "an infringement of right and liberty". A bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian said under the prevailing pandemic, at least half of the judges should sit on alternative days so that hearing was accorded to the person in distress. "Even during the pandemic, when all courts are making attempts to hear and decide all matter, non-listing of such an application for bail defeats the administration of justice," the bench said. The court asked the Registrar General of the High Court to bring this into the notice of competent authority to take remedial steps. It passed the order on a plea by Chunni Lal Gaba, contending that his bail plea in a case filed by the Enforcement Directorate was pending since February 28, 2020, and the High Court had on April 29 declined to grant him a hearing. "Non-listing of application for regular bail, irrespective of seriousness or lack thereof, of the offences attributed to the accused, impinges upon the liberty of the person in custody. Therefore, we hope that the High Court will be able to take up the application for bail at an early date," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-shocked-on-non-listing-of-bail-plea-for-over-1-year-998161.html
16-06-2021||National||NPPA asks drug firms to cut prices in wake of GST rate reduction||Drug pricing regulator NPPA has asked pharmaceutical companies and medical device makers to reduce prices on products on which the GST has been lowered in order to pass on the benefit to the consumers. In a notification, the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) noted that a change in tax rates has an impact on the fixation of maximum retail prices (MRP) of various drugs and formulations. As per DPCO 2013, MRP of drugs and formulations are inclusive of taxes. Therefore, any downward change in tax or GST rates should be reflected in the MRP and benefit of the reduction should be passed on to the consumers, it noted. "In view of the above, all the manufacturers and marketing companies are required to revise the MRPs of drugs/formulations on which tax/GST rates have been reduced taking into effect the revised GST rates," NPPA said.  Recalling or re-labelling or re-stickering on the label of the container or pack of the already released stocks in the market is not mandatory if manufacturers are able to ensure price compliance at the retailer level through issuance of a revised price list, it noted. The NPPA is mandated to fix and revise the prices of controlled bulk drugs and formulations, and to enforce prices and availability of the medicines in the country. It also monitors the prices of de-controlled drugs in order to keep them at reasonable levels. The GST Council, chaired by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and comprising state ministers, on June 12 slashed tax rates on Covid-19 drugs such as remdesivir and tocilizumab as well as on medical oxygen, oxygen concentrators and other Covid-19 essentials. The finance ministry's revenue department on June 14 notified the lower rates for 18 Covid-19-related supplies, like hand sanitiser, pulse oximeters, BiPAP machine, testing kits, ambulances and temperature check equipment. These concessional rates would be applicable till September 30, 2021. The Council in its June 12 meeting decided to reduce GST on Covid-19 drug tocilizumab and black fungus medicine Amphotericin B to 'nil', from 5 per cent. The rate on remdesivir and anti-coagulants like heparin was lowered from 12 per cent to 5 per cent. The Council also decided to cut the GST rate on ambulances to 12 per cent from 28 per cent. Tax on medical-grade oxygen, oxygen concentrators (including personal imports), ventilators, BiPAP machines and high-flow nasal cannula (HFNC) devices has been reduced to 5 per cent from 12 per cent. Also, tax on Covid-19 testing kits and pulse oximeters (including personal imports) has been brought down to 5 per cent from 12 per cent. Hand sanitisers, temperature check equipment, gas/electric furnaces for crematoriums will also attract a lower 5 per cent tax, from 18 per cent earlier. On Tuesday, the finance ministry notified the concessional rate of GST that will be applicable on Covid-19 relief materials till September 30, 2021. Also, a lower goods and services tax (GST) of 5 per cent is now applicable for work contracts for construction, repair or maintenance of electric furnaces meant for funeral, burial or cremation of the deceased. The earlier tax rate of this service stood at 12 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nppa-asks-drug-firms-to-cut-prices-in-wake-of-gst-rate-reduction-998174.html
16-06-2021||National||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman 'wrong' in claiming GST of all states cleared, says P Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday said Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is "wrong" in claiming that GST dues of states have been cleared and cited the example of Congress-ruled Rajasthan, Punjab and Chhattisgarh. Citing an interview given by Sitharaman, he said the finance minister "angrily rebuffed the interviewer and snapped: 'What dues, I have cleared the GST (Goods and Services Tax) dues of all states'". "The FM was wrong. The anger was unjustified," the former Union finance minister said in a statement. Chidambaram said he has gathered data about GST dues from three states which stand at Rs 7,393 crore for Punjab as on June 1, 2021, Rs. 7,142 crore for Rajasthan as on May 21 and Rs 3,069 crore for Chhattisgarh as on June 1. "I am trying to gather data from other states," he said. Opposition-ruled states have been at loggerheads with the Centre over GST dues in the past also and have demanded that they be paid at the earliest so that they can keep funding pandemic-related spending.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-wrong-in-claiming-gst-of-all-states-cleared-says-p-chidambaram-998175.html
16-06-2021||National||Now, you can modify your TV channel subscription online||The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) on Wednesday launched a TV Channel Selector web portal on Wednesday for consumers who could not access its mobile phone app of the same name due to lack of a smartphone. The TV Channel Selector App for smartphone was launched on June 25 last year that enabled users to check their subscription, modify it, view all channels provided by their cable operators and choose channels of interest. "TRAI has now developed TV Channel Selector web portal also to facilitate subscribers who don't own smart phone or wish to use web browsers. The prominent feature of both app and portal is optimisation of the subscription before it is sent to the DTH /cable operator, so that subscribers can get the best value for money," the authority said in its notification.  It also said the portal has all the existing features of the app along with download facility and will help subscribers to check their own subscription, view all channels and bouquets provided by their DTH and cable operators, and choose only channels of interest and remove the unwanted ones. The portal will help subscribers "get optimised solutions and the best combination of user selected channels/bouquets in same or less price". TRAI said the portal will help subscribers modify their subscription, check real time status of subscription request, add channels in the applicable NCF (network capacity fee) and download and print current subscription.  "The users may provide feedback by clocking the 'Feedback' option available on the issue/feedback menu on the portal. Both the TV Channel Selector app and portal are presently functional with 16 DTH and cable operators. However, efforts are being made to integrate other service providers whose system are capable to communicate through API (Application Program Interface) with this platform," TRAI said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-you-can-modify-your-tv-channel-subscription-online-998184.html
16-06-2021||National||Centre to break up Ordnance Factory Board into 7 companies under Ministry of Defence||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday decided to dissolve the Ordnance Factory Board, set up by the British in 1775, and replace it with seven companies under Defence Ministry -- each for a specific manufacturing purpose -- subsuming the 41 OFB factories. Sources said the restructuring of the OFB-India's main producer of arms and ammunition -- was aimed at transforming the ordnance factories into productive and profitable assets; deepening product specialisation enhancing competitiveness and improving quality and cost-efficiency. The functioning of the OFB came in for review by various high-level committees over the last two decades with the objective of improving their performance. All employees of OFB (Group A, B & C) belonging to the production units would be transferred to the corporate entities on deemed deputation initially for a period of two years without altering their service conditions as central government employees. Currently, the OFB is a subordinate office of the Department of Defence Production because of which decisions like modernisation of plant and machinery, entering into joint ventures with other firms and technology transfer agreements are subject to government rules. Also being a government department, OFB can't retain profits and therefore has no incentive to make profits. All such factors reduce its operational flexibility that is generally associated with any production and marketing unit. As per the new structure, the ammunition and explosives group would be engaged in the production of ammunition of various calibre and explosives with huge potential to grow exponentially. The company would also aim to make ammunition for the world market, sources said. Similarly, the vehicles group that would produce defence mobility and combat vehicles like tanks, trawls, BMP and mine protected vehicles, is expected to increase its share in the domestic market and explore new export markets. The weapons and equipment group would be engaged in the production of small arms, medium and large calibre guns and other weapon systems and is expected to increase its share in the domestic market through meeting domestic demand as well as product diversification. In addition, troop comfort items group, ancillary group, optoelectronics group and parachute group constitute the entire structure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-break-up-ordnance-factory-board-into-7-companies-under-ministry-of-defence-998186.html
16-06-2021||National||730 doctors died of Covid-19 in second wave: IMA||As many as 730 doctors have succumbed to coronavirus infection during the second wave, according to data available by the Indian Medical Association (IMA). Bihar saw the maximum number of 115 deaths, followed by Delhi at 109, Uttar Pradesh 79, West Bengal 62, Rajasthan 43, Jharkhand 39, and Andhra Pradesh 38, the data showed. According to the IMA, 748 doctors died in the first wave of the pandemic. "Last year 748 doctors across India succumbed to Covid-19, while in the current second wave, in a short period we have lost 730 doctors," a doctor associated with the IMA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/730-doctors-died-of-covid-19-in-second-wave-ima-998192.html
16-06-2021||National||Covid-19: NDA-Congress slugfest at PAC meet over vaccines||Sparks flew at a meeting of Parliament's Public Accounts Committee (PAC) on Wednesday as members from BJP and JDU vehemently opposed committee chairman Adhir Ranjan Chaudhary's bid to take up the issue of vaccine production, purchase and distribution. While there has been a buzz that the chairman made an offer to resign after the row, sources in the panel did not confirm this to Deccan Herald. Chowdhury is learnt to have said if he was saying something inappropriate, he would step down as the chairman of the PAC. The committee, which has just one more Congress member Shakti Sinh Gohil, met on Wednesday for consideration of a memorandum regarding selection of subjects for examination during 2021-22. The row erupted as Chowdhury, in his concluding remarks, said the PAC should also take up the issue of vaccine production, purchase and distribution. Objecting to it, members from BJP and JDU said this was not part of the agenda and cannot be foisted upon the panel. Jagdambika Pal led the protest from the BJP, while JDU member Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh took strong umbrage, saying the chairman should tell this to the media if he wants to politicise the matter, a source said. The JDU member, according to the source, also asked Chowdhury that when this was not on the agenda, why would he include in the concluding remarks. This was the first time the PAC met after the outbreak of the second wave of coronavirus. What irked the members was Chowdhury reading a suo-motu statement critical of the Centre's Covid management. The committee has 22 members and the NDA has a clear majority in it. The PAC, the mother of all parliamentary committees, can adopt any report only with consensus. Even if one member dissents, the report cannot be adopted, which is not the case with other committees. When Chowdhury raised the issue, members from other parties like BJD and DMK kept quiet. "Practically, he was cowed down," said a source. When BJP members were trying to shout Chowdhury down, Congress member Gohil urged them to listen to the chairman. BJP MP from Baghpat, Satyapal Singh, tried to pacify his party members, but Chowdhury got no support from anyone in the meeting, a source said. Last year too, Chowdhury had encountered similar protests in the PAC when he had tried to take up the issue of Chinese aggression in Ladakh. When contacted, PAC member B Mahtab, from BJD, refused to divulge the details of what happened in the meeting, but cited the rule which makes it mandatory for the agenda to be decided unanimously. "This is the centenary year of PAC, founded in 1921. These rules have been there for the last 100 years," said Mahtab. This is not the first time the PAC got into a row. A similar scene had played out in 2014 in the PAC headed by Congress leader K V Thomas. Dubey, who was a key member in PAC heading some of its committees, had written to then Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan, seeking to move a privilege motion against Thomas after the latter kept insisting on calling PM Narendra Modi before the panel on the demonetisation decision. The political slugfest in PAC meeting on Wednesday happened in full view of officials, including AG and Deputy AGs, who were present during the meeting. Parliamentary panels, which are supposed to function in a non-partisan manner, have more than often fallen prey to political affiliations. A PAC member, who was in favour of discussing the vaccine issue, rued that the matter could have been taken up after building consensus on it as it was an issue related to public health and welfare. PAC is the second parliamentary committee chaired by a Congress member, which saw such rows in the recent past. Last month, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, headed by Shashi Tharoor, had got into a row with BJP member Nishikant Dubey writing to Lok Sabha Speaker and seeking not only his "sacking" from the position of panel chairperson, but also "disqualification from membership of Lok Sabha" under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution of India.   This was after Tharoor had written to IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, slamming the police probe against Twitter and seeking some details.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-nda-congress-slugfest-at-pac-meet-over-vaccines-998193.html
16-06-2021||National||Mukhtar Ansari case: Vehicle was used to carry firearms; another accused arrested||The bullet-proof ambulance in which don-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari travelled from jail to Punjab court was also used for carrying firearms, police said on Wednesday, announcing another arrest in the case. The accused, Anand Yadav, Ansari’s aide, was arrested from Faizabad road on the charges of forgery and cheating for his alleged involvement in the registration of the ambulance, Superintendent of Police Yamuna Prasad said, adding he had a reward of Rs 25,000 on his arrest. The SP said that firearms were carried in the ambulance but didn't share detail in this regard. Doctor Alka Rai (of Mau's Shyam Sanjeevani Hospital), who was arrested earlier in connection with the case, told police that Ansari and his aides, Mujahid and Rajnath Yadav, forced her to sign some documents for getting the ambulance transferred in the name of the hospital. She had also accused them of preparing her forged voter card to get the ambulance registered with the Road Transportation Office (RTO). Rajnath Yadav was arrested on April 4 from Mau and Shyam Sheshnath Rai on April 19. Anand Yadav has confessed the role of other people in this case, the SP said, adding efforts were on to arrest other accused in the case – Mujahid and Shahid – both carrying a reward of Rs 25,000 each. On Monday, a Barabanki court had remanded mafia don-turned-BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari to judicial custody in a case of alleged forgery and cheating in the registration of a bulletproof ambulance used to ferry him between courts and jail in Punjab. Barabanki Chief Judicial Magistrate Kamalapati remanded Ansari to a 14-day judicial custody after the local police put the Mau MLA under arrest in the ambulance case and produced him in the court through video conference from Banda Jail. After having been brought from the Ropar jail in Punjab recently, Ansari was lodged in the Banda jail as an undertrial in a slew of criminal cases. The case against Ansari was registered after it was found that a bulletproof ambulance with a Barabanki number was used to ferry him from Ropar jail to a Mohali court near Chandigarh in an extortion case. The case was filed against Alka Rai at Barabanki's Kotwali police station in connection with the registration of the ambulance (UP 41 AT 7171) without proper documents and a valid certificate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mukhtar-ansari-case-vehicle-was-used-to-carry-firearms-another-accused-arrested-998202.html
16-06-2021||National||Gold hallmark: No fine for non-compliance till August, says Centre||In a relief to jewellers, the Centre said no penalty will be imposed till August on those who do not comply with the mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery and artefacts that came into force from Wednesday in 256 districts across the country. However, action will be taken on consumer complaints as per the law. The complaints can be filed on the BISCARE APP or consumer engagement portal of the Union consumer affairs ministry, it said. So far, gold hallmarking in the country was voluntary in nature. But, in 2019, the government announced it would make it mandatory from January 15, 2021, but the deadline was extended twice till June 15 after the jewellers sought more time in view of the pandemic. Gold hallmarking is a purity certification of the precious metal. Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) Director-General Pramod Kumar Tiwari said it is a major move to protect the interest of consumers. To ensure jewellers adapt to the new system, the government has decided not to impose a penalty on jewellers for only three months till August for non-compliance of the mandatory gold hallmarking norms, he added. "This is a massive change that is happening in the ecosystem of the industry. There are lakhs of jewellers, including small jewellers, who have to register themselves and get accustomed to the new system. It takes time," Tiwari said. The reason is that the government in three months will concentrate on handholding jewellers, helping customers and manufacturers to adapt to the new system, he said. "It does not mean, if there are any complaints, i.e. someone is indulging in serious kind of malpractice, and no action will be taken. That is not the point," Tiwari said adding that after three months, a penalty will be imposed. The BIS DG further said jewellers had apprehension that they would be punished if they were found to have committed "small mistake like in sending jewellery to assaying centres or delay in registering themselves for hallmarking". "We have tried to allay these apprehensions. We have told jewellers not to be scared of the new system. Make best efforts to adopt," he said. Initially, the government was to implement the mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery and related items in the entire country. But, after an overnight meeting with stakeholders, it decided to roll out in a phased manner and also relaxed this norm for certain players in the industry. Asked the reason for the phased-wise approach, Tiwari said the government had been discussing with stakeholders and there was this "dilemma whether to do it in the entire country or in a phased manner". "It is a conscious, balanced and positive decision that we have taken, taking into the interest of everybody. It is good for the country. We are making a beginning," he said. It is a historical day and the government is quite sure that once the first phase is implemented successfully, the awareness among consumers will increase, he added. Out of 715-odd districts in the country, mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery and artefacts has come into force in 256 districts across the country for 14, 18 and 22 carats of gold jewellery/artefacts only from Wednesday. Rest of districts will be included in two phases. In the second phase, another 240-odd districts may be mapped that are in the 100 km radius of the first phase districts after infrastructure is in place, he said. Also, mandatory hallmarking of 20, 23, and 24 carats gold jewellery will be implemented in a phased manner, for which BIS is framing quality standards, he said. There are some difficult areas, Tiwari said adding that for instance, in six northeastern states, there are no assaying centres. Such states and Union territories like Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh and Adaman & Nicobar will be taken in the third phase. The government has also relaxed mandatory gold hallmarking guidelines for some industry players. Asked why jewellers with an annual turnover of up to Rs 40 lakh per annum were exempted, Tiwari said this has been done so that small jewellers do not face problem in accessing assaying centers. Consumer Affairs Ministry Additional Secretary Nidhi Khare said, "The rest who have left out will do voluntary registration. I hope this will be a good selling strategy to improve the credibility." Besides small jewellers, the government has also exempted those who export and re-import jewellery as per the government's trade policy, jewellery meant for international exhibitions as well as for government approved B2B domestic exhibitions. The government has also exempted registration fee from jewellers which will be one time. Tiwari said alteration in the hallmarked jewellery up to two grams of increase or decrease to be allowed with responsibility of purity on the jeweller. Manufacturer, importer, wholesaler, distributor or retailer engaged in selling precious metal articles have to mandatorily get registered with BIS for hallmarking. However, artisans or manufacturers who are just making the gold jewellery on a job work basis for the jewellers and are not directly related to sale to anyone in the chain are exempted for registration. Hallmarking should be done at the first point of sale which may be manufacturer, wholesaler, distributor or retailer, he added. The mandatory hallmarking will protect the public against lower caratage and ensure consumers do not get cheated while buying gold ornaments and get the purity as marked on the ornaments. The BIS has been running a hallmarking scheme for gold jewellery since April 2000. Around 40 per cent of gold jewellery is being hallmarked currently. The government said there has been a 25 per cent increase in assaying and hallmarking centers to 945 from 454 in the last five years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gold-hallmark-no-fine-for-non-compliance-till-august-says-centre-998209.html
16-06-2021||National||Firms owned by Mehul Choksi siphoned off over Rs 6,344.96 crore from PNB using fraudulent LoUs: CBI||Companies owned by fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi have allegedly siphoned off over Rs 6,344.96 crore from the Punjab National Bank (PNB) using fraudulent letters of undertaking and foreign letters of credit, the CBI has alleged in its supplementary charge sheet, detailing the agency's three-year-long investigation. The findings were submitted by the CBI in a supplementary charge sheet filed before a special court in Mumbai last week, where it alleged that the PNB was conned by its employees who were hand in gloves with Choksi and his company executives and who facilitated the scam as part of a criminal conspiracy. The PNB officials at the bank's Brady House branch in Mumbai issued 165 letters of undertaking (LoUs) and 58 foreign letters of credit (FLCs) during March-April 2017, against which 311 bills were discounted. These LoUs and FLCs were allegedly issued to Choksi's firms without any sanctioned limit or cash margin and without making entries in the bank's central banking system to evade any scrutiny in case of a default. LoUs are a guarantee given by a bank on behalf of its client to a foreign bank. If the client does not repay to the foreign bank, the liability falls on the guarantor bank. Based on these LoUs, SBI-Mauritius, Allahabad Bank-Hong Kong, Axis Bank-Hong Kong, Bank of India-Antwerp, Canara Bank-Mamana and SBI-Frankfurt lent money. "Since the accused companies did not repay the amount availed against the said fraudulent LoUs and FLCs, the PNB made the payment of Rs 6,344.97 crore (USD 965.18 million), including the overdue interest, to the overseas banks, which had advanced buyer's credit and discounted the bills against the fraudulent LoUs and FLCs issued by the PNB," the supplementary chargesheet alleges. According to the CBI, LoUs worth over Rs 3,154.31 crore and the 311 bills worth over Rs 3,086.24, which were discounted against the 58 FLCs, remain outstanding. The PNB had accused Choksi of duping it to the tune of Rs 7,080 crore. CBI officials said the matter is still under probe and the final figures of loss suffered by the bank can only be determined once all the LoUs are examined. The CBI is continuing its probe into the LoUs issued in 2015 and 2016 and the fraudulent amendments made in FLCs in 2014, 2015 and 2016 by bank officials. In addition to the 18 accused named in the first charge sheet, the agency has named four accused in its supplementary report, including the former international head of the Gitanjali Group of Companies, Sunil Verma, two PNB officials -- single-window operator Sagar Sawant and AGM Sanjay Prasad -- and a director of the Gili and the Nakshtra brands under the group, Dhanesh Sheth. The supplementary charge sheet, filed more than three years after the first charge sheet in the case, coincides with the legal proceedings against Choksi in a court of Dominica, where he was arrested for "illegal entry" on May 24 after his mysterious disappearance from neighbouring Antigua and Barbuda. "This supplementary chargesheet after three years shows that it is only an attempt to cover up anomalies that the defence had pointed out in the first chargesheet. Moreover, the addition of section 201, IPC for destruction of evidence is not legally tenable as a document becomes evidence only after its filing in the court and the allegations are of a period much prior to the FIR," Choksi's lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said. Choksi was living in Antigua and Barbuda since 2018, after he fled India in the first week of January that year, weeks before the scam was reported. He and his nephew, Nirav Modi, have allegedly siphoned off over Rs 13,000 crore of public money from the PNB using LoUs and FLCs by bribing officials of the bank's Brady House branch. The agency has slapped charges of criminal conspiracy, cheating, breach of trust, the disappearance of evidence, falsification of accounts, bribery and criminal misconduct by a public servant in its supplementary charge sheet. The CBI probe has found that accused PNB official Gokulnath Shetty, in a conspiracy with Choksi, had in an "unauthorised" manner issued 165 LoUs from the PNB's Brady House branch between March 1 and April 29, 2017, on behalf of Gitanjali Gems (113 LoUs), Gili India Limited (35 LoUs) and Nakshatra Brands (17 LoUs) -- all accused firms. The purpose of this trade transaction was shown as purchasing fresh water pearls from Shanyao Gong Si Limited and 4Cs Diamond Distributors, both based in Hong Kong. The CBI has found that the accused companies availed 142 buyer's credit amounting to Rs 3,011.38 crore and did not make payments on the due date "wilfully", causing loss to the bank and corresponding profits to themselves. It is alleged that Choksi and Modi used the mechanism to get credit from foreign banks, which was not repaid, bringing the liability of over Rs 13,000 crore on the PNB. The investigation has further revealed that the fraud was allegedly perpetrated despite circulars issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), which was in the knowledge of senior PNB officials. Further, the PNB officials did not implement the circulars and caution notices issued by the RBI regarding safeguarding the SWIFT (international banking messaging system) operations and instead, misrepresented the factual situation to the RBI, the agency has alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/firms-owned-by-mehul-choksi-siphoned-off-over-rs-634496-crore-from-pnb-using-fraudulent-lous-cbi-998218.html
16-06-2021||National Politics||India needs quick and complete vaccination, not BJP's lies: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said India needs quick and complete vaccination and not the BJP's "brand of lies and rhyming slogans" to cover up the vaccine shortage caused by the government's inaction. He also alleged that the government was trying to save the image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, attempts that are facilitating the virus and costing people's lives. His remarks come as large parts of India appear to be emerging from a devastating second wave of Covid-19. "India needs quick and complete vaccination- not BJP's usual brand of lies and rhyming slogans to cover-up vaccine shortage caused by Modi Government's inaction," the Congress leader said on Twitter. India needs quick & complete vaccination- not BJP’s usual brand of lies & rhyming slogans to cover-up vaccine shortage caused by Modi Govt’s inaction. "GOI's constant attempts to save PM's fake image are facilitating the virus and costing people's lives," he added. Gandhi also tagged a report that the government doubled the gap between the two doses of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine without the agreement of the scientific group that it said had recommended the increase.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-needs-quick-and-complete-vaccination-not-bjps-lies-rahul-gandhi-998007.html
16-06-2021||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi demands SC-supervised probe into Ayodhya land deal||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday demanded a Supreme Court supervised investigation into allegations of corruption in a land deal of the Ram temple trust. In a statement posted on her Facebook page, Priyanka Gandhi said any attempt to find an "opportunity in faith" is an assault on the faith of crores of Indians and a "big sin". The Shriram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, she said, was formed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and has people close to him as trustees. "It is the responsibility of the prime minister that every penny of the offerings by the devotees in the name of Lord Ram should be used in the collective work related to faith and not in any scam," the Congress general secretary said in her statement in Hindi. Noting that the trust has been formed on the instructions of the Supreme Court, Priyanka Gandhi said she demands on behalf of the people of the country that "the Supreme Court should get the entire scam investigated under its supervision".  Refuting the allegations of corruption and financial misconduct, trust general secretary Champat Rai on Monday had asserted that the organisation is committed to full transparency. "We are applying full transparency in the purchase of land," he said, adding that the money is transferred online into the bank accounts of the sellers. The trust is in charge of the construction of the Ram temple. Countering him, Priyanka Gandhi said that according to reports there is a "scam" in the purchase of land by the Shriram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust. "On March 18, 2021, two people bought land in Ayodhya for Rs 2 crore. It is worth noting that this land is not for temple construction, but is away from the temple premises," the Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh said. This land of Rs 2 crore was bought after just five minutes by the Trust set up by the prime minister for Rs 18.5 crore, Priyanka Gandhi alleged. Which means that the price of land increased at the rate of Rs 5.5 lakh per second, she pointed out. "Can anyone believe this?  Don't forget, all this money was given by the people of India in the form of donations and offerings for the construction of the temple," the Congress leader said. She claimed that the names of the witnesses in the deed and registry related to the sale and purchase of land are the same.  One witness is a trustee of the temple trust who has been a former high-level functionary of the RSS and the other is a BJP leader and mayor of Ayodhya, she said. In a statement issued by the secretary of the trust, it has been said that the rates of land have increased, and that is why this much payment has been made, Priyanka Gandhi said. If calculated on circle rates, the price of land in the area will be around Rs 5 crore, she added. "Inspired by faith and devotion, crores of people of the country made offerings to the temple of Lord Ram.  Many of our sisters in reverence towards Lord Ram and Mother Sita offered their deposits at their feet," Priyanka Gandhi said. In a historic verdict on November 9, 2019, the Supreme Court had cleared the way for the construction of a Ram temple on the disputed Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid site in Ayodhya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-demands-sc-supervised-probe-into-ayodhya-land-deal-998022.html
16-06-2021||National Politics||Third Covid wave? 5,000 youths in Delhi to be trained as health assistants||Anticipating a shortage of health staff during a possible third wave of Covid-19, the Delhi government on Wednesday unveiled a plan to train 5,000 youths as 'community nursing assistants' who will be deployed across the capital. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said these youths will be given training in basic nursing, paramedic, life-saving, first aid, and home care, sample collection, oxygen concentrators and cylinder operations. They will also be trained in patient care, diaper changing, catheter operation, bedpan, sample collection, operation of oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders and how to put on the mask among others. The selected 5,000 people will work as assistants to doctors and nurses and will perform the tasks assigned by them. From Thursday, all those aged above 18 years and have passed Class XII can apply for the two-week training programme. It will be on a first-come, first-serve basis. "I believe this move will strengthen our preparation for the third wave of Covid-19. Our aim is to learn from experiences across the globe such as the United Kingdom where the third wave has emerged, and to be fully prepared," Kejriwal said. “In case a third wave emerges, we might also witness a shortage of medical and paramedical staff as we had seen during the second and the first waves. Keeping that in mind, the government has devised a big plan of training 5,000 health assistants. In technical terms, they are called Community Nursing Assistants. So 5,000 youngsters will be trained for two weeks by the IP University and by the 9 medical institutes of Delhi, where they will be given basic training," he said. The training will start from June 28 in batches of 500.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/third-covid-wave-5000-youths-in-delhi-to-be-trained-as-health-assistants-998024.html
16-06-2021||National Politics||Mayawati calls BSP MLAs joining Samajwadi Party an 'illusion '||A day after reports of some suspended BSP MLAs meeting with SP chief Akhilesh Yadav surfaced, BSP chief Mayawati on Wednesday said it is an illusion. In a series of tweets, she attacked the Samajwadi Party (SP) accusing it of being an expert in "narrow politics". "The Samajwadi Party, which is an expert in narrow politics of despicable manipulations, malice and casteism, is publicising through the media that some BSP MLAs are breaking away to join the SP. This is an intense illusion," she tweeted in Hindi. 2. जबकि उन्हें काफी पहले ही सपा व एक उद्योगपति से मिलीभगत के कारण राज्यसभा के चुनाव में एक दलित के बेटे को हराने के आराप में बीएसपी से निलम्बित किया जा चुका है। 2/5 3. सपा अगर इन निलम्बित विधायकों के प्रति थोड़ी भी ईमानदार होती तो अब तक इन्हें अधर में नहीं रखती। क्योंकि इनको यह मालूम है कि बीएसपी के यदि इन विधायकों को लिया तो सपा में बगावत व फूट पड़ेगी, जो बीएसपी में आने को आतुर बैठे हैं। 3. सपा अगर इन निलम्बित विधायकों के प्रति थोड़ी भी ईमानदार होती तो अब तक इन्हें अधर में नहीं रखती। क्योंकि इनको यह मालूम है कि बीएसपी के यदि इन विधायकों को लिया तो सपा में बगावत व फूट पड़ेगी, जो बीएसपी में आने को आतुर बैठे हैं। 5.वैसे बीएसपी के निलम्बित विधायकों से मिलने आदि का मीडिया में प्रचारित करने के लिए कल किया गया सपा का यह नया नाटक यूपी में पंचायत चुनाव के बाद अध्यक्ष व ब्लाक प्रमुख के चुनाव के लिए की गई पैंतरेबाजी ज्यादा लगती है।यूपी में बीएसपी जन आकांक्षाओं की पार्टी बनकर उभरी है जो जारी रहेगा The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief said that those MLAs were suspended from the party long back for colluding with the SP and an industrialist during the Rajya Sabha elections for defeating a Dalit candidate. She added, "Had the SP been even a bit honest towards these suspended MLAs, it would have not kept them in lurch. The SP knows that if these MLAs join their party, then there will be a rebellion and disunity in SP, whose leaders are eager to cross over to the BSP." "The SP has always been anti-Dalit and they do not want to improve. This is why the SP government had stopped the welfare works undertaken by the BSP. Bhadohi was not made a new district as Sant Ravidas Nagar, which is extremely condemnable," Mayawati said in another tweet. She alleged that the "drama" of publicising the meeting of suspended BSP MLAs with Yadav is a new "stunt" by the SP ahead of the upcoming zila panchayat elections. "BSP has emerged as a party to fulfil the aspirations of the people in Uttar Pradesh and it will continue to do so," she tweeted. On Tuesday, at least five MLAs suspended by the BSP last year met Yadav, triggering speculation that they may join his party. Handia legislator Hakimlal Bind said he, along with Chaudhary Aslam Ali, Mujtaba Siddiqui, Hargovind Bhargav, Aslam Raini and Shushma Patel met the SP chief. The two other suspended legislators are Ramveer Upadhyay and Anil Singh, he said. However, Hargovind Bhargav had told PTI that he was not present at the meeting. "I was in Sidhauli (his Assembly constituency) and did not go there. I also saw my name being flashed on news channels," he said. Mungra Badshahpur MLA Sushma Patel had told PTI, "The meeting with Akhilesh Yadav, which lasted for 15-20 minutes, witnessed discussions on the upcoming UP Assembly elections." When asked about the future course of action, Patel said, "Personally, I have made up my mind to join the Samajwadi Party." In October 2020, seven BSP MLAs were suspended by party president Mayawati. Apart from the MLAs whose name cropped up with regard to the meeting with the SP chief, Vandana Singh is the seventh legislator to be suspended. Earlier this month, Mayawati had expelled BSP's legislative party leader Lalji Verma and Akbarpur MLA Ram Achal Rajbhar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mayawati-calls-bsp-mlas-joining-samajwadi-party-an-illusion-998048.html
16-06-2021||National Politics||Some tried to break LJP even when my father was hospitalised: Chirag Paswan slams JD(U) for 'engineering' split within LJP||Lok Janshakti Party leader Chirag Paswan on Wednesday blamed Janata Dal (United) for engineering the split in his party and rejected the decisions taken by the faction headed by his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, saying the party's constitution does not authorise them any such power. In his first interaction with media after the split in the party, he struck a combative note by describing himself as "sher ka beta" (lion's son) and asserted that he will fight for the cause of the party founded by his father Ram Vilas Paswan. While blaming the JD(U) for the split, he steered clear of questions regarding the role of the BJP in the development and added that what has happened is also an internal matter of his party for which he will not target others. He, however, replied wryly when asked if "Hanuman" who is in trouble now will seek help from "Ram", a reference to his projection of his relationship with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the Bihar assembly polls as that between the two famous characters of epic Ramayan. "If Hanuman has to seek help from Ram, then what good is Hanuman and what good is Ram," he said in Hindi. It is going to be a long battle, Paswan said, as the group headed by him fights the faction of five other party MPs, led by Paras, to claim ownership of the LJP. The JD(U), he alleged, had been working to cause a split in the party even when his father was alive. Targeting the party, he said it has always worked to divide Dalits and weaken its leaders. The LJP draws its support from Paswans, the largest Dalit caste in Bihar. "A conspiracy was hatched behind my back while I was ill," Paswan said. He had recently suffered from typhoid. The 38-year-old MP from Jamui expressed determination to take on the rival group while also taking swipe at his paternal uncle without using any strong words to attack him. "I did not feel orphaned when my father died last year. I do feel now," he said, adding that he had expected his uncle to play the role of the family's patriarch but was instead abandoned by him. Paswan recalled his decision to walk out of the ruling NDA in Bihar to take on Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, and said many wanted him to opt for a life of comfort and not struggle by allying with him. "For that I would have to bow before Nitish Kumar. I could not do that. My uncle played no role in the election campaign," he said and rejected accusations from the rival group that he took unilateral decisions during the polls. They never made any such claim then, Paswan said and rejected their decision to remove him as the LJP president, saying its constitution says that a new party chief can be appointed only in the case of the incumbent's death or resignation. "All decisions they have taken are in contravention of the party's constitution," he said, accompanied by a number of senior party leaders. Though the LJP played the role of spoiler for the JD(U) in the assembly polls in over 35 seats, it itself won only one seat and the lone MLA later defected to Kumar's party. Paswas, however, asserted that the polls were a "big win" for his party as it got nearly six per cent votes. Paswan has also contested Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla's decision to name Paras as the leader of the party in the House, saying it is "contrary" to the constitutional provisions of his organisation.  In a letter written on Tuesday, Paswan also informed Birla of the party's decision to expel five MPs, who have joined hands against him, and urged the Speaker to review the earlier decision and issue a new circular naming him as the LJP leader in the Lok Sabha.  "Since Article 26 of the Constitution of Lok Jan Shakti Party empower Central Parliamentary Board of the party to decide who would be Leader of our Party in Lok Sabha, hence, the decision of announcing Sh. Pashupati Kumar Paras MP as Leader of LJP party in the Lok Sabha is contrary to provision of Constitution of our party," he wrote.  Paras has been elected as their leader by the five of party's six MPs in place of Paswan.  Both factions have now moved to control the party and project their group as the real LJP, founded by Paswan's father Ram Vilas Paswan.  While the wing led by Chirag Paswan has expelled the five MPs from the party, the rival group has removed him as its president. Asked about a woman's allegation of sexual exploitation against his cousin Prince Raj, one of the rebel MPs, that he had mentioned in the letter which was released by him on Tuesday, Paswan said he had advised both of them to approach police. Paswan's letter addressed to Paras was written in March and was released on Tuesday. Some workers of the LJP youth wing, Delhi also protested outside Paras' residence with its chief Bikas Singh accusing him of "backstabbing" Chirag Paswan. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/some-tried-to-break-ljp-even-when-my-father-was-hospitalised-chirag-paswan-slams-jdu-for-engineering-split-within-ljp-998075.html
16-06-2021||National Politics||Betrayal, battle and blame in Chirag's dictionary as LJP internal feud escalates||Betrayal, backstabbing and battle resonated at the first media interaction of late Ram Vilas Paswan's son Chirag, who blamed Bihar's ruling party JD(U) for the rebellion within his party that saw the Lok Sabha MP pitted against five other MPs, including his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, who effected a leadership change in LJP. Chirag, who insisted on still being the President of the party, wrote a letter to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, calling his decision to announce Paras as Leader of LJP in the Lower House as "contrary to provisions of Constitution of our Party" and cited Article 26 of the Constitution of Lok Janshakti Party that empowers the central Parliamentary Board of the party to decide who could be its leader in Lok Sabha. Chirag, who is both party President as well as Chairman of the party's Parliamentary board, also sent an enclosure regarding the party's decision to disqualify all five MPs who rebelled and asked the Speaker to review his earlier decision and rename him as Leader of LJP in Lok Sabha. Chirag also addressed his first press conference in Delhi after the row, in which he said he is prepared for the "long battle" and alleged how his uncle, who was unhappy at his elevation as party chief, was not cooperating with him for some time and how this time a "conspiracy was hatched behind my back when I was sick". That the row will raise much muck was evident. Team Chirag shared details of a complaint case  of forgery and other charges filed against Paras, Prince Raj (two of five rebel MPs) in a court in Muzaffarpur by a social activist that will be heard on June 21. On Tuesday, Chirag released a letter on social media that he had written to his uncle in March this year, alleging  that a woman leader of LJP was accusing Prince Raj  of  sexual exploitation and was engaged in blackmailing. Prince Raj is the son of late Ram Vilas Paswan's younger brother late Ram Chandra Paswan. Paras and Prince both allegedly ignored his persuasion to go to the police with the matter. Immediately after the letter, a video surfaced on a YouTube channel in which the woman leader, who later joined the JDU, is heard saying she will "reveal many secrets" related to the LJP leadership, when the time comes. The video is an old one. Soon after that, on YouTube, the lady in question repeated the allegations. In the media interaction, Chirag took on the JDU for "engineering" defections in LJP. The JDU had earlier said "as you sow, so you reap", reminding Chirag of his betrayal of the NDA alliance in Bihar. Chirag, however, alleged that JDU wanted to create a divide in the party even when his father was alive. Chirag, who repeatedly referred to the political legacy of 'Papa' Ram Vilas Paswan and called himself "sher ka beta" (lion's son), made no bones about his intention to go in for a long battle to claim the ownership of the party founded by his father. Amid indications that the BJP also had a role behind this whole political flux, Chirag parried questions on that. Chirag, who had projected himself as "Hanuman" and Prime Minister Narendra Modi as "Ram" in the run-up to Bihar polls, merely said, "If Hanuman has to seek help from Ram, then what good is Hanuman and what good is Ram".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/betrayal-battle-and-blame-in-chirags-dictionary-as-ljp-internal-feud-escalates-998163.html
16-06-2021||National Politics||Candidates spent Rs 775 crore in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Shashi Tharoor highest spender among winners||Candidates of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls declared to have spent over Rs 775 crore during campaigning. Shashi Tharoor of the Congress was the highest spender among the winners, followed by Tirath Singh Rawat of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), according to a compilation of datasets released the Election Commission (EC) recently. Total spending by all contesting candidates was highest in Faridabad Lok Sabha constituency in Haryana and the lowest in North Goa. Anantnag constituency in Jammu and Kashmir saw candidates spending most per voter, while Chhindwara in Madhya Pradesh saw minimum spending per voter. The limit of expenditure for a candidate contesting for a Lok Sabha seat was Rs 70 lakh for most states in 2019. Tharoor, who lapped up a hat-trick at Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, declared to have spent a little over Rs 69.94 lakh during campaigning, thus becoming the highest spender among the winners. He was closely followed by Rawat, who won from Garhwal in Uttarakhand, and declared to have spent Rs 69.85 lakh. P K Kunhalikutty of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) spent Rs 69.82 lakh to win from Malappuram in Kerala. Indra Hang Subba of the Sikkim Krantikari Morcha (SKM) was the lowest spender among the winners of the 2019 elections. Subba, a research scholar at the Sikkim University, spent just Rs 7.08 lakh in campaigning to win from the lone parliamentary constituency in the tiny state. He could have spent eight times more though, as the expenditure limit for Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh and Goa was Rs 54 lakh in 2019. Altogether, 8,054 candidates contested from 543 seats in the last parliamentary polls. The candidates at Faridabad in Haryana together spent Rs 2.91 crore – the highest in terms of expenses by all contestants in a parliamentary constituency. The North Goa constituency saw the least money power as expenditure by all the candidates together was just a little over Rs 59.84 lakh. However, in terms of expenses incurred by the candidates per voter (elector who actually voted), Anantnag in J&K topped the tally. The expenditure by all candidates made to woo each voter in the constituency was Rs 158.42. The candidates at the Chhindwara LS constituency in Madhya Pradesh spent the lowest amount – just Rs 4.91 – per voter, according to the “Atlas on General Elections 2019”, which was released by Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra on Tuesday. Rae Bareli and Amethi constituencies in Uttar Pradesh were among the ones which saw low expenditure by all candidates per voter. Rahul Gandhi of the Congress and Smriti Irani of the BJP as well as the candidates of other parties together declared to have spent a total of Rs 80.75 lakh with per voter expenses being Rs 8.56. Irani defeated Rahul, who, however, won from his second constituency Wayanad in Kerala. Sonia Gandhi and the candidates of other parties spent just Rs 8.26 in Rae Bareli in Uttar Pradesh for each elector. The total expenditure by all the candidates in Rae Bareli was just Rs 79.20 lakh. “When administering elections of this scale and magnitude, it is imperative that the Election Management Body be equipped with an exhaustive dataset that empowers strategic interventions based on statistics,” Chandra said after releasing the book along with Election Commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Anup Pandey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/candidates-spent-rs-775-crore-in-2019-lok-sabha-polls-shashi-tharoor-highest-spender-among-winners-998185.html
16-06-2021||National Politics||Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh steps in to bring divided BJP house in order||BJP national general secretary Arun Singh on Wednesday huddled with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and his ministers to set right a divided house, even as one faction of legislators held separate meetings on how they should convey their resentment to the high command. Briefing reporters after his meeting, Singh, who is in charge of the party's affairs in Karnataka, maintained that nothing came up on replacing Yediyurappa, an issue that has dogged the party for several months now. Singh said he advised legislators and party workers to refrain from making statements that would damage the party. Among Singh's tasks was to address complaints that the government and the party lacked coordination, and that ministers were inaccessible. To this end, Singh announced a new initiative under which all ministers will be available every Thursday to meet legislators, party workers and the common man even without appointments. "We have only discussed issues such as strengthening the party and publicising the 'good governance model' of the state at the grassroots level," he said. BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel also attended Singh's meeting with ministers. Singh maintained his stand that Yediyurappa will continue in the top post. "I've already said that Yediyurappa is doing a good job. There's no point in asking me the same thing again and again," he said. According to sources in the Yediyurappa camp, there is no "immediate" change in leadership on the cards. BJP MLAs are likely to queue up to meet Singh and air their grievances on Thursday. Some of them are expected to tell Singh that they want Yediyurappa replaced. "We will sit and talk. I'll ask (MLAs) how much they travel in their constituencies, how many meetings they've held and so on," Singh said. A group of 'disgruntled' MLAs including Arvind Bellad and Basangouda Patil Yatnal met at the Legislators Home during the day. Separately, before their meeting with Singh, ministers from the 'migrant camp' - those who defected from the previous Congress-JD(S) coalition - held a meeting. According to sources, they discussed the idea of complaining against RDPR Minister KS Eshwarappa. The 'migrant' ministers are unhappy with Eshwarappa for reportedly blaming them for the prevailing confusion in the party. Meanwhile, Yediyurappa has kept himself free on Thursday with no official engagements listed in his daily schedule.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/karnataka-in-charge-arun-singh-steps-in-to-bring-divided-bjp-house-in-order-998188.html
16-06-2021||North and Central||Gurgaon tops in Covid vaccination coverage among 24 cities||Millennium City Gurgaon which has inoculated 49.3 per cent of its people eligible for Covid shots has topped among 24 cities in a Union government's survey of their vaccination coverage, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij said on Tuesday. Vij said till June 12, over 8.5 lakh people in Gurgaon have been vaccinated against the Covid-19 with both doses of the vaccine. People over 18 years of the age are eligible for the vaccination. Sharing details of the category-wise administration of Covid shots, Vij, in an official statement here, said 60,029 health workers and 55,408 front line workers have been administered both doses of the vaccine. On inoculation of people with 60 years of age and above and those in the age group of 45 to 60 years, he said, 4,88,009 have been given both doses while in the age group of 18 to 44 years 2,47,708 have got both doses. “In the survey, Indore stood second with 44.9 per cent coverage, Kolkata third with 42.7 per cent, Chennai fourth with 39.2 per cent and Vadodara city fifth with 38.7 per cent vaccination,” Vij said. Meanwhile, "Swachhta Pakhwada" (cleanliness fortnight) was started in civil hospitals, primary health centres, community health centres as well as sub-centres of the state from June 15 to June 30. On the occasion, Vij digitally interacted with all civil surgeons of the state and gave necessary instructions to them. The minister said “we have started Swachhta Pakhwada today but hygiene and cleanliness should be a consistent way of life”. “We are just out of the second wave of Covid-19, so we have decided to clean all the PHCs, CHCs and hospitals,” he said. “Saluting” doctors, nurses and paramedical staff and other 'corona warriors', the health minister said they worked round-the-clock as a team despite facing a lot of challenges in the most difficult times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gurgaon-tops-in-covid-vaccination-coverage-among-24-cities-997910.html
16-06-2021||North and Central||Local militant killed in encounter in J&K's Nowgam||A local militant was killed in an ongoing gunfight that broke out in Nowgam area on Srinagar outskirts Tuesday night. The gun fight erupted after a joint team of J&K police and paramilitary CRPF launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in Wagoora area of Nowgam, on specific information about the presence of two militants there on Tuesday night, reports said. “As the searches were going on, the hiding militants opened fire on security forces who retaliated, triggering an encounter. Reinforcements were rushed to the spot and all the exit and entrance points of the area were sealed so that militants don’t escape taking advantage of the night,” a police official said. “With the first light of the morning, the gunbattle resumed and one militant has been killed so far,” he said and identified the slain ultra as Uzair Ashraf Dar, a resident of Wachi- Zainapora area of south Kashmir’s Shopian district. One pistol along with a magazine and six rounds besides two grenades have been recovered from Dar, who had joined militancy this January. Another militant was still believed to be trapped in the area, the official said, adding the operation was going on. Earlier on May 17, two local militants affiliated with Al-Badr outfit were killed in a gunfight with security forces in Khonmoh area on Srinagar outskirts. Pertinently, over 50 militants have been killed in J&K so far this year and most of them were locals from south Kashmir. Last month Kashmir police chief Vijay Kumar said that joining of local boys into militancy was a serious concern and there was a need for more hard-work and efforts to keep local youths away from the violence. “A series of steps have already been taken to prevent locals from joining militancy. We delay encounters by two to three hours only to allow local boys (militants) surrender,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/local-militant-killed-in-encounter-in-jks-nowgam-997974.html
16-06-2021||North and Central||FIR against Twitter, others over Ghaziabad incident involving old man's beard being cut||With the government claiming that microblogging site Twitter lost its legal protection for third-party content, the Uttar Pradesh Police filed a case against the social media giant over tweets that they say "attempted to stoke communal hatred". Ghaziabad Police on Tuesday night filed an FIR against Twitter and few others in connection with the alleged assault on elderly Muslim man Abdul Samad Saifi on June 5. This is the first case that Twitter will face for third-party content on its platform. The case was filed in connection with the assault on Saifi, where the complainant alleged that he was forced to chant ‘Vande Matram’ and ‘Jai Shri Ram’ by a group that assaulted him. The police, who probed the case, arrested three people and said the incident was not communal. Instead, it was a case of enmity. The accused in this case alleged that the man sold them fake items. Besides Twitter, the police also booked Congress leaders, journalists and other prominent social activists for their tweets.   The police in the FIR also said that despite the Ghaziabad Police clarifying the issue, the accused did not delete their tweets, neither did Twitter make any efforts to delete them. "In this case, the tweets were not verified, which gave a communal angle of the incident despite being untrue,” said the FIR. Police have invoked different IPC sections including provocation for rioting, promoting enmity between different groups and acts intended to outrage religious feelings against them. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology on Tuesday said that Twitter has lost its status as an intermediary platform in India due to non-compliance with the government's new IT rules. This means the US-based company will no longer be protected from penal action under Section 79 of the IT Act, which absolves social media firms of liability for third-party content on their platforms. According to the IT Ministry official, in the future, if there is a case in court, Twitter cannot seek safe harbour under the Information Technology Act. In any case, filed after May 26, Twitter cannot say it is an intermediary and claim exception, said the official. "The implication of this development is that if there is any charge against Twitter for alleged unlawful content, it would be treated as a publisher – not an intermediary – and be liable for punishment under any law, including IT Act, as also the penal laws of the country," said the IT Ministry official. As per new social media intermediary rules, significant social media intermediaries — those with over 50 lakh users — are required to appoint a grievance officer, a nodal officer, and a chief compliance officer. These personnel have to be residents of India. Twitter on Tuesday night said that it has appointed an interim Chief Compliance Officer and the details of the official would be shared soon with the IT Ministry. The company continues to make every effort to comply with the new guidelines, and is keeping the IT Ministry apprised of progress at every step of the process, according to a spokesperson from Twitter. However, the IT Ministry said it had not received any communications from Twitter on complying with the new IT rules. Recently, the IT Ministry gave a second chance to Twitter to comply with the new IT rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fir-against-twitter-others-over-ghaziabad-incident-involving-old-mans-beard-being-cut-997976.html
16-06-2021||North and Central||J&K police arrests former minister’s son for ‘raping’ minor||Jammu and Kashmir police have arrested the son of a senior politician and former cabinet minister for allegedly raping a minor girl six years ago. A local English daily, quoting sources, identified the accused as Abid Gani, son of former Congress leader Abdul Gani Vakil who has since shifted his loyalty to the People’s Conference. Vakil was a social welfare minister from 2006-2008 when Ghulam Nabi Azad was chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir. Abid, a resident of Sopore in north Kashmir, was wanted in an FIR No. 130/2015 registered at Domana Police Station in Jammu on April 26, 2015 under sections 376/511/354/342/109 RPC and 4/25 Arms Act. He was arrested from Sopore on June 5. Sources said due to the involvement of the son of an influential politician in the crime, the investigations of the case were intentionally kept slow all these years and no action was taken against the accused. “However, the incumbent SHO Domana Police Station was given a nod by the senior officers to arrest the accused earlier this month. But it was not disclosed to the media as is done generally in other such high profile cases by holding press conferences,” they said. It is pertinent to mention here that in 2018, Gani Vakil had welcomed Union cabinet ordinance on child rape which allows courts to pronounce death penalty to those convicted of raping children up to 12 years of age. He had appealed to the then state government to adopt the law without any delay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-police-arrests-former-minister-s-son-for-raping-minor-998023.html
16-06-2021||North and Central||Taj Mahal reopens as India eases pandemic restrictions||The Taj Mahal reopened to visitors Wednesday, as Indian authorities loosened restrictions following an easing in the country's devastating recent coronavirus surge. Infections and deaths soared to record levels in April and May, overwhelming health services in some places and prompting lockdowns and other curbs. Cases have declined in recent weeks, with several major cities including New Delhi and Mumbai easing many restrictions. In Agra, where the Taj Mahal is located, tourist guides and shopkeepers were upbeat as India's top tourist attraction sprung back to life Wednesday. The 17th-century monument of love built by Mughal emperor Shah Jahan was shut in March last year, reopened in September and closed again in April. Crowd was thin on the first day of the reopening, with authorities restricting visitor numbers to 650 per day. Covid-19 precautions meant visitors were not allowed to touch the shining marble mausoleum, but those making the pilgrimage to one of the New Seven Wonders of the World were still delighted. "I am very glad I got to see it, it is amazing," gushed Brazilian visitor Melissa Dalla Rosa, 40. "I cried when I first saw, oh my God... (it was) a very special experience," she told AFP. Lucky Feizan, 20, a shopkeeper, said the lockdown had squeezed hard those dependent on the Taj Mahal for their livelihood. "This (was) the second wave of Covid. (With a) third I am finished," he told AFP. India on Tuesday reported 62,224 new Covid-19 infections over the past 24 hours, compared with around 400,000 per day in April and May. The total caseload now stands at almost 30 million with 380,000 deaths, although many experts say the true toll could be over a million. Photos widely shared on social media last weekend showed busy shopping malls and markets in the capital New Delhi, raising fears that cases may rise again. Kerala, one of the worst-hit states, said Tuesday it will allow public transport to resume while Madhya Pradesh in central India permitted shopping malls and gyms to reopen. Cases of a usually very rare but deadly infection known as mucormycosis, or "black fungus", in coronavirus patients have also declined in many areas. The western state of Maharashtra still has more than 7,000 active cases, however, according to reports. The rise in these fungal infections, contracted by several thousand people, has been blamed on the excessive use of steroids to treat Covid patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/taj-mahal-reopens-as-india-eases-pandemic-restrictions-998028.html
16-06-2021||North and Central||Explained | The events unfolding in BSP and what it means for UP 2022 polls||When six Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) legislators met with Samajwadi Party (SP) supremo Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday, it triggered speculations of a split in the Mayawati-led party with the Uttar Pradesh elections fast approaching. These rebels are expected to announce their own parties. Here's a look at what this means for the BSP and how it affects the party in the upcoming polls. Splits in BSP are not news Since its formation in 1984 by Kanshi Ram, the BSP has seen many loyals turning rebels as the powers in the government changed.  Ten years into its formation, the BSP suffered its first split when Raj Bahadur, one of the founding members of the party, parted ways with 20 legislators and formed a new outfit. BSP MLAs accused the party of holding them hostage to influence their votes and Bahadur walked out. General Secretary of the party Sone Lal Patel exited the party to form the Apna Dal, which is now in alliance with the BJP. In 2003, another split occurred when around a dozen party MLAs defected to the SP and helped the latter form government in the state. BSP had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in alliance with the SP and had managed to win ten seats in UP. It was then expected that BSP and SP could fight the 2022 assembly poll in UP together. The bonhomie between the two arch-rivals was short-lived and they parted ways soon after the LS polls. The current crisis started unraveling last year during the Rajya Sabha polls when the six MLAs were suspended for anti-party activities. Why have these leaders quit the party? BSP has been in disarray mainly owing to what many party leaders say is the dictatorial attitude of its supremo Mayawati. There have also been allegations of financial demands made to the leaders. Mayawati recently expelled Legislative Party leader Lalji Verma and national general secretary Ram Achal Rajbahar. All those removed from the party in the past five years have complained about the arrogance of the leadership and its unapproachability. Mayawati's mercurial temperament and inability to work with other leaders in the party were also key issues. Mayawati grew more distant from her party workers when she claimed that her party workers would support the BJP to ensure the defeat of SP candidates. This was after some MLAs had met with Akhilesh Yadav. At the height of its power, the BSP had a strong lineup of leaders from all sections of society, who later deserted the party. But BSP's social engineering formula has failed to click in the elections after the migration of almost all senior upper caste leaders to the BJP since 2014. Founding members of the party Dara Singh Chauhan and Rajya Sabha MP Jugal Kishore defected to the BJP. Also Mayawati's aide Indrajeet Saroj quit the party to join the saffron camp after the BJP won in 2017 polls. Founder member R K Chaudhary, who is now in SP, is quoted by Indian Express as saying, "The party has completely digressed from the movement of Kanshi Ram. While there is no denying that there is still a section of Dalit that regards her as their leader, how long will that continue if they feel she will not fight those who have oppressed them?" What does this mean for the polls? BSP's future in the polls next year is uncertain, as the ruling BJP, opposition parties like SP and Congress have begun preparations. Mayawati's core voter base of the Jatavs, the dominant section of Dalits in the UP, is expected to remain with her, irrespective of which senior party leaders exit the BSP. However, the defections are likely to affect her reach to voters of other communities. The party had successfully weaved the winning combination of 'Brahmin-Dalits-Muslims' and rode to power in 2007. But Muslims have since shifted loyalty to the Samajwadi Party. Even a section of the Dalits, barring those who hail from Mayawati's caste, have shifted allegiance to BJP. The party is now left with a vote bank of 10 per cent, which can not ensure victory at polls. Since its best performance in the 2007 elections, when the party secured a vote share of around 30 per cent, it has fallen steadily in the following two elections. BSP rebels have not yet joined the SP nor have they formed their own outfit as they still lack the required numbers to split the party. Of the 11 MLAs, who either left the party or were expelled, three have expressed willingness to join the BJP. So technically, those inclined to join the SP need the support of a few more of the MLAs to split the party. BSP had 18 MLAs in the UP assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/explained-the-events-unfolding-in-bsp-and-what-it-means-for-up-2022-polls-998055.html
16-06-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Renganar becomes first village in Chhattisgarh to complete first dose vaccination||Renganar, a remote village in Chhattisgarh's tribal-dominated Dantewada district, has become the first village in the state where all eligible people have been administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, officials said on Wednesday. “The village has set an example in the fight against the pandemic. It became possible due to constant efforts of healthcare personnel and awareness teams,” a public relations department official here said. Renganar, located around 420 km away from the state capital, has a population of 310 adults and of them, all 294 eligible persons, in all categories, have been inoculated with the first jab, he said. Unlike in urban areas, 100 per cent vaccination was not easy due to the limited availability of smartphones and internet in remote areas that helps in the registration process. But the enthusiasm of villagers and healthcare workers bore fruit, he said. Local health workers and awareness teams played an instrumental role in making the villagers aware about the vaccines. They convinced them that vaccine is one of the most effective ways to avoid coronavirus infection, he said. Initially, several vaccination sessions were organised by the Dantewada district administration in Kuankonda for the villagers of Renganar and others, but due to misconceptions and lack of awareness, only a few people showed interest in getting vaccinated, he said. Sarpanch (village head) of Renganar, Sanmati Telami said awareness teams went door-to-door in the village like a mission and persuaded people to get vaccinated by explaining its benefits. Earlier, people were apprehensive about the vaccine, but the counseling helped to make them agree for it, said Santram, a member of the local awareness team. “Out of 310 adult population in the village, all 294 persons eligible for vaccination have received the first dose of vaccine. Divyangjan (differently abled) also participated enthusiastically in this campaign”, he added. Coronavirus awareness teams have been constituted in every panchayat in Dantewada, which constantly monitors the testing and vaccination activities, the official said. Over 72.94 lakh vaccine doses have been administered to people in all categories in Chhattisgarh till June 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-renganar-becomes-first-village-in-chhattisgarh-to-complete-first-dose-vaccination-998084.html
16-06-2021||North and Central||PM Modi highlights India's 5 pillars, invites global investors||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday called for maintaining the "innovative zeal" and being better prepared when the next challenge strikes as he underlined the importance of the twin foundations of "repair and prepare". The nation is emerging from the second wave of Covid-19 after having  witnessed a lot of disruption in different sectors. "India's strides in the world of tech and start-ups are well-known. Our nation is home to one of the world's largest start-up ecosystems. Several unicorns have come up in recent years. India offers what innovators and investors need. I invite the world to invest in India based on the five pillars of talent, market, capital, eco-system and culture of openness," Modi said in his keynote address at the 5th edition of the global tech event VivaTech. Modi spoke at length about innovation in India during the pandemic. "India's universal and unique bio-metric digital identity system - Aadhaar - helped us provide timely financial support to the poor. We could supply free food to 800 million people and deliver cooking-fuel subsidies to many households. Two vaccines are being made in India and more are in the development or trial stages. On the government side, our indigenous IT platform, Aarogya Setu, enabled effective contact-tracing. Our Co-WIN digital platform has already helped ensure vaccines to millions. Had we not been innovating, our fight against Covid-19 would have been much weaker," he said. The Prime Minister, who will be launching a customised crash course programme for frontline workers on Friday through video conferencing, also hailed the mother of a six-year-old boy for her courage and positive thinking as she isolated herself from her son after contracting Covid-19 in Ghaziabad in UP. The launch will commence the programme in 111 training centres spread over 26 states, the PMO said. Meanwhile, the Congress questioned the rationale of the Centre's decision to double the gap between the doses of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine. While Rahul Gandhi said India needs quick and complete vaccination and not the "BJP's brand of lies and rhyming slogans", party' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala accused the government of “Himalayan Mismanagement” of vaccination over the last six months. "Only 3.51% of the population vaccinated with both doses.  Average per day Vaccination is mere 17.23 lakh per day over the last six months," he tweeted. The Opposition party also announced its own nationwide outreach campaign to help those affected by the pandemic and gather data on coronavirus-infected patients and the deceased. The party hopes to reach out to 12 crore people in 30 days. Congress president Sonia Gandhi and state unit presidents will also be writing condolence letters to the next of kin of those who passed away due to Covid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-highlights-indias-5-pillars-invites-global-investors-998096.html
16-06-2021||North and Central||FIR against Twitter: UP CM Adityanath says will deal strictly with spreaders of fake news||After losing legal protection following non-compliance with the new IT rules, social media giant Twitter was booked by the Ghaziabad police in Uttar Pradesh for ''inciting communal enmity''. It is the first case of its kind against Twitter in India, in which the social media giant can face charges for third party content. Nine persons have been booked in the matter, along with Twitter officials. The others include Saba Naqvi and the news website The Wire. A sub-inspector at Loni police station lodged the FIR, according to sources. Twitter and others were booked under IPC Sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language), 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class) and others. The police claimed that it was found that Saifi, with an acquaintance, had visited the house of one Parvesh Gujjar in the Loni area on June 5. They also said that Saifi used to make 'taviz' (a kind of thread with alleged magical properties) and that he was assaulted by Gujjar and others as the 'taviz' given by Saifi did not have the desired effect. The police said there was a deliberate attempt to give it a communal colour. ''Twitter did not remove the news even when it was proved that it was fake,'' a police official said. He said a local politician had incited Saifi to give false statements to the police. ''The video was made viral nine days after the incident... Saifi admitted that he was not forced to chant religious slogans... some mediapersons were also involved in it,'' the official added.  UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath vrtully defended the action against the Twitter and said that the state government would sternly deal with any one found to be spreading fake news or fake videos. ''We will not accept any attempt to vitiate the communal atmosphere,'' Adityanath said on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fir-against-twitter-up-cm-adityanath-says-will-deal-strictly-with-spreaders-of-fake-news-998114.html
16-06-2021||North and Central||Kashmiri activist, arrested for offending official, released||A Kashmiri political activist who was arrested for making comments that upset the deputy commissioner of Ganderbal has been released, officials said on Wednesday. Sajad Rashid Sofi (50) was released on Tuesday as he had a clean record, an official said.  Sofi's family confirmed that he was released from Dignibal Sub jail around 8.30 pm on Tuesday. Sofi was jailed after he told an advisor of the Lt Governor that he has hopes from a Kashmiri official like him rather than bureaucrats from outside, remarks which offended the Ganderbal deputy commissioner who is an IAS officer from Uttar Pradesh. After being arrested under Section 153 (promoting enmity between different groups) of the Indian Penal Code, Sofi, a resident of Wani Mohalla in Safapora area of Ganderbal district, was granted bail by a court. However, he was kept under preventive detention for allegedly being a "threat to peace". Sofi made the remarks at a 'Janta Darbar' of Lt Governor advisor Baseer Khan at Mansbal on June 10. Speaking about the problems faced by the people of his area, Sofi told Khan that he can understand the issues better as compared to officers from outside the union territory because he is a local, according to the police report. He said, "I can have expectations from you because you are a Kashmiri and you can understand us. I can grab you by the collar and seek answers. But what expectations can I have from officers who are outsiders?" This comment did not go down well with Ganderbal Deputy Commissioner Krittika Jyotsna, a 2014 IAS officer and wife of Rahul Pandey, who is posted with the Raj Bhavan as the director of information. Jyotsna and Pandey came to Jammu and Kashmir in February this year on inter-cadre deputation. The police report said that Jyotsna stood up from her seat and "strongly objected" to Sofi's comments. Sofi was summoned and booked by the police under Section 153 of the IPC on the same night. "The circumstances of the incident and from the statements, a crime under 153A of the IPC is made," the police report said. Sofi was granted bail by a local court on Saturday, saying "bail is a rule and its rejection is an exception". "Bail in non-bailable crime cannot be refused without assigning a strong reason, although bail is a discretion of the court and discretion of bail cannot be exercised arbitrarily. "The allegedly committed crime attributed to the applicant does not carry life imprisonment or death penalty, debarring this court to exercise discretion of bail in favour of the applicant. As such, this court has a sufficient reason to exercise discretion of bail in favour of the applicant," the court said. However, even after this, the police did not release Sofi and instead booked him under Section 107 of the IPC which entitles them to keep a person under "preventive custody" for being a "threat to peace".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmiri-activist-arrested-for-offending-official-released-998125.html
16-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi reports 212 fresh Covid-19 cases, 25 deaths; positivity rate at 0.27%||Delhi recorded 212 fresh Covid-19 cases and 25 fatalities on Wednesday, while the positivity rate dipped to 0.27 per cent, according to data shared by the health department here. According to the latest health bulletin, these new fatalities pushed the death toll due to Covid-19 here to 24,876. On Tuesday, 228 cases with 0.32 per cent positivity rate, and 12 deaths were recorded. On March 8, Delhi had recorded 239 cases and on March 9, the tally was 320, according to official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-212-fresh-covid-19-cases-25-deaths-positivity-rate-at-027-998141.html
16-06-2021||North and Central||Row over use of calf serum in Covid-19 vaccines||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday said newborn calf serum is used as a “standard enrichment ingredient” to grow only laboratory cells that are used to produce a specific SARS-CoV-2 strain used as a vaccine. "The final vaccine does not contain newborn calf serum at all. The calf serum is not an ingredient of the final vaccine product," the minister said, countering a social media campaign. This technique has been used for decades in polio, rabies and influenza vaccines. Newborn calf serum is used only for preparation or growth of vero cells that are standard base material to create a cell line in a laboratory. Such cells are used to establish cell lines, which help in production of vaccines. Different kinds of bovine and other animal serum are standard enrichment ingredients used globally for cell growth. The vero cells, after the growth, are washed with water, with chemicals (known as buffer), many times to make it free from the newborn calf serum. Subsequently such cells are infected with coronavirus for viral growth. The vero cells are completely destroyed in the process of viral growth after which the laboratory grown virus is killed (inactivated) and purified to make the vaccine, which contains no calf serum. In a separate statement, Covaxin manufacturer Bharat Biotech said, “Newborn calf serum is used in the manufacturing of viral vaccines. It is used for the growth of cells, but neither used in growth of SARS-CoV-2 virus nor in the final formulation. Covaxin is highly purified to contain only the inactivated virus components by removing all other impurities.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/row-over-use-of-calf-serum-in-covid-19-vaccines-998153.html
16-06-2021||North and Central||UP live-in partner arrested under anti-conversion law, rape charge||The police in Uttar Pradesh's Greater Noida on Wednesday arrested a 30-year-old woman's live-in partner over allegations of rape and coercing her into changing her religion for marriage, officials said. The accused, who has been arrested by officials of the Bisrakh police station, has been booked under the Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020, among others, they said. "Accused Murtaza alias Mritunjay (33) is a native of Moradabad district in western UP and had been living in a rented accommodation in Bisrakh area. The accused and the complainant were in a live-in relationship,” a police spokesperson said. "When the woman insisted him for marriage, the man forced her for religious conversion after which she approached the police with allegations of rape and forced conversion attempt," the spokesperson said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Women and Child Safety) Vrinda Shukla said the FIR was lodged on June 14 and multiple teams were formed to ensure the arrest of the accused the very next day. The FIR, lodged at the Bisrakh police station, also invokes Indian Penal Code sections 323 (causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), 376 (rape), 406 (criminal breach of trust) against the accused, the police said. Further legal proceedings have been initiated and will be completed soon, DCP Shukla added. The complainant claimed that she worked in a pharmaceutical company where, in 2019, she met the accused who was referred to as “Mrityunjay” by colleagues, according to the FIR. “Eventually we both became friends and later decided to get married and therefore moved in together. One day, she randomly found his Aadhaar card at home which mentioned his name as 'Murtaza',” she claimed. “When confronted with the finding, he told her it was none of her business if he is Murtaza or Mrityunjay and threatened her. He then blackmailed her by showing objectionable pictures and videos of her that he had taken,” according to the FIR. The woman claimed she had also met his parents once who too insisted on her converting her religion for the marriage. She further claimed that she had helped the man with around Rs 2.50 lakh over the years, the FIR stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-live-in-partner-arrested-under-anti-conversion-law-rape-charge-998164.html
16-06-2021||North and Central||Punjab temporary teachers protest for regularisation of job, salary hike||Demanding regularisation of job and a raise in salary, scores of temporary teachers staged a protest outside the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) here on Wednesday, with nearly half a dozen of them reaching the rooftop of the office building with petrol-filled bottles and some poisonous substance and threatening to kill themselves. Under the banner of the Temporary Teachers' Union, more than 500 teachers laid siege to the PSEB building to press the Congress-led state government to accept their demands. A heavy police force was deployed outside the multi-storey building. Nearly half a dozen of the protesters, however, managed to reach the rooftop with petrol-filled bottles and some poisonous substance. Talking to reporters, they threatened to end their lives if their demands were not met by the government. The protest continued till last reports came in. The protesting teachers of primary schools shouted slogans against the Amarinder Singh-led government. They demanded that a total of 13,000 temporary teachers who had been teaching for the last several years in the state should be regularised without any condition. Satinder Singh, who teaches in a primary school in Tarn Taran district, said, "I started in 2011 at a salary of Rs 2,000. And now I am getting just Rs 6,000." The protesting teachers slammed Chief Minister Amarinder Singh for not addressing their issues in the last four-and-half years. A protesting teacher said Singh, before coming to power, had promised them that their demands would be accepted. “But nothing has been done yet despite completion of four-and-half years of his term,” he said. The agitating teachers also demanded a meeting with Punjab Education minister Vijay Inder Singla. Meanwhile, BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh slammed the Congress government for its callous attitude towards temporary teachers. Holding the chief minister responsible for the situation that compelled the teachers to take to the streets, the BJP leader said the state government had “ignored” their demands. He alleged Punjab has become a state where all sections are “unhappy” with the Amarinder Singh-led government. “Be it government employees, teachers or entrepreneurs, all have been holding demonstrations against the Amarinder Singh government which has failed to deliver,” he alleged in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-temporary-teachers-protest-for-regularisation-of-job-salary-hike-998166.html
16-06-2021||North and Central||Court defers release of activists accused in Delhi riots; to pass order at 11 am on June 17||A Delhi court on Wednesday deferred the order on the release of Delhi riots accused Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal and Asif Iqbal Tanha, who were granted bail by Delhi High Court on June 15.  The court cited "heavy board" of other bail applications listed before it. Delhi Police, for their part, sought time for verification of addresses and sureties. Following the High Court's order on bail, the three accused moved the court seeking their immediate release, as the 1 pm deadline was set by the High Court.  They were also ordered to be released on personal bonds of Rs 50,000 each and two sureties of a similar amount.  On their application, Additional Sessions Judge at Karkardooma Courts Revinder Bedi said the court will pass the order at 11 am on Thursday. The court had on Tuesday deferred the order on the immediate release of the accused, for want of verification of their addresses and sureties.  The court had sought a verification report from Delhi Police while posting the case for Wednesday. The investigating officer on Wednesday sought more time from the court to conduct verification of addresses of the accused and their sureties.  Counsel representing the accused submitted before the court that verification reports were not filed despite the time granted to the investigating officer. The court after hearing the arguments of the parties reserved the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/court-defers-release-of-activists-accused-in-delhi-riots-to-pass-order-at-11-am-on-june-17-998170.html
16-06-2021||North and Central||Cooking oil prices soften, govt says working on lasting solution||After hitting record highs, cooking oil prices have started to soften, the government said on Wednesday. It also assured that it was working on a series of mid and long-term measures for a lasting solution, also hoping to make India self-reliant. The Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution said edible oil prices had started declining in between 8% and 20%. "Edible oil prices in India are showing a declining trend across a wide array of oils. As per data from the Department of Consumer Affairs, over the past month, the prices of edible oils are now coming down," an official statement said. It said the price of palm oil was Rs 142 per kg on May 7 and now, it has come down to Rs 115 per kg, a drop of 19%. Similarly, the price of sunflower oil has dropped 16% to 157 per kg. The price of soya oil was Rs 162 per kg on May 20 and now, it has come down to Rs 138 per kg in Mumbai. In the case of mustard oil, the price was Rs 175 per kg on May 16, 2021. Now, it has come down to Rs 157 per kg, a drop of nearly 10%. Groundnut oil price, which stood at Rs 190 per kg on May 14, has fallen to Rs 174 per kg. The price of Vanaspati has dipped eight per cent to Rs 141 per kg, from Rs 154 per kg on May 2. "Prices of edible oil prices are dependent on a complex set of factors which also include international prices, domestic production. As the gap between domestic consumption and production is high, India has to import a significant amount of edible oil," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cooking-oil-prices-soften-govt-says-working-on-lasting-solution-998179.html
16-06-2021||North and Central||NHAI makes drone survey mandatory for all national highway projects||In order to enhance transparency and uniformity as well as leverage latest technology, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has made use of drones mandatory for monthly video-recording of national highway projects during all stages of development -- construction, operation and maintenance. "Contractors and concessionaires will carry out the drone video-recording in presence of the team leader of the supervision consultant and upload comparative project videos of the current and previous month on NHAI’s portal ‘Data Lake’, capturing various project-related developments during the month," said a statement from the NHAI. "Supervision consultants should analyse these videos and provide their comments on the digital monthly progress reports, covering various aspects of project development. These videos will also be used by NHAI officials during physical inspection of the projects to check for discrepancies and rectifications made on the basis of earlier observations," the statement added. Additionally, NHAI project directors will undertake monthly drone surveys from the date of signing the contract till start of construction on site, as well as after completion of the project. Authorities will also undertake monthly drone surveys in all developed projects where NHAI is responsible for operation and maintenance, said the statement. Since these videos will be permanently stored on ‘Data Lake’, they can also be used as evidence during dispute resolution before arbitral tribunals and courts. Apart from this, mandatory deployment of Network Survey Vehicles (NSVs) will carry out road condition recces on national highways to enhance quality. NSVs use latest survey techniques such as high-resolution digital camera for 360-degree imagery, laser road profilometer and others, said the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nhai-makes-drone-survey-mandatory-for-all-national-highway-projects-998201.html
16-06-2021||Oasis||Work and reward||The third chapter of the Bhagavad Gita titled "Karma Yoga — the Yoga of action" speaks about the importance of doing one’s duty in life with sincerity and dedication without any ulterior motive to gain any reward out of it. Gita emphasizes that work must be done by keeping in mind the interests of society. It must be noted that the Geeta does not promote any sort of altruism— it doesn't ask the man to ignore his personal interests and adopt an ascetic approach. On the other hand, it directs him to be tough and brave, to confront life’s challenges, to not passively submit to troubles and misfortunes and to put his best to face and overcome them. The Geeta terms this approach that is to work both for oneself as well as for the good of others as ‘Yagna’. Here, a strong tone is seen when people, who do not distribute the fruits of their work among others (after keeping their share) and who do not repay their debt to society after benefitting from others’ contributions, are called “thieves and sinners”. Individuals make up human society. Man draws from the inputs of others to chart his own success. "Therefore it is his bounden duty to give back to society, in whatever way he can. Such men are indeed noble— 'Satpurushas'. If he does not and enjoys everything by himself, he is selfishness personified, he is partaking of sin,” says the Gita. The words of saint Purandaradasa harken back: “Whatever you have gained by the grace of the Lord, offer it back to him, for what else can a mere man give to the supreme giver? Pour back into the lake what you have taken from it and be happy and contented.”  On the subject of man’s indebtedness to society, the Gita speaks about the fundamental verity of life. As the revered Swami Chinmayananda interprets it: “Life originates from food. Food comes from rain. Rain comes from Yagna. This Yagna is nothing but work, which is the Creator Brahma’s dictate. This Brahma originated from Brahman— the supreme creator, the eternal being. So, understand this, supreme Lord is all-pervasive. He is present in all that you do. This is the eternal law”. Indeed, true work is real worship.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/work-and-reward-998223.html
16-06-2021||Opinion||The best anyone can hope for with Iran is pretty bad||By Thomas L. Friedman Since Iran and the US held more talks this week to try to revive their nuclear deal, with some progress reported, I want to share my views on this subject: I supported the original deal negotiated by Barack Obama in 2015. I did not support Donald Trump’s tearing it up in 2018, but when he did I hoped that he’d leverage the economic pain he inflicted to persuade Iran to improve the deal. Trump failed at that, leaving Iran free to get closer than ever to a bomb. I support Joe Biden trying to revive the deal. And I support Israel’s covert efforts to sabotage Iran’s ability to ever build a nuclear weapon — no matter what the deal. If that sounds contradictory, it’s because, well, it just sounds that way. There is a unifying thread running through it all: Dealing effectively with Iran’s Islamic regime — in a way that permanently eliminates its malign behavior — is impossible. Iran is too big to invade; the regime is too ensconced to be toppled from the outside; its darkest impulses, to dominate its Sunni Arab neighbors and destroy the Jewish state, are too dangerous to ignore; and its people are too talented to be forever denied a nuclear capability. So, when dealing with Iran, you do what you can, where you can, how you can, but with the understanding that (1) perfect is not on the menu and (2) Iran’s Islamic regime is not going to change. It’s not “misunderstood.” After 42 years, some things are clear: Iran’s ruling clerics cultivate and celebrate conflict with America and Israel as an essential tool for locking themselves in power and for keeping their Revolutionary Guards richly funded and their people under their iron fist, deprived of a real voice in their future or the ability to realize their full potential. The regime was quite happy to use resources it gained from America’s lifting of sanctions in the 2015 deal not just to build more roads and schools, but also to fund and arm pro-Iranian Arab Shiites so they could dominate Arab Sunnis in Iraq, Lebanon, Syria and Yemen. This ensured that all four remained weak or failed Arab states, unable to threaten Tehran or produce any true multisectarian democracy that would embarrass it. On Friday Iran will hold a farce of a presidential election, with Iranians “free” to vote for any of the regime’s preapproved candidates. A record low turnout is predicted. None of this will change as long as these ayatollahs are in power. And, if we are being honest, not only have they been consistent for 42 years, but so, too, have US presidents and Israeli prime ministers. Their strategies can be summed up as this: Always try to get the best deal with Iran that money can buy.</em> Or, more specifically, always try to get the best deal that lifting or imposing sanctions or covert warfare can buy. But never opt for toppling the regime by force. Alas, Iran’s ruling clerics are shrewd survivors. They can guess your might from 100 miles away. And when they concluded that no one would actually dare to try to topple them or destroy their nuclear facilities — no matter how often American or Israeli leaders said that “nothing is off the table” — these savvy and ruthless clerics found a way to never fully give up their nuclear capacity. The negotiations always came down to the same thing: trying to get the best from Iran that money or covert action could buy. For all of Trump’s tough talk, and even with his assassination of Iran’s top underground warrior, Qassem Soleimani, “Trump had no diplomatic strategy to leverage his ‘maximum pressure’ campaign into attainable objectives that would improve the Iran nuclear deal or limit Iran’s regional activities,” said Robert Litwak, senior vice president of the Wilson Center and author of “Managing Nuclear Risks.” “He was not ready to use maximum force. So, the Iranians just waited him out.” I’m glad for that. I do not support forcing regime change in Tehran from outside. That is a project only the Iranian people have the right and the power to do. That’s why I support all these different ways of getting the best deal money and covert action can buy — but I have no illusions that they will make Iran a good neighbor. As the saying goes, “Problems have solutions, but dilemmas have horns.” And managing the struggle with this Iranian regime is to permanently shift back and forth on the horns of a dilemma. This reality, though, is now causing a quiet but serious rift between the US and Israel. And while the post-Bibi Netanyahu Israeli government will handle it more quietly, it already knows that Joe Biden is a different cat. It’s not only that Biden won’t grant Israel’s new prime minister his every whim the way Trump did Bibi. It is that Biden is tightly focused on securing what he thinks is America’s primary strategic interest in the Middle East — preventing Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon that would force Turkey and all the Arab states to get nukes, thereby blowing up the global nuclear nonproliferation order and making the region a giant threat to global stability. The Biden team believes that Trump’s maximum-pressure campaign did not diminish Iran’s malign behavior in the region one iota (it will show you the data to prove it). So, Biden wants to at least lock up Iran’s nuclear program for a while and then try blunting its regional troublemaking in other ways. At the same time, Biden wants to put more focus on nation-building at home and on countering China. The Israeli retort is that the US will be paying Iran to mothball a nuclear weapon that it is unlikely to ever use or proliferate — while freeing it, and, in effect funding it, to deploy and proliferate the most sophisticated conventional weapons likely to be used: the precision-guided smart rockets Iran is shipping to its Hezbollah proxies in Lebanon and Syria aimed at Israel. Israel is unlikely to tolerate this loaded gun to its head while Iran’s clerics sit comfortably in Tehran. In the 2006 war in Lebanon, Hezbollah had to fire some 20 dumb, unguided, surface-to-surface rockets of limited range to damage a single Israeli target. With longer-range GPS-guided missiles provided by Iran, Hezbollah may need to fire only one rocket each at 20 targets in Israel — its nuclear reactor, airport, ports, power plants, high-tech factories and military bases — with a high probability of damaging them all. The Biden team says it is committed to curbing this threat through talks with Iran — after the nuclear deal is restored. To which the Israelis ask: Thanks, but what leverage will you have once you’ve lifted so many sanctions? I have an idea: One way to defuse the tension between the US and Israel would be for Biden to attempt a radical new diplomatic initiative — a leveraged buyout of the Iranian presence in Syria. Syria today is effectively controlled in different sectors by three non-Arab powers — Russia, Turkey and Iran. Russia is not enamored with having Iranian forces in Syria alongside its own, but it needed them to help crush the democratic and Sunni Islamist enemies of its proxy, Syrian dictator Bashar Assad. Biden and the gulf Arab states could go to the Russians and Assad with this offer: Kick out the Iranian forces from Syria and we will triple whatever financial aid Iran was giving Syria, and we’ll tacitly agree that Assad (though a war criminal) can stay in power for the near term. Israel’s military would back this deal, because breaking the Syrian land bridge that Iran uses to keep Hezbollah supplied with rockets would be a game-changer. Yes, it would be a cynical deal. To which I say: (1) It’s the Middle East, folks. And (2) Problems have solutions, but dilemmas have horns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-best-anyone-can-hope-for-with-iran-is-pretty-bad-997958.html
16-06-2021||Opinion||Covid-19, poll setbacks: Modi 2.0's midlife crisis||Barely four months ago, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was on a roll. Fresh daily Covid-19 infections had declined appreciably, and India's vaccination programme was running smoothly. 'Vaccine hesitancy' was a problem undoubtedly, but criticism of the vaccination policy was largely absent. Everyone agreed that health workers and frontline workers, including police, paramilitary forces, sanitation workers, and disaster management volunteers, should be the first recipients. Politically, the party exuded confidence in its prospects in the Assembly polls. Crossovers from the Trinamool Congress to the BJP in West Bengal appeared to assume tidal proportions. Worries remained for the party in Assam, but local analysts asserted that the Congress-Assam United Democratic Front (AIUDF) pact would benefit the latter and BJP and not the GOP.  In Kerala, 'metro man' E Sreedharan joining the BJP gave a shot in the arm, and the party overlooked its policy of excluding 75+ people from candidates' lists. In Tamil Nadu, the party firmed up its pact with the AIADMK early, and prospects to forming the government in partnership with local partners were good in Puducherry. Against this backdrop, the BJP held its first office bearers' physical meeting during the pandemic in the third week of February. The resolution adopted at the meet mentioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi's name almost thirty times in a text of a bit above 3000 words - a mention every hundred-odd words. The resolution was steeped in sycophancy. "It could be said with pride that India not only defeated Covid under the able, sensitive, committed, and visionary leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi but also infused in all its citizens the confidence to build an 'Atmanirbhar Bharat'," the resolution said. It also hailed his "tireless and ceaseless efforts in serving the people." Four months on, the confidence has disappeared, and Modi 2.0 and his party jointly face a severe midlife crisis. Governance deficit, loss of people's trust in him, uncertainty over the pandemic, the economic problems confronting crores of people are not unexpected given the cyclical nature of anti-incumbent sentiment. Almost every government has faced such a crisis once past its honeymoon period. But the way the party has unravelled in a few states is entirely unexpected. Within his party, murmurs of merriment at his visible discomfort are louder than ever before. From a leader who towered over others within the party, Modi has seen his authority erode in Uttar Pradesh with Yogi Adityanath infamously switching off more than his ear to a diktat. With 'command route' not working, Modi tried out the 'pacifying mode'; on June 13, he tweeted the link of a more than 10-day old positive news report of an initiative of the Yogi government. "Very good initiative," the tweet, which tagged the UP CM, read. In contrast to this, Modi had not publicly wished Adityanath on his birthday on June 5. Having failed in coercing Adityanath into inducting former PMO officer AK Sharma (who took premature retirement in January 2021) into his ministry with an important portfolio matching his administrative skills and experience, Modi is now trying a humbler way. He appears to have come to terms with working jointly with Adityanath till next year's UP polls. However, Adityanath is 'doing to him' what Modi 'did' a decade and a half ago to the BJP national leadership of that time - demonstrating autonomy.  A similar accommodative style is in evidence at the Centre. Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah have taken to hold consultative meetings with party lawmakers and ministers. Modi gets into this mode whenever under pressure. In early 2019, before the emergence of the Pulwama-Balakot twin incidents as the principal electoral issue, the BJP conceded ground to the Shiv Sena while finalising the seat-sharing pact. For Modi, his ties with others in the party and among allies are inversely proportional to his 'winnability - the higher it is, the lesser is the concern for the other's ambitions and vice versa.  The BJP's woes are not restricted to UP. From the tiny archipelago of Lakshadweep to the streets of small-town West Bengal, BJP workers are up in arms against the central leadership for a variety of reasons. Furthermore, in Bengal, there was this dramatic development of Mukul Roy doing a ghar wapasi, just a day after the BJP controlled the political narrative on the day Jitin Prasada left the Congress to join it.  The worrisome part for the BJP, whether the events are in UP, Bengal or Karnataka, is that the writ of the central leadership is now running thin - the prabharis (state in-charges) are being systematically defied. The 'questioning from below' is against the grain of post-2014 intra-party functioning and gets intrinsically linked to the party's 'winnability'. Indeed, for the first time in Modi 2.0 tenure, doubts have risen at every level of the party about the stranglehold of the BJP in territories already under its control and its capacity to expand to new states.   The roots of the BJP's troubles lie in the perception that the PM has fallen short on the parameter of being an 'ace administrator', which his image-makers made him out to be. In the second wave of Covid-19, the situation got out of hand due to four factors. One, hubris of having 'defeated' the virus. Two, dismantling of temporary medical facilities created last year, like makeshift wards in banquet halls and redesigned railway compartments. Three, the government failed to ramp up medical oxygen supplies and ensure speedy distribution urgently.  Finally, the Centre came a cropper in responding to the emergency with the alacrity required. The hallmark of a good administrative leader is the capacity to tackle unprecedented and unforeseen situations. This is undoubtedly the gravest political and administrative challenge in the prime minister's career, and he cannot follow an existing script because the only one existing is a century old. Added to this is the lingering farmers' agitation that can cost heavily, both electorally and in terms of social alliances that the BJP built. All of this has resulted in considerable erosion of public trust and faith in Modi. It will be long before the BJP peddles the slogan - Modi hai to mumkin hai - again. It is premature to ascertain if this loss of the public's confidence in Modi's abilities will have electoral implications in the future. But there is no denying that this critical period of lapse in Modi 2.0 was a significant factor in the BJP's failure to bag Bengal and a single seat in Kerala. Undeniably, the BJP is still the largest party, Modi remains the most popular leader, and there is as yet no clear nationwide opposition. History, however, informs that alternatives emerge overnight because there are popular regional 'options' available, and these can join forces. There are also times when disenchantment with a particular leader reaches a level when the vote become a 'negative' one against her/him and not a 'positive' in favour of the (potential) challenger. Yet, the opposition, most notably the Congress, which remains the largest opposition party, has to be more focussed and hit the ground. Comfort for the BJP and its leader lies in the fact that the Lok Sabha polls are three years away. It can hope that time will erase memories of personal, emotional, and economic loss. But this can happen only when there is dramatic containment of the pandemic, and the health and financial security of the people improves dramatically.  This is a colossal task before the BJP and Modi, and the current team doesn't inspire confidence to effect a turnaround. Already the consultative exercises and his 'accommodation' of Adityanath indicate that a more pragmatic Modi appears to be making an appearance, although he is also the master of misleading others with apparent actions. The next few weeks are critical and will indicate the likely mood of the people. (The writer is an NCR-based author and journalist. His books include 'The RSS: Icons of the Indian Right' and 'Narendra Modi: The Man, The Times'. He tweets at @NilanjanUdwin) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19-poll-setbacks-modi-20s-midlife-crisis-997986.html
16-06-2021||Panorama||Perception of govt, private efficiency||While the migrant crisis, which unmasked the systemic failure of our economy in terms of providing secure employment, was the highlight of the first wave of the pandemic, the collapse of our health infrastructure came to the fore during the second wave. Instead of taking measured steps to deal with the shortages of oxygen cylinders, hospital beds, medicines and vaccinations, the governments conveniently chose to focus on their election campaign. Their ignorance towards the acute state of public hospitals and health centres has compelled common people to settle for the private provision of healthcare. However, reports suggest that private nursing homes and hospitals are charging exorbitant prices for RT-PCR tests, hospital beds and vaccines. Severe dependence on the private sector, egged on by the government, points at the incapability of the latter to deal with a deteriorating global health crisis. It can safely be argued that with the majority of the people unable to afford the expensive health care provided by the private sector, the government has essentially left this significant fraction of the population to suffer in negligence.  A common perception is that, albeit expensive, the private sector is efficient in meeting the needs of the people. On the other hand, public provision of services is expected to be inferior. The data from Indian Human Development Survey (IHDS 2011-12) reveals the lack of confidence in public institutions. Only 9.74 per cent of the respondents have reported that they have a great deal of confidence in politicians with regard to fulfilling the promises made. 50.68 per cent have no confidence at all. This glaring prevalence of mistrust that people have is not limited to the nearest agent of the state. While 71.83 per cent of the respondents believe that private schools provide quality education, the same for public schools is 59.11 per cent. Similarly, respondents have shown greater conviction with regard to better treatment sought in private hospitals (72.46 per cent) than government hospitals (54.45 per cent). These figures do not vary across income categories. The data underscore the presumption regarding the government's inefficient provisioning of basic services. The incompetence of the government to provide these services sufficiently which has prevailed through generations has ingrained the idea of the inefficiency of public institutions. The goal of profit maximisation acts as an incentive for the private sector to be efficient. Consequently, when services like education and health are turned into marketable commodities, profit plays a major role in determining their distribution. This excludes the majority of the citizens from these basic services. They are then exclusively dependent on the government for their provision. Rather than aiming at efficient provisioning of the services, the government yields greater ground to private capital to invest in the same, thereby underlining an added dimension of oppression faced by poor people. This in turn perpetuates inequality in every aspect of society. The perception that normalises the poor performance of government institutions also normalises inequality in society.  We can turn to Antonio Gramsci’s work to explain this working of the state. Instead of coercion, the state manages to create consent in favour of privatisation. There is a need to question the government regarding the poor quality of provisioning of public services. While the government has shrugged off its responsibilities, it has moulded the public’s perception and consequently, we keep clamouring for increased privatisation. In the Gramscian sense, the manufactured consent that public institutions are more inefficient than private institutions has become an ideology. According to the IHDS data, even the poorest strata have more confidence that the private sector provides better quality of services, showing that the oppressed section of the society subscribes to the dominant ideology which is also instrumental in perpetuating their oppression. Maintaining this ideology is particularly helpful for the state as it helps to preserve the dominance of private capital.  The production of certain goods and services like housing, health and education are advised to be the exclusive domain of the government because their distribution should not be driven by the profit motive, but that of welfare since these should constitute the basic rights of all people. (Satyaki is a graduate student at Colorado State University and Annesha is a PhD scholar at the Centre for Development Studies, Kerala)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/perception-of-govt-private-efficiency-998224.html
16-06-2021||Second Edit||Governor must walk back VC decision||Karnataka Governor Vajubhai Vala has waded into a controversy by appointing the principal of a private dental college, S M Jayakara, as the interim vice-chancellor (VC) of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, that too without consulting Medical Education and Health Minister K Sudhakar, who is also the pro-chancellor of the university. It is established practice that when the office of the VC falls vacant, the senior-most dean or one of the two registrars is given temporary charge. Handing over the reins to an academic from a private affiliated college is not only unknown in the university’s history, but also sets a wrong precedent given the conflict of interests involved. Though a bare reading of the relevant Act states that the Governor as Chancellor may fill a temporary vacancy as he deems fit, under the overall Constitutional scheme, he is bound to act on the aide and advice of the council of ministers, except in certain matters on which discretionary powers are conferred on him. At the very least, the Governor has broken with established convention in this instance. Sudhakar, who has expressed surprise over the decision, is on record that the Governor had not only ignored an earlier letter from him in which he had recommended that convention be followed in the appointment of the interim VC, but that he had also denied him an appointment to discuss the matter, citing the pandemic. Considering that there was no specific recommendation from the minister or the department concerned, it is unclear on what basis the Governor zeroed in on Jayakara, ignoring several other senior professors in the university. Sudhakar has openly stated that the new acting VC is “unfit” to hold the post, as it should be occupied by someone of “high academic qualifications and integrity.” The minister perhaps had in mind the fact that Jayakara’s house was raided by the CBI in 2013 in connection with a corruption charge when he was an executive member of the Dental Council of India. The entire process of appointment of VCs has itself come under a cloud during the past several years, with extraneous considerations often taking precedence over academic excellence and administrative ability. Under the circumstances, Vala’s unilateral and opaque decision-making in this instance may raise uncomfortable questions. The Governor should rescind his order appointing Jayakara and choose an acting VC as per time-tested practice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/governor-must-walk-back-vc-decision-998233.html
16-06-2021||South||It is time to move on and get closure: Anand on Kamath's misdemeanour in simul event||Former world champion Viswanathan Anand on Tuesday said it is time to move and "get closure" on the controversy that erupted after his loss to entrepreneur Nikhil Kamath in an online simultaneous charity event. Nikhil Kamath, co-founder of online stock brokerage firm Zerodha, had defeated Anand during an online charity match on Sunday and later admitted that he had cheated, leading to a huge backlash on social media. "It's time to move on and get closure on this," Anand tweeted on Tuesday in response to a post by Chess.com-India which said it was reopening all accounts in question during the fund-raiser event. Kamath's Chess.com account was banned after the match. "Regarding the games played in the Vishy Anand simul for charity, as well as with full cooperation of Vishy Anand, Chess.com has elected to reopen all of the accounts in question during the event," Chess.com-India said in a statement posted on Twitter. "Given the forthcoming cooperation of the players and the clarification that not all the rules were properly understood, neither Chess.com nor Anand himself see any reason to uphold the matter further." The event was conducted to raise funds for those suffering due to the coronavirus pandemic. "General Note: Per Chess.com rules found at support.chess.com - unrated games, as such were played in the event-are not always played within the same parameters. Anand, as the simul giver, has expressed no interest in further pursuing the matter," it said. "While he clearly expressed that he does not endorse use of non-approved assistance in chess, he agrees fully that the games were played in good faith for the fun and good intentions of the charitable efforts, and wishes the matter be put to rest." Kamath had taken the 'help' of chess analysts and computers to get the better of Anand, a five-time World Champion, during the event. He later apologised for his misdemeanour in a tweet. Anand had responded to Kamath's apology by saying "... it was a celebrity simul for people to raise money. It was a fun experience upholding the ethics of the game. I just played the position on the board and expected the same from everyone." In a surprise result, Kamath had defeated Anand while others including celebrities like India cricketer Yuzvendra Chahal, actor Aamir Khan, Sudeep Khicha, Sajid Nadiadwala and Riteish Deshmukh went down to the Chennai-based chess ace. The controversy over Kamath using the help of chess analysts and computers to score a win over Anand overshadowed the event during which more than Rs 10 lakh was raised and caused a storm on Twitter with several lashing out at the entrepreneur and hailing Anand's sportsmanship. Chess.com is an online platform for players across the world to play matches virtually.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/it-is-time-to-move-on-and-get-closure-anand-on-kamaths-misdemeanour-in-simul-event-997911.html
16-06-2021||South||Covid deaths underreported 8.4 to 9.8 times in Tamil Nadu: NGO||Underreporting of deaths due to Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu in the first two months of the second wave – April and May -- is at least 8.4 to 9.8 times than those declared by the state government in its daily health bulletin, a study by an NGO claimed here on Tuesday. Arappor Iyakkam, which had broken the lid on many scams, analysed the death data available online for six government hospitals spread across the state to conclude that Covid-19 related deaths are being grossly underreported in Tamil Nadu. The six hospitals whose data were studied are Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai, Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College and Hospital, Trichy, Vellore Medical College, Karur Medical College, and Tirupur Government Headquarters Hospital. The analysis revealed that there has been an increase of 7,262 deaths in April and May this year compared to the mortalities reported in the above mentioned two months in 2019. The increase in deaths stands at 8,438 when comparing with the data available for April and May in 2020 in the six hospitals alone. But the media bulletin of the Department of Health and Family Welfare released every day mentions only 863 deaths in these 6 hospitals, the NGO said. It also said over 1 lakh people could have died in April and May in Tamil Nadu if these figures are taken approximately across the state. “Approximating the same underreporting factor of 8.4 to 9.8 times for the entire state, the likely number of deaths due to Covid in TN may be between 1,08,721 and 1,26,841 against the reported number of 12,943,” the report released by Arappor Iyakkam said. The report has also recorded a few anecdotal pieces of evidence of how relatives died of Corona and yet their deaths have not been recorded in the media bulletin nor have been given a document citing Covid as the cause of death. This is not the first time that the state administration has been accused of underreporting Covid deaths – in June 2020 the then AIADMK government ordered an investigation into the issue after which around 400 deaths were added to the Covid toll. The NGO demanded an independent time-bound audit and investigation into the massive underreporting of Covid deaths. “Transparency is key to not only find the truth of the situation but also to access the compensation for the relatives of those who died of Covid. Given there are many families which are likely to become ineligible for compensation due to the massive underreporting of covid deaths, the government should make a concerted and humanitarian approach to solve this problem,” the report added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-deaths-underreported-84-to-98-times-in-tamil-nadu-ngo-997983.html
16-06-2021||South||Beset with nil revenue, Covid, Chennai zoo seeks help from govt, animal lovers||With its revenue, mainly through ticket sales, touching rock bottom owing to Covid lockdown and the death of a lioness due to the infection causing concern, the Arignar Anna Zoological Park (AAZP) is in dire need of funds to feed thousands of animals besides their upkeep. A senior official at the zoo said the park has pinned hopes on the state government to provide funds also to meet the salaries of casual labourers apart from meeting the administrative costs and another increasing requirement for precautionary measures and medicines to contain the spread of Covid-19 among the animals. "It's crisis time. Revenue became zero. Zoo depended last year on the government and CSR funds. The government provided Rs 6 crores towards meeting the cost for animal feed last year. This year, a proposal sent to the government is under process," a deputy director of AAZP said when asked if the zoo adoption could help tide over the crisis. On the expenditure incurred by the zoo, the deputy director told PTI "monthly we spend Rs 55 lakhs for feeding 2,300 plus animals, Rs 25 lakhs for our casual labourers salaries and Rs 10-15 lakhs for our infrastructure costs like water, electricity bills etc." "Literally, the revenue is 0 now from Rs 15-16 crores. So you can imagine the loss!" he said. Before the pandemic (in 2019-2020) the zoo had 130 animal adopters and it attracted a visitor footfall of 19,24,513. The revenue from visitor ticket sales was Rs 14.3 crores. During the pandemic (In 2020 - 2021) the number of animal adopters dwindled to 117 and so did the footfall to 3,95,124 while the revenue drastically plunged to Rs 4.7 crores. There is nil revenue this year. Normally, the zoo attracts 18-20 lakhs visitors annually and the Pongal festival holidays in mid-January and summer vacation lures several thousands of families. On the measures being taken to promote the adoption programme, he said, "we appealed through various social media channels, reached out to some CSR. We reached out to the press and media." The AAZP official added that the animal adoption process has completely been made online to facilitate quick and transparent adoption. And the response to the recent appeal for animal adoption programme has been overwhelming. Over 200 people adopted the animals. "This is the highest in the last few months wherein generally we have only 20-30 adoptions in a month, that too when the zoo is open," he said. Popular actors Vijay Sethupati and Siva Karthikeyan adopted the animals previously. The zoo has 350 staff including permanent and casual workers. While the permanent establishment salaries and vehicle fuel bills are taken care of by the government, the remaining expenditure including salaries of the casual labourers, feed, electricity bills, water bills, small works and developmental activities like enclosure maintenance, chain links etc., are met from ticket sales. "It's actually a disastrous situation that we are now facing. Last year, we were open from November to April. With some footfalls and some CSR help from Renault and SBI we carried out some work. HCL gave some money last year for feed under CSR," the deputy director said. "This year, right now we are still puzzled about the future and with the lion's Corona infection, things are getting a little more difficult now," he said. At present the zoo's full concentration is on getting the lions back without any further loss. "The last death really pained us a lot. We can't afford to lose another one. Hope we come out of all this soon," he said. Of the fourteen lions presently available with the Zoo, 3 are responding to the treatment very slowly. Seven lions were infected by SARS CoV2 virus while a lioness succumbed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/beset-with-nil-revenue-covid-chennai-zoo-seeks-help-from-govt-animal-lovers-998011.html
16-06-2021||South||BJP's Selvam elected Speaker of Puducherry Assembly||BJP MLA ‘Embalam’ R Selvam was on Wednesday elected as Speaker of Puducherry Assembly, in the first signs of overcoming differences between the saffron party and All India N R Congress. Selvam was elected unopposed by pro-term Speaker K Lakshminarayanan of the AINRC. The election of the Assembly Speaker comes 45 days after the results of the April 6 Assembly elections were announced. Though the AINRC allotted Speaker’s post to its ally BJP, the two parties are yet to come to an agreement on the allocation of the portfolio. Chief Minister N Rangasamy is yet to expand his month-old Cabinet, and the unanimous election of Speaker is set to roll out the process. According to the agreement, the post of Puducherry Assembly Speaker and two Cabinet ministers were allotted to BJP. Even after agreeing on the terms, the two parties are yet to agree on the date for the expansion of the Cabinet. Persisting differences between the two parties had delayed the Cabinet expansion – only Rangasamy took oath on May 7 – with both parties sticking to their known stands. The AINRC won 10 seats, while the BJP emerged victorious in six seats and its strength in the Assembly now stands at nine, thanks to the Centre’s power to appoint three nominated members. The DMK won six, Congress two, and Independents six. The BJP, which lost all seats it contested in the 2016 Assembly polls, allied with AINRC, and AIADMK for the April 6 elections. The party which lacked a toehold in the Union Territory till a few months ago poached a few senior Congress leaders and gave them seats to contest. The BJP also got nine seats in the alliance, much higher than the AIADMK, which had four members in the previous Assembly. The AIADMK drew a blank this time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjps-selvam-elected-speaker-of-puducherry-assembly-998025.html
16-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu cops urge people not to download fake oximeter apps, cite data theft ||With the surge in demand for oximeters due to the Covid pandemic, the Tamil Nadu police warned people against downloading fake oximeter apps on their mobile phones, and said such applications may steal personal or biometric data from the phones. People's apprehension during the pandemic is being exploited by cybercriminals who are targeting users with malicious links and applications that could steal personal information or biometric data like fingerprints. "One such scam used by the cybercriminals is the fake oximeter app that claims to detect blood oxygen levels," the police said in an advisory. Once the user downloads the fake app, which claims to test blood oxygen levels using fingerprint sensors, through a SMS, it asks permission to access various features in the mobile. If permission is granted, then the cybercriminals could steal the sensitive data such as OTP, saved passwords, card details, photos, contacts and even the biometric information that could be used to access banking and other sensitive applications on the phone. "These apps claim to measure blood oxygen level by placing the finger on the camera and illuminating the finger using torch light. During this process, the malicious apps could capture your fingerprint," the police said and warned that the fraudsters could also use the fingerprint data to replicate the thumb impression and authenticate Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AEPS) transactions from the app users account. Several states including Maharashtra and Gujarat have in the past warned people about such fraud apps. The police advisory claimed that SpO2 blood oxygen sensor is required to measure the blood oxygen levels accurately. "This is not present in smart phones. Hence, users should be cautious of apps promising to measure blood oxygen levels using fingerprint sensors," the warning posted on the Tamil Nadu police facebook page said and appealed to the citizens to install applications from trusted sources. However, if the biometric information is compromised, one should disable biometric authentication for AEPS transaction by visiting www.uidai.gov.in. The victims could file a complaint on www.cybercrime.gov.in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cops-urge-people-not-to-download-fake-oximeter-apps-cite-data-theft-998069.html
16-06-2021||South||Sudhakaran assumes charge as Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee chief||As Congress leader K Sudhakaran on Wednesday took charge as the new president of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC), several party leaders called for strengthening the party at the grassroots level and lamented over the infighting within the party. With hundreds of party workers and local leaders gathering at the Indira Bhavan in Thiruvananthapuram for the new president's taking over function, the local police registered a case for flouting Covid-19 norms. While Sudhakaran reiterated in his address that Congress could bounce back to success if all leaders stood united, Ramesh Chennithala, who was removed from the leader of opposition post, said that all those who pretended to support him did not support at the time of crisis. Referring to the allegations that Sudhakaran was a pro-BJP, Chennithala said that he would be responding against it because he was upset as no party leaders supported him when similar allegations were raised against him. Also read: Sudhakaran assumes charge as Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sudhakaran alleged that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan retained power in Kerala with the support of RSS only. It was owing to the fear of Congress coming back strongly that the CPM cadres were making baseless allegations of BJP-RSS links, he said. Sudhakaran, who is a Lok Sabha MP and a firebrand leader from Kannur district, is likely to initiate a total shake up in Congress's organisational structure in Kerala, beginning with downsizing of jumbo committees. He has replaced Mullappally Ramachandran as Kerala PCC president.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sudhakaran-assumes-charge-as-kerala-pradesh-congress-committee-chief-998088.html
16-06-2021||South||AIADMK slams Sasikala for 'audio politics', trying 'divide and rule' tactic||Senior AIADMK leader D Jayakumar on Wednesday slammed V K Sasikala, confidante of late party supremo J Jayalalithaa, for attempting to create confusion in the party using "audio politics" and for trying to "divide and rule." Such designs would never succeed, the former Minister asserted and wondered how Sasikala could stake claim to the party when she was not even a primary member. Against the backdrop of her talking over phone with a section of AIADMK functionaries in recent times and who were subsequently expelled from the party, Jayakumar alleged she was trying to create confusion. Hence, she indulged in "audio politics" (a pointer to her phone conversations which are being made available to media outlets and shared in social media) and no AIADMK worker would accept it, he told reporters here. Hitting out at Sasikala for attempting "divide and rule," and to "capture" the party, he said such a thing would never happen. The cadres are vigilant and fully understand the "kind of conspirators they are", Jayakumar alleged in an apparent reference to Sasikala and her nephew TTV Dhinakaran, who is the chief of Amma Makkal Munnetera Kazhagam adding "such conspiracies will not succeed". K C Veeramani, also a former Minister has said that Sasikala was speaking to some party people merely using "black sheeps" while both O Panneerselvam and K Palaniswami were continuing to safeguard the party and its interests. Sasikala, opposing removal of functionaries from the party for speaking to her over phone, had told a loyalist that she would have retained O Panneerselvam as Chief Minister in 2017 had he not rebelled against her. In March, ahead of the Assembly polls, Sasikala had said that "she will stay away from politics," but would pray for of Jayalalithaa's "golden rule". She became AIADMK interim general secretary following Jayalalithaa's demise in 2016 and this appointment was rescinded at a general council meet in 2017 and it also announced invalidation of all the appointments made by Dhinakaran. This meet also created new posts of coordinator and co- coordinator for OPS and EPS respectively, giving them all powers and the factions led by the duo had come together by then, while Sasikala and her followers were dislodged. Since then, the AIADMK had made it clear that there was no scope for rapprochement with Sasikala or her relatives. Eventually, Dhinakaran floated the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam in 2018 and had said often that retrieval of the AIADMK was his outfit's goal. A case by Sasikala, challenging the 2017 AIADMK general council resolutions, including removing her from the post of interim general secretary is pending in a city civil court and the matter is posted for next hearing on June 18. Sasikala had a real clout in the AIADMK during the days of Jayalalithaa and she served a four year prison sentence (2017-2021) in Bengaluru following conviction in an assets case and returned to Tamil Nadu in February this year to a grand welcome from her supporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-slams-sasikala-for-audio-politics-trying-divide-and-rule-tactic-998139.html
16-06-2021||South||ONGC bid to explore for hydrocarbons in Cauvery Delta faces stiff opposition||Farmers in the fertile Cauvery Delta region of Tamil Nadu are up in arms yet again against the ONGC’s bid to explore for hydrocarbons in agriculture fields in Pudukkottai district. Not just farmers, the state government is also opposed to the exploration for hydrocarbons in the region, which was declared as a Protected Agricultural Zone by the previous AIADMK dispensation. Even before the dust settles over the issue, the ONGC has sought permission from the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) for hydrocarbon exploration in Ariyalur district in central Tamil Nadu, prompting vociferous protests from activists. Protests broke out in Vadatheru in Pudukkottai on June 13, days after the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas invited bids for the development of oil and gas fields with farmers making it clear they will not part with their land. The DMK, which had been siding with the farmers for the past few years, stepped quickly with Chief Minister M K Stalin dashing off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to cancel the bidding process. He also reminded Modi that the Cauvery Delta region was a protected zone and categorically said the state will not allow such projects. Stalin is expected to take up the issue with Modi when he meets him in New Delhi on June 17. Farmers in the region feel that hydrocarbon exploration activities would bring irreparable damage to their fertile lands and groundwater. “We will never allow any exploration activity in the Delta region. Such activities would destroy our fertile lands forever and also spoil the groundwater. The agencies lie when they say there won’t be any damage to the land. We will not part with our lands,” P R Pandian, coordinator of Tamil Nadu All Farmers' Association, told DH. The Tamil Nadu Protected Agricultural Zone Development Act, 2020 prohibits any new exploration, drilling and extraction of Oil and Natural Gas and other similar hydrocarbons from the Protected Agricultural Zone. G Sundararajan of Poovulagin Nanbargal, an NGO fighting for protection of the environment, told DH that the move by ONGC to explore for hydrocarbons is a blatant violation. “The state government declared Cauvery Delta as a protected zone and how can the Union Government announce a new project which is in blatant violation of a decision taken by a democratically-elected government,” he said. Sundararajan also questioned the ONGC’s move to seek permission from SEIAA for exploration activities in Ariyalur district, after Stalin’s statement that no such project will be allowed in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ongc-bid-to-explore-for-hydrocarbons-in-cauvery-delta-faces-stiff-opposition-998144.html
16-06-2021||South||Water released from Mettur dam reaches Cauvery Delta region||Water released from the Stanley Reservoir in Mettur reached the Cauvery Delta region for the cultivation of kuruvai (short-term crop) on Wednesday. This is the second consecutive year the Cauvery water has reached on time from Mettur to facilitate kuruvai. On Wednesday, Municipal Administration Minister K N Nehru and School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh opened the gates of the Grand Anaicut (Kalanai) at a simple ceremony. The Mettur dam was opened on June 12, keeping in mind the arrival of the southwest monsoon in Karnataka, by Chief Minister M K Stalin. The release of water from the Mettur dam will help irrigate 5.21 lakh acres of land in Tiruchirapalli, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Pudukkottai and Cuddalore districts. To ensure that the water reaches tail-end areas, the government carried out 647 desilting work worth Rs 65.11 crore in the past few weeks. While expressing happiness at the opening of the dam, farmers hoped that water from Mettur will flow into the Cauvery delta region without any break till October for the cultivation of crops. “Since the desilting work has been carried out, we will not have any problems in water reaching the tail-end areas. Our only prayer is that the monsoon is normal and the catchment areas in Karnataka receive heavy rain,” a farmer told DH. The Cauvery Delta, which was used to a three-crop formula – samba, kuruvai and thaladi – had come down to just one crop a year. Till about a decade ago, cultivation would take place in three seasons – kuruvai (short-term crop) from June to September, samba (long-term crop) from August to January and thaladi from January to May – keeping the farmer busy for the whole year. While the first two seasons primarily cultivated paddy, farmers utilised the third season to cultivate pulses for centuries together with the progressive farming community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/water-released-from-mettur-dam-reaches-cauvery-delta-region-998149.html
16-06-2021||South||Founder of Tamil Nadu school arrested under POCSO||Hours after a renowned school’s founder and self-proclaimed spiritual leader Siva Shankar Baba was arrested under POCSO Act, the Chengalpattu District Child Welfare Committee on Wednesday recommended that the government cancel the institution's recognition and take it over. Siva Shankar Baba, who owns a popular residential school in Kelambakkam on the outskirts of Chennai, was arrested from the National Capital Region (NCR) for sexually harassing students of the institution. A special team from the CB-CID wing of Tamil Nadu police recorded the arrest and is on the way to Chennai to produce Baba before a court. The police had earlier this week booked Baba under the POCSO Act and other sections of the IPC following complaints from several former students who accused him of sexual assault and harassment. The students had alleged that Baba forced them to dance with him during cultural events, and accused teachers of shielding him. The special team went to Dehradun in Uttarakhand acting on an input that Baba was admitted to a private hospital. However, he is understood to have escaped from there and was hiding in the National Capital Region from where he was taken into custody. The District Child Welfare Committee, in its letter to School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, asked him to ensure that alternate arrangements are made to provide admission to students who leave from the said school, following allegations. “Since the school’s founder, Siva Shankar Baba acted against the interests of girl students who have accused him of sexual harassment, we recommend that the School Education Department cancel the school’s recognition. We also call upon the department to take over the school and run it,” the DCWC said in its letter. The recommendation by the government body assumes significance as it comes close on the heels of girl students of various schools in Tamil Nadu accusing their teachers and school management of sexually harassing them. Teachers of two prominent schools in the state are already in prison after being booked under the POCSO Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/founder-of-tamil-nadu-school-arrested-under-pocso-998169.html
16-06-2021||South||Now, English-medium teaching in Andhra Pradesh's degree colleges||The Jaganmohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh has now decided to switch to English-medium instruction in all degree colleges, beginning from the 2021-22 academic year. The move would leave native Telugu as one of the languages taught for the students. CM Reddy's decision, two years ago, to make English-medium teaching compulsory in all schools from 2020-21 was opposed by various political parties and the matter had reached the Supreme Court. Unperturbed, the YSRCP administration has announced that English-medium teaching would be made compulsory in all the undergraduate (UG) courses, across all the government, private-aided and unaided degree colleges from the approaching academic year. On Monday, the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education asked all private colleges to submit proposals for conversion of all existing Telugu-medium sections into English, with the exception of languages under Part-II. “Applications for the new unaided 4-year UG Honours programmes would be accepted for English medium only from 2021-22,” said Prof Sudheer Prem Kumar, secretary, APSCHE in the letter. The transition at the UG level is to strengthen students' further education and job prospects in a globalizing world, officials said. “According to the India Skills Report 2019, English figured among the top three skills, along with learning agility and adaptability, that employers look for,” said a senior official of the department of higher education, adding that a majority of students already prefer the English medium. Out of the 2.62 lakh students who took admission into degree colleges across the state in 2020-21, only 65,981 students opted for Telugu medium. “Out of these 65,981 Telugu-medium students, 24,007, 16,925 and 24,960 have enrolled in BA, BCom and BSc courses respectively. They would also benefit immensely from the transition. By studying core subjects in English, the inherent inhibition wanes away, allowing a fluency to develop,” the higher education officials assert. Officials say students opting for higher education would be major gainers. “Transition from Telugu medium in intermediate (+2) to English medium in degree would be easier, compared to such transition in post-graduation. Also, as the 4th-year UG curriculum is research-oriented, it would be difficult to pursue quality work in PhD, if the UG was in Telugu medium.” Lecturers in the government colleges, though apprehensive about the change, particularly in the initial years, are nevertheless welcoming the move. “An enabling environment should be created in the colleges to allow the students, especially those from rural backgrounds, to adapt slowly and comfortably to the massive change,” Shankar Rao, a lecturer in a state-run degree college in Prakasam district, told DH. Officials said they have devised such a strategy already. To facilitate smooth transition, the department is developing spoken English courses at various levels. “We have introduced courses for personality development, leadership, human values and professional ethics. Every student is required to select at least one such life skill course in the first two semesters and two in the third.” Further listing English-medium teaching benefits as advocated by Reddy, officials quoted a 2016 report of the Cambridge University - ‘Findings of English at Work: Global analysis of language skills in workplace’, pointing out that for 90% of employers, English language skills are important. “Even in the public sector recruitment through the UPSC, APPSC, SSC, BSRB etc., English proficiency is tested.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/now-english-medium-teaching-in-andhra-pradeshs-degree-colleges-998176.html
16-06-2021||South||Court orders probe against Kerala BJP president on funding allegation||A court in Kerala's Wayanad ordered police to probe into the allegation that BJP Kerala president K Surendran gave funds to tribal leader C K Janu for contesting the recent Assembly elections. Janu, who is the founder leader of Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party (JRP), had contested unsuccessfully as an NDA candidate at Sulthan Batherry in Wayanad in this election. JRP state treasurer Praseetha Azhikode recently alleged that Janu demanded money from Surendran for contesting the polls. Alleged audio conversations of Surendran in this regard had also surfaced. Muslim Students Federation state president P K Navas approached the court seeking a probe into the allegation, based on which the court ordered the probe. Earlier, another case was earlier registered against Surendran in connection with an allegation that BSP candidate at Manjeshwar in Kasargod in the recent Assembly election, K Sundara, was bribed to withdraw nomination. Surendran contested from Manjeshwar and lost to IUML candidate A K M Ashraf by 745 votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/court-orders-probe-against-kerala-bjp-president-on-funding-allegation-998181.html
16-06-2021||South||NRI builds Bahrain-inspired 'steel house' in Kerala||An NRI's house at Mallappally in Kerala's Pathanamthitta district is drawing much attention owing to its unique design -- a combination of a plane, train and ship. T T Thomas, who has been in the steel fabrication business in Bahrain, has constructed the house using steel.  Thomas told DH that the concept of a house in the shape of a plane, train and ship was in his mind for quite some time as he used to travel widely in these modes of transport. As his entire earnings are from Bahrain over the last three decades, as a mark of respect and love for that country he used the Bahrain flag's design also for painting the house. Though steel structures have emerged as a cost-effective alternative in many parts of the world and he has been successfully running the steel business, it is yet to gain much popularity for house construction. Hence, Thomas decided to construct the house with steel itself. Concrete was used only for the minimum basement of the elevated structure, he said. The 2,200 square feet house has three bedrooms and all other common facilities. Solar power, sliding doors and sandwich panelling are other features of the house that is in the final stages of construction. It took about six months for the construction as there was a delay owing to lockdown. Building materials were procured from Pune and Coimbatore, Thomas said. He had brought in a steel fabricator of his unit in Bahrain to lead the construction with the assistance of local employees. There are many youngsters who are quite skilled in steelwork. But they need to be imparted proper skills and guidance in steel structure building, said Thomas. Thomas plans to spend his retired life with his family comprising his wife and two sons in the house.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nri-builds-bahrain-inspired-steel-house-in-kerala-998199.html
16-06-2021||South||M K Stalin rolls out scheme to help children who lost parents to Covid-19||Rolling out a welfare scheme to help fulfill the future needs of children who lost both their parents to Covid-19, Chief Minister M K Stalin on Wednesday handed over certificates of Rs 5 lakh fixed deposit in favour of each of five such children. The deposits made in the state-run Tamil Nadu Power Finance and Infrastructure Development Corporation was given by the Chief Minister to their guardians at the Secretariat. Also, Stalin gave away cheques for Rs 3 lakh to each of five other children who had lost one of their parents to the virus. Top government officials, led by Chief Secretary V Iraianbu participated. Days ago, the Chief Minister had announced various welfare measures for children who had lost both their parents or one of their parents due to Covid-19. Such measures include, besides the Rs 5 lakh and Rs 3 lakh assistance components, preference in admission in government homes and hostels for children who had lost both the parents. All expenditure including educational and hostel fees would be borne by the government up to graduation level for children who had lost both the parents. A child who had lost both the parents and living with his or her relative or guardian and without being admitted in any registered child care institutions or government hostels would be given a maintenance grant of Rs 3,000 per month till the child completed 18 years of age, the government had said. In all government schemes, priority would be given to all these children, and men or women who had lost their spouses due to Covid-19 and living with their children. The deposit of Rs 5 lakh would be in the name of the child who had lost both the parents and the deposited amount would be paid with accrued interest when he or she completes 18 years of age.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/m-k-stalin-rolls-out-scheme-to-help-children-who-lost-parents-to-covid-19-998238.html
16-06-2021||State||Curb police going to media on probes: Karnataka HC||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday directed the state government to come out with comprehensive directions/guidelines restraining police from going to the media with details of the cases under investigation. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka said the purpose of the guidelines will be served only if disciplinary action is initiated against the officials who violate the guidelines. The court was hearing a PIL filed by H Nagabhushan Rao, a Bengaluru-based advocate. The court observed that police officials are seen claiming before the media how they have a 100 per cent case against the accused. They also give details about the accused's confessions. The court said police going to the media or disclosing the identity of the accused and disclosing material collected during the investigation affects the rights of the accused in bail matters and during the trial. The bench granted time till July 20 for the state to frame guidelines. The government advocate said police do not disclose information about cases under investigation. He said circulars have been issued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/curb-police-going-to-media-on-probes-karnataka-hc-997920.html
16-06-2021||State||2 arrested for black marketing Mucormycosis medicine||Belagavi police on Wednesday arrested two accused for black marketing medicine of Mucormycosis, or black fungus, at prices about ten times higher than the actual, near a private hospital. Medicine, cell phones, and two vehicles worth Rs 50,000 were recovered from their possession. Police said, the accused, identified as Tayyab Nayum Maniyar resident of Gandhi Circle in Mudhol in Bagalkot district and Muzaffar Arif Pathan resident of Gadadannavar Circle in Mudhol in Bagalkot, had been selling Amphodex-Lyophilized injection vials worth Rs 310 each for Rs 3000 each.  Based on a tipoff, CEN Police in association with officials from Drugs Control Department conducted a raid near a private hospital and nabbed both accused with 28 vials of the injection, each containing 50 mg medicine manufactured by a company from Himachal Pradesh in their possession. Both accused were later arrested. CEN Police are investigating the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/2-arrested-for-black-marketing-mucormycosis-medicine-998244.html
16-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||3 COEs to use Israeli tech in horticulture opened in Karnataka||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Union Minister for Agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday inaugurated three centres of excellence (COEs) in the State to take forward Israeli technologies in the field of horticulture under the Indo-Israel Agricultural Project (IIAP). The COEs are coming up at Kolar for mango, Bagalkote for pomegranate and Dharwad for vegetables, an official statement said. The COE is an advanced and intensive agricultural farm that generates knowledge, demonstrates best practices and trains farmers based on Israeli novel agro-technology tailored to local conditions, the statement read. The CoEs would help farmers choose and adopt the technology that suits them best, with the goal of doubling their income, it added. Speaking on the occasion, Yediyurappa said there was lot of scope for adoption of new technologies in crop production and post-harvest management to increase the production and productivity of the horticulture produce. In his address, Tomar said the centres have the capacity of 50,000 grafts production and 25 lakh vegetables seedlings production annually. He added that about 20,000 farmers have visited the COEs to gain knowledge about the modern cultivation practices in horticulture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/3-coes-to-use-israeli-tech-in-horticulture-opened-in-karnataka-998078.html
16-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No dearth of seeds, fertilisers for Kharif crop: B C Patil||Karnataka's Minister for Agriculture B C Patil on Wednesday said that there was no dearth of seeds or fertilisers for the Kharif season. Patil, who travelled to 14 districts to review the condition of agriculture, told reporters in Mysuru that he would discuss the issues in the district with the officials concerned. Patil also said that the government has announced support prices for 14 variety of crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-dearth-of-seeds-fertilisers-for-kharif-crop-b-c-patil-998089.html
16-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress alleges Covid-19 deaths suppressed in Karnataka||The Karnataka unit of the Congress on Wednesday alleged that the BJP government in the State has suppressed the number of Covid deaths. The party said the government, instead of giving Rs 4 lakh as mandated under the National Disaster Management Act, has decided to pay only Rs 1 lakh to below poverty line families which lost its earning member to Covid. Addressing reporters, the Congress party's Maharashtra in- charge and former minister H K Patil said till June 14, 33,033 people had died of Covid as per the government's account. "But, between January 1, 2021 to June 13, 2021, 3,27,985 deaths have taken place, according to state government's records. The point here is there is a gap between 33,033 and 3.28 lakh. Have so many natural deaths taken place in the State? This seems unlikely," Patil said. Alleging that the government did not make public the report of deaths in 2020, he said the 2018-19 figures show that between January and June, 88,000 deaths had occurred. Even after extrapolation, at most one lakh or 1.10 lakh deaths should have taken place in 2021 but 3.28 lakh deaths is beyond imagination, Patil charged. "If we deduct the 1.10 lakh deaths, the total deaths will be 2.18 lakh, which is an increased figure. It means two lakh to 2.5 lakh deaths have been suppressed, which is inhumane," the veteran Congress leader alleged. He further alleged that the government stopped publishing the monthly death report and medically certified cause of death report of 2019-20 and 2020-21. Speaking about the compensation, Patil said under the Section 12(3) of NDM Act mandated an ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh on account of loss of life, damage to houses and for restoration of means of livelihood. "Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had recently announced a relief amount of Rs 1 lakh but why was it reduced from Rs 4 lakh to a mere Rs 1 lakh? You are liable to give this compensation or relief of Rs 4 lakh, which is mandatory under the NDM Act," Patil said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-alleges-covid-19-deaths-suppressed-in-karnataka-998180.html
16-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 7,345 new Covid-19 cases, 148 deaths||Karnataka has reported 7,345 new cases of Covid-19 and 148 fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 27,84,355 and the deaths to 33,296, the Health Department said on Wednesday. The day also saw 17,913 people getting discharged and the tally continued to outnumber the fresh cases. The total number of recoveries so far is 25,99,472. Out of the 7,345 new cases, 1,611 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 5,526 getting discharged and 19 deaths. The total number of active cases in the state is 1,51,566.  While the positivity rate for the day stood at 4.35 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was at 2.01 per cent. Out of 148 deaths, 28 were from Mysuru, 19 from Bengaluru Urban, 14 from Belagavi, 10 from Dakshina Kannada and nine from Dharwad followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 1,611, Mysuru 841, Dakshina Kannada 790 and Hassan 531 followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases with a total of 12,00,754 cases followed by Mysuru 1,59,797 and Tumakuru 1,12,917. Among those discharged, Bengaluru Urban topped with 11,06,138 followed by Mysuru 1,48,306 and Tumakuru 1,06,013. Cumulatively, a total of 3,20,92,313 samples have been tested in the State so far, out of which 1,68,712 were tested today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-7345-new-covid-19-cases-148-deaths-998194.html
16-06-2021||West||How India's most crowded city beat the odds, and the virus||When Covid-19 arrived in India, few places looked as vulnerable as Mumbai. But a year on, South Asia's most crowded city has surprised many by tackling a vicious second wave with considerable success. Gaurav Awasthi even travelled hundreds of kilometres from his home on the outskirts of Delhi to get his ailing wife a hospital bed there, paying an ambulance more than a thousand dollars to drive 24 hours straight. "I cannot ever repay my debt to this city," the 29-year-old told AFP, recounting an ordeal that saw him spend five days fruitlessly searching for a bed across several cities, including Delhi. "I don't know if my wife would be alive today if it weren't for Mumbai's health facilities." The bodies began turning up early in India's financial capital during the first wave of infections last year -- a man collapsing on a busy road, a rickshaw driver slumped over the wheel, a corpse lying in the street -- in a grim echo of the 1918 flu pandemic. By May 2020, Abhignya Patra was working 18-hour days at the massive Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital, better known as Sion. "It was non-stop," the 27-year-old anaesthesiologist told AFP. Patients' relatives described distressing scenes inside packed wards, with one man telling AFP he had to change his sick mother's diapers himself because staff were too overworked. A video shot inside Sion and widely shared on social media showed corpses wrapped in black plastic left on beds in a ward where patients were being treated. Every night, the city helpline fielded thousands of calls from desperate citizens, many with no chance of getting admitted to a publicly-funded hospital: Mumbai had just 80 ambulances and 425 intensive care units for a population of 20 million. Something had to change fast, said Iqbal Chahal, a no-nonsense bureaucrat who took over as Mumbai's municipal commissioner last May. New field hospitals added thousands of beds, private facilities handed over their Covid-19 wards to the government and 800 vehicles were turned into ambulances. But these efforts could not combat the swift rise in infections. "We needed to chase the virus," Chahal told AFP. A proactive approach focused on 55 slums including India's largest, Dharavi, where a strict lockdown was accompanied by aggressive sanitisation of public toilets, mass coronavirus screening and a huge volunteer effort to ensure that nobody went hungry. All positive test reports in Mumbai were routed through "war rooms" manned by doctors who would triage cases and decide where to send the patient, irrespective of "whether he is a minister, a big shot or a slum dweller", Chahal said. As 2020 wore on, it looked like India might have miraculously beaten the pandemic and lockdown restrictions were eased. But in Mumbai, authorities didn't dismantle a single bed in the now-deserted field hospitals. This meant that when cases surged in March, the metropolis was much better prepared than many other cities, where the health care system came close to collapse. In the capital Delhi and elsewhere, patients died outside hospitals and crematoriums were overwhelmed. But not in Mumbai. Despite having a much higher population density than many other cities, Mumbai has seen significantly lower mortality rates. The city still suffered close calls, Chahal said, recalling one night in April when six hospitals faced dire oxygen shortages, putting 168 patients at serious risk unless they were shifted to other facilities. Everyone survived. "We always expected a second wave," Chahal said. Patra recalls getting calls from colleagues in Delhi desperately searching for medical equipment. "As doctors, there is very little we can do in the absence of infrastructure," she said. Ruben Mascarenhas, co-founder of Mumbai-based non-profit Khaana Chahiye, said he would get dozens of messages every morning from people begging for oxygen and drugs -- but as the pandemic wore on, the requests mostly came from outside the city. He was, he says, "pleasantly surprised", but is "very cautious about celebrating yet." He is not the only one. An experienced marathon-runner, Chahal is already preparing for a third wave -- expected to hit children hard -- by stockpiling oxygen, building paediatric field hospitals and expanding capacity at public hospitals. "This has been a wake-up call for us," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/how-indias-most-crowded-city-beat-the-odds-and-the-virus-997973.html
16-06-2021||West||New phase of protests for Maratha reservation starts||The vexed Maratha reservation entered a new phase on Wednesday with descendants of legendary Maratha warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and social reformer Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj leading the charge and joining hands with politicians and commoners to demand quota for the community. The epicentre of the agitation was the historic town of Kolhapur, where the Maratha community held a silent 'morcha'. On its part, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government assured that it was doing everything to ensure reservations to the community even as the opposition BJP stepped up the demand. The silent 'morcha' comes days after Thackeray led an MVA delegation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and descendants of the legendary Maratha warriors -- Chhatrapati Udayanraje Bhosale of Satara and Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje Bhosale of Kolhapur -- met in Pune. In Kolhapur, Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati and his wife Sanyogeetaraje, along with other members of the royal family, sat in protest at the Shahu Smarak. The demand for reservation to the Maratha community is not new – and in the past decade, it has intensified. Over the last few years, the demand for reservation for Marathas had intensified by bodies like Sakal Maratha Samaj and Maratha Kranti Morcha and more than 50 peaceful marches were held between 2016 and 2017. However, in 2018, there have been incidents of youths ending their lives. In the run-up to the 2014 Vidhan Sabha polls, the erstwhile Congress-NCP Democratic Front government led by Prithviraj Chavan, based on recommendations of a committee headed by Konkan strongman Narayan Rane, provided for 16 per cent reservation to Marathas. However, it was struck down by the Bombay High Court and the Supreme Court had upheld the ruling. However, when the Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP-Shiv Sena government came to power, it constituted the State Backward Class Commission in June 2017 to study the social, financial and educational status of the Maratha community. The commission submitted its report in November 2018. In the same month, Maharashtra legislature unanimously passed a bill proposing 16 per cent reservation in education and government jobs for Marathas. Last month, the Supreme Court struck down the 2018 Maharashtra law granting reservations to Marathas in admissions to colleges and government jobs, terming it as "unconstitutional", and held there were no exceptional circumstances to breach the 50 per cent reservation cap set by the 1992 Mandal Commission verdict. For the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government, ensuring reservation to the politically dominant community is a major political and social issue and much depends on the Centre. The Marathas account for nearly 33 per cent of the total 12 crore population of Maharashtra. Of the total 52 per cent reservation in the state, SCs and STs account for 13 and seven per cent respectively, OBCs get 19 per cent, VJNT, Special Backward Class and Nomadic Tribes account for 13 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/new-phase-of-protests-for-maratha-reservation-starts-998015.html
16-06-2021||West||Dog undergoes laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy weight-loss surgery in Pune||In a first in India, a dog has undergone a successful laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy weight-loss surgery in Pune, opening up new avenues for such treatment in animals who are facing weight-related issues. The 8-and-half-year-old female cross-breed Indie, Deepika was 50 kgs before she went under the knife. In a matter of a little over a week, Deepika lost 5 kgs and is now able to walk. The surgery team was led by Dr. Shashank Shah, leading laparoscopic bariatric surgeon, LaparoObeso Centre, Pune, and Dr. Narendra Pardeshi, veterinary surgeon and founder of Small Animal Clinic, Pune. “It is heartening that Deepika can walk again,” said Yasim Daruwala, the parent of the pet. "She was 5-6 years old when she lost interest in all activities, she would just sit on the couch being lazy, salivating, panting severely for breath. Her food intake and medication increased and we would end up spending 10,000 per month. We were worried and consulted various medicos but nothing seemed to work. While browsing on the internet, I came across Pardeshi. He decided to go for laparoscopic sleeve gastronomy surgery so consulted Dr Shah, and found that much-needed respite as I found a solution for my dog’s misery,” said Daruwala.  “Like humans, obesity is a silent killer in animals too. There are many obese pets in the country that need to undergo surgery. They can become obese owing to the lack of exercise and excessive food intake. Labradors, pugs, golden retrievers, boxers, St. Bernards are more predisposed breeds along with Indian dogs who are fed more carbohydrate-rich diet. The same was the situation in the case of this dog,” said Dr Shah. Like humans, this dog had a history of obesity, high blood pressure, dilated cardiomyopathy (enlarged heart), thyroid problem (hypothyroidism), higher Body Mass Index (BMI), panting, salivation (watery discharge) from the mouth, joint problems and bluish tongue (cyanosis)," said Dr Shashank Shah, leading laparoscopic bariatric surgeon, Laparo Obeso Centre, Pune. “The normal lifespan of dogs is 12 -15 years and it tends to reduce by six years if they are obese, and fail to seek timely treatment,” said Dr Pardeshi. “This dog underwent various medical tests like humans to check for the fat percentage by measuring the ratio of the stomach and hind legs. Based on this ratio, the diet and medication of the dog were decided. Various attempts were made to reduce his weight by prescribing her dog foods like obesity, heart and joint problems, exercise, and thyroid medication. But that did not create any impact on the dog. The pet owner was determined to make her pet battle the bulge, and insisted on weight loss surgery.” The cost of the surgery was around Rs 1.20 lakh and the family has raised Rs 1.40 lakh by way of loans for the surgery and subsequent treatment course. Dr Shah and Dr Pardeshi are planning to start a training center for veterinary laparoscopy, endoscopy, bariatric surgery, laparoscopic hernia surgery, and laparoscopic thoracic surgery in future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dog-undergoes-laparoscopic-sleeve-gastrectomy-weight-loss-surgery-in-pune-998079.html
16-06-2021||West||Fake Covid-19 vaccination drive conducted in Mumbai||In an unusual incident, a fake Covid-19 vaccination drive was conducted in a housing society complex at Kandivli in the far western suburbs of Mumbai. The incident was reported from Hiranandani Heritage at Kandivli West locality. The management committee of the building had arranged a vaccination drive for its residents and their in-house staff, including the security guards, drivers and domestic help, on May 30. The society has 435 flats, comprising three residential towers, where around 390 residents were vaccinated during the drive. The residents said that a facilitator, Rajesh Pandey, who claimed to be a sales representative from Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital, negotiated with them for providing 400 vaccine doses on their society premises. The doses cost Rs 1,260 each and around Rs 5 lakh was paid to the facilitator. However, after the vaccination was done, the certificates were not generated – and a facilitator Sanjay Gupta told them that it would take a few days. Incidentally, none of them reported any side effects – and this triggered the alarm. Only after June 8, they began to receive certificates on their phones and generated from various hospitals like NESCO, Lifeline and Nanavati.   The CoWin portal also did not show any record. Besides, the dates on the certificates were different and not May 30. After the residents realised that they had been duped, the Hiranandani Heritage Residents Welfare Association filed a complaint with the Kandivli police station. Meanwhile, the Kokilaben Hospital denied that it had conducted any drive. “We urge everyone to be extra careful and do not fall for misleading vaccination drives conducted in the name of Kokilaben Hospital by unauthorised personnel. Your safety and health are of utmost importance to us,” he said, adding that people must verify the authenticity of such drives in workplaces and residential complexes. “Such things are an offshoot of a policy to allow Covid-19 vaccination in societies, temples, mosques, banquet halls, but not in clinics,” said Dr Ishwar Gilada, Secretary-General, Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG). Charkop MLA and Mumbai BJP vice president Yogesh Sagar said that he has already spoken to senior police officials. “I will be there for any assistance that is needed,” he said.  The Maharashtra government and BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation has taken note of the incident as the Mumbai Police investigate the case. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fake-covid-19-vaccination-drive-conducted-in-mumbai-998151.html
16-06-2021||West||Sena, BJP workers come to blows over Ayodhya land issue||Clashes broke out between Shiv Sena and BJP workers in the Dadar area of Mumbai on Wednesday after a youth wing of the BJP took out a protest march against `offensive' remarks in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana about the land deal controversy in Ayodhya. The police used force to disperse the supporters of the two parties which were once allies. The trouble started after the Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha took out a protest march towards Shiv Sena Bhavan in Dadar, the Sena's headquarters, over a Saamana editorial which demanded a probe of a "suspicious" land purchase deal by the Ram Mandir trust in Ayodhya. The trust has denied the allegations. Following the fisticuffs, police took several persons in custody. An FIR was being registered, said an officer of Mahim police station. BJP leaders Ashish Shelar, Mangal Prabhat Lodha, Pravin Darekar and others reached the police station and demanded action against Shiv Sena activists. Shelar, an MLA and former Maharashtra minister, warned of strong retaliation in future. “I warn Shiv Sena workers of retaliation if they again attacked our workers," he said, alleging that Sena workers also attacked a woman supporter of the BJP in the presence of police.  “The Sena was once proud of the demolition of the Babri mosque, but now for political reasons it is defaming Lord Ram. Sonia or Vadra (Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra) have now become the Sena's deities," he said, in a swipe at the Sena's alliance with the Congress in Maharashtra. Sena MLA Sada Sarvankar said, "We were first told that BJP workers were coming to protest, later we learnt that they are coming to vandalise the Sena Bhavan. So we stopped them before they could reach near it." Akshada Tendulkar, a BJP supporter, alleged that when she was returning to her vehicle after the protest, she was suddenly attacked by Sena workers and "police did nothing to stop them". The Shiv Sena and BJP broke off their decades-old alliance after the 2019 Assembly elections in Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sena-bjp-workers-come-to-blows-over-ayodhya-land-issue-998211.html
16-06-2021||West||NCB arrests 'Crypto King' of drug peddlers in Mumbai||In a major swoop, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has arrested a drug peddler Makarand Pardeep Adivirkar, who is known as "Crypto King" in the circle. The operation was led by NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede. It may be recalled, a team of NCB Mumbai seized 20 LSD blots, a psychotropic substance that constitutes a commercial quantity, from Kharodi Village at Marve Road in Malad suburbs. The seized psychotropic substance was purchased from Europe by using Bitcoin, a cryptocurrency, by a drug peddler from Mumbai. On Wednesday, the NCB arrested Adivirkar, known as "Crypto King" in Mumbai for providing the Bitcoin to effect the purchase of LSD, a psychotropic substance in November 2020 from abroad.   The seized drug was purchased from Darknet Web by using Bitcoin. "The accused was found to be providing the Bitcoin to drugs purchaser in various parts of Mumbai. His modus operandi is that he was receiving the cash and providing Bitcoin on marginal profit by using his wallet that was used for the purchase of drugs from the Darknet web. His activity, unfortunately, supported the drug peddler, which is extremely dangerous for our society," Wankhede said. In the present scenario, the sellers of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances in some countries are using Bitcoin for illicit trafficking of drugs worldwide especially LSD, ecstasy/MDMA, heroin, hydroponic weeds, buds.  A cryptocurrency is a digital or virtual currency that is secured by cryptography, which makes it nearly impossible to counterfeit. "It is a decentralised digital currency, without a central bank or single administrator, that can be sent from user to user on the peer-to-peer Bitcoin network without the need for intermediaries," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-arrests-crypto-king-of-drug-peddlers-in-mumbai-998236.html
16-06-2021||West||GI-certified Jalgaon bananas exported to Dubai||In a major boost to exports of Geographical Indications (GI) certified agricultural produce, a consignment of fibre and mineral-rich Jalgaon banana has been exported to Dubai. The twenty-two metric tonnes of GI-certified Jalgaon banana were sourced from progressive farmers of Tandalwadi village, part of Jalgaon district of Maharashtra, a banana cluster identified under the Agri Export Policy. In 2016, Jalgaon Banana got GI certification, which was registered with Nisargraja Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) Jalgaon. India’s banana export has been rising sharply because of the adoption of farm practices as per global standards. India’s banana exports grew both in terms of volume as well as value from 1.34 lakh metric tonnes valued at Rs 413 crore in 2018-19 to 1.95 lakh metric tonnes valued at Rs 660 crore in 2019-20. During 2020-21 (April-February), India exported 1.91 lakh metric tonnes of bananas valued at Rs 619 crore. India is the world's leading producer of bananas with a share of around 25 per cent in total output. Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and Madhya Pradesh contribute more than 70 per cent of the country's banana production. APEDA promotes exports of agricultural and processed food products by providing assistance to the exporters under various components of its scheme such as Infrastructure Development, Quality Development and Market Development. In addition, APEDA also conducts international buyer-seller meets, virtual trade fairs with importing countries to promote agricultural and processed food products. Apart from this, the Department of Commerce also supports exports through various schemes like Trade Infrastructure for Export Scheme, Market Access Initiative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gi-certified-jalgaon-bananas-exported-to-dubai-998241.html
16-06-2021||West||US Department of Agriculture, Maharashtra sign MoU||The United States government, through its Department of Agriculture-Foreign Agricultural Service, and the Maharashtra government’s agriculture department signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) that will ensure better food security in the western state. It will also enable Maharashtra’s farmers access to cutting-edge data from anywhere in the state.   US Consul General David J Ranz and Maharashtra’s Agriculture Secretary Eknath Davle signed a joint statement at Mantralaya, the state secretariat in Mumbai, expressing their support for the MoU. The statement was signed in the presence of Agriculture Minister Dadaji Bhuse. The MoU will provide a framework for technical cooperation between the USDA and Maharashtra agriculture department in the development of robust agricultural market information systems, along with potential collaboration in other areas. Ranz said, “This MoU represents the most ambitious bilateral capacity-building effort between the USDA and an Indian government entity to date.  Maharashtra is an agricultural powerhouse, as is the United States, and we play an important role ensuring global food security, as well as meeting growing demand for fiber and fuel.  This MOU demonstrates our commitment to enhancing farmer welfare and making our agricultural production systems more efficient and sustainable through the sharing of best practices and skills.” The USDA will aid Maharashtra’s efforts to support farmers by enhancing agricultural value chains, facilitating agri-business investment and developing resilient agricultural production systems through its Hon. Balasaheb Thackeray Agribusiness and Rural Transformation (SMART) Project, supported by the World Bank.   Maharashtra Chief Minister UddhavThackeray is taking many initiatives for welfare of farmers in the state, Bhuse said. The initiative ‘Vikel te Pikel’ (produce that can be sold) is being implemented for an assured market for the farmers' produce.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/us-department-of-agriculture-maharashtra-sign-mou-998243.html
