17-06-2021||First Edit||Activists released: An indictment of Delhi Police, its masters||The Delhi High Court’s orders granting bail to Iqbal Tanha, a Jamia Milia student, and Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, JNU students and activists of Pinjra Tod, which is a protest group, and the observations the court made are an indictment of Delhi Police and the political establishment from where it takes its orders. They should also serve as guidelines for all governments and the police forces that violate citizens’ rights and arrest critics, dissenters and protesters on the flimsiest grounds and charge them under draconian laws. All three activists have been in jail for over a year and face charges under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) in connection with the 2020 February riots in north-east Delhi and the anti-CAA protests. The court, in its orders, has again underlined some fundamental principles of a constitutional democracy that are increasingly being violated by governments. The court found that there was no reason to deny bail to the three because it could not be apprehended that they would tamper with evidence or flee the country. But more importantly, the court said that the charges were themselves prima facie weak and unsustainable. This is a welcome rights-focussed interpretation of the UAPA’s stringent bail provision and may benefit many others charged under the law. There could not have been a stronger indictment of the government and police than when the court said that “…it seems that in its anxiety to suppress dissent, in the mind of the State, the line between the constitutionally guaranteed right to protest and terrorist activity seems to be getting somewhat blurred.” It also said that there is a “complete lack of any specific, particularised, factual allegations” and that “mere use of alarming and hyperbolic verbiage in the charge-sheet will not convince us otherwise.” The court rightly cautioned that “foisting extremely grave and serious penal provisions…frivolously upon people would undermine the intent and purpose of Parliament in enacting a law.” There are several judgements of the Supreme Court and High Courts that affirm these principles and tell the police not to rob citizens of their basic rights. These are directed at the political establishments also as the police act on their cue. But such arrests continue, and protesters and activists continue to be dubbed traitors and anti-nationals. The latest case is that of Lakshadweep’s Aisha Sultana, who faces sedition charges for criticising the Administrator of the Union Territory. The distinctions between protests and terrorism and security of the State and public order are important. As the court pointed out, the State has blurred such distinctions, and if such blurring gains traction, democracy will be in peril. It is not the protests but the use of the sledgehammer against them that will harm the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/activists-released-an-indictment-of-delhi-police-its-masters-998649.html
17-06-2021||In Perspective||The Ganga is returning the dead. It does not lie||By Om Gaur The Ganges, or Ganga, is the holiest of India’s rivers, and most Hindus believe that dipping their body in it will purify their soul. But when the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic hit, the river also became an exhibit for the Modi administration’s failures and deceptions. The northern state of Bihar recently revised its death toll for April and May from 5,424 to 9,375. Private agencies tasked with conducting Covid-19 tests at Kumbh Mela, a Hindu religious festival in northern India that attracted millions of pilgrims in April — and that turned out to be a coronavirus superspreader event — reportedly falsified some 1,00,000 results. The second wave of infections now appears to be ebbing, but the country is struggling to process the staggering toll — nearly 3,80,000 dead, the vast majority since just March — hobbled by the continuing obfuscation of both local and central authorities. Only, the holy Ganga does not lie. On May 12, villagers in Buxar, a district in Bihar, found bloated and disfigured corpses floating in the river. Some 100 bodies were fished out there and in another district upstream, Ghazipur. A local senior police officer said the bodies had travelled downriver, from Uttar Pradesh. I am the national editor of Dainik Bhaskar, a Hindi-language newspaper that sells about five and a half million copies a day across India, mostly to readers in small towns and villages. To get a clearer sense of the devastation caused by the pandemic among them, we sent 30 reporters and photojournalists to walk the banks of the Ganga in major cities and districts in Uttar Pradesh. Our reporters counted 2,000 bodies on May 12 and 13 alone as they travelled 700 miles along the river. The bodies weren’t only floating in it: On some days, 65 or 70 were washing up on its shores. Yet by our calculations, based on official data, the state authorities claim that just 7,826 people died from Covid-19 between April 1 and May 13. Shringverpur, a small village in southern Uttar Pradesh, is considered holy for its association with Lord Rama. Our reporters saw many bodies buried just a yard apart; hundreds of saffron shrouds wrapped around the corpses were poking up from the ground. Poor villagers who couldn’t afford to buy wood to cremate their kin had sought some solace by burying them near a sacred site. After more reporting, we estimated that between mid-April and mid-May some 4,000 corpses had been placed in shallow pits by the river along a stretch of less than one mile. We might never have heard of this tragedy but for the weather. Rains in early May swelled the Ganga, tossing up corpses to the river’s surface and onto its shores. They washed off the dirt from the banks, exposing the bodies buried there. The rains also laid bare the government’s colossal failure to strengthen rural health care or ensure adequate vaccine supplies — or take responsibility for its shortcomings. Uttar Pradesh has been governed by the BJP of Prime Minister Narendra Modi since March 2017, under Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, a Hindu monk turned politician. Adityanath’s response in April to grave shortages of oxygen, ventilators and beds in intensive-care units throughout the state, and to the images of overcrowded cemeteries and crematories, was denials and threats. He directed state officials to invoke anti-terrorism laws against, and seize property from, people he accused of spreading rumours. The Uttar Pradesh government records only deaths in hospitals. Yet many people from villages, where access to health care is limited, have been dying at home. In mid-May, a doctor in Reotipur, a village of about 70,000 in Ghazipur district — the only doctor there — told one of our reporters that about 850 people had tested positive for the coronavirus. Some villagers told him that around 200 people there had died in April. “We are poor people,” Mahendranath Upadhyay, a villager who lost three members of his family to Covid-19, told our reporter. “We barely manage to earn enough to eat. We don’t have the money for medical treatment.” Rural poverty has exacerbated the effects of the second wave of infections, but it was the Modi government’s callous disregard that triggered the latest surge. The authorities allowed the Kumbh Mela pilgrimage, one of the world’s largest religious gatherings, in the spring, as well as elections in several states, including Uttar Pradesh. And now, with just 3.per cent of Indians fully vaccinated to date, there is good reason to fear a devastating third wave. When Modi was campaigning to become prime minister in 2014, he ran for a parliamentary seat from Varanasi, a holy city on the Ganges in Uttar Pradesh. He said then, “I feel Mother Ganga has called me to Varanasi.” Today, the Ganges is calling him out. (Author is the national editor of Dainik Bhaskar, a Hindi-language newspaper. This essay was translated from Hindi by Nidhi Samar Singh)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-ganga-is-returning-the-dead-it-does-not-lie-998656.html
17-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Floating fur toy tiger creates confusion in Pandavapura||A fur toy tiger, which was found floating in the waters of Tonnuru lake in Pandavapura taluk, created confusion for a while on Wednesday with some people circulating videos and pictures of it alleging that it was the carcass of a tiger. According to sources, the toy tiger replica used during 'Hulivahanotsava' and Mahadeshwara Swamy jatra in the village was disposed of in Tonnuru lake a long time ago. As the lake has received freshwater due to the rains, the outer layer of the toy, which resembled a tiger pelt, floated in the water leading people to think that it was the carcass of a tiger. There were also rumours that a tiger had been killed and disposed of into the lake. Learning about this, the Forest Department personnel rushed to the spot only to find the outer layer of a stuffed toy tiger. Range Forest Officer Puttaswamy clarified that "it was a soft toy made of plastic and wood and not a real tiger. Cases have been filed against those who circulated false news and created anxiety".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/floating-fur-toy-tiger-creates-confusion-in-pandavapura-998632.html
17-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||It's impossible to change Karnataka CM: Ramesh Jarkiholi||Gokak BJP MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi said that it was impossible to replace B S Yediyurappa as the Karnataka Chief Minister and he would complete his remaining tenure. Jarkiholi told reporters in Gokak on Thursday that BJP would contest the coming assembly elections under leadership of Yediyurappa. "We have joined BJP by keeping belief in Yediyurappa and Union Home Minister Amit Shah," Jarkiholi said. Responding to dissatisfaction raised against Yediyurappa by few MLAs, he said, all MLAs from BJP were family. "They want Yediyurappa to talk with all of them. Opposition parties were jobless, hence have been interpreting it their own way," he said. "We will see new Yediyurappa after June 18, who will traverse across the state and work," he expressed. "Minister C P Yogeshwar is still my friend and if he has any misunderstanding, he should talk to Yediyurappa," Jarkiholi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/its-impossible-to-change-karnataka-cm-ramesh-jarkiholi-998409.html
17-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP MLAs queue up to meet Arun Singh||As many as 30 legislators met BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, who is in charge of the party’s affairs in Karnataka, on Thursday. He gathered views from across the board on the administration and disgruntlement.  Talks of Cabinet reshuffle surfaced following these meetings as several MLAs are said to have petitioned Singh to ensure “social justice” in Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s Cabinet.  After his meeting with Singh, Social Welfare Minister B Sriramulu said he was confident that the party will take “the right decision at the right time” on making him deputy chief minister. This was in response to MLA Somashekhar Reddy’s demand that Sriramulu should be made deputy CM.  Singh is learnt to have denied an appointment to disgruntled MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal. He was asked to meet Singh in Delhi, sources said.  Meanwhile, another disgruntled leader AH Vishwanath, an MLC, met Singh and demanded Yediyurappa’s ouster. Vishwanath recommended appointing someone from the Panchamasali Lingayat community as CM. Vishwanath, who is sulking that he was not made a minister, also claimed that he submitted documents of alleged corruption by Yediyurappa and his son BY Vijayendra, who is also BJP vice-president. Legislators from North Karnataka such as AS Patil Nadahalli are learnt to have urged Singh to provide representation for their region in the Cabinet.  The party’s national general secretary CT Ravi told reporters that all these issues will be discussed in the BJP core committee meeting scheduled on Friday.  Disgruntled Tourism Minister CP Yogeeshwar also met Singh. Other leaders who met Singh include ministers Kota Srinivas Poojary, Shashikala Jolle, Umesh Katti, and MLAs Muniratna, Roopali Nayak, Kumar Bangarappa, Harish Poonja and Masale Jayaram among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-mlas-queue-up-to-meet-arun-singh-998429.html
17-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Bickering in Karnataka BJP: Congress, JD(S) demand dismissal of Yediyurappa govt||With alleged bickering coming to the fore in the ruling BJP in Karnataka, the Congress and the JD(S) on Thursday demanded the dismissal of the B S Yediyurappa government, as the "lack of leadership is leading to anarchy". As the BJP national general secretary and Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh continued his consultations with his party leaders in the backdrop of speculation in some quarters over leadership change, former Chief Ministers Siddaramaiah and H D Kumaraswamy sought to take a dig at the J P Nadda-led party. "I demand that the Governor should intervene and dismiss the BJP government immediately against the backdrop of anarchy prevailing in the state due to the infighting in the BJP," Congress leader Siddaramaiah, also Leader of Opposition in the Assembly, tweeted.   He added that the 'Vidhana Soudha', the seat of power, has shifted to the BJP office and the Kumarakrupa Guest House as the ministers are not available in their offices and no one was there to address the public grievances.  Siddaramaiah said, "the government itself is in the ICU when the people are battered with Covid-19 and lockdown". The JD(S) second-in-command Kumaraswamy said, "The media reports say that the search for a leader to replace the existing one (Yediyurappa) has begun, but no suitable person is available". "What is the use of a government which does not have leadership...Dissolve it first," Kumaraswamy tweeted. He likened the 'leaderless government' to a ship without a sailor and a house without an owner, which can prove fatal. Kumaraswamy claimed that the ruling party MLAs themselves are saying that the existing leadership was not up to expectations and have been demanding his replacement. "Hence, this government is dangerous for people," Kumaraswamy said. "Why not dissolve the BJP government and stay away from power when there is no leadership?". He slammed the BJP for "lacking sensibility" for raising the issue of leadership change at a time when the state was battered by Covid-19 and people were in distress due to lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bickering-in-karnataka-bjp-congress-jds-demand-dismissal-of-yediyurappa-govt-998471.html
17-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka BJP meet opens a can of worms||BJP national general secretary Arun Singh’s attempt to hear out legislators opened a floodgate after senior MLC AH Vishwanath said he wanted Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s removal, accusing his government of corruption. Also, MLAs who are ministerial aspirants mounted pressure for a Cabinet reshuffle. In all, Singh got a glimpse of the three factions within the party - those in favour of Yediyurappa, those against him and those who seem to be neutral. At least 40 legislators, including ministers, met Singh at the BJP headquarters during the day. Singh told reporters that "only 2-3 MLAs are hurting the party and lakhs of workers with their statements" and that they were being watched.  Vishwanath, after meeting Singh, levelled serious charges against the government, demanding Yediyurappa's ouster. He said someone from the Panchamasali Lingayat community should become the CM and named Murugesh Nirani, Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and Arvind Bellad as potential candidates. "Yediyurappa is old. He doesn't have the spirit in him anymore to take everybody along," he said. Vishwanath alleged irregularities in tendering works worth Rs 20,000 crore in the Water Resources Department. The tender was floated without the finance department's nod, he claimed. "No minister is happy. In all the departments, his (Yediyurappa) son's intervention is more." Responding to this, Singh said Vishwanath is new to the BJP and not acquainted with the party's principles. Chiding Vishwanath, BJP general secretary N Ravikumar said the state unit had recommended action against him. What was startling was that Singh reportedly refused to meet Yatnal and Bellad. Also, Renukacharya is learnt to have attracted the party's wrath for his planned meeting of pro-Yediyurappa MLAs. He had to call it off. Tourism Minister CP Yogeshwar, one among the disgruntled, met Singh and declined to comment. One more deputy CM? Singh also had to deal with MLAs seeking a reshuffle of the Cabinet. Notably, Social Welfare Minister B Sriramulu expressed confidence that the party will take “the right decision at the right time” on making him deputy chief minister. Sriramulu, one of the BJP's tallest ST leaders, was projected as the deputy CM face ahead of the 2018 Assembly polls. Legislators from north Karnataka are learnt to have urged Singh to ensure "social justice" by inducting new faces into the Cabinet. BJP national general secretary CT Ravi said that all issues will come up for discussion in the party's core committee meeting scheduled for Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-bjp-meet-opens-a-can-of-worms-998560.html
17-06-2021||Main Article||Alliances have delivered, multilateral forums haven’t||In recent times, the United Nations Charter to “maintain international peace and security” and “achieve international cooperation in solving international problems”, has struggled with its objectives. Among its notable failures have been the Rwandan genocide, the UN Oil-for-Food Programme in Iraq, the Srebrenica massacre, the Russian takeover of the Crimea, the Chinese incarceration of Uighurs and, of course, once again the bloody Israeli-Palestinian violence. The history of 172 peaceful settlements negotiated by the UN is woefully backloaded. Former US President Donald Trump had called the UN “a waste of time and money,” and withdrew the US from forums like the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) and the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC), and even the World Health Organisation (WHO) in the midst of a pandemic, a course of action that has been reversed by the Joe Biden administration. The inefficacy and the systemic misuse of their ‘veto’ power by the five Permanent Members (P5) of the UN Security Council has diminished the UN’s ability to take pre-emptive measures or implement mitigative/de-escalation actions in a conflict. Yet again, the US vetoed a UNSC Resolution that was critical of Israel’s recent conduct – the standard playbook ‘veto’ favouring the Israelis was for a record 53rd time, thereby encouraging Israel’s disproportionate retaliation. The hypocrisy of the US cover afforded to Israel still does not belie the reality of Israel being the nation that faces the highest number of UN resolutions against it in the world – in just 2020, it had almost three times compared with the rest of the world (17 versus 6). Yet, Netanyahu cared two hoots for the same and routinely called the United Nations, ‘shameful’, ‘biased’, ‘house of lies’ etc., and bashed on regardless. It was the behind-the-scenes move by Egyptian leader Abdel Fatah El-Sisi, with Joe Biden’s acquiescence, that was able to stitch a ‘formula’ for truce, sought by both sides, last month. This was seemingly intractable with the ponderous framework of the UN. The same homilies-laden approach of the UN was equally ineffective in last summer’s India-China border hostilities when it urged “exercise maximum restraint”, or subsequently in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, and later in condemning the Junta takeover in Myanmar. The UN’s ‘motherhood and apple pie’ statements notwithstanding, status quo ante has not been restored in these situations and they have settled into their own dynamics of power balances. More importantly, forums like the UN are structurally susceptible to vested and unmasked ‘power play’ that brooks no morality or ethics. China had brazenly vetoed the UN move to designate Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Masood Azhar a global terrorist, four times. While the UN itself remained incapable of correcting the systemic lacunae, it was the direct and concerted diplomatic pressures from the US, UK and France that finally led to China vacating its objections. Of course, the UN designation of ‘terrorist’ has little impact on the ground. The likes of Hafiz Saeed, Zaki Ur Rahman, Masood Azhar and Dawood Ibrahim continue plying their trade with impunity in a country that repeatedly beseeches the intervention of the UN, in another country! Success in deterring modern-day conflicts or perpetuating the status quo is predicated on the security shield afforded by belonging to a strategic alliance or ‘bloc’, that commits to military intervention by fellow members. If Azerbaijan was openly supported by Turkey in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, landlocked Armenia had to settle for platitudes as support from the western powers as it wasn’t a full-fledged member of NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organisation). Similarly, the substantial bind, bite and commitment of the Taiwan Relations Act’s provision that “the United States will make available to Taiwan such defence services in such quantity as may be necessary to enable Taiwan to maintain sufficient self-defence capabilities”, ensures that China’s sabre-rattling has not translated into precipitate action so far. The Mutual Defense Treaty (United States-South Korea) provides for “mutual aid, if either faces external armed attack”, besides allowing the US to station military forces. This defence treaty, more than any other lever, has deterred threats from North Korea or China. While the still-incubating status of the Quad dialogue/alliance (US, India, Australia and Japan) has remained in the realm of symbolism and posturing, the commitment towards the aspired ‘free and open Indo-Pacific’ has led to occasional naval exercises and the sailing of aircraft carrier-led strike groups, But it is no “Asian NATO” yet. Despite India’s philosophical-moral clarification that the Indo-Pacific concept was “for something, not against somebody”, the cold reality of the need to counterbalance China remains the foremost urgency. The memory of last summer, when Donald Trump at best offered to be “ready, willing and able to mediate”, exposed the limits of plain vanilla ‘good relations’ as Indian troops fought off the Chinese challenge, against all odds and minimal external support. The American ‘aid’, in terms of military weaponry and other wherewithal, was in any case ongoing and made commercial sense. What was lacking was a formal and actionable ‘military alliance’ that is tangible enough to deter Chinese aggression, as it does for Taiwan or South Korea. Conceptually, the Quad is a workable arrangement for India’s security needs in the foreseeable future. Aspiring to get a permanent seat in the UNSC may indeed be a matter of justifiable right, but it won’t be any game-changer on the ground. Big, unwieldy multilateral forums have demonstrated extreme inability to deliver on their objectives in recent times – the 57-member Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) or the 41-member Islamic Military Counter Terrorism Coalition (IMCTC, which boasts of Palestine as a member), were conspicuous by their silence and irrelevance in the recent Israeli-Palestinian violence. Interestingly, the Riyadh-based IMCTC is led by former Pakistan army chief Gen. Raheel Sharif, who had once threatened to “wipe Israel off the map”! The Chinese hyperrealists have never bothered too much about multilateral forums, but the Quad has unsettled their calculus and irked Beijing. Herein lies the differentiated barometer of implications between gargantuan, bureaucratic and manipulatable multilateral forums versus sharper, leaner and more clearly committed ‘alliances’. (The writer is a former Lt. Governor of Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Puducherry)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/alliances-have-delivered-multilateral-forums-haven-t-998659.html
17-06-2021||National||Over 26.53 crore Covid vaccine doses administered in India, says Health Ministry||The total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has gone past 26.53 crore, including more than 4.81 crore doses administered to people in the 18-44 age group, the health ministry said on Wednesday. It said 20,67,085 beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group received the first dose and 67,447 got the second dose of the vaccine on Wednesday. Cumulatively, 4,72,06,953 people in the said age group have received the first dose and 9,68,098 have been given the second dose since the start of the third phase of the vaccination drive across the country. Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered the first dose of the vaccine to more than 10 lakh beneficiaries each in the 18-44 age group. The total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has reached 26,53,17,472, according to a provisional report complied at 8 pm on Wednesday. As on the 152nd day of the vaccination drive (June 16), a total of 32,62,233 vaccine doses were given -- 29,05,658 beneficiaries vaccinated for the first dose and 3,56,575 vaccinated for the second dose -- the ministry said. The final report for the day would be compiled by late night. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-2653-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-says-health-ministry-998252.html
17-06-2021||National||Farmer agitation no more about demands of peasantry, but how to oppose govt, BJP-JJP: Dushyant Chautala||The ongoing farmer agitation is not any more about the demands of the peasantry, but how to oppose the government and the ruling BJP-JJP alliance in Haryana, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said on Wednesday. Chautala, whose JJP is an ally of the BJP in Haryana, also said those associated with the stir were harbouring political ambitions. Chautala was replying to questions of journalists on the sidelines of an event here. He was asked to comment on Haryana BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni's remarks that the government was deliberately trying to provoke and instigate farmers and later register cases against them. Chautala said, “I can say one thing, during the past 4-5 months, where does the agitation stand on farmers' demand?...this agitation is not now about farmers' demands." "...(they demanded) that the mandis should run smoothly, we did that and mandis are running very efficiently, that the crops should be produced on MSP, we have procured every single grain of wheat on MSP...We are procuring six crops at MSP,” he said. He said farmers apprehended that people may snatch their lands. “We have not heard a single such case in the state." "This agitation is now how to oppose the government and the BJP-JJP,” said Chautala. The protesting farmers have been opposing the public functions of the BJP-JJP leaders in the state over the farm laws issue. Chautala added, “I feel the face of this agitation are not those farmer unions, but their face have become those political people who want to contest Zila Parishad or Sarpanch elections or want to float a party or extend support to any party." Chautala, who had earlier said he will resign if he is unable to secure MSP for farmers, on Wednesday said, “I also support farming, I am also a farmer. Therefore, I used to strongly say from day one MSP will not end and will continue." "There has been an increase in crop MSP (minimum support price at which government agency procures crops). Who stands to benefit from this?, it is the farmers and it is our aim to see farmers prosper,” he added. A month ago Chautala had said the intent of the 40 farmer leaders -- spearheading the stir against Centre's three new farm laws -- is not to resolve the issue, but to serve their own interests. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of various farmers' unions, is spearheading the stir against the Centre's new farm laws. Farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since November last year demanding that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops. However, the government has maintained the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmer-agitation-no-more-about-demands-of-peasantry-but-how-to-oppose-govt-bjp-jjp-dushyant-chautala-998272.html
17-06-2021||National||BJP claims its Delhi unit chief questioned by Kejriwal govt's Drug Control Department||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta was questioned for a couple of hours on Wednesday by Delhi government's Drug Control Department about party's oxygen vans launched during the second wave of Covid-19, the party said in a statement. The Kejriwal government is "misusing" court's directions for political reasons instead of trying to check black marketing of oxygen, medicines and other Covid-related items, the statement said. The Drug Control Department has sent a notice to Delhi BJP president Gupta regarding the Oxygen Van campaign it had started for the coronavirus victims. "A team of four officials of the department today visited the BJP office and questioned Delhi BJP president for about two hours," the BJP statement said. The team has given a questionnaire to Gupta, seeking his reply by 2 pm on Thursday, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-claims-its-delhi-unit-chief-questioned-by-kejriwal-govts-drug-control-department-998309.html
17-06-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Don't worry we have an orange tick'||With the government claiming that microblogging site Twitter has lost legal protection for third-party content, Uttar Pradesh Police have filed a case against the social media giant over tweets that they say "attempted to stoke communal hatred".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-dont-worry-we-have-an-orange-tick-998321.html
17-06-2021||National||India reports 67,208 new Covid-19 cases, 2,330 deaths||A single day rise of 67,208 new coronavirus infections were recorded taking India's total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,97,00,313, while the active cases declined to 8,26,740, the lowest after 71 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,81,903 with 2,330 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed The active cases declined by 38,692 to 8,26,740 cases, comprising 2.78 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 95.93 per cent.    A net decline of 38,692 cases has been recorded in the Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours.  As many as 19,31,249 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 38,52,38,220. The daily positivity rate  was recorded 3.48 per cent . It has been less than 5 per cent for 10 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 3.99 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 35th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,84,91,670, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.29 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 26,55,19,251 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on  November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. PTI PLB DV DV||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-67208-new-covid-19-cases-2330-deaths-998332.html
17-06-2021||National||Single Covishield dose 61% effective against Delta variant: Covid-19 panel head||Amid debate over the gap between two doses of the Covishield vaccine, NTAGI chief Dr N K Arora said that a single dose of the vaccine is 61 per cent effective against the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2. India had begun the Covid immunisation programme with an initial interval of 4 weeks, but by then, the UK had already increased the interval to 12 week, Dr Arora said. Six weeks later, the WHO also suggested that 6-8 weeks interval may be a good idea. The working group, however, decided to look at the real-life data coming in from the UK, Dr Arora said. Dr Arora and his team was unconvinced with the results of the UK study, but after another study conducted by the Christian Medical College at Vellore, during the peak of the Delta variant outbreak, they saw that the Covishield vaccine had 61 per cent efficacy with one dose, with 2 doses increasing it to 65 per cent, the report said. "In the short run, the protection from serious disease, hospitalisation, and death is similar whether one has received one dose or two doses of Covishield and Covaxin," Dr Arora said. Dr Arora's clarification follows a report that alleged that the duration between Covishield doses was increased without a nod from the NTAGI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/single-covishield-dose-61-effective-against-delta-variant-covid-19-panel-head-998358.html
17-06-2021||National||Railways to restore services of 50 trains as demand increases||With many states easing lockdown restrictions, the Indian Railways on Thursday announced restoration of services of 50 trains from June 21. The trains include Duronto, Shatabdi, and Rajdhani, along with long-distance mail and express trains. At present, the railways is operating around 900 Special Mail Express trains every day on average. The railways last month stopped services of some mail and express trains due to poor booking numbers. However, as restrictions are being eased across India, demand for tickets has also increased. At present, 15 lakh reserved passengers are travelling on the railways, compared to 5 lakh passengers in last month. Last week, Railway Board chairman Suneet Sharma told media that railways was in touch with states to gradually increase train services. The railways is keen to normalise the services at the earliest, Sharma said. Before the second wave, railways operated 1,500 trains daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-restore-services-of-50-trains-as-demand-increases-998378.html
17-06-2021||National||CBSE submits Class 12 assessment plan in SC, results by July 31||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Thursday told the Supreme Court that students of Class XII would be assessed based on performance in Class X (30% weightage), Class XI (30% weightage) and Class XII pre-board (40% weightage). A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar gave in-principle approval of the scheme, prepared after the cancellation of the examinations due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Attorney General K K Venugopal submitted the scheme was prepared considering numerous alternatives as an unprecedented situation was faced by the CBSE and ICSE board. The assessment process has been divided into theory and practical components. According to the scheme, the theory component would be assessed by first giving 30% weightage to average scores obtained by students in Class X in their three best performing subjects out of a total of five. Another 30% weightage would be given to marks based on the theory component of the final exam taken in Class XI. And finally, 40% weightage would be given for marks obtained in one or more unit tests, mid-term exams and pre-board exams in Class XII. The marks of practical/internal assessment etc of Class XII will be on actual basis as uploaded by the school on the CBSE portal. He said the total marks awarded should be in consonance with the past performance of the school in Class XII board examinations. Each school would form a result committee of five members. Students not satisfied with the assessment under the scheme would be given an option to appear in physical examinations to be held once condition is conducive for it. In the current academic year 2020-21, about 14.50 lakh candidates have registered for Class XII. The scheme was prepared by a 13-member experts committee comprising Vipin Kumar, joint secretary, Education Ministry, and other top officers from Education Directorate, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangthan, Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti, UGC, NCERT, CBSE and some prominent schools. The Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE), for its part, proposed that marks percentage in Class X board examinations, the project and practical work in the subjects, the performance of the candidates in the school examinations in the subjects in Classes XI and XII, measured through their best marks obtained in the two years, among others, would be the criteria to be used for evaluating the students.  Both the boards said results of Class XII would be declared by July 31. The bench, also comprising Justice Dinesh Maheshwari, asked the CBSE and the ICSE to notify the scheme for evaluating students, which would be subject to final order on next date of hearing, June 21. The court asked both the boards to incorporate a provision for in-built dispute resolution for students and specify the date for conducting the optional exams for those students who wanted it appear in it to improve their results. The court rejected a plea for holding physical examinations for every student. "We have already accepted the decision taken by the concerned Boards to cancel Class XII standard examination. In any case, the students, who want to appear in the examination for improvisation of their marks, will get that opportunity under the scheme," the bench said, dealing with a PIL filed by advocate Mamta Sharma for cancelling the examinations.  The court allowed those opposing the scheme proposed by the CBSE and ICSE to give their suggestions by an affidavit on June 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-submits-class-12-assessment-plan-in-sc-results-by-july-31-998385.html
17-06-2021||National||Govt extends validity of motor vehicle documents till September 30||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has extended the validity of documents like driving license (DL), registration certificate (RC) and permits till September 30, 2021. "Taking into consideration the need to prevent the spread of Covid-19, MoRT&H has advised the Enforcement Authorities that the validity of Fitness, Permit (all types), License, Registration or any other concerned document(s) may be treated to be valid till 30th September 2021," tweeted MoRT&H. "This covers all documents whose validity has expired since February 1, 2020, or would expire by September 30, 2021. This will help out citizens in availing transport-related services while maintaining social distancing," it said. The Ministry also said it issued an advisory to all states on the matter. Earlier, the deadline for the validity of the documents was set for June 30. Separately, Ministry said it made some changes in issuance of driving licence. According to latest decision, candidates undergoing driving training courses at accredited training centres and those who successfully cleared their tests, will be granted an exemption from driving tests at regional transport offices. The Ministry also said the accredited driving training centres will be equipped with simulators and dedicated driving tracks for candidates to undergo training. Besides, these centres will also be allowed to provide industry-specific specialised training. The new rules will come into effect from July 1, the Ministry said.  Earlier, candidates had to undergo a driving test at RTOs before getting licence. The new system will help to avoid long queues at RTO offices and cut sown work burden, said the officials in the Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-extends-validity-of-motor-vehicle-documents-till-september-30-998399.html
17-06-2021||National||SC refuses to halt demolition drive in Aravali forest area of Faridabad||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to halt the demolition of over 10,000 residential houses in Aravali forest area near Khori village of Faridabad district, Haryana, for encroachment on forest land.  “We want our forest land to be cleared. We have given enough time, if you want to continue it is at your risk. This is forest land and not any other land,” a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari told Aparna Bhat, a counsel appearing for villagers. The court declined to stay the orders for removal of settlement made earlier on June 7, 2021, and February 19, 2020. The counsel submitted that even as the hearing proceeded, forceful eviction was taking place.  The bench replied, "Yes let them do it."   Bhat contended that at least a temporary shelter should be provided for the children who will be evicted during the pandemic. The bench said it is up to the Haryana government to examine the issue as per the existing rehabilitation scheme.   The top court said in its opinion, no indulgence was required to be shown by it at this stage and permitted the petitioners to produce documents at the municipal corporation concerned. The bench pointed out that people had enough opportunity to vacate the forest land after February 19, 2020. The bench noted that petitioners were obligated to provide documents to come under the rehabilitation scheme, which they have failed to do.  “We have recorded the submission that clearance of unlawful encroachment on forest land will be carried out as per the due process of law," the bench said.   The top court said the corporation and state government may proceed on the basis of the commitment give to it on an earlier occasion and in the order dated June 7, 2021. Haryana government submitted that encroachers are throwing stones on officials, the bench that no order was required and the authorities "knew what to do."  The bench reiterated that the pendency of the proceedings in the court will not come in the way of clearing the encroachments.  The PIL sought directions to the authorities to follow the rehabilitation procedure before conducting any demolition drive, and also provide temporary shelter to the evicted slum dwellers in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.    On June 7, the bench had given the corporation six weeks to remove all encroachments on forest land and report compliance under the signature of the chief secretary and secretary of the Haryana Forest Department. The court has posted the matter for further hearing on July 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-halt-demolition-drive-in-aravali-forest-area-of-faridabad-998400.html
17-06-2021||National||Antilia bomb scare case: NIA arrests former cop Pradeep Sharma||Taking the investigations further, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday arrested former police officer and ‘encounter specialist’ Pradeep Sharma and two others in connection with the twin cases of planting of gelatin sticks-laden Scorpio near the home Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani and killing of SUV owner Mansukh Hiren. Sharma, a former Senior Police Inspector, who has eliminated 103 criminals in his 35-year-long police career, is now associated with the Shiv Sena. In the wee hours, the NIA teams swooped at Sharma’s residence in Andheri suburbs of Mumbai, while the police officer-turned-politician was picked up from Lonavala in Pune district.  He was brought to Mumbai and interrogated in NIA office after which he was taken to the Sir JJ Hospital for a mandatory medical check-up and produced before a special court, which remanded him to custody till June 28. The two others accused who were arrested were identified as Satish Mutekari alias Tanni Bhai alias Vicky Baba and Manish Soni, both residents of Malad suburbs of Mumbai. With this, the total number of arrests in the sensational case has shot up to 10. The seven other accused in the case are  Assistant Police Inspector Vaze, Assistant Police Inspector Riyazuddin Qazi, Inspector Sunil Mane, Vinayak Shinde, a dismissed constable undergoing life sentence and a bookie, Naresh Gor,  Santosh Atmaram Shelar and Anand Pandurang Jadhav. Vaze, Qazi and Mane have now been dismissed by the Mumbai Police. The tech-savvy Vaze, who was attached to the Crime Intelligence Unit of Crime Branch, was mentored as an officer by Sharma. In fact, Sharma has worked under the then Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh, now the Commandant General of Home Guards, in several phases of his career in Mumbai and Thane. The NIA has seized a revolver from Sharma’s home. However, the former cop told the court: “The weapons recovered from me are licensed weapons but the license expired and didn't renew it. I am a former police officer. If I had anything to do with the murder, why wasn't I arrested earlier? This is a conspiracy against me. There's a group in Mumbai police and they are targeting me.” Shelar is an informant of Sharma, to which he said: “Santosh Shelar has been my informant for the last 12 years... that's why we were in touch. He works for my foundation. If I have done something, what is my exact role?” According to the allegations, Shelar has called Sharma and Vaze after the killing of Hiren.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/antilia-bomb-scare-case-nia-arrests-former-cop-pradeep-sharma-998403.html
17-06-2021||National||Google announces Rs 113 crore grant to set up 80 oxygen plants, upskill rural health workers in India||Tech giant Google on Thursday said Google.org - its philanthropic arm - has announced a grant of Rs 113 crore to support procurement and installation of about 80 oxygen generation plants and upskilling of healthcare workers in rural parts of the country in partnership with various organisations. Google.org will support procurement and installation of about 80 oxygen generation plants in healthcare facilities in high-need and rural locations with new grants of about Rs 90 crore  to GiveIndia and about Rs 18.5 crore to PATH. It will also finance efforts of Apollo Medskills to help upskill 20,000 frontline health workers through specialised training in Covid-19 management and strengthen the stressed rural health workforce and rural health systems. Towards this, Google.org will make a Rs 3.6 crore grant to ARMMAN to run skilling programs for 180,000 Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) and 40,000 Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs) in 15 Indian states. ARMMAN will also use the grant to set up a call centre to provide additional help and advice for ASHAs and ANMs where required. "As India slowly emerges from the crisis of the past few months, it's been humbling and inspiring to see individuals, communities, institutions, and governments work together to manage the impact on a scale we haven't experienced before. "Our focus at Google has been on making sure people have the information and tools they need to stay informed, connected, and safe," Google India Country Head and Vice President Sanjay Gupta said. The company is broadening its Covid-19 support efforts to help strengthen India's healthcare infrastructure and workforce -- especially in rural areas, he told reporters in a virtual briefing. "With these new commitments, Google is proud to be supporting our partners as they build a bigger, better-equipped healthcare system, help India steady itself after the second wave, and lay the foundations for a sustainable and future-ready healthcare system,” he said. These new commitments build on the Rs 135 crore funding that was announced by Google in April for Covid-19 response. These included two grants from Google.org, totalling Rs 20 crore to GiveIndia to provide cash assistance to families hit hardest by the crisis to help with their everyday expenses, and UNICEF to help get urgent medical supplies, including oxygen and testing equipment. In addition to this, Google employees worldwide have donated and helped raise $7 million for organisations supporting high-risk and marginalised communities. Google.org has committed grants worth $57 million in India over the last five years. Asked if Google would offer vaccination booking through any of its platforms, Gupta said the company is trying to enable people who want to offer services to consumers in healthcare, to use Google Play as a platform. "So as Co-WIN opens API and a lot of people want to use those APIs to build better products and services, Google Play will enable all that. Our effort is to use technology that we understand where let's say languages, or how to reach out our apps to many more consumers by leveraging Google Playstore, use all those to enable people who understand health very well, to connect those dots," he added. The government had, last month, released new guidelines for the integration of Co-WIN with third-party applications, easing the way for such apps to offer vaccine bookings. Following this, platforms like Paytm are now allowing people to use their platforms to not only look for slots but also book vaccination appointments through their platform. India has been ramping up vaccination to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. India has so far administered over 26.5 crore jabs to eligible beneficiaries. Atul Satija, CEO of GiveIndia, said the organisation will work with PATH to oversee the oxygen programme, providing project management support — including procurement and installation of plants. PATH will identify the target locations and provide technical assistance for the project, working with state governments and other authorities, and complete the installation of oxygen generation plants. The plants are expected to be installed and ready for use in 3-6 months and will continue to be supported for about three years, he added. Neeraj Jain, Country Director of PATH India, noted that the organisation provides support to the state governments in putting in place the right kind of oxygen-related ecosystem and health infrastructure that can serve as a foundation for more sustainable and equitable oxygen systems for now and the future. "The support from Google to Apollo Medskills to upskill 20,000 rural frontline health workers, will surely complement and strengthen the stressed rural health workforce and rural health systems,” Srinivasa Rao Pulijala, CEO of Apollo Medskills, said. Apollo Medskills is the skilling arm of Apollo Hospitals group. “The support from Google.org will enable us to continue augmenting and implementing our tech-based interventions, so that health workers can offer the necessary care and guidance to pregnant women, mothers and children across the country,” Aparna Hegde, founder and Managing Trustee of ARMMAN, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/google-announces-rs-113-crore-grant-to-set-up-80-oxygen-plants-upskill-rural-health-workers-in-india-998404.html
17-06-2021||National||Explained | What is hallmarking of gold jewellery?||With the Centre making hallmarking of gold jewellery and artefacts mandatory, you will be able to know about the purity certification of the precious metal every time you buy an ornament.  The order, which came into force on June 16, will be implemented in a phased manner across the country starting with 256 districts. The government’s decision stems from the fact that only 30 per cent of gold items are hallmarked in the country at present. There are about 35,879 jewellers across the country, who are certified by the Bureau of Indian Standard (BIS) and only 945 assaying and hallmarking centres (A&HC) are present in India. What is hallmarking of gold? According to BIS, hallmarking is the “accurate determination and official recording of the proportionate content of precious metal in gold jewellery or artefacts.” Hence, hallmarking gold jewellery gives the “guarantee of purity or fineness” of it. What are the gold items covered? The government had issued a notification on June 14, 2018, to put all gold jewellery and gold artefacts for hallmarking, along with silver. However, certain items are exempted from the process of hallmarking. According to the Department of Consumer Affairs, export and re-import of jewellery as per the Trade Policy of the Government of India would not need to be hallmarked mandatorily.  Watches, fountain pens and special types of jewellery such as Kundan, Polki and Jadau also don’t fall under the category of hallmark jewellery, as per the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution. What is the set purity standard of gold in India? According to the standards set by BIS, three categories of gold -- 22 carat, 18 carat, and 14 carat -- will be hallmarked. On June 15, the ministry announced, “Gold of Additional carats 20, 23 and 24 will also be allowed for hallmarking.” The gold jewellers can also continue to buy back the gold items without the hallmark from the customers. Do all jewellers have to hallmark their gold items? No, all jewellers across the country don’t have to hallmark their gold items. Only jewellers in the 256 districts announced by the government have to hallmark their gold. The jewellers with annual turnover up to Rs 40 lakh are exempted from it.  Is there any penalty? According to Piyush Goyal, Union Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, the government will not impose any penalty till August 2021. Here's a list of all 256 districts where the government has made it mandatory for hallmarking gold items: Delhi: In all the seven districts of Delhi, the government has made it mandatory for hallmarking gold jewellery. Uttar Pradesh: Hallmarking of gold jewellery will start in Uttar Pradesh in these 19 districts: 1. Agra 2. Allahabad 3. Bareilly 4. Budaun 5. Deoria 6. Ghaziabad 7. Gorakhpur 8. Jaunpur 9. Jhansi 10. Mathura 11. Kanpur Nagar 12. Lucknow 13. Meerut 14. Moradabad 15. Muzaffarnagar 16. Gautam Budh Nagar 17. Saharanpur 18. Shahjahanpur 19. Varanasi. Madhya Pradesh: 1. Bhopal 2. Dewas 3. Gwalior 4. Rewa 5. Indore 6. Jabalpur 7. Ratlam 8. Satna. Rajasthan: 1. Ajmer 2. Alwar 3. Bhilwara 4. Bikaner 5. Hanumangarh 6. Jaipur 7. Jhunjhunu 8. Jodhpur 9. Kota 10. Nagaur 11. Pali 12. Sawai Madhopur 13. Sirohi 14. Sikar 15. Sriganganagar 16. Churu 17. Udaipur 18. Banswara Maharashtra: 1. Akola 2. Amravati 3. Dhule 4. Latur 5. Nanded 6. Ratnagiri 7. Sindhudurg 8. Aurangabad 9. Nagpur 10. Palghar 11. Raigad 12. Ahmednagar 13. Solapur 14. Jalgaon 15. Nashik 16. Satara 17. Sangli 18. Kolhapur 19. Thane 20. Pune 21. Mumbai Sub. 22. Mumbai City Gujarat: 1. Amreli 2. Bhavnagar 3. Botad 4. Devbhoomi Dwarka 5. Gir Somnath 6. Jamnagar 7. Mehsana 8. Morbi 9. Patan 10. Porbandar 11. Valsad 12. Anand 13. Bharuch 14. Kheda 15. Surendranagar 16. Banaskantha 17. Junagadh 18. Kutch 19. Navsari 20. Vadodara 21. Rajkot 22. Surat 23. Ahmedabad. Haryana: 1. Ambala 2. Bhiwani 3. Faridabad 4. Fatehabad 5. Gurgoan 6. Hissar 7. Jind 8. Kaithal 9. Karnal 10. Mahendragarh 11. Rewari 12. Rohatak 13. Sirsa 14. Sonipat 15. Yamuna Nagar Uttarakhand: 1. Dehradun 2. Pithoragarh Punjab: 1. Amritsar 2. Barnala 3. Bhatinda 4. Fatehgarh Sahib 5. Hoshiarpur 6. Jalandhar 7. Kapurthala 8. Ludhiana 9. Mansa 10. Pathankot 11. Patiala 12. Sangrur Himachal Pradesh: 1. Hamirpur 2. Kangra 3. Mandi Jammu and Kashmir: Jammu and Srinagar Andhra Pradesh: 1. Srikakulam 2. Vizianagaram 3. Visakhapatnam 4. East Godavari 5. West Godavari 6. Krishna 7. Guntur 8. Prakasham 9. Nellore 10. Kadapa 11. Kurnool 12. Anantapur Karnataka: 1. Bengaluru Urban 2. Tumkur 3. Hassan 4. Mandya 5. Mysore 6. Dakshina Kannada 7. Shimoga 8. Udupi 9. Davanagere 10. Uttara Kannada 11. Belgaum 12. Dharwad 13. Bijapur 14. Gulbarga Kerala: 1. Alappuzha 2. Ernakulam 3. Kannur 4. Kasaragod 5. Kollam 6. Kottayam 7. Kozhikode 8. Malappuram 9. Palakkad 10. Pathanamthitta 11. Thiruvananthapuram 12. Thrissur 13. Wayanad Tamil Nadu: 1. Cuddalore 2. Krishnagiri 3. Tiruvannamalai 4. Viluppuram 5. Chennai 6. Vellore 7. Coimbatore 8. Erode 9. Tirupur 10. Salem 11. Namakkal 12. Dharmapuri 13. Kanyakumari 14. Tirunelveli 15. Thoothukudi 16. Sivagangai 17. Madurai 18. Dindigul 19. Pudukkottai 20. Tiruchirappalli 21. Karur 22. Thanjavur 23. Kallakuruchi 24. Tenkasi Telangana: 1. Mancherial 2. Peddapalli 3. Warangal (Rural) 4. Warangal( Urban) 5. Rangareddy 6. Hyderabad 7. Khammam Goa: 1. North Goa 2. South Goa Assam: 1. Barpeta 2. Cachar 3. Kamrup Metro Tripura: 1. North Tripura 2. West Tripura Bihar: 1. Bauxar 2. Bhagalpur 3. Bhojpur 4. Dharbhanga 5. Gaya 6. Muzzafarpur 7. Nalanda 8. Patna 9. Rohtas 10. Samastipur 11. Saran 12. Begusarai 13. Nawada Chhattisgarh: 1. Raipur 2. Durg Jharkhand: 1. Bokaro 2. Dhanbad 3. East Singbhum 4. Ranchi Odisha: 1. Balasore 2. Bhadrak 3. Cuttack 4. Ganjam 5. Jajpur 6. Khorda 7. Mayurbhanj 8. Sambalpur West Bengal: 1. Purba Medinipur 2. Darjeeling 3. Birbhum 4. North 24 Parganas 5. Cooch Behar 6. Paschim Bardhaman 7. Puba Bardhaman 8. Kolkata 9. Purulia 10. South 24 Parganas 11. Bankura 12. Hoogly 13. Uttar Dinajpur 14. Howrah 15. Dakshin Dinajpur 16. Malda 17. Murshidabad 18. Nadia 19. Paschim Medinipur||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-what-is-hallmarking-of-gold-jewellery-998413.html
17-06-2021||National||The Lead: Understanding the Model Tenancy Act||Summary: In today's episode, PRS Legislative Research's Prachee Mishra explains the Model Tenancy Act, how it came into being, its advantages, and more. Ahmed Shariff: Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and welcome to the Lead by DH Radio. A few days ago, the Centre brought in the Model Tenancy Act. To talk about it, we are joined by Prachee Mishra, who heads research at PRS Legislative Research. She has published research focussed on the infrastructure sectors including transport, energy, and land-related matters. Hi Prachee and welcome to DH Radio. Prachee Mishra: Hi. Ahmed: What was the need for this Model Tenancy Act? Prachee: If we see tenancy or rental housing in India today, it's primarily an urban phenomenon... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-understanding-the-model-tenancy-act-998419.html
17-06-2021||National||Karnataka studying gene variations in Covid-19-hit children: Report||In a bid to prepare for a possible third wave of Covid-19, scientists in Karnataka are studying the genomic sequences of the Covid-19 virus in children infected in the second wave. Upon the advice of the Covid-19 advisory board of the Karnataka government, the state government has taken measures to study the infection in children in the second wave to find out the variant of the virus -- if it’s an existing variant or a new one. “We have discussed the issue of infections among children and some additional work is required to study the genomic sequencing of viruses from samples of children,” Prof M K Sudarshan, a public health expert and chairman of the state technical advisory committee, told the publication. This is in line with efforts to prepare for the next wave of Covid-19 in the country in which the children may be at higher risk. In the research, the scientists are considering severely infected Covid-19 positive children like international travellers, local infection clusters, and vaccinated children who got infected later. Recently in a talk, Prof Ravi mentioned, “My greatest fear for the third wave is that it will affect children. It is simply common sense. We are immunising the elderly, the middle-aged are being immunised and immunisation has started for the young but there is no vaccine for children. The virus will always find a susceptible host. History has taught us that.”  “The virus is constantly mutating. Viruses also follow the principle of survival of the fittest and they will go on mutating and the immune escape variant will be selected in the population,” Prof Ravi added. Out of all the positive cases in the first and second wave, as much as 10 per cent were between the age group of 0-19 years old. Then the case fatality in that group was 0.1 per cent, however, the mortality rate has increased by four per cent in the 0-9 age group and by six per cent in the 10-19 age group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-studying-gene-variations-in-covid-19-hit-children-report-998422.html
17-06-2021||National||Boat with Rohingyas escorted out of India’s waters despite pleas by UN experts to allow them to disembark||India got its Coast Guard to escort a boat carrying 78 Rohingya refugees out of its territorial waters three months after the vessel was found adrift in the Andaman Sea with eight of its passengers already dead, one missing and several in need of medical support. The Coast Guard escorted the boat to international waters even after Special Rapporteurs of the United Nations (UN) reminded the government of India of its obligation to allow them to disembark in a safe port “under the international human rights law, in particular the right to life, codified in Article 6 of the ICCPR (International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights)”. The government, however, got the Coast Guard to provide the refugees with medical support and humanitarian aid as well as food and drinking water for almost three months, apart from technical assistance to repair the engine of the boat. The refugees, including women and children, earlier this month finally arrived at Pulau Idaman, a small island off the coast of East Aceh in Indonesia – after a more-than-110-day-long perilous voyage from Cox’s Bazar and Teknaf in southern Bangladesh. The 78 refugees are among thousands of Rohingyas who had to escape ethnic cleansing and crackdown of the Rakhine State of Myanmar and had been living in camps in Bangladesh. They set sail for Malaysia on February 11 but the engine of the boat broke down on February 15. The Indian Coast Guard ships came to their rescue on February 24. New Delhi conducted talks with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s government in Dhaka for the return of the refugees to Bangladesh. But the Government of Bangladesh was apparently reluctant to take them back. “While the efforts of the Indian Coast Guard in providing some relief materials to the starving occupants of the boat deserve appreciation, the refusal to permit their disembarkation on Indian soil and Bangladesh’s alleged refusal to take them back flies in the face of well-established norms of international humanitarian law and human rights standards,” said Venkatesh Nayak, a transparency activist based in Bengaluru. At least 47 of the passengers of the boat had identity cards issued by the office of the United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) in Bangladesh. Three members of the crew of the boat were also citizens of Bangladesh. Chris Lewa, director of ‘Arakan Project’, told DH from Bangkok that although the Indian government had shown some humanity, taken care of the well-being of the refugees and had not abandoned them at sea, it had not brought them ashore to the nearest port of safety and thus failed to fully comply with its obligations under international maritime laws. Lewa and her organisation ‘Arakan Project’ monitor the flight of Rohingyas from persecution in Rakhine State of Myanmar to Bangladesh, Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia. Nayak had in April submitted applications to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) as well as the Indian Coast Guard, in accordance with the Right to Information Act 2005, seeking details about the location of the refugees and the assistance provided to them. The MEA turned down his plea on May 20, citing Section 8(1)(a) of the RTI Act 2005, which empowered the government to refuse to make public certain information if such disclosure could affect relation with foreign state. The Indian Coast Guard cited the same reason to turn down his pleas. He filed first appeals in both cases on May 24, arguing mainly that the rejections were not in accordance with the RTI Act. The UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights of Migrants, along with Special Rapporteur on Extrajudicial, Summary or Arbitrary Executions and Special Rapporteur on Torture or other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Punishment, wrote a letter to India on April 8, seeking updated information about the location of the boat and urging it to “promptly take steps to ensure the safety” of the refugees on it, including through disembarkation at a port of safety. The three UN Special Rapporteurs also expressed concerns over the possibility of asylum seekers and refugees being forcibly pushed back to the high seas. They stressed that the states should ensure that all border governance measures taken at international borders, including the ones aimed at addressing irregular migration, were in accordance with the principle of non-refoulement and the prohibition of arbitrary or collective expulsions. “The prohibition of refoulement under international human rights law applies to any form of removal or transfer of persons, regardless of their status,” they wrote to the government, which, however, did not respond to the letter. India’s lack of response to the urgent appeal by three UN Special Rapporteurs and its refusal to part with details of the incident by citing national security exemptions under the RTI Act is likely to be construed as “conduct unbecoming of an aspirant to a permanent seat on the UN Security Council,” said Nayak. “It is both a humanitarian imperative and an international obligation to provide vessels in distress with life-saving assistance and disembarkation to a place of safety,” the UNHCR stated after the arrival of the refugees in Indonesia on June 4. The UN organisation lauded Indonesia for providing food and medical support to refugees, but reiterated “the urgent need for states in the region to come together to forge a collective regional response to search, rescue and disembarkation”. “Vulnerable women, children and men should not be left to the mercy of the high seas,” said the UNHCR. Lewa, however, said that refugees themselves had neither wanted to return to camps in Bangladesh nor had been keen to disembark in India, where they would have been possibly detained for a long time. “Their ultimate goal in paying smugglers and embarking on such a risky journey is clearly to reach Malaysia for various reasons, some for family reunification, others for better protection or to support their families,” she said, noting that the Indian Coast Guard continuously monitored the boat till it reached closer to the territorial waters of Indonesia. The minority Rohingyas have since long been victims of persecution in the Rakhine State, where Buddhists constitute the majority. They have been denied citizenship and most of them have been stateless, despite living for generations in Myanmar. Myanmar's armed forces launched the latest military crackdown against the Rohingyas on August 25, 2017 after a militant outfit killed 12 security personnel in Rakhine. With hundreds of them killed and villages burnt down, over 723,000 more Rohingyas, including women and children, fled Myanmar and take refuge in Bangladesh. A large number of Rohingyas from Myanmar had already been living in the camps in Bangladesh and the new wave of ethnic cleansing took the number of refugees in Cox's Bazar camps to 1.3 million.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/boat-with-rohingyas-escorted-out-of-india-s-waters-despite-pleas-by-un-experts-to-allow-them-to-disembark-998427.html
17-06-2021||National||Now, PUC certificate for all vehicles to be uniform in India||The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has issued a notification to make the PUC (Pollution Under Control) certificate for all vehicles uniform across the country and also to link the PUC database with the National Register. After the changes in the Central Motor Vehicles Rules 1989 by the road ministry, the QR code shall be printed on the PUC form and will have details of the vehicle, owner and the status of the emission. "The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has issued a notification dated 14th June, 2021, for a common format of the PUC Certificate to be issued across the country, under Central Motor Vehicle Rules 1989," an official statement said. According to the statement, the new PUC will have vehicle owner's mobile number, name and address, engine number and chassis number. "The owner's mobile number has been made mandatory, on which an SMS alert will be sent for validation and fee," it said.  The statement said the concept of rejection slip is being introduced for the first time. "A common format of rejection slip is to be given to the vehicle owner in case the test result value is more than the maximum permissible value, as mandated in the concerned emission norms," the statement said. It added that this document can be shown at the service centre for getting the vehicle serviced or can be used, in case the PUCC centre device is not working properly when tested at anothtinger centre. As per the statement, if the enforcement officer has reason to believe that a motor vehicle is not complying with provisions of emission standards, he may communicate in writing or through electronic mode to direct the driver or any person in-charge of the vehicle to submit the vehicle for conducting the test in any one of the authorised PUC testing stations. "If the driver or person in-charge of the vehicle fails to submit the vehicle for compliance or the vehicle fails to comply, the owner of the vehicle shall be liable for payment of penalty," it said. The statement said that enforcement would be IT-enabled and would help in better control over polluting vehicles. "If the owner fails to comply with this, the registering authority shall, for reasons to be recorded in writing, suspend the certificate of registration of the vehicle and any permit granted, until such time a valid PUC certificate is generated," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-puc-certificate-for-all-vehicles-to-be-uniform-in-india-998433.html
17-06-2021||National||Not in favour of banning Twitter but norms are norms, says Ravi Shankar Prasad||A day after the central government withdrew Twitter's 'intermediary platform' status due to non-compliance with new IT rules, union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the government is not in favour of banning any platform but one must "follow the law". "If half of the government is on Twitter including Prime Minister and President... that shows how fair we are. But norms are norms," Prasad told ANI when asked if Twitter could be banned. The government received flak for the new social media rules which require the platforms to identify and share with the government the originator of a flagged message within 36 hours. The government had notified the changes on February 25 and allowed social media companies three months to comply with it. Twitter and WhatsApp had then separately approached the Delhi High Court against the new regulations. Upon this, Prasad said the government does not want all messages to be encrypted. "It is my word that all ordinary users of WhatsApp can continue to use it. If any content goes viral, causing mob lynching, riots, killing, showing women in nudity, sexual exploitation of children, only in these limited categories, you'll be asked to declare who started the mischief. If viral messages are causing mayhem here, which originated from across the border then who started it in India, that's all we are seeking. This is in the public interest," he is quoted as saying by ANI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-in-favour-of-banning-twitter-but-norms-are-norms-says-ravi-shankar-prasad-998441.html
17-06-2021||National||Serum Institute of India to start clinical trials of Novavax Covid-19 vaccine for children in July: Report||The Serum Institute of India is planning to start clinical trials of the Novavax Covid-19 vaccine for children in July, according to ANI quoting sources.  Serum Institute of India plans to start clinical trials of the Novavax shot for children in July: Sources More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-of-india-to-start-clinical-trials-of-novavax-covid-19-vaccine-for-children-in-july-report-998442.html
17-06-2021||National||Over 2.18 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses still available with states, UTs: Govt||More than 2.18 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are available with states and union territories, and over 56,70,350 more are in the pipeline and will be received by them in the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. More than 27.28 crore (27,28,31,900) vaccine doses have been provided to the states and UTs so far by the government of India (free of cost channel) and through direct state procurement category, it said. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage, is 25,10,03,417 doses (as per data available at 8 am on Thursday), the ministry said, adding, "2,18,28,483 Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered." "Furthermore, more than 56,70,350 vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days," it said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the central government has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid-19 vaccines for free, the ministry said. In addition, it has also been facilitating direct procurement of vaccines by the states and UTs. Vaccination is an integral pillar of the comprehensive strategy of the government of India for containment and management of the pandemic, along with test, track, treat and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. Implementation of the liberalised and accelerated phase-3 strategy of Covid-19 vaccination started from May 1, 2021. Under the strategy, every month, 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory-cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer would be procured by the government of India. It would continue to make these doses available to the state government totally free of cost as was being done earlier, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-218-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-still-available-with-states-uts-govt-998459.html
17-06-2021||National||AAP govt makes fresh bid to get L-G's nod for doorstep delivery of ration scheme||The AAP government has sent a file on doorstep delivery of ration to Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal, making a fresh bid to get his approval for the scheme, official sources said on Thursday. Earlier this month, the Arvind Kejriwal government had claimed that the scheme was rejected by L-G contending that the Centre's approval was not sought for it and there was a pending case in the court. According to sources, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has again sent the file to the LG and said that it was according to the law and the objections raised by the Centre earlier have been addressed. Kejriwal has stressed that the Centre's directions have been followed and claimed that it was wrong to "stop" the scheme during the coronavirus pandemic, sources added. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-govt-makes-fresh-bid-to-get-l-gs-nod-for-doorstep-delivery-of-ration-scheme-998461.html
17-06-2021||National||Experts term CBSE's class 12 evaluation formula 'time-bound' but 'far from fair'||The evaluation formula decided by CBSE for class 12 students has evoked mixed reaction from experts with some hailing it as an "unbiased and time-bound" method and others terming it "far from being fair", saying students showing progress over a period of time will be at disadvantage. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) informed the Supreme Court on Thursday that it will be adopting a 30:30:40 formula for evaluation of marks for class 12 students based on results of class 10, 11 and 12 respectively. Thirty per cent marks will be based on class 10 board exam, another 30 per cent from class 11 and 40 per cent marks based on the performance in the unit, mid-term and pre-board tests of class 12. The exams for class 12 were cancelled by CBSE on June 1 in view of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. "The proposed methodology may seriously disadvantage students showing progress over a period of time. CBSE, as a system, has never rewarded consistency in performance. It was built on the concept of one high-stakes exam. "To begin with, that is a wrong system. One cannot try to correct it with this kind of criterion, especially so in a year when the students have gone through so much trauma. The evaluation criteria released by CBSE for class 10 was far superior," said Manit Jain, Chairman, FICCI ARISE, a collegium of stakeholders aimed at promoting quality education. According to Vishnu Kartik, CEO of The Heritage schools, the criteria decided by CBSE achieves the limited objective of providing a time-bound implementable framework but it is far from being a fair and accurate methodology. "The alternative formula for arriving at class 12 board exams is simple to implement and easy to understand. It achieves the limited objective of providing a time-bound implementable framework. But is it a fair and near accurate methodology? Far from it. Our past data shows that performance in class 11 or 10 is not a reasonable prediction of performance in class 12. "There is no scientific reason to include the 'best of three' class 10 scores as it has no impact on many class 12 subjects," he said. The silver lining of this proposed formula is in the hope that it can drive some long-term structural and cultural reforms. For one, the suggested external moderation committee will bring in much-needed accountability in schools to strengthen internal assessment processes and hopefully, students realise the need to learn consistently across grades and not just for the final exams, Kartik said. Rajat Goel, the Director of MRG School in Rohini said the criterion declared by CBSE and approved by the Supreme Court raises questions on some very important aspects. "Students tend to get a little relaxed in class 11, hence the average passing percentage is slightly on the lower end. Apart from this, subjects in class 10 like social science, and no demarcation of physics, chemistry and maths are entirely different from the ones in class 12. "Additionally, there are vocational subjects like fine arts, physical education as well as in class 12 which gives students a chance to increase their overall score. All of this considered, this new evaluation criteria has stirred some relevant doubts and appear as not a fair assessment method for students seeking to build their future with these marks as a foundation," he said. The board has decided that for class 10, the marks based on the average theory component of the best three performing subjects of the main five subjects would be considered and their weightage would be 30 per cent. Shishir Jaipuria, the chairman of Seth Anandram Jaipuria Group of Educational Institutions said the decision to base 30 per cent marks on the best-of-three subjects in class 10 is a good one because the board exams provided a standard assessment. "Classes 11 and 12 have integrated syllabus, and considering a student's performance in these classes makes it a very comprehensive evaluation. Moderation of class 11 and 12 marks is a relief to those students who could not perform well. I believe that a combination of these three should provide a reasonably fair assessment and reduce chances of a discrepancy between a student's academic potential and marks allotted," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/experts-term-cbses-class-12-evaluation-formula-time-bound-but-far-from-fair-998463.html
17-06-2021||National||Choksi planned escape, concealed evidence as he knew about impending enquiries: CBI||Absconding diamantaire Mehul Choksi had prior knowledge of the impending Enforcement Directorate (ED) enquiries against him in 2017 which triggered him to plan his escape from India and cover his tracks by concealing evidence, the agency has said. The CBI in its supplementary charge sheet has invoked Section 201 of the IPC among other charges which pertain to the destruction of evidence by a suspect as part of criminal conspiracy. Choksi allegedly in a criminal conspiracy with PNB Deputy Manager Gokulnath Shetty got back all the documents which were submitted for the issuance of 165 Letters of Undertaking (LOU) and fraudulent amendments made in 58 Foreign Letters of Credit (FLC) during March and April 2017. Shetty "dishonestly and fraudulently" returned all the original applications along with other accompanying documents submitted by accused companies Gitanjaii Gems Ltd, Gili India Ltd and Nakshatra Brands Ltd back to them, which should have been in the custody of the bank, the CBI has alleged. "These applications along with the documents were recovered during searches conducted by CBI from the premises taken on rent by the employee of Mehul Chinubbhai Choksi at the instance of Vipul Chunilal Chitalia," the CBI alleged. The applications along with the documents were first kept at 101/A, Sony Chamber Annex, Opera House Mumbai and other premises at Khetwadi near Harkishan Das Hospital, Mumbai, the agency has alleged. These were shifted on February 5, 2018, within a week of CBI taking over investigation, to Shop No. 188/A/192 on Babasaheb Jaykar Marg, Mumbai, a place taken on rent by Chitalia with the intention to cause "disappearance of evidence", the CBI alleged. These documents were recovered during the searches conducted by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) during investigation of the case. The agency also found records of fraudulent LOUs and FLCs in the Google drive of Chitalia during police custody. While his employees were allegedly busy covering tracks of the scam on his instructions, Choksi himself was trying to escape from India to a safer destination, the CBI alleged. During 2017, Choksi had visited Hong Kong where he had met "dummy" directors of supplier companies, who were allegedly his employees, the CBI has alleged. These supplier companies Shanyao Gong Si Ltd, 4C's Diamond Distributors and Crown Aim Ltd were the beneficiaries of the LOUs and FLCs worth Rs 6,345 crore issued by the Punjab National Bank. During the visit, Choksi asked the dummy directors to not visit India as they may be subjected to ED enquiries pertaining to Gitanjali group promoted by him, the agency has alleged. "This shows that Mehul Choksi had prior knowledge of impending criminal proceedings. Hence, Mehul Choksi fled India on January 4, 2018, with dishonest intent to evade the process of law," the supplementary charge sheet filed last week said. Choksi had taken citizenship of Caribbean Island country of Antigua and Barbuda in 2017 where he was staying since 2018 till his mysterious disappearance on May 23. He was held in neighbouring country Dominica where he was arrested for illegal entry and is facing court proceedings. The Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda Gaston Browne has claimed in interviews that Choksi had not given accurate information about him while taking citizenship through the investment scheme of the country. The CBI which filed its supplementary charge sheet nearly three years after its first report alleged that Choksi asked Directors of Hong Kong based supplier companies to get a Thailand Visa as Hong Kong operations would be closed. In December 2017, Choksi allegedly telephoned Kalpen Doshi, a director in Crown Aim, asking him that all dummy directors should provide their documents to his aide Chitalia, also an accused, to apply for work permits for Abbeycrest, Bangkok, a company controlled by him, the CBI said. Next year, Chitalia again warned dummy directors to not visit India in the wake of “more trouble" from the investigations started by agencies, it said. The directors were shifted to Bangkok in February when the investigation into the scam began, it said. But the directors returned in the second quarter of 2018. While Choksi was moving directors, Shetty, prima donna of the scam in the bank, made desperate attempts to clean his slate prior to his superannuation, the CBI has found. Shetty was approver in all the FLCs issued for Choksi's companies. He allegedly made entries in some FLCs initially in the central banking system of the PNB but later modified them to huge amounts without making any mention in the CBS to evade any scrutiny in case of default. Prior to his superannuation in 2017, he allegedly made pre-payment in 12 out of 16 bills drawn in fraudulent amendments putting them in "collection bills" rather than "negotiation bills" in the international banking messages called SWIFT. No corresponding entries were made in the CBS of the bank.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/choksi-planned-escape-concealed-evidence-as-he-knew-about-impending-enquiries-cbi-998465.html
17-06-2021||National||Delhi riots: SC to hear police plea against High Court order on June 18||The Supreme Court is scheduled to consider on Friday a plea by Delhi Police against the June 15 order by the Delhi High Court granting bail to three student activists in a case of larger conspiracy related to the northeast Delhi riots last year. The HC had ordered the release of Jamia Milia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, and two JNU scholars Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, saying prima facie no case was made against them in the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. A bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian would take up on June 18 the special leave petition filed by the police. In its plea filed on Wednesday, the police questioned the approach adopted by High Court, saying the three separate bail judgements, were without any foundation and appeared to be based more on the social media narrative than the evidence gathered and elaborated in the charge sheet.  "The misdirection of the High Court is writ large from the observation that the present case was foisted in anxiety to suppress dissent," the police contended, adding this was "an insinuation, albeit unfounded and perverse," and was "beyond the purview of the bail petition".  In its appeal, the police said, "The High Court has not only conducted a mini-trial but has also recorded perverse finding which is contrary to the record and the arguments made during the hearing of the case."  "Unfortunately, the High Court has decided the case on a pre-conceived and a completely erroneous illusion, as if, the present case was a simpliciter case of protest by students," it added.  The February 2020 riots, triggered after a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act, had claimed the lives of 53 people and left hundreds injured. All three were in jail for over one year. The police claimed the High Court completely lost sight of the evidence and statements, which clearly made out "a sinister plot of mass-scale riots being hatched by the three accused along with other co-conspirators".   The police contended that the High Court's view that provisions of UAPA can only be applied to deal with matters of profound impact on the ‘defence of India’, nothing more and nothing less, was "an irrelevant consideration to grant bail to the accused". “Secondly, it will have far-reaching consequences for cases investigated by NIA and other investigating agencies. The order is thus unsustainable in law and deserves to be stayed," the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-sc-to-hear-police-plea-against-high-court-order-on-june-18-998467.html
17-06-2021||National||CJI N V Ramana seeks Singapore's help for setting up International Arbitration Centre in Hyderabad||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Thursday said he has sought the help of his counterpart in Singapore for establishing an International Arbitration Centre here to adjudicate commercial disputes, as the city is well connected to the world geographically. Chief Justice Ramana, who is camping in Raj Bhavan, in an informal chat said he also suggested that Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao provide support in terms of necessary infrastructure for the proposed facility initially. "I spoke to the Chief Justice of Singapore... He wants some assistance from India about artificial intelligence.. He wants to know how the Supreme Court is using Artificial intelligence.. And I requested him to help us establish the International Arbitration Centre because the world's best arbitration centre is in Singapore. For that he agreed," he said. The CJI pointed out that most companies go to either London or Singapore to settle their disputes while Hyderabad is centrally located and well connected to the Gulf, European and Asian countries. Established in 1991 as an independent, not-for-profit organisation, Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC ) has a proven track record in providing neutral arbitration services to the global business community. SIAC arbitration awards have been enforced by the courts of Australia, China, Hong Kong SAR, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Thailand, UK, USA, and Vietnam, amongst other New York Convention signatories, according to its website. Chief Justice Ramana said there would be a conference on Arbitration in August and he would personally talk to the Chief Justice of Singapore on the issue. "Sometime in August, there is a conference on arbitration. I don't know the location. It is subject to pandemic conditions whether it is physical or virtual. We both are participating. If we physically meet we can explain better, otherwise I can interact with him. He promised that he would extend all his support," Ramana said. He stated that Hyderabad is the best place for IAC, as the city boasts of great infrastructure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cji-n-v-ramana-seeks-singapores-help-for-setting-up-international-arbitration-centre-in-hyderabad-998474.html
17-06-2021||National||Plea in SC seeks ex-gratia compensation to kin of those succumbing to Covid-19 side effects||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking directions to the Centre and states to provide ex-gratia compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the family members of those who have succumbed to the side effects or post Covid-19 diseases, including mucormycosis. The petition has referred to section 12 of the Disaster Management Act 2005, which said that national authority shall recommend guidelines for the minimum standards of relief to be provided to persons affected by disaster, which shall include ex-gratia assistance on account of loss of life. The plea, filed by advocate Reepak Kansal, said it is the obligation of the state to provide adequate relief to the victims of side effects of Covid-19. “Without any financial assistance by the respondents in their respective state, the right to live with dignity of victim/family members of deceased, are violated which may kindly be protected,” the plea said. In his plea, Kansal said that the apex court has already issued notice on his separate petition seeking directions for ex-gratia compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the families of those who have died of Covid-19. The petition said that majority of patients with mucormycosis or black, yellow and white fungus, are those who have recovered from Covid-19. It said there is a constitutional and legal obligation on the state and its different organs to take care of the victims of calamity and their family members. On June 11, the Centre had told the apex court that issues raised in two separate pleas, seeking directions for ex-gratia compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the families of those who have died of Covid-19, are “genuine” and are under consideration of the government. The top court had on May 24 sought the Centre's reply on these two pleas and had said that there should be a uniform policy for issuing death certificates to those succumbing to the virus. The court had also asked the Centre to place before it the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines on death certificates for Covid-19 victims, saying there should be uniform policy for issuing such documents. Advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, one of the two petitioners on the issue, had earlier argued in the apex court that under section 12(iii) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, every family whose member died due to disaster is entitled for ex-gratia compensation of Rs 4 lakh.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-seeks-ex-gratia-compensation-to-kin-of-those-succumbing-to-covid-19-side-effects-998476.html
17-06-2021||National||5 aircrafts of IndiGo, GO FIRST damaged at Ahmedabad airport due to thunderstorm||Five aircraft of IndiGo and GO FIRST have been damaged at the Ahmedabad airport due to an unexpected thunderstorm, aviation industry sources said on Thursday.  Three aircraft of IndiGo with registration numbers VT- IVO, VT-ITD and VT-IVQ and two aircraft of GO FIRST with registration numbers VT-WGV and VT-WJG were damaged on Wednesday evening, they said. Asked about this matter, IndiGo said: "Ahmedabad airport was hit by an unexpected thunderstorm with extremely high winds last evening. This impacted all airlines' aircraft parked at Ahmedabad airport."  "Three IndiGo aircraft sustained minor/non-structural damages which will require replacement of certain parts. The aircraft shall be in operations after necessary repairs," it added. GO FIRST, previously known as GoAir, did not respond to PTI's request for a statement on this matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-aircrafts-of-indigo-go-first-damaged-at-ahmedabad-airport-due-to-thunderstorm-998483.html
17-06-2021||National||Petroleum Ministry proposes changes in law to include hydrogen as mineral oil||The petroleum ministry has proposed amendments to existing law to include cleaner sources of energy like hydrogen within the definition of 'mineral oils' for which the government gives out licence to explore and produce. Seeking stakeholder comments, the ministry said the Oilfields (Regulation and Development) Amendment Bill 2021 proposes to amend the present Act to "create opportunities for exploration, development and production of next-generation cleaner fuels and mitigate regulatory challenges and risks." It also proposes a new definition of 'mineral oils' by including within its ambit modern and cleaner sources of energy like hydrogen. Conventionally, mineral oil is understood to mean hydrocarbons in various forms including natural gas and petroleum oil. In the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic and the Paris Climate Change Agreement, the global community is committed to developing and using clean energy sources. Hydrogen gas is one such clean source of energy, which can be produced, distributed and regulated in conjunction with natural gas, it said. "Presently, the Oilfields (Regulation & Development) Act, 1948 deals with 'mineral oils' as understood in the conventional sense. In order to facilitate the development and production of alternative/derivative clean energy sources that are being or may be developed in future, this Bill seeks to redefine 'mineral oil'," the draft said. The term as defined in the Bill includes not merely hydrocarbons but also the next-gen fuels viz. 'other gases which are capable of being used as fuels occurring in association with mineral oils or can be produced from mineral oils such as hydrogen'. The Bill also seeks to foster investment in the exploration and production of oil and gas by offering a lease on stable terms and enabling the government to prescribe a compensation mechanism to protect the investment. The compensation shall be payable in case of suspension, revocation or cancellation of the lease or in case of restriction of access to the leased area. The Bill also seeks to explicitly enumerate the power of the government to prescribe rules for the extension of the period of the lease, the maximum or minimum area of the lease, a mechanism for determination of the economic life of the oilfield, terms for merger or combination of leases and resolution of disputes. It provides for the imposition of fines of up to Rs 1 crore for the first contravention of provisions of any rules. Subsequent contraventions will attract a fine of up to Rs 10 lakh per day. The Bill also seeks to empower the government to recover royalty, cess, lease or licence fee, penalty payment under the law, the draft said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petroleum-ministry-proposes-changes-in-law-to-include-hydrogen-as-mineral-oil-998496.html
17-06-2021||National||NBSA fines News18 Kannada, Suvarna News, censures Times Now||National Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) of News Broadcasters Association (NBA) has fined Kannada channels News18 Kannada and Suvarna News and English channel Times Now has been censured for gaps in reporting news targeting Tablighi Jamaat members last year, complainant Campaign Against Hate Speech (CAHS) said on Thursday. The NBSA action came on a complaint filed by CAHS against the "hateful coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic in which they had targeted members of Tablighi Jamaat as well as theentire Muslim community". According to the CAHS statement, News18 Kannada has been fined Rs one lakh to be paid to the NBA within seven days for violating the Code of Ethics and Broadcasting Standards, Principles of Self Regulation relating to impartiality and objectivity.  The "manner in which the programmes were presented was highly objectionable" and the report on Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi was based on "pure conjecture". "The tone, tenor and language were crass, prejudiced and disrespectful. The programmes were prejudicial, inflammatory, and crossed all boundaries of good taste and sensibility without any concern for the feelings of a religious group," it said. The NBSA has also directed the channel to air an apology on June 23 before the 9 PM news which has to be presented both in text and in voice-over. The CAHS had flagged two programmes of News18 Kannada. Suvarna News has been fined Rs 50,000 for violating the Fundamental Principles of Impartiality, Objectivity and Neutrality in Reporting as well as guideline relating to Racial and Religious Harmony. Both channels have been asked that video of the broadcasts on the channel’s website, Youtube or other links should be removed immediately and the NBSA informed in writing within seven days, the CAHS statement said. The NBSA examined seven shows of Suvarna News flagged by CAHS and held that the “entire blame/cause of the spread of the Covid-19 virus was linked to the Tablighi Jamaat and in turn to a particular community" in six of the seven shows. "The titles of the programmes have an insidious effect which would incite communal violence. The programmes had gone beyond facts and certainly crossed the limits of good taste and decency in reporting," the CAHS quoted the NBSA as saying. Times Now has been issued a censure "for telecasting…a programme on a sensitive issue which could create communal dissensions amongst communities" and the broadcaster has been advised to be “careful in choosing its panellists and try to avoid those persons to be panellists who are known in the public domain to have rabid and extreme views”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nbsa-fines-news18-kannada-suvarna-news-censures-times-now-998513.html
17-06-2021||National||Milkha Singh 'stable and improving'||Legendary Indian sprinter Milkha Singh is "stable and improving" under the constant supervision of a medical team at the PGIMER here after having recovered from Covid-19, which he contracted last month. "He is stable and improving. He is constantly being monitored by a medical team," PGIMER officials told PTI on Thursday. The 91-year-old was on Wednesday shifted out of Covid ICU to another section of the PGIMER hospital, a statement from his family had said describing his condition as "stable". Another statement issued by the family on Thursday said, "Milkha ji continues to battle and we remain hopeful". Milkha's wife Nirmal Kaur (85), who had also contracted the virus days after her husband tested positive, passed away at a private hospital in Mohali on Sunday due to Covid-related complications. Kaur was a former national women's volleyball team captain. Milkha was admitted to PGIMER on June 3 after his oxygen levels dipped at home following treatment at the Fortis hospital in Mohali for a week. The legendary athlete is a four-time Asian Games gold medallist and 1958 Commonwealth Games champion but his greatest performance remains the fourth-place finish in the 400m final of the 1960 Rome Olympics. He also represented India in the 1956 and 1964 Olympics and was bestowed the Padma Shri in 1959.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/milkha-singh-stable-and-improving-998524.html
17-06-2021||National||Delhi riots: Student activists Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita walk out of Tihar jail on bail||Student activists Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita walked out of Tihar prison on Thursday, hours after a court ordered their immediate release in the northeast Delhi riots "conspiracy" case. Kalita and Narwal, both PhD students from Jawaharlal Nehru University were out of jail by the evening. Tanha was already out on custody parole to write his final year BA examinations of Jamia Milia Islamia University, New Delhi. The three student activists were not released from the prison on time over delays in verifying their addresses and sureties. In its order for the immediate release of the trio, the Delhi court said the delay in the verification process by the police could not be a plausible reason for the accused to be kept imprisoned. When the trial court deferred the order on their plea for Thursday, they moved the Delhi High Court, which ordered the lower court to proceed with the issue with "promptitude and expedition". All three were arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act in May, last year, in the riots case, triggered after protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act. The HC, however, no case was prima facie made out against them under the anti-terrror law. It had also made scathing remarks against the police. The high court, while granting them bail on June 15, had observed that "in an anxiety to suppress dissent, the state has blurred the line between the right to protest and terrorist activity" and if such a mindset gains traction, it would be a "sad day for democracy". The Delhi Police have, however, moved the Supreme Court, challenging the high court judgement granting them bail in the case.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-student-activists-natasha-narwal-devangana-kalita-walk-out-of-tihar-jail-on-bail-998525.html
17-06-2021||National||India maintains 43rd rank on IMD's World Competitiveness Index; Switzerland tops chart||India maintained 43rd rank on an annual World Competitiveness Index compiled by the Institute for Management Development (IMD) that examined the impact of Covid-19 on economies around the world this year. The 64-nation list was led by Switzerland, while Sweden has moved up to the second position (from sixth last year), Denmark has lost one place to rank third, the Netherlands has retained its fourth place and Singapore has slipped to the fifth place (from first in 2020). At eighth, Taiwan reached the top-10 for the first time since the ranking began 33 years ago (moving up from 11th last year). The UAE and the USA remain in their same spots as last year (9th and 10th, respectively). The top-performing Asian economies are, in order, Singapore (fifth), Hong Kong (seventh), Taiwan (eighth) and China (16th). The IMD World Competitiveness Ranking ranks 64 economies and assesses the extent to which a country promotes the prosperity of its people by measuring economic well-being through hard data and survey responses from executives. This year, the rankings expose the economic impact of the pandemic across the globe. Among the BRICS nations, India is ranked second after China (16), followed by Russia (45th), Brazil (57th) and South Africa (62th). India has maintained its position for the past three years but this year, it had significant improvements in government efficiency, IMD said. "India's improvements in the government efficiency factor are mostly due to relatively stable public finances (despite difficulties brought by the pandemic, in 2020 the government deficit stayed at 7 per cent) and to the positive feedbacks we registered among Indian business executives with respect to the support and subsidies provided by the government to the private companies," IMD said. It, however, added that the short term performance of India's economy will depend on its ability to address the pandemic. The report finds that qualities such as investment in innovation, digitalisation, welfare benefits and leadership, resulting in social cohesion have helped countries better weather the crisis the best and thus ranked higher in competitiveness. The report said top-performing economies are characterised by varying degrees of investment in innovation, diversified economic activities, and supportive public policy, according to the experts at the World Competitiveness Center. "Strength in these areas prior to the pandemic allowed these economies to address the economic implications of the crisis more effectively," the report said. Competitive economies succeeded in transitioning to a remote work routine while also allowing remote learning. Addressing unemployment has been fundamental. Countries that ensured the effectiveness of key public spending, such as public finance, tax policy and business legislation, are seen as essential policies to relieve the pressure on the economies hit by Covid-19, the report said. The ranking, produced annually by the IMD World Competitiveness Center, measures the prosperity and competitiveness of 64 nations by examining four factors -- economic performance, government efficiency, business efficiency, and infrastructure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-maintains-43rd-rank-on-imds-world-competitiveness-index-switzerland-tops-chart-998529.html
17-06-2021||National||National helpline launched to report cyber frauds||Dialling 155260 — a national helpline — and informing a reporting platform could help you prevent financial loss due to cyber fraud. The Ministry of Home Affairs on Thursday launched the national helpline reporting platform, a mechanism that helps people cheated in cyber frauds to report such cases and get the money back. Union Home Minister Amit Shah operationalised the helpline and platform, which was made operational by the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C) under the Ministry of Home Affairs, with active support and cooperation from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), all major banks, payment banks, wallets and online merchants. Soft-launched on April 1, the national helpline will be available in seven states — Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Telangana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh — covering more than 35% of the country’s population. Roll out in the other states for pan-national coverage is underway to prevent the flow of money siphoned off by fraudsters, the MHA said. Since its soft launch, the helpline has been able to save more than Rs 1.85 crore of defrauded money from reaching the hands of fraudsters, with Delhi and Rajasthan saving Rs 58 lakh and Rs 53 lakh respectively. The Citizen Financial Cyber Fraud Reporting and Management System has been developed in house by I4C to integrate law enforcement agencies and banks and financial intermediaries.  "The facility empowers both the banks and the police, by leveraging new-age technologies for sharing online fraud related information and taking action in almost real-time. The loss of defrauded money in online cheating cases can be stopped by chasing the money trail and stopping its further flow before it is taken out of the digital ecosystem by the fraudster," the MHA said. Explaining the workflow, the MHA said that victims can call the helpline, which is operated by the concerned state police. The operator notes down the fraud transaction details and basic personal information and reports to Citizen Financial Cyber Frauds Reporting and Management System. It is then shared with concerned banks, wallets and merchants and so on, depending on whether they are the victim’s bank or the bank/wallet in which the defrauded money has gone. "An SMS is also sent to the victim with an acknowledgement number of the complaint with direction to submit complete details of the fraud on the National Cybercrime Reporting Portal (https://cybercrime.gov.in/) within 24 hours, using the acknowledgement number. The concerned Bank, which can now see the ticket on its dashboard on the Reporting Portal, checks the details in its internal systems," the MHA said. "If the defrauded money is still available, the bank puts it on hold, i.e., the fraudster cannot withdraw the money. If the defrauded money has moved out to another Bank, the ticket gets escalated to the next Bank to which the money has moved out. This process is repeated until the money is saved from reaching into the hands of the fraudsters," it added. Currently, the Helpline and its Reporting Platform has all the major public and private sector banks onboard, including the State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank, Bank of Baroda, Bank of India, Union Bank, IndusInd, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Axis, Yes and Kotak Mahindra Bank. It also has all major wallets and merchants such as PayTM, PhonePe, Mobikwik, Flipkart and Amazon linked to it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-helpline-launched-to-report-cyber-frauds-998532.html
17-06-2021||National||Centre amends rules regulating Cable TV networks||The Narendra Modi government on Thursday amended the rules regulating Cable TV networks providing for a three-tier "statutory" mechanism with an Inter-Departmental Committee at the final step to deal with complaints of citizens relating to content broadcast by channels. The amendments to the Cable Television Network Rules 1994 also recognise statutory bodies set up by TV channels for self-regulation. At present, there are over 900 TV channels that are required to comply with the Programme and Advertising Code laid down by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting under the Cable Television Network Rules. The Cable Television Networks (Amendment) Rules, 2021 provides for a three-level grievance redressal mechanism -- self-regulation by broadcasters, self-regulation by the self-regulating bodies of the broadcasters and oversight mechanism by the Centre. At the first step, a viewer can write directly to the broadcaster seeking amends to a programme which it has aired. For advertisements, one has to write to the Advertising Standards Council of India. A decision has to be conveyed within 15 days and the complaint has the option of approaching the self-regulating bodies set up by TV channels, which should deal with the case in 60 days. "If the complainant is not satisfied with the decision of the self-regulating body, he may, within 15 days of such decision, prefer an appeal to the Central Government for its consideration under the Oversight Mechanism," the amendment said. Such appeals will be dealt by an Inter-Departmental Committee set up under the Oversight Mechanism. It will be headed by the Additional Secretary in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and have from the Ministry of Women and Child Development, Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Ministry of External Affairs, Ministry of Defence and representatives of other Ministries and organisations, including experts, as the Centre may decide. Not just appeals, this panel will also hear matters referred to it by the Centre. At present, there is an institutional mechanism by way of an Inter-Ministerial Committee to address grievances of citizens relating to violation of the Programme/Advertising Codes under the Rules but it does not have statutory backing. After examining the complaints, the Inter-Departmental Committee can recommend the Centre to issue an advise, warning, censure, admonishing or reprimanding a broadcaster or seek an apology. It can also ask the broadcaster to include a warning card or a disclaimer or to delete or modify the content or take the channel or a programme off-air for a specified time period where it is satisfied that such action is warranted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-amends-rules-regulating-cable-tv-networks-998533.html
17-06-2021||National||Got tremendous support inside jail, will continue our struggle, says student activist after release||Student activist Natasha Narwal on Thursday said they had received "tremendous support" inside Tihar Jail in Delhi and would continue their struggle. Narwal, along with Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha, walked out of Tihar, hours after a court here ordered their immediate release in the northeast Delhi riots "conspiracy" case. JNU students Narwal and Kalita thanked their friends and well-wishers, many of whom gathered outside the jail, for supporting them during their year-long stay behind bars. "We have received tremendous support inside jail and we will continue our struggle," Narwal told reporters. Welcoming the Delhi High Court order granting them bail, Narwal, an activist of women collective Pinjra Tod, said that when they were arrested, it took them many months to believe that they were in jail under such stringent charges. Hitting out at the government, Kalita said people are in jail for raising their voice. "They are trying to suppress the voice of people and dissent. We got a lot of support from people which helped us survive inside (jail)," she said. On the delay in their release after the high court granted them bail, she said it was unbelievable because they had secured bail two-three days ago. "...still we were inside jail. I almost kept expecting that some police officers will come and arrest me," she added. Narwal, Kalita and Tanha were arrested in May last year under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Walking out of Tihar Jail, Jamia Millia Islamia student Tanha said he had kept hope that he would be released one day and asserted that the fight against the CAA, NRC and the NPR would continue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/got-tremendous-support-inside-jail-will-continue-our-struggle-says-student-activist-after-release-998551.html
17-06-2021||National||India, Pakistan have cleared all pending assignment visas, says Ministry of External Affairs||India and Pakistan have cleared all pending assignment visas, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Thursday. "These are routine administrative matters. I understand both sides cleared all pending assignment visas yesterday," MEA Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said at a media briefing. His response came when asked whether there was any problem between the two countries in granting the assignment visas. Assignment visas are generally issued under the principle of reciprocity. The visas allow diplomats and staff members of foreign missions to operate in the countries of their posting. India and Pakistan last year reduced their staff strength in their respective high commissions by half following an incident of alleged involvement of Pakistani officials in "acts of espionage" in India. India had asked Pakistan to reduce its staff at its high commission in Delhi and announced a reciprocal trimming of staff strength in the Indian high commission in Islamabad following the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pakistan-have-cleared-all-pending-assignment-visas-says-ministry-of-external-affairs-998556.html
17-06-2021||National||J&K integral part of India; No amount of questioning can change reality: MEA||India on Thursday said Jammu and Kashmir is an integral part of it and no amount of questioning can change the reality, an assertion that came following a letter by the Pakistan foreign minister to two top UN officials over alleging a design by New Delhi to change the demographic composition of the region. Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Arindam Bagchi also said that cross-border terrorism is "unacceptable". "The Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir is an integral part of India. No amount of questioning can change the reality. Also cross border terrorism is unacceptable and no amount of justification can make it acceptable," he said at a media briefing. Bagchi was asked to comment on Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi's latest letter to the president of the United Nations Security Council and the United Nations Secretary-General. In the letter, Qureshi alleged that India was changing the demographic structure of Kashmir through the issuance of fake domicile certificates and other measures. He urged the UN Security Council to call upon India to reverse its actions, including those initiated on and after August 5, 2019. Pakistan has been making concerted efforts to internationalise the Kashmir issue. The neighbouring country stepped up an anti-India campaign after New Delhi announced in August 2019 its decision to withdraw special powers of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcate the state into two union territories. India has told Pakistan that it desires normal neighbourly relations with Islamabad in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence. India has been maintaining that the onus is on Pakistan to create an environment free of terror and hostility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-integral-part-of-india-no-amount-of-questioning-can-change-reality-mea-998557.html
17-06-2021||National||Govt actively engaged with Dominica for Choksi's early deportation: MEA ||The Indian government is actively engaged with Dominica to seek early deportation of fugitive diamond merchant Mehul Choksi and his handover to India, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. A Dominican magistrate court adjourned till June 25 the hearing into alleged illegal entry of Choki into the Caribbean island nation, local media there had reported earlier this week. Asked about Choksi at an online media briefing, Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said he continues to be in the custody of authorities in the commonwealth of Dominica and legal proceedings are underway.  "Government of India is actively engaged with the Dominican government to seek the early deportation and handover to India of Mehul Choksi to face justice in our country," he said.  "The criminal charges that Mehul Choksi faces in India and the facts relating to his continued Indian citizenship have been suitably brought to the attention of the authorities in the commonwealth of Dominica," the MEA spokesperson said. On Monday, the magistrate court was to start hearing the case of Choksi's "illegal entry" into the country on May 23 but he was a "no show", a media website Natureislenews had reported. Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi had fled India in the first week of January 2018, weeks before the scam in the Punjab National Bank rocked the Indian banking industry. Nirav Modi escaped to Europe and was finally held in London where he is contesting his extradition to India, while Choksi took citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda in 2017 where he was staying since his escape from Delhi. Choksi, 62, had mysteriously gone missing on May 23 from Antigua and Barbuda. He was detained in neighbouring island country Dominica on May 23 for illegal entry after a possible romantic escapade with his rumoured girlfriend. His lawyers alleged that he was kidnapped from Jolly Harbour in Antigua by policemen looking like Antiguans and Indians and brought to Dominica on a boat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-actively-engaged-with-dominica-for-choksis-early-deportation-mea-998559.html
17-06-2021||National||Sushant Singh Rajput's flatmate Siddharth Pithani granted 10-day parole for marriage||A special NDPS court here on Thursday granted interim bail to Siddharth Pithani, a former roommate of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput and an accused in a drug case, for his wedding scheduled on June 26. Pithani, currently in judicial custody, was arrested by the NCB from Hyderabad on May 28 in the drug case linked to Rajput's death last year. Last week, among other grounds for seeking bail, the accused had told the court that he is getting married on June 26. However, Pithani later withdrew his bail application and pleaded for an interim bail for his wedding.  Special judge V V Vidwans granted him an interim plea till July 2. Pithani was arrested on charges of procuring and helping Rajput get narcotics substances under section 27-A of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act which deals with financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders, NCB had said. Rajput was found dead in his home in suburban Bandra on June 14 last year. Following the actor's death, the NCB began a probe into alleged drug use in the film industry based on some WhatsApp chats. Several people were arrested by the NCB under the NDPS Act in the case and most of them are out on bail currently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajputs-flatmate-siddharth-pithani-granted-10-day-parole-for-marriage-998564.html
17-06-2021||National||Mamata Banerjee moves Calcutta High Court against Nandigram poll result||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has moved the Calcutta High Court challenging Assembly election result in Nandigram where BJP's Suvendu Adhikari emerged victorious. The court will hear the matter on June 18.  As per the 'cause list' released by the High Court on its website on Thursday, the matter is scheduled to be taken up via video conference before the court of Justice Kausik Chanda as "to be mentioned". The Election Commission had declared Adhikari the winner and the Trinamool Congress supremo the runner-up in the fiercely contested election for the Nandigram constituency. Alleging tampering of EVM machines and refusal of demands for recounting by the concerned EC official, Banerjee had said following declaration of the results that the doors of the court will be knocked on the issue. BJP MLA Adhikari is at present the leader of the opposition in the West Bengal assembly.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-moves-calcutta-high-court-against-nandigram-poll-result-998566.html
17-06-2021||National||Children unlikely to get disproportionately hit by third wave of Covid-19: AIIMS study||The widely anticipated third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is unlikely to impact the children “disproportionately”, according to a new study which found that the level of sero-positivity among kids is comparable to the adults during the second wave of the epidemic. “The SARS-CoV-2 sero-positivity rate among children was high and was comparable to the adult population. Hence, it is unlikely that any future third wave by prevailing Covid 19 variants would disproportionately affect children two years or older,” reported the team led by researchers from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi. An analysis of more than 4,000 samples – collected by the researchers during the second surge of the epidemic - showed nearly 56% of children below 18 years were exposed to the virus as against 63.5% of the adult population. The sero-positivity studies look at the level of antibodies in the blood, caused by exposure to the virus. The researchers concluded that children are as vulnerable to SARS-CoV-2 variants as the adult population. The study comes amidst a growing concern among the parents on a possible third wave of the epidemic and its impacts on children as a substantial number of the adults is likely to receive at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine by November when the third wave is anticipated to surface. Last month, the Indian Academy of Paediatrics too allayed the fear of children being affected by the virus during the third wave "predominantly or exclusively" by asserting that such a situation is "highly unlikely" to arise. The interim analysis of 4,509 participants by the AIIMS team is a part of a larger WHO-supported epidemiological study using the sero-positivity data across the states. The sample population analysed for the interim study includes 700 kids below 18 years from five sites – a Delhi urban resettlement colony (92 children), villages in Faridabad (189), Bhubaneswar rural (165), Gorakhpur rural (146) and Agartala rural (108). The data was collected between April and June. In Delhi, the data was collected at the end of the first wave and before the second wave but in other sites, the sampling was conducted during the second wave. At Gorakhpur, which is a major hub for people travelling to Nepal, the study shows 88% of the people had been exposed to the novel coronavirus, as the Uttar Pradesh border town reports the highest seropositivity among the five sites. The least affected was Faridabad (59% sero-positivity). Among the children, the prevalence was slightly more in female participants compared to the males (58.6% versus 53.0%), but there was no statistically significant difference. Children aged 2-4 years and 5-9 year had almost identical sero-positivity rates (42.4% and 43.8%) which was lower than the rate observed for children aged 10-17 years (60.3%). The higher seropositivity rate in children aged 10-17 years might be reflective of their higher mobility and independence compared to the younger children, the team reported in the study, which has not yet been peer-reviewed and released on a preprint server. The commonest symptoms in children were fever, sore throat, runny nose, cough, shortness of breath and conjunctivitis. Some kids were also examined based on abdominal symptoms (vomiting, nausea and diarrhoea) and neurological symptoms (loss of smell and loss of taste), and a section of them was indeed found coronavirus positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/children-unlikely-to-get-disproportionately-hit-by-third-wave-of-covid-19-aiims-study-998569.html
17-06-2021||National||SC to consider plea for cancelling Class XII state board exams by Punjab, Assam, Tripura and Andhra Pradesh||The Supreme Court on Thursday decided to consider a plea for cancelling Class XII board examinations by Assam, Punjab, Tripura and Andhra Pradesh and Class XI by Kerala. After giving in-principle approval for the evaluation scheme prepared by the CBSE and ICSE boards, a bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar agreed to take up on June 21 a plea for rescinding other states' board examinations. The court noted a submission on behalf of petitioner-advocate Anubha Shrivastava Sahai and others that out of 28 states, six states had already conducted the Class XII board examinations and 18 states had cancelled it. However, four states namely, Assam, Punjab, Tripura and Andhra Pradesh have not cancelled the examination as of now. The counsel also submitted Kerala has not cancelled the 11th standard examination conducted by the state board. The court asked the counsel to serve a copy of the petition to states concerned for their response on the next date of hearing on Monday, June 21. A meeting headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 1 decided to cancel CBSE board examinations in view of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Subsequently, other Boards followed suit by announcing a similar move. However, no decision was taken by the four states.  On Thursday, the top court gave in-principle approval of a scheme, prepared by the CBSE and ICSE for assessing the Class XII students after the cancellation of the examinations due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Both the boards proposed to declare the final results by July 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-plea-for-cancelling-class-xii-state-board-exams-by-punjab-assam-tripura-and-andhra-pradesh-998573.html
17-06-2021||National||Bias in assessment could lead to withholding of results: CBSE||CBSE has warned schools against any bias or favour while deciding the results of the Class 12 examinations and asked them to preserve the records for subsequent verification by officials. A failure to adhere to the CBSE policy could lead the school to lose its affiliation to the Board and withholding the results till such time the policy is adhered to. As per the new criteria to assess Class 12 students, who will not face conventional examination due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the CBSE has decided to take into account the marks scored by them in Class 10, Class 11 examinations and the internal assessment in Class 12. “CBSE may depute a team to verify the documents and the process of awarding marks uploaded to ensure the correctness of the same,” the CBSE policy for the tabulation of marks for Class 12 Board examinations said. The policy document was submitted to the Supreme Court on Thursday. It asked the schools to seal all the records of the students along with the Rationale document under the signature of all the members of the committee in safe custody of the principal. “A check on the basis of data uploaded by each school will also be done by the CBSE and all the schools identified based on the data analysis, would be asked to submit their record to the regional office concerned and these documents will be verified by a team of experts deputed by the CBSE,” the policy stated. The CBSE made it clear that in cases where the school deliberately indulges in practices that are not consistent with fair, unbiased and objective practices of assessment, the board reserved the right to start dis-affiliating proceedings and/or impose a financial penalty against the school. The CBSE also reserved the right to “decide not to declare the result of Class 12 for the school till the time it is not in conformity with the Board’s policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bias-in-assessment-could-lead-to-withholding-of-results-cbse-998594.html
17-06-2021||National||Merchant vessel's fuel tank develops crack, 10 KL oil spilled in Bay of Bengal: Indian Coast Guard||A merchant vessel's fuel tank developed a crack leading to 10 kilolitres of oil being spilled in the Bay of Bengal on Thursday, the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) said. It said the vessel, named Devon, was sailing under the flag of Portugal and was en-route from Colombo in Sri Lanka to Haldia in West Bengal when the fuel leak happened. The vessel developed an underwater crack in the left side fuel tank containing about 120 kilolitres (KL) of very low sulphur fuel oil, the ICG said in a statement. "The crack resulted in spillage of about 10 KL of oil into sea before preventive action was taken and remaining oil in tank was transferred to another tank by ship's crew," it said. The vessel was continuing its voyage to Haldia and is likely to reach there by Friday evening, the statement said. "The ICG is in continuous contact with Devon and master has reported that the vessel is stable. The ICG's pollution response team at Chennai has been alerted and kept standby. In addition, the ICG's ships and aircraft deployed at sea are also put on alert in pollution response configuration," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/merchant-vessels-fuel-tank-develops-crack-10-kl-oil-spilled-in-bay-of-bengal-indian-coast-guard-998631.html
17-06-2021||National||Cumulative Covid-19 vaccine coverage exceeds 26.86 crore, over 5 crore doses given to 18-44 in age group: Health Ministry||The total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far has crossed 26.86 crore of which five crore were given to beneficiaries in the age group of 18 to 44 years, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. In this 18 to 44 year age group, 18,94,803 were given the first dose of a vaccine and 88,017 the second shot on Thursday. In total, 4,93,56,276 people of this age group in 37 states and Union Territories have received their first dose and 10,58,514 their second dose since the beginning of the third phase of the vaccination drive. Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered the first dose to more than 10 lakh beneficiaries in the 18 to 44 year age group, the ministry said. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has reached 26,86,65,914 according to a 7 pm provisional report. This include 1,00,95,383 healthcare and 1,69,96,277 frontline wrokers who have taken the first dose, 70,32,270 healthcare and 89,63,142 frontline who got the second dose. In the 18 to 44 year age group 4,93,56,276 individuals got the first and 10,58,514 the second dose. In the 45 to 60 year age group, 7,84,18,488 people got the first dose and 1,23,95,893 beneficiaries the second shot of vaccine. Among the senior citizens, 6,37,34,314 people have been given the first jab and 2,06,15,357 beneficiaries the second one. As of day 153 of the immunisation drive, a total of 29,64,596 vaccine doses was administered. Among them, 25,81,421 beneficiaries were given the first dose and 3,83,175 people got the second dose according to the provisional report till 7 pm. The final report for the day would be completed by late in the night. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cumulative-covid-19-vaccine-coverage-exceeds-2686-crore-over-5-crore-doses-given-to-18-44-in-age-group-health-ministry-998646.html
17-06-2021||National||IMA doctors in nationwide protest on June 18 demanding central law on violence against medicos||Around 3.5 lakh doctors of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) will participate in a nationwide protest on Friday demanding a central law dealing with violence against medicos. IMA national president Dr J A Jayalal said besides its members, a number of organisations such as the Association of Physicians of India, the Association of Surgeons of India, the Medical Students Network, Junior Doctor Network will participate in the protest. In Bihar and central Kerala, doctors will close their clinics in the morning to press for the demand of a central law against violence against doctors. In the evening, public interaction has been arranged to form a coordination team in each branch of IMA to stop such violence from taking place.  "We are deeply hurt to see increasing physical violence on doctors and healthcare professionals. It's occurring day in and day out. The IMA is pressing for a central act against the violence," the IMA said in a statement. The Health Services Personnel and Clinical Establishment (Prohibition of Violence and Damage to Property) Bill, 2019, which sought to impose a jail term up to 10 years for assaulting on-duty doctors and other healthcare professionals was dismissed by the Home Ministry saying the special law was not feasible as health is a state subject, it said. "There are many central health laws such as the PCPNDT Act and the Clinical Establishment Act. Currently, 21 states have local laws, but what we need is a strong central law to protect doctors from violence," the doctors' body said. Listing plans for Friday's protest, the IMA said memorandums will be submitted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, senior ministers including home minister Amit Shah. All branches of IMA would submit memoranda to local authorities.  "All the 1,700 branches are organizing events to mark the protest. Students' wings are very active on the event as they are the ones most concerned about how the issue is tackled and addressed," the IMA statement said. "We demand that the government enhances security features in every hospital and declare hospitals as protected zones," the statement said. On the issue of Yoga guru Ramdev's recent controversial comments, the IMA said a number of police complaints have been filed across the country for his "malafide statements, which, in our opinion, is against the interest of the citizens of the country". "Accordingly, we have urged the prime minister to take appropriate action against him. We respect Ayurveda as part of our culture and ancient science and we never go out and criticize it... Our job is to ensure that they (patients) get treated in the best way possible. We are not interested in controversies," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ima-doctors-in-nationwide-protest-on-june-18-demanding-central-law-on-violence-against-medicos-998666.html
17-06-2021||National||Goa tourism activity to remain shut until everyone gets first dose of Covid vaccine: CM ||Accused of prematurely opening up the tourism sector, which led to an unprecedented number of deaths and a high positivity rate during the second Covid wave, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said that the state would not welcome tourism activity until it achieves the target of 100 per cent first vaccine coverage this time around. Sawant also warned opposition politicians against slandering the image of the state, claiming that it would impact the tourism industry in the long run. "There is no plan to start tourism until the first vaccination dose is completed. Our target is to complete it by July 30," Sawant said during an interaction with media persons. The target to achieve 100 per cent first vaccination dose coverage was announced by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant earlier this week when he launched Tika Utsav 3.0, a third statewide vaccination initiative, aimed at ensuring that all adults in the state are vaccinated. Since the launch of Tika Utsav 3.0, more than 13,000 to 18,000 persons have been vaccinated at centres across the state every day. The Sawant-led government has been panned by the opposition and the media for opening up the state for tourism and not shutting down Goa's borders despite the emergence of the second wave, which had crippled the neighbouring states of Karnataka and Maharashtra. Goa also witnessed hundreds of deaths every week as a result and the state's positivity rate had topped the country's charts. Sawant also urged opposition politicians to restrain their criticism of the state government's Covid management efforts and law and order scenario claiming the image of the state was being destroyed, which would hamper tourism. "To tarnish Goa's image for political gain is improper. Such politicians should be taught a lesson by the people. For their own personal gain, they slander the image of the state by slamming the police, tourism and education (sectors) and Covid (management)," the Chief Minister said. "Do not ruin Goa's image outside the state. That is the most important. What we say, what we tweet, what we upload on social media damages the image of the state. No one gives this a thought," he added. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-tourism-activity-to-remain-shut-until-everyone-gets-first-dose-of-covid-vaccine-cm-998669.html
17-06-2021||National||MEA reacts sharply to UN special rapporteur's remarks on Delhi riots case||India on Thursday reacted sharply to a UN special rapporteur expressing concern over the incarceration of student activists Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, saying it expects such experts to respect and have a more informed understanding of its legal proceedings. Mary Lawlor, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders, on Wednesday tweeted, "I'm hearing disturbing reports that WHRDs Natasha Narwal and Devangna Kalita have not been released after @DelhiPolice challenged yesterday's Delhi High Court decision to grant them bail." "I find their incarceration following #antiCAA protests in #India deeply concerning," she tweeted. Asked about the UN rapporteur's observation at an online briefing, Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said he does not have an immediate response to it. However, he added, "I understand that this refers to an ongoing judicial process and we would expect UN special rapporteurs to respect and have a more informed understanding of our legal proceedings." Narwal, Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha walked out of Tihar prison on Thursday, hours after a court here ordered their immediate release in the north-east Delhi riots "conspiracy" case. The order came two days after the Delhi High Court granted bail to Narwal, Kalita and Tanha, who were arrested in May last year under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The three student activists are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which left 53 people dead and more than 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mea-reacts-sharply-to-un-special-rapporteurs-remarks-on-delhi-riots-case-998670.html
17-06-2021||National||Delhi Metro to build first-of-its-kind halt platforms to connect Pink, Green lines||Delhi Metro is building first-of-its-kind halt platforms to provide connectivity between the Pink and Green lines at Punjabi Bagh West metro station. Currently, the two lines cross each other but there is no halt facility, and “that's what will make this new project unique”, a senior official said on Thursday, adding, there were demands from people to provide an interchange provision at the intersection. This will be the second interchange facility on the Green Line (Inderlok/Kirti Nagar to Brig. Hoshiar Singh). Inderlok station connects it to the Red Line. "The Delhi Metro is constructing an additional interchange facility (halt platform) on the Green Line i.e. Line 5, which will provide interconnectivity between the Green and Pink Line i.e., Line-7 (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) at the Punjabi Bagh West Metro station of Pink Line," the DMRC said in a statement. To undertake its construction, the first and the last metro train services between Brig. Hoshiar Singh (Bahadurgarh) to Inderlok/Kirtinagar (Line 5) will be regulated from the intervening night of June 18-19 till September 30, officials said. The announcements regarding regulated timings will also be made at the stations and inside the trains on Green Line during this period, they said. The DMRC said that this was "for the first time that such a special halt platform is being planned to connect two already operational metro corridors". There will not be any ticketing facility on the interchange platforms. A 230 metre-long foot-over bridge (FOB) will connect them with the Punjabi Bagh West Metro station on Pink Line, it said. The platforms will be 155 metres long and will connect to the FOB with staircases and two extra large lifts (on each platform) with a capacity of 26 passengers each. The total distance between the new platforms and the concourse of the Punjabi Bagh West station of Pink Line is going to be 16.75 metres, the statement said. "Therefore, the passage has been planned at two levels. The passengers after coming down from the staircases or lifts from platform will again have to take stairs, two escalators or a through movement lift to finally reach the concourse area," it added. This facility will be “of great benefit” to passengers travelling to and from the satellite city of Bahadurgarh and other outer Delhi areas such as Mundka and Nangloi, the DMRC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-metro-to-build-first-of-its-kind-halt-platforms-to-connect-pink-green-lines-998671.html
17-06-2021||National||India argues against Covid-19 'vaccine passports'||Even as Japan and several European Union nations are set to introduce “Vaccine Passports” soon, India on Thursday tacitly argued against the move and reminded the world that a large percentage of people in many developing nations had not been inoculated with the Covid-19 jabs. “There is an ongoing global debate on the issue of so-called vaccine passports", Arindam Bagchi, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), told journalists in New Delhi, adding that the Government of India felt that the debate had to be linked with “the larger issue of vaccine equity” given that many developing countries had not yet been able to inoculate a large percentage of population against the Sars-CoV-2 infection. At least 15 of the 27 nations, which are members of the European Union, have either started issuing “Vaccine Passports” or are preparing to do so to facilitate their citizens to move freely from one country to other without being hindered by the travel restrictions imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Japan is also planning to introduce Vaccine Passports for its citizens from next month. "We would favour discussions on the subject of vaccine passport with greater focus on vaccine equity," the MEA spokesperson said, articulating New Delhi’s position on the issue. He said that Government of India was not planning to introduce vaccine passports now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-argues-against-covid-19-vaccine-passports-998672.html
17-06-2021||National Politics||Mayawati launches fresh attack on SP chief Akhilesh Yadav||BSP chief Mayawati on Thursday took a swipe at SP leader Akhilesh Yadav, saying he was getting expelled and "ineffective"' leaders from other parties to join his party just to remain in the news. This is the second consecutive day that Mayawati has targeted Yadav after five MLAs suspended by the BSP last year met the SP chief on Tuesday, triggering speculation that they may join his party In a tweet in Hindi, Mayawati said, “The condition of SP has become so bad that in order to remain in the media every day, even former MLAs and small workers of other parties, who have been expelled or have become ineffective in their areas, are being made to join the party by the SP chief himself many times.” She also charged that the SP chief has no longer has faith in his own local leaders. Mayawati asserted that her party is getting only the right leaders to join the BSP . ”The local level leaders of the BSP have been continuously making only the right people of other parties, including the SP, join after investigation, this is well known,” she said. On Wednesday, Mayawati had said that the "Samajwadi Party, which is an expert in narrow politics of despicable manipulations, malice and casteism, is publicising through the media that some BSP MLAs are breaking away to join the SP. This is an intense illusion". According to the statement issued by the SP on Wednesday Amar Pal Sharma, former BSP MLA from Sahibabad, had joined Yadav's party along with his supporters. The statement had also stated that leaders and workers of many other parties had taken membership of the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mayawati-launches-fresh-attack-on-sp-chief-akhilesh-yadav-998382.html
17-06-2021||National Politics||MHA approves Mukul Roy's request to withdraw his security cover||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has withdrawn the Z-category security cover of Mukul Roy, who returned to Trinamool Congress from the BJP, following a request from the newly-elected MLA, officials said on Thursday. Officials said the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has been asked to recall its personnel deployed with Roy. A contingent of around 24 armed CRPF commandos used to move with him every time he travelled in West Bengal while his son Subhrangshu, a former MLA,  provided security by a small contingent of the CISF. Both Roy and his son have now been provided security by the state police after the veteran politician re-joined Trinamool Congress. Roy has been upset with the BJP, which he joined in 2017 after he was suspended by Trinamool Congress on charges of anti-party activities, for appointing Suvendhu Adhikary as the Leader of Opposition. He was National Vice President of the BJP and as reports emerged of his uneasiness in the party, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had telephoned him. Interestingly, Trinamool Congress top leader Abhishek Banerjee had visited Roy's family recently when the latter's wife had tested positive for Covid-19. As soon as he joined Trinamool, he wrote to the MHA seeking withdrawal of his security cover.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mha-approves-mukul-roys-request-to-withdraw-his-security-cover-998390.html
17-06-2021||National Politics||PM should acknowledge mistakes, seek expert help to rebuild India, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said rebuilding India will begin once Prime Minister Narendra Modi acknowledges his mistakes and seeks help from experts as living in denial will not solve anything. He said this while citing a report quoting World Bank's data on poverty where India has a share of 57.3 per cent in rise in global poverty during the Covid pandemic. "This is the result of GOI's pandemic mismanagement. But we must look at the future now. Rebuilding our country will begin when PM acknowledges his mistakes and seeks help from the experts," he said on Twitter while sharing the report. "Living in denial will not solve anything," he added. This is the result of GOI’s pandemic mismanagement. But we must look at the future now. Rebuilding our country will begin when PM acknowledges his mistakes & seeks help from the experts. Gandhi quoted a graph of the report, which claimed that India has contributed most to the rise in global poverty during the pandemic and its share of global change is 57.3 per cent and 59.3 per cent for poor and middle income groups respectively. The report cited World Bank data on estimated numbers of people who fell below the global poverty line or fell out of the middle income group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-should-acknowledge-mistakes-seek-expert-help-to-rebuild-india-says-rahul-gandhi-998401.html
17-06-2021||National Politics||Sonia, Priyanka Gandhi have taken Covid-19 vaccines: Congress||Congress President Sonia Gandhi and her daughter Priyanka Gandhi Vadra have received Covid-19 vaccines, the party said rejecting BJP's claims. AICC spokesman Randeep Surjewala said former Congress President Rahul Gandhi, who was infected with Covid-19, will take the vaccine as per the prescribed health protocol. Several BJP leaders had accused the Gandhi family of creating “vaccine hesitancy” and claimed that they had not taken the jabs as they did not have faith in Indian vaccines. Rahul was scheduled to take the vaccine on April 16, but had developed flu-like symptoms and had tested positive for Covid-19 two days later. Surjewala said the government should focus on increasing the pace of vaccination instead of creating issues. Union Minister Pralhad Joshi had claimed the Congress President and Rahul had not taken the vaccine as they do not have confidence in Indian vaccines. Joshi also accused the Congress leaders of raising questions on the efficacy of the vaccines and later making a beeline for the jabs. BJP spokesman Sambit Patra had raised the vaccination of the Gandhi family again after a Congress functionary alleged that calf serum was used in the production of Covaxin, the home-grown Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-priyanka-gandhi-have-taken-covid-19-vaccines-congress-998407.html
17-06-2021||National Politics||Maharashtra govt's bickering spills out in the open||Amid Congress’ repeated assertion of going solo in local bodies and the 2024 Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha polls, the Shiv Sena and NCP have hinted at working together for the ensuing elections. The internal bickering between the three ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi partners seems to be coming out in the open. "If the main political parties (Congress and BJP) are speaking of going alone, the other two parties Shiv Sena and NCP will have to join hands in the interest of the state," said an editorial that appeared in Saamana, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece on Thursday. It may be recalled that on the 22nd foundation day of NCP on June 10, its founder-president Sharad Pawar had said: “…We are confident that our government will continue for 5 years. We (NCP and Shiv Sena) will continue to work for the betterment of people in the forthcoming Lok Sabha and Assembly polls as well,” he said. However, after that, Maharashtra Congress President Nana Patole said: “I am the Congress chief of the state. So, I will give the point of view of my party. I don't know what he (Sharad Pawar) said, but Congress has made it very clear that we will be going solo in all local body elections and Assembly polls. Don’t you want to see Nana Patole being made the Chief Minister...?" However, Thursday’s statement in Saamana comes on the 55th Shiv Sena foundation day, creating ripples in political circles. "The 2024 Lok Sabha and Assembly polls are still far away, but the major political parties (BJP and Congress) are suddenly talking of contesting the elections independently. Are there any plans to have mid-term polls?," it asked. When asked about the recent developments, Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said: “A friend in the MVA (state Congress president) Nana Patole said that they'll contest polls alone. They'll be a part of the government but contest alone. You can contest…. Then the two remaining parties will think about what they would do together in future.” It may be recalled, following Patole’s statement, a couple of days ago, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar of NCP said that there was nothing wrong in having political ambitions. In fact, Saamana reiterated the same in the editorial. “As Ajit Pawar said…those who get the support of 145 legislators in the 288-member Assembly, will form the next government and the CM will be decided by them. His statement is also valid. Parliamentary democracy is all about majority figures. Those who succeed in it, will be able to occupy the throne," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/maharashtra-govts-bickering-spills-out-in-the-open-998423.html
17-06-2021||National Politics||Shiv Sena Bhavan symbol of Maharashtra's identity; nobody should dare to cast evil eye on it: Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday said the Shiv Sena Bhavan in Mumbai is not just a headquarter of a political party, but a symbol of Maharashtra's identity and no one should dare cast an evil eye on it. His statement comes a day after Shiv Sena and BJP workers clashed outside the Shiv Sena Bhavan at Dadar in central Mumbai on Wednesday after the youth wing of the BJP took out a protest march against the "offensive" remarks in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' about the land deal controversy in Ayodhya. Sena MLA Sada Sarvankar had said his partymen had got information that the BJP workers were coming to vandalise the Sena Bhavan. Talking to reporters over the clash, Raut said the Shiv Sena Bhavan is a symbol of Marathi and Maharashtra. "If some one tries to attack the premises, will Marathi 'manoos' (person) and Shiv sainik keep quiet?" he asked. "Why did the BJP get so agitated? What did the Sena editorial say? It just sought clarification on the allegations and demanded that if the charges are proved false, those who levelled them should be punished. Is asking for a clarification a crime in this country? The editorial nowhere mentions that the BJP is involved in it. Can't you read and write? First understand what the allegations are and what the Shiv Sena spokespersons have said. Are you educated or not?" he said. The Shriram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust is an autonomous body. What is the BJP's role in this? he said. "The matter is over from our end. They have got 'Shiv prasad' yesterday. Don't bring the situation to such a level that we will have to give Shiv Bhojan thali to them," he said. Whenever people try to attack the Sena Bhavan, which is a symbol of our pride, whether we are in power or not, we will respond in the same manner, Raut said. AAP's Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh and a former minister in the Samajwadi Party government Pawan Pandey have earlier alleged that the land worth Rs 2 crore was bought at an inflated price of Rs 18.5 crore by Shriram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai for the Ram temple premises was made by. The allegation was strongly refuted by Rai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-bhavan-symbol-of-maharashtras-identity-nobody-should-dare-to-cast-evil-eye-on-it-raut-998445.html
17-06-2021||National Politics||Mukul Roy's actions in Tripura make BJP jittery||Two central leaders of BJP rushed to Tripura and held marathon meetings with party leaders and Chief Minister till Wednesday night following reports that Trinamool Congress leader Mukul Roy had reached out to the "rebel MLAs" who are seeking a replacement for Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb. BJP general secretary BL Santosh and organising secretary for Northeast Ajay Jamwal separately met the MLAs, two MPs, office-bearers, and later, leaders of its ally, IPFT, in Agartala. The two are also scheduled to meet some more party leaders on Thursday, something which a BJP insider said was part of efforts to prevent TMC's possible attempt to attract the rebel MLAs.  BJP sources in Agartala said 32 of 36 MLAs attended the meeting with Santosh and Jamwal. Tripura has 60 Assembly seats.  The meetings happened following reports in the local media that at least eight senior MLAs, who are opposed to Deb, are likely to quit the party. Sources said soon after coming back to TMC from BJP, Mukul Roy got in touch with a few MLAs and asked them to join Mamata's party.  Former minister Sudip Roy Barman is reportedly leading the "rebel MLAs" against the Chief Minister. Barman is also believed to be close to Mukul Roy.  Talking to DH over the phone on Thursday, TMC's state unit president, Asish Lal Singh said at least seven to eight BJP MLAs, who are opposed to Deb's leadership are in touch with them and may join Trinamool anytime. "Bengal victory created a sort of wave in favour of us in Tripura. More than 12,300 workers, mostly from BJP, have joined our party in the past two weeks. We expect more and more leaders to join us as the election nears," Singh said.  BJP state president, Manik Saha, however, refuted the reports and told reporters in Agartala that the meetings were part of the party's organisational schedule keeping in mind the Assembly elections in 2023.  In 2016, Mukul Roy was instrumental in bringing six Congress MLAs to TMC in Tripura before he helped them get into BJP. The saffron party formed its first government in Tripura in 2018 by wresting power from the left.  Sudip Roy Barman had led six MLAs and met the central leadership in New Delhi in October last year seeking a leadership change.  TMC at present has no MLA in Tripura but many workers from BJP, Congress and the Left started joining the party after it trounced BJP in Bengal and Mukul returned to Trinamool. Mukul is also likely to visit Tripura soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mukul-roys-actions-in-tripura-make-bjp-jittery-998446.html
17-06-2021||National Politics||A new chapter in the LJP drama: Prince Raj, a sexual assault case, and extortion||As per the police, four months ago, Prince Raj had filed a complaint of extortion against the woman and her partner. An FIR was registered against them under IPC 384 and 389 at the Parliament Street police station on February 10, 2021. Later the case was transferred to the special staff of the New Delhi district. “In his complaint, Prince Raj told the police that he met the woman, who claimed to be a political worker, last year. They exchanged numbers, started talking and became friends. According to him, on June 18 (2020), she invited him to her house in Ghaziabad, and they eventually had a physical relationship. He visited her house on several occasions,” a senior police officer told the publication, quoting from the FIR.  The Samastipur MP has claimed in his complaint that later he confronted the woman after he found out that she was in a live-in relationship with a man and after that, he started ignoring her. “Since August, he started avoiding her and stopped taking her calls. He alleged that one day, her friend called him from her number and threatened to leak an objectionable video of him and the woman. He alleged that they demanded Rs one crore from him for not releasing the video,” the officer told. As per the police, Prince Raj has claimed that he has paid Rs two lakh to the woman and her partner in the past, however, they were demanding Rs one crore from him. “On February 9 (2021), he approached Delhi Police and submitted his complaint along with his conversations with the woman. He also shared her four phone numbers and said he was not able to take more pressure,” the officer said. A senior police officer told the publication that the woman had submitted a three-page complaint at the Connaught Place police station on Tuesday, and added, “In her complaint, the woman has alleged that Prince Raj offered her drinks laced with sedatives and she fell unconscious. She claimed she was sexually abused and he promised to marry her.” Before proceeding further, the police will do an enquiry of the matter and take legal opinion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/a-new-chapter-in-the-ljp-drama-prince-raj-a-sexual-assault-case-and-extortion-998451.html
17-06-2021||National Politics||Hypocritical posturing: CPI(M) on India becoming signatory to 'Open Societies Statement'||The CPI(M) on Thursday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of "doublespeak and hypocritical posturing" over India becoming a signatory to the "Open Societies Statement" at the G7 summit at Cornwall, highlighting the government's "dismal" record of preventive detentions. The latest editorial in the party mouthpiece, People's Democracy, said while the prime minister became a signatory to the "Open Societies Statement", which talks of "human rights for all both online and offline", "right to assemble, organise and associate peacefully" and so on, the Modi government has a dismal and bleak record regarding all the virtues of democracy and the threats to it listed out in the statement. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi has an inordinate capacity for doublespeak and hypocritical posturing. Even then, his performance at the outreach meeting of the G7 summit at Cornwall reached new heights. "Modi was lauding 'freedom of thought and liberty' while presiding over a regime which has set a record in preventive detentions," the editorial said. Quoting official figures, it said 5,128 cases were lodged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in the five-year period between 2015 and 2019. There was a 72-per cent increase in the number of arrests under the UAPA in 2019 as compared to 2015. The number of sedition cases rose to 229 in this period and it has continued to increase in 2020 and the first five months of 2021, it said. "By the standards set out in the "Open Societies Statement", the authoritarian Modi regime should be identified as a threat to freedom and democracy," the editorial said. The Left party also hit out at the Centre over the decision of the Delhi Police, which is under the Union home ministry, to approach the Supreme Court against the bail given by a court to three student activists in the Delhi riots case. "Menacing destruction of Democracy and Constitutional guarantees. Instead of gracefully implementing Delhi HC verdict granting bail to youth illegally arrested under UAPA, HM manipulates stealing time to appeal against bail in the SC. Rise to defend our Constitution," Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hypocritical-posturing-cpim-on-india-becoming-signatory-to-open-societies-statement-998536.html
17-06-2021||National Politics||Two Parliamentary Committees to discuss Covid-19 concerns on June 23||Covid-19 concerns and the impact on employment and livelihood will echo in the meetings of two Parliamentary Committees next week after a failed attempt by the Public Accounts Committee to take up for discussion Centre's vaccination policy. On June 23, the Parliamentary Standing Committee of Lok Sabha on Labour headed by BJD leader B Mahtab will have a briefing by the representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Employment on issues relating to the impact of Covid-19 on 'rising unemployment and loss of jobs and livelihood in organised and unorganised sectors. On the same day, the Parliamentary Standing Committee of Rajya Sabha on Science and Technology, Environment, Forests and Climate Change headed by senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh will hear the views of Principal Scientific Advisor to Government of India Prof K VijayaRaghavan, NITI Aayog member and Chairman, National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) Dr V K Paul and the representatives of the Departments of Biotechnology and Scientific and Industrial Research on issues like vaccine development for Covid-19 and genetic sequencing of coronavirus and its variants.  The expert committee NEGVAC has been set up by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW). It provides guidance on all aspects of Covid-19 vaccination like prioritisation of population groups, procurement and inventory management, vaccine selection and vaccine delivery and tracking mechanism. The issue of Covid-19 has been examined by several committees in the past as well. Last year, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Health and Family Welfare, had in its 123rd report recommended the government to “encourage adequate production of oxygen” to meet the needs of hospitals.  Pointing this out in April, when the Covid-19 second wave was surging, Ramesh had asked why it was not done and said that the shortage of oxygen in hospitals across the country is an "unmitigated man-made disaster". The panel led by Samajwadi Party MP Ramgopal Yadav also predicted a second wave of Covid-19 by November 2020. In March this year, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science and Technology, Environment, Forests and Climate Change, chaired by Ramesh had in its report on demand for grants for the Department of Biotechnology had made a recommendation for ramping up ramping the production capacity of Covaxin and Covishied, the two Covid-19 vaccines manufactured in India so that a wider population may have access to it. Ramesh, a Rajya Sabha member from Congress, had in April made a strong pitch for beginning virtual meetings of Parliamentary Committees to discuss issues of public importance, a suggestion with which another Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, a Lok Sabha MP chairing the Standing Committee on Information Technology had expressed full agreement. Both the leaders had urged the Chair of the respective Houses to allow such meetings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/two-parliamentary-committees-to-discuss-covid-19-concerns-on-june-23-998555.html
17-06-2021||National Politics||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar meets Home Minister Amit Shah, TMC says don't come back||On a four-day visit to Delhi amid a row with the ruling Trinamool Congress in the state, West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Thursday met Home Minister Amit Shah, a move that evoked sharp reactions from TMC and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee who said she had written to the Centre thrice to recall the Governor. Dhankhar, who on Thursday briefed Shah about the law and order situation in the state in wake of the allegations of post-poll violence in the state, had also met Union ministers Prahlad Joshi and Prahlad Singh Patel on Wednesday. Dhankhar also met President Ram Nath Kovind during the visit. After Dhankhar meeting Shah, the first one between the two after Banerjee was sworn in as Chief Minister of West Bengal for the third time in the first week of May, the home minister's office tweeted a picture of their meeting saying "the Governor of West Bengal, Shri @jdhankhar1 met Union Home Minister Shri @AmitShah".  It is learnt that the Governor briefed the home minister about the prevailing law and order situation in West Bengal. Banerjee hit out at Dhankar calling him a "Centre's man" and recalling that she has thrice written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw him from the state. She noted that a child can be cajoled into silence but not an elderly man, noting that she has thrice written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw him from the state.  "What can I say? A child can be cajoled into silence. In this case, speech is silver; silence is golden," she said. Banerjee also rued that while the state government is consulted when a governor is appointed, this was not done in this case. Interestingly Dhankhar also met Banerjee's vocal critic in Congress Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha and shared a picture of a free-wheeling discussion between the two. "While in Delhi today I had over a cup of coffee with @adhirrcinc  Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, leader of the Indian National Congress in the 17th Lok Sabha and the Member of Parliament from Berhampur," he said. Dhankhar " spent time with an old friend, Speaker Om Birla" besides having a "courtesy meeting" with former Supreme Court Judge, Justice Arun Kumar Mishra, Chairperson National Human Rights Commission.  TMC condemned the move with its MP, Sukhendu Shekhar Roy saying, "His act is condemnable and today he proved that he is a BJP agent. I don’t remember any BJP leader or minister meeting the NHRC chief in the recent past. But our Governor rushed to meet him. He is doing it to appease the BJP leaders. This only shows that he is not only crossing all limits but also acting against the Indian constitution."  Before starting his visit to the national capital on Tuesday, Dhankar had shared a letter on Twitter that he had written to Banerjee in which the Governor had accused the Chief Minister of remaining "silent" over the post-poll violence in the state. On Monday, a delegation of BJP MLAs in Kolkata had given him a petition on the alleged deterioration of law and order in the state. "Constrained to convey @MamataOfficial  that continued silence &  inaction over post-poll violence, violation of human rights & dignity of women, destruction of property, the perpetuation of miseries on political opponents- worst since independence, ill augurs for democracy," Dhankhar had tweeted.  Ever since Dhankhar was made Governor of West Bengal in July 2019, the relationship between her and Banerjee has been far from being cordial and both have frequently hit out at each other. A day after Dhankhar landed in Delhi, the TMC had on Wednesday launched an attack on him alleging the Governor was violating constitutional norms and requested him not to return to the state. Even Mamata's arch-rival, CPI-M has slammed the Governor for his alleged partisan role. BJP has expectedly backed Dhankhar and hit out at Trinamool Congress, asking it to "respect the Constitutional posts". Dhankhar has meanwhile been tweeting about his "useful interaction and deliberations" with Union ministers on various issues. "We have never seen such a governor who has no regard for the Constitution and its norms. He has been violating every constitutional norm," said TMC MP Saugata Roy. TMC's Lok Sabha's MP Mahua Moitra was acerbic in her tweet saying "Uncle Ji going to Delhi on June 15th he says... Do us a favour WB Governor Sahib - don't come back".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bengal-governor-jagdeep-dhankhar-meets-home-minister-amit-shah-tmc-says-dont-come-back-998586.html
17-06-2021||National Politics||LJP feud: Chirag Paswan calls national executive meet in Delhi on June 20||Lok Janshakti Party leader Chirag Paswan on Thursday rejected his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras's election as the party president, saying the meeting organised in Patna was "unconstitutional" and lacked even minimum attendance of its national executive members. He told PTI that his party has also written to the Election Commission, urging it to stop the Paras-headed faction from using its symbol and flag in its meeting.  LJP's secretary general Abdul Khaliq said a physical meeting of its national executive will be held in the national capital on Sunday to reiterate Paswan's earlier election as its national president amid the split in the organisation after Paras and four other party MPs staged a coup against him. The party has over 90 sanctioned members in the national executive and barely nine of them were present in the meeting in Patna on Thursday in which Paswan's paternal uncle Paras was elected as its president in his place, he said. Paswan added that only he as the party chief or Khaliq as its secretary general are authorised to hold any such meeting as per the LJP constitution. Earlier in the day, Paras was elected as the party's new president at a meeting of the party's national executive called by his supporters. Chirag Paswan, son of party founder Ram Vilas Paswan, is expected to leave for Bihar early next week to galvanise LJP supporters around his cause as both factions engage in a bitter fight to claim the party's ownership. Paswan also urged Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to reconsider his decision to recognise Paras as the leader of the party in the House, saying the LJP constitution authorises its parliamentary board to decide on its leader in Parliament. "The faction headed by my uncle can be an independent group but cannot represent LJP," he said. He said he will try to meet the Speaker over the issue and move the court if the decision is not reversed. The Paswan-faction also pointed out that while he was removed by the Paras-headed group on the ground of "one man one post" but now Paras has been elected the president despite holding the post of its leader in Lok Sabha and chief of Dalit Sena. The LJP has six MPs, including Paswan, in Lok Sabha and none in Rajya Sabha. Five of its MPs recently elected Paras as their president in place of Paswan. Lok Sabha secretariat then notified his election after all five of them met the Speaker with their representation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ljp-feud-chirag-paswan-calls-national-executive-meet-in-delhi-on-june-20-998668.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||Prepare SOP for Char Dham yatra: HC to Uttarakhand govt||The Uttarakhand High Court on Wednesday directed the state government to frame a standard operating procedure for the Char Dham yatra and warned it against any laxity as seen during the Kumbh Mela, which led to a spike in coronavirus cases. Dissatisfied with an affidavit filed by Tourism Secretary Dilip Jawalkar, the court said that the government has only stated that the Char Dham Yatra is barred till June 22 but there is no clarity if it will be carried out in a phased manner. The court observed that the government issued its SOPs a day before the beginning of the Kumbh and due to a lack of preparation, there was an increase in coronavirus cases, which tarnished the reputation of the state. Hearing a PIL, a Division Bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice Alok Verma asked the state government to prepare a standard operating procedure (SOP) and file it before the court by June 21. On the next date of hearing, the chief secretary, health secretary and the additional tourism secretary were also directed to appear in the court through video conferencing. The Bench observed that taking decisions at the last moment has its pitfalls. During the Kumbh also, there was difficulty in compliance due to issuance of last-minute notification, it said. The court said it is the job of the government to take policy decisions and if it wants to carry out the yatra in a phased manner, then there should be SOPs and medical facilities for the safety of the passengers and local residents. The court said that these arrangements should be decided in time. The High Court also said the pilgrims will have to follow the rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prepare-sop-for-char-dham-yatra-hc-to-uttarakhand-govt-998262.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||366 FIRs over 'communal' social media posts in UP in a year: Police ADG||In Uttar Pradesh, 366 FIRs have been lodged in a year over allegations of disruption to communal harmony through posts and comments on various social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter, the state police said on Wednesday. UP Police's Additional Director General (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar said police in districts across the state regularly monitor online activities through their social media cell and ensure action over objectionable content. His statement detailing such cases came soon after the police in Ghaziabad lodged an FIR against social media giant Twitter, some journalists and opposition politicians over them sharing a video clip -- about an attack on an elderly Muslim man by some young men – and claimed to be their intentional attempt at disrupting peace. "Between June 1, 2020 and May 31, 2021, a total of 118 cases have been lodged across Uttar Pradesh in which rumours or misinformation was shared on social media platforms through posts or comments," ADG Kumar said. "Another 366 cases were lodged during the same period over social media posts and comments that disrupted communal harmony in the state," the officer stated in a statement. Besides these, 623 cases were lodged over social media users misusing the platform for any other reason by their posts or comments, he added. "Overall, 1,107 such cases have been lodged across the state over the past one year and further proceedings in them are being carried out at district level," Kumar said. He said social media content is reviewed every day at the UP Police headquarters in Lucknow and necessary guidelines and instructions are issued to police at district level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/366-firs-over-communal-social-media-posts-in-up-in-a-year-police-adg-998284.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||Fire breaks out at AIIMS hospital in Delhi||A fire broke out at an AIIMS hospital building here on Wednesday evening, Delhi Fire Service officials said. No injury has been reported so far in the fire that broke out on the ninth floor of the hospital's Convergence Block, they said. According to the fire department, a call about the fire was received at around 10.30 pm after which 22 fire tenders were rushed to the spot. Fire-fighting operations are underway and the cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-at-aiims-hospital-in-delhi-998306.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police receives complaint against Swara Bhaskar, Twitter India MD in Ghaziabad assault case||A complaint has been filed against actor Swara Bhaskar, Twitter India Managing Director Manish Maheshwari and others with the Delhi Police in connection with posts on the micro-blogging site regarding the attack on Abdul Samad Saifi, an elderly Muslim man, earlier this month. Officials said the complaint has been filed with the Tilak Marg police station. So far, no FIR has been registered though officials said the matter was under enquiry. The filing of the complaint comes close on the heels of Uttar Pradesh Police registering a case against Twitter, news portal The Wire, journalists and Congress leaders, accusing them of sharing the video of Saifi with an intention to provoke communal unrest. It was claimed that Saifi was thrashed by some youth and asked to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' but local police claimed that the accused, who were arrested, were unhappy about an amulet he sold to them and there was no communal angle. Ghaziabad Senior Superintendent of Police Amit Pathak had said the victim had not made any allegation of being forced to chant Jai Shri Ram or the chopping up of his beard in his FIR lodged on June 7. Journalists' organisations like Editors Guild of India, Press Club of India and the Indian Women Press Corps (IWPC) condemned the UP Police action of naming The Wire and journalists in the FIR. Disapproving the "wanton misuse of laws to criminalise reporting and dissent to harass independent media", the Editors Guild demanded that the FIRs be withdrawn. In its statement, the Press Club of India condemned the police action and asked the UP government to intervene in the matter to ensure that journalists are not made "easy targets" of "police high-handedness". The IWPC said it stands in solidarity with "all journalists who are being victimised needlessly".  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-receives-complaint-against-swara-bhaskar-twitter-india-md-in-ghaziabad-assault-case-998374.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||Ghaziabad assault case: FIR against Samajwadi Party functionary for circulating 'communal' video||The Ghaziabad Police has booked a Samajwadi Party worker here over a "communal video" of elderly Muslim man Abdul Samad Saifi alleging an attack by some young men, with the FIR also mentioning that Facebook let the "misleading" clip circulate without making efforts to verify it. The FIR, however, does not mention Facebook as an accused in the case in which opposition Samajwadi Party's worker Ummaid Pehelwan Idrisi has been charged with promoting enmity and breach of peace by circulating the video on social media and giving it a "communal colour". On his Facebook account, Idrisi identifies himself as a Samajwadi Party worker and has posted purported pictures of him with party chief Akhilesh Yadav. Requesting anonymity, an SP office-bearer confirmed that Idrisi was a member of the Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) board during the SP government, and is still a party worker. The case was lodged at the Loni Border police station Wednesday evening, a day after the Ghaziabad police booked Twitter, a news website, some journalists and opposition Congress politicians, in a separate FIR over circulation of the video. Filed on the complaint of a local policeman, the FIR states that Idrisi had "unnecessarily" made the video -- in which Saifi narrates his ordeal -- with an intention to "create social disharmony" and shared it on his Facebook account. "He shared on his social media account the video which had religious context to it without verifying the truth of the matter. It gave the incident a communal colour and was an attempt at disrupting social harmony," stated the FIR, which has been seen by PTI. The FIR has been lodged under sections 153A (promoting enmity between groups on ground of religion, class etc), 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious belief), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 505 (public mischief). Idrisi has also been booked under provisions of the Information Technology (IT) Act, according to the FIR. The FIR, lodged only against Idrisi, mentions that social media giant Facebook "also did not make any efforts to fact-check this entire episode and let the misleading video circulate". Five accused -- Kalloo Gurjar, Parvesh Gurjar, Adil, Intezaar and Saddam alias Bauna -- have been arrested so far in connection with the attack on Saifi, Superintendent of Police (Ghaziabad Rural) Iraj Raja said on Wednesday. The Ghaziabad police maintained that the incident took place because the accused were unhappy over the 'tabeez' (amulets) sold to them by Saifi. The police also ruled out any communal angle in the episode. In the video that triggered nation-wide reaction, Saifi purportedly says he was attacked by some young men and forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' even as the district police said he did not make any such allegation in the FIR. This FIR about the assault and illegal confinement was lodged on June 7, two days after the incident, on the complaint of Saifi, a resident of Anoopshahar in adjoining Bulandshahr district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ghaziabad-assault-case-fir-against-samajwadi-party-functionary-for-circulating-communal-video-998388.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||PM Modi likely to inaugurate ambitious Banihal-Qazigund tunnel in J&K||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to inaugurate the ambitious double-tube Banihal-Qazigund tunnel along the 270-km Jammu-Srinagar national highway, physically or virtually soon. Sources said the date of inauguration of the tunnel, built at a cost of Rs 2,100 crore, by the Prime Minister is likely to be finalised next week. “However, keeping to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic in consideration, a decision is yet to be taken whether Modi will inaugurate the tunnel physically or virtually,” they said. If the physical visit of Modi comes to pass, it will be his first tour of Jammu and Kashmir post-abrogation of special status of the erstwhile state and its bifurcation into two union territories. However, in case the Prime Minister is not available, Union Minister for Road Transport and National Highways, Nitin Gadkari may inaugurate the tunnel, sources added. The work on the 8.5-km-long tunnel started in June 2011 and, on completion, it would reduce the road distance between Banihal in Jammu and Qazigund in south Kashmir by 16 km. The tunnel will provide all-weather connectivity to thousands of commuters, who travel on the highway daily. It will bypass Jawahar Tunnel and Shaitan Nalla, which is prone to heavy snowfall and slippery conditions during winters and results in a bottleneck in the strategically important road linking Kashmir to the rest of the country. On Wednesday a trial run of vehicular traffic through the double tube four lane tunnel was carried out for two hours. A senior traffic police official said as per the plan, one hundred vehicles were allowed to use the tunnel from Banihal towards Qazigund. The tunnel has been made on Build, Operate, and Transfer (BOT) basis. Some of the equipment highlights used inside the tunnel includes 124 jet fans, 234 CCTV modern cameras, and a firefighting system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-likely-to-inaugurate-ambitious-banihal-qazigund-tunnel-in-jk-998397.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: Court orders immediate release of 3 student activists from jail||A Delhi court on Thursday ordered release of Delhi riots accused Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal and Asif Iqbal Tanha, who were granted bail by Delhi high Court on June 15.  Kalita and Narwal, both PhD students from Jawaharlal Nehru University finally walked out of Tihar jail by the evening. Tanha was already out on custody parole to write his final year BA examinations of Jamia Milia Islamia University, New Delhi. Additional Sessions Judge at Karkardooma Courts Revinder Bedi said the order was passed for releasing the accused and an intimation has been sent to Tihar jail authorities. The court rejected a plea by the Delhi Police for more time to verify documents. The court on Wednesday deferred the order as Delhi police, for their part, sought time for verification of the addressee of the surities. On Thursday, the accused rushed to the High Court accusing Delhi police of delaying the matter. A bench of Justices Sidharth Mridul and Anup J Bhambhani said, "We are not going to monitor the proceedings before the trial court. We can only say that it has to deal with the matter with promptitude. Our order has to be implemented, there cannot be two views on that." All the three were arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act in May, last year, in the riots case, triggered after protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act. The HC, however, no case was prima facie made out against them under the anti-terrror law. It had also made scathing remarks against the police. On Wednesday, Delhi police had approached the Supreme Court challenging the June 15 order by the High Court granting bail to three student-activists in a case of larger conspiracy related to the northeast Delhi riots last year, which claimed lives of 53 people and left hundred others as injured. The top court is scheduled to consider the matter on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-court-orders-immediate-release-of-3-student-activists-from-jail-998398.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||Amarnath yatra likely to be held as permission for setting up langars granted||While authorities are yet to take a final decision over the annual Amarnath pilgrimage due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB) has started granting permissions for setting up langars (a communal free kitchen). The permission has been granted to Langar Organisations at Baltal in central Kashmir’s Ganderbal district from June 28 to August 22. Significantly, it is the same duration for which the SASB had earlier proposed to hold annual pilgrimage before the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic forced it to suspend the registration of pilgrims on April 22. However, the SASB in its permission letter has directed langar organisations to follow all Covid-19 protocols set up by the Jammu and Kashmir government. By granting permission to the Langar organization, the SASB has given an indication that the annual pilgrimage to the 3888-metre-high Amarnathji cave shrine in south Kashmir Himalayas could be held though with a limited number of yatris. Last year, the pilgrimage was cancelled on July 21 because of the rise in Covid-19 cases, while in 2019, the pilgrimage was curtailed ahead of the scrapping of J&K’s special status under Article 370 as the erstwhile state was locked down and a communications blackout was imposed. A senior official said that as the track has been cleared on Baltal route and permission to the Langar organisation accorded, the yatra could be held this year. However, the number of pilgrims visiting the shrine will be reduced with only a shorter Baltal route used for the pilgrimage, he said. Earlier this month, authorities had asked pilgrimage service providers to get vaccinated against the virus at the earliest. Recently, J&K Lt governor Manoj Sinha had said that the government will analyse the Covid-19 situation before taking a final decision on the yatra. This year the SASB was expecting six lakh yatries to pay obeisance at the holy cave shrine, which would have been the largest number since the governing body took over the affairs of the pilgrimage in 2000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amarnath-yatra-likely-to-be-held-as-permission-for-setting-up-langars-granted-998408.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||FIR against yoga guru Ramdev for spreading 'false information' on allopathy||Police in Chhattisgarh's Raipur have registered an FIR against yoga guru Ramdev for allegedly spreading "false" information about the medicines being used by the medical fraternity for the treatment of Covid-19, police official said on Thursday. The case was filed on Wednesday night against Ramkrishna Yadav alias Baba Ramdev based on a complaint filed by the Chhattisgarh's unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Raipur's Senior Superintendent of Police Ajay Yadav said. Ramdev has been booked under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and others of the IPC and provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005, he said. Further investigation into the matter is underway, he added. Chairman of Hospital Board IMA (CG) Dr Rakesh Gupta, IMA's Raipur President and Vikas Agrawal were among doctors who had earlier lodged the complaint. As per the complaint, since over the last one year, Ramdev has been allegedly propagating false information and his threatening statements on social media against medicines being used by medical fraternity, Government of India, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and other frontline organisations in treatment of coronavirus infection. There are several videos of him on social media in which he had allegedly made such misleading remarks, it said. At a time when doctors, paramedical staff and all branches of government and administration have been together battling Covid-19, Ramdev has been allegedly misleading people about established and approved treatment methods, the complaint said. Ramdev's remarks on modern medical facilities and allopathy medicines, which have been curing over 90 percent of the patients, would put the lives of people in danger, it alleged. "During the investigation of the complaint, it was found that his statements amount to violation of the notification of the Chhattisgarh government dated March 13 last year," the official said. The notification states that no person/institution/organisation will use any print or electronic media for information regarding Covid-19 without prior permission of the state's Health Department. This is to avoid the spread of any rumour or unauthenticated information regarding Covid-19. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fir-against-yoga-guru-ramdev-for-spreading-false-information-on-allopathy-998415.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||Police files supplementary chargesheet in Republic Day violence case against Deep Sidhu, others||Delhi Police on Thursday filed a supplementary charge sheet against actor-activist Deep Sidhu and others in the Republic Day violence case. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gajendra Singh Nagar will pass the order on the point of cognisance of the fresh charge sheet on June 19 at 2 pm. “The investigating officer of the case pointed out the names of the witnesses who were severely injured or from whom the weapon was snatched,” the court noted. On January 26, protesting farmers clashed with the police during the tractor rally against three farm laws and stormed into the Red Fort injuring scores of policemen. The Crime Branch is tasked with investigating the case. On May 17, it filed a 3,224-page charge sheet and sought prosecution of 16 accused including Sidhu. Sidhu, who was accused of being the key conspirator of the violence, was arrested on February 9. The police had also accused him of fuelling the chaos at the Red fort.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-files-supplementary-chargesheet-in-republic-day-violence-case-against-deep-sidhu-others-998425.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||12 cops injured as UP road crash protest turns violent, 43 arrested||Twelve police personnel were injured when people protesting over the death of two motorcycle riders in an accident pelted stones at them near a village here, officials said on Thursday. Forty-three people have been arrested, and a case has been registered against 100 named and 250 unknown persons in connection with the violence that took place on Wednesday, the police said. The road crash that led to the protest took place on Tuesday. Devikheda village residents Rajesh (32) and Vipin (25) died as the motorcycle they were riding was hit by a car in the City Kotwali police station area, they said. A day later, after the bodies were handed over to their families for last rites following a post-mortem examination, people of the village blocked the Unnao-Kanpur road near Akrampur to press for action against those responsible and compensation for the kin of the deceased, Superintendent of Police Anand Kulkarni said. The protesters pelted stones at the sub-divisional magistrate and a police team sent there to pacify them, resulting in injuries to over 12 policemen, the SP said. Meanwhile, the Lucknow Range inspector general tweeted that Kotwali Sadar Inspector in-charge Dinesh Mishra, police outpost in-charge of Magarwara, and two constables have been suspended for laxity and incompetence. A clarification has been sought from the CO City, and the investigation of entire case has been given to the Rae Bareli additional superintendent of police, the IG said. According to local people, the police team was outnumbered and ill-equipped to handle the mob. The situation came under control after additional forces arrived at the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12-cops-injured-as-up-road-crash-protest-turns-violent-43-arrested-998434.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||India 'priest' of world peace, equipped to respond to aggression: Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said India is the "priest" of world peace, but asserted it has the wherewithal to give a befitting reply to acts of aggression. Dedicating 12 strategic roads in Kimin to the nation, he said any serious disturbance in peace and tranquility in the border areas is bound to have adverse implications. The strategic roads would not only give a boost to connectivity, but facilitate faster movement of troops along the international border as well, Singh said. "The capability of the Border Roads Organisation in construction of world-class roads despite challenges in tough and hilly terrain depicts the mantra of 'Aatma Nirbhar Bharat'," the defence minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-priest-of-world-peace-equipped-to-respond-to-aggression-rajnath-singh-998439.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||Aligarh hooch tragedy: UP police raids illicit liquor factory in Gurugram||After recent reports of several deaths due to consumption of illicit liquor, Uttar Pradesh Police has raided a spurious liquor factory in neighbouring Haryana which was in league with a liquor mafia in Aligarh district. Nearly 50 people died due to spurious liquor consumption in Aligarh recently on two different occasions, while officials estimate that the death toll could go up to 100 as autopsy reports of another 50 suspected hooch consumer victims are awaited. After a fortnight-long crackdown on the spurious liquor syndicate, Aligarh police on Wednesday raided a premises in Gurugram where a full-fledged illicit liquor factory was operating in alliance with the Aligarh-based liquor mafia. Senior Superintendent of Police Kalanidhi Naithani told mediapersons that questioning of one of the arrested liquor mafia members, Madangopal alias Kalia who hails from Faridabad, led the police to the Gurugram factory. At the factory, liquor was being manufactured and packed in plastic containers to be supplied to Aligarh and neighbouring districts, he said.  The police are now trying to trace the network through which these factories were procuring the alcohol-based chemicals. The SSP said that ever since the liquor tragedy broke out, more than 70 people involved in liquor trade have been arrested in connection with 22 different cases. In a major shake-up in the district police following the two recent hooch tragedies, more than 540 policemen posted for over two years at the same police station were transferred for having suspected links with the liquor mafia. According to a police officer who did not wish to be named, it may not be "easy to trace the supply trail of raw industrial alcohol because of entrenched vested interests". The Aligarh police has so far acted with remarkable "alacrity" in smashing the liquor mafia "despite odds", he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aligarh-hooch-tragedy-up-police-raids-illicit-liquor-factory-in-gurugram-998456.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi reports 158 new Covid-19 cases, 10 more deaths; positivity rate slips to 0.20%||The national capital has recorded 10 more deaths due to Covid-19 and 158 fresh cases of the disease while the positivity rate has dipped to 0.20 per cent, according to data shared by the health department on Thursday. These 10 fatalities have pushed the death toll in the city to 24,886. The national capital had on April 3 recorded 10 deaths due to Covid-19. On Wednesday, Delhi had recorded 212 cases and 25 deaths, while the positivity rate stood at 0.27 per cent. It had on the previous day registered 228 cases with a 0.32 per cent positivity rate and 12 deaths. On Thursday, 158 cases and 10 deaths were reported, indicating a significant fall in the count of daily fatalities due to coronavirus infection. On June 14, the city had registered 131 cases and 16 deaths. On March 8, it had witnessed 239 cases while on February 22 there were 128 cases of Covid-19, according to official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-158-new-covid-19-cases-10-more-deaths-positivity-rate-slips-to-020-998466.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||UP policemen don plastic stool, bamboo basket as riot gear||At a casual glance, the scene in a video from Magarwara area of Uttar Pradesh's Unnao district appears to have been taken straight from a Bollywood comedy movie, except that it was not reel but real.   A video which went viral on social media platforms showed at least two UP policemen with plastic stool on their head and basket made of bamboo sticks trying to tackle an unruly mob of people protesting against the death of two youths in a road accident. The youths were knocked down by a speeding vehicle on Tuesday. A crowd of local people blocked the road in protest against the incident on Tuesday demanding compensation to the families of the deceased. The video shows the crowd, including women, pelting stones at the cops during the protests.  One of the cops had put a plastic stool over his head as a helmet while another held a basket made from bamboo in a bid to shield himself from the raining stones. Both of them, however, had lathis in their hands. As the UP Police faced flak from different quarters, the in-charge of the local police station was suspended and a report had been sought from the district police chief in this regard, sources here said on Thursday. Later, the UP Police tweeted that the district police chief had been asked to explain. ''An elaborate SOP & sufficient riot gear have been given to all districts to deal with any L&O situation. In an L&O situation in Unnao, despite Int. inputs, the force was ill-equipped for which the DGP has sought an explanation of the SP & at the local level SHO has been suspended,'' it said. An elaborate SOP & sufficient riot gears have been given to all districts to deal with any L&O situation.In a L&O situation in Unnao, despite Int. inputs, the force was ill equipped for which the DGP has sought explanation of the SP & at the local level SHO has been suspended Earlier, the state police were trolled when a constable had mimicked the sound of fire by a bullet by shouting 'thain-thain' to scare the criminals after his pistol got jammed while he was chasing them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-policemen-don-plastic-stool-bamboo-basket-as-riot-gear-998491.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||12 UP cops injured as protest over road crash death turns violent; 43 arrested||People protesting over the death of two motorcycle riders in a road accident pelted stones at police personnel, injuring 12 of them, on the Unnao-Kanpur road here, officials said on Thursday. Forty-three people have been arrested, and a case has been registered against 100 named and 250 unknown persons in connection with the violence that took place on Wednesday, the police said. The local station house officer (SHO) and three other policemen were suspended for laxity and incompetence in discharging their duty. The suspension followed pictures that appeared on social media, showing police personnel using plastic stools and cane baskets on their heads to protect themselves and trying to disperse the irate mob with lathis. The state police chief has also sought an explanation from the superintendent of police. The road crash that led to the protest took place on Tuesday. Devikheda village residents Rajesh (32) and Vipin (25) died as the motorcycle they were riding was hit by a car in the City Kotwali police station area, the police said. A day later, after the bodies were handed over to their families for last rites following a post-mortem examination, people of the village blocked the Unnao-Kanpur road near Akrampur to press for action against those responsible and compensation for the kin of the deceased, Superintendent of Police Anand Kulkarni said. The protesters pelted stones at the sub-divisional magistrate and a police team sent there to pacify them, resulting in injuries to over 12 policemen, the SP said. Taking note of the incident, the Uttar Pradesh Police tweeted, "An elaborate SOP & sufficient riot gears have been given to all districts to deal with any L&O situation. In a L&O situation in Unnao, despite Int. inputs, the force was ill equipped for which the DGP has sought explanation of the SP & at the local level SHO has been suspended." An elaborate SOP & sufficient riot gears have been given to all districts to deal with any L&O situation.In a L&O situation in Unnao, despite Int. inputs, the force was ill equipped for which the DGP has sought explanation of the SP & at the local level SHO has been suspended The Lucknow Range inspector general also took to Twitter, saying Kotwali Sadar Inspector in-charge Dinesh Mishra, police outpost in-charge of Magarwara, and two constables have been suspended for laxity and incompetence. A clarification has been sought from the CO City, and the investigation of the entire case has been given to the Rae Bareli additional superintendent of police, the IG said. According to sources, the police team sent to the village initially was outnumbered and ill-equipped to handle the mob. The situation came under control after additional forces arrived.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12-up-cops-injured-as-protest-over-road-crash-death-turns-violent-43-arrested-998511.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||Sputnik V shots to be available at Fortis' Gurgaon, Mohali facilities from June 19||Private hospital chain Fortis Healthcare on Thursday announced that Sputnik V, the third anti-coronavirus vaccine approved for use in India, will be available at its Gurgaon and Mohali facilities as part of a limited pilot roll-out from Saturday. The vaccine stock has been procured directly from Dr. Reddy's Laboratories according to government guidelines, it said. "The two-dose vaccine will be available at Fortis Memorial Research Institute, Gurugram, and Fortis Hospital, Mohali," the private hospital chain said in a statement. In the coming days, the vaccine will be available at more Fortis hospitals across 11 cities as part of the phase-wise pilot project. Dr Ashutosh Raghuvanshi, MD and CEO, Fortis Healthcare, said, "Fortis is actively working towards ensuring that as many Indians as possible are fully vaccinated. To date, our units were only providing Covaxin and Covishield." "However, we are pleased to announce that Fortis, in collaboration with Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, is among the first to provide a third vaccine option, at Fortis Memorial Research Institute and Fortis Hospital Mohali, with the dual objective of expanding and scaling up the vaccination drive and lowering the infection risks to future mutations of the virus." Earlier, Delhi's Indraprastha Apollo Hospital and Madhukar Rainbow Children's Hospital had also said they will start administering the Russian Covid-19 vaccine by June 20. The Centre has fixed the price of the vaccine at Rs 1,145 per dose. The maximum price of Covishield for private Covid-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) has been fixed at Rs 780 per dose, while that of Covaxin is Rs 1,410 per dose. Russia's Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology has developed the vaccine and the Russian Direct Investment Fund is marketing it globally. Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy's Laboratories, the marketing partner for the vaccine in the country, has been importing the shots from Russia. Over a period of time, the vaccine is also going to be manufactured in India.  Sputnik V uses two different viruses that cause the common cold (adenovirus) in humans. It employs a different vector for each of the two shots, given 21 days apart. According to Gamaleya and the RDIF, Sputnik V has demonstrated an efficacy rate of 92 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sputnik-v-shots-to-be-available-at-fortis-gurgaon-mohali-facilities-from-june-19-998528.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||Household heating, cooking behind 40% of Delhi's PM 2.5 pollution last Dec, Jan: Study||Household heating and cooking accounted for 40 per cent of Delhi's PM 2.5 pollution in December 2020 and January 2021, according to a new study. Though recent assessments on the use of biomass in Delhi are not available, a large number of homeless people burn firewood and waste to keep themselves warm in winters. "The contribution to PM 2.5 from the residential sector (including domestic cooking, space heating, water heating, and lighting) was as high as 40 per cent in December 2020 and January 2021," the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), a Delhi-based not-for-profit policy research institution, said in a study report. Delhi is estimated to have 1.5 lakh to two lakh homeless people. According to the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board, as of January 2021, as many as 319 shelter homes had been created with a boarding capacity of 19,116 people. "However, these shelter homes can accommodate only around 10 per cent of the homeless population in Delhi, which leaves a sizeable portion of the city's homeless population exposed to the elements. "This population, therefore, is forced to use firewood/biomass fires to keep themselves warm during winters. Waste is also burnt for warmth and disposal purposes, which also contributes significantly to the pollution burden of the national capital," the CEEW said. According to the study, a relatively longer stubble-burning period and unfavourable meteorological conditions were primarily responsible for Delhi's worsening air quality in winters last year. It also said that emissions from 11 coal-fired power plants in the National Capital Region accounted for just seven per cent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution on an average between October 2020 and January 2021, while vehicles contributed 14 per cent. The findings are significant considering the Delhi government had recently moved the Supreme Court seeking closure of coal-fired power plants using outdated polluting technology in the vicinity of the city. On April 1, the Union Environment Ministry had issued a notification with amended rules allowing thermal power plants within 10 kilometers of the National Capital Region (NCR) and in cities with more than 10 lakh population to comply with new emission norms by the end of 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/household-heating-cooking-behind-40-of-delhis-pm-25-pollution-last-dec-jan-study-998567.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||India asks Pakistan to address shortcomings in Kulbhushan Jadhav Bill||India on Thursday asked Pakistan to address shortcomings in the new Bill recently passed by its National Assembly to implement the judgment of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in the case related to former Indian Navy officer Kulbhushan Jadhav, currently on a death row in the neighbouring country. New Delhi pointed out that the International Court of Justice (Review and Reconsideration) Bill, 2020, which Prime Minister Imran Khan’s Government in Islamabad got passed by the National Assembly of Pakistan, would set the stage for municipal courts of the neighbouring country to decide whether or not any “prejudice” had been caused to Kulbhushan Jadhav “on account of the failure to provide consular access”. “This is clearly a breach of the basic tenet that municipal courts cannot be the arbiter of whether a state has fulfilled its obligations in international law,” Arindam Bagchi, the official spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said in New Delhi. “Not only this, it further invites the municipal court to sit in appeal, as it were, over the judgment of the International Court of Justice (ICJ)”. New Delhi called upon the Khan Government in Islamabad to take appropriate steps to address the shortcomings in the Bill and to comply with the ICJ’s judgment in letter and spirit. The International Court of Justice (Review and Reconsideration) Bill, 2020 seeks to specifically grant the former Indian Navy officer incarcerated in Pakistan the right of appeal against the death sentence awarded to him by a military court of Pakistan in April 2017. The Bill was among the 21 proposed legislation Khan Government got passed by the National Assembly on Thursday, amid a ruckus and boycott by the protesting MPs of the Pakistan Muslim League – Nawaz and Pakistan People’s Party. Jadhav has been in the custody of the Pakistan Army at least since March 2016. He was accused and convicted of being involved in espionage and sabotage in Pakistan on behalf of an external intelligence agency of India. A military tribunal awarded him a death sentence in April 2017. New Delhi moved the International Court of Justice (ICJ), which on July 17, 2019, concluded that Pakistan had violated Article 36 of the Vienna Convention of Consular Relations 1963 by not granting High Commission of India in Islamabad consular access to Jadhav. The ICJ also ruled that the death sentence awarded to the former Indian Navy officer would remain suspended till the review of the conviction and the Pakistan Government would have to provide him a proper forum for appeal against the death sentence awarded to him. To implement the ICJ judgment, Pakistan on May 20 last year promulgated an ordinance called the “International Court of Justice Review and Reconsideration Ordinance 2020”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-asks-pakistan-to-address-shortcomings-in-kulbhushan-jadhav-bill-998570.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||'Delta Plus' variant of Covid-19 found in Madhya Pradesh||A 65-year-old woman has tested positive for the new “Delta Plus” variant of coronavirus here, official sources said on Thursday. The development came even as the second wave of the pandemic is waning in Madhya Pradesh and restrictions imposed to prevent the spread of the infection are being eased. According to officials, the samples of the woman, who lives near a big medical facility, were collected on May 23. Reports received from the National Central for Disease Control (NCDC) on Wednesday said she was positive for the 'Delta Plus' variant. The woman, who has taken two shots of anti-coronavirus vaccine, recovered in home isolation, sources added. When contacted, Medical Education Minister Vishwas Sarang confirmed that a woman tested positive for a "different variant", but did not elaborate. The state has not lowered its guard against Covid-19 and testing has not decreased even when the number of new cases is dipping, he said. “We are sending samples for genome sequencing to laboratories and NCDC," added the minister. According to some reports, the highly infectious Delta variant (B.1.617.2) of Covid-19 that was first found in India is feared to have mutated into Delta Plus variant||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delta-plus-variant-of-covid-19-found-in-madhya-pradesh-998572.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||UP: Congress holds protests against Ayodhya land deal by Ram temple trust||Congress workers on Thursday held protests across Uttar Pradesh against the alleged corruption in a land deal for Ram temple in Ayodhya and submitted memorandums addressed to the President demanding a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the matter On the directions of party national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and led by UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu, district-city Congress presidents and senior party leaders and workers took part in the protests and raised slogans against the Ram temple trust, a party release issued here said. Congressmen in all the districts staged a sit-in and submitted an eight-point memorandum addressed to the President, demanding a high-level inquiry into the matter under the supervision of the Supreme Court, it said. The release said there was confrontation between the police and administration and the Congress workers in all the districts of the state, including Ayodhya, Mathura, Allahabad and Gorakhpur. In more than two dozen districts, police involved in a verbal duel and a large number of Congress leaders and workers were arrested using force, Congress spokesperson Vikas Srivastava was quoted as saying in the release. There is tremendous resentment among the people of the state regarding the “loot” done in the donation towards god, he said. In Ghaziabad, scores of Congress workers staged a protest at the collectorate office alleging a scam in the purchase of a piece of land in Ayodhya by the Trust. AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh and Samajwadi Party leader Pawan Pandey had on Sunday alleged that Champat Rai, general secretary of Shriram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, purchased 1.208 hectares of land worth Rs 2 crore in Ayodhya's Bag Bjaisi village for Rs 18.5 crore with the help of trust member Anil Mishra. Terming it a case of money laundering, Singh and Pandey had sought a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate into the matter. The Trust has strongly refuted the allegations. In a statement, Trust general secretary Rai had said, "Allegations of assassinating Mahatma Gandhi were also levelled against us. We do not fear allegations. I will study the allegations levelled against us and probe them”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-congress-holds-protests-against-ayodhya-land-deal-by-ram-temple-trust-998578.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||Case filed against firm, two private labs for fake Covid-19 test reports during Kumbh Mela||The Uttarakhand government on Thursday lodged a case against a company and two private labs for fudging coronavirus test reports during the Haridwar Kumbh Mela in April. The firm, Max Corporate Service, Nalwa Laboratories Private Limited of Hisar and Delhi-based Dr Lalchandani Lab have been accused of issuing fake negative test reports. The Uttarakhand High Court had directed the state government to test 50,000 samples daily to control the spread of Covid during the religious congregation, for which the Health Department awarded the contract to Max Corporate Service, who further hired the two labs. Confirming the lodging of the case, DGP Ashok Kumar said the complaint was lodged on behalf of Haridwar Chief Medical Officer Shambhu Kumar Jha. He said the company and both labs have been booked under the Epidemic Diseases and the Disaster Management Acts besides Sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. The matter had come to light after a man complained to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) that he received a message on his mobile phone about his test report coming negative at the Kumbh even though he had not given a sample for it. After receiving the complaint from the ICMR, the Uttarakhand government asked the Haridwar district magistrate to investigate the matter and a three-member panel was constituted for it. Preliminary investigations revealed that many private labs roped in by the district Health Department issued fake Covid test reports in the name of random people on the basis of their identity cards and phone numbers. It is suspected that more than one lakh such test results had been issued by the private labs, sources in the department had said. The labs apparently did so to meet the daily testing quota of 50,000 tests set by the Uttarakhand High Court, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/case-filed-against-firm-two-private-labs-for-fake-covid-19-test-reports-during-kumbh-mela-998582.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||SAD-BSP alliance seeks action against Congress MP for 'insulting' Dalits||The SAD-BSP alliance submitted a complaint against Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu to the Ludhiana police commissioner on Thursday and demanded his immediate arrest for allegedly passing "casteist" remarks against the Dalit community. The complaint was submitted to the police commissioner by a delegation of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). Senior leaders Charanjit Singh Atwal and Gulzar Singh Ranike said the delegation demanded that a case should be registered against Bittu for allegedly hurting the sentiments of the Scheduled Caste community. They said the delegation brought it to the notice of the police commissioner that "conclusive evidence" was already available against Bittu in the public realm and that the police should not try to save him simply because he belongs to the Congress, the ruling party in Punjab. Senior SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema said it was clear that Bittu had "deliberately slandered" the Dalit community to please his political masters by questioning why the "holy seats" of Anandpur Sahib and Chamkaur Sahib were given to the BSP under its alliance with the SAD. "Bittu has effectively stated that holy seats have been given to unholy persons. This is intolerable as it goes against the Constitution, which guarantees equality to all, and is also against Sikh ethos and culture," he said in a statement. Bittu had earlier represented the Anandpur Sahib Lok Sabha constituency in Parliament and knew about the history of the area, Cheema said. "He knows that it was at Anandpur Sahib that Sri Guru Gobind Singh chose persons from the oppressed sections of the society to create a casteless and classless society. It was also at Anandpur Sahib that the Guru made the proclamation 'Rangretta Guru ke beta' when the severed head of Guru Tegh Bahadur was presented to him by Bhai Jaita. "Bittu also knows that it was at Chamkaur Sahib that Guru Sahib gifted his 'kalgi' to the Dalit community. In the light of these facts, it is clear that Bittu deliberately insulted the sentiments of the Dalit community," he said. BSP leaders Gurmail GK and Jeet Ram Basra also condemned the Congress MP for his remarks. The opposition parties in Punjab are slamming Bittu, an MP from Ludhiana, for allegedly insulting the Dalits by saying the SAD left "pious seats" like Anandpur Sahib and Chamkaur Sahib to its ally BSP. He made the comments in a video posted on his Facebook page after the SAD and the BSP stitched an alliance last week for next year's state Assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-bsp-alliance-seeks-action-against-congress-mp-for-insulting-dalits-998589.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||Haryana resident set on fire, dies; family alleges accused part of farmers' protest||A 42-year-old man died of burn injuries after four men allegedly sprinkled some inflammable material over him and set him afire here, police said on Thursday. The deceased’s family has alleged that the four accused are part of the farmers' protest at the Tikri border near Delhi, they said. However, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) said the man died by suicide. The man has been identified as Mukesh, a resident of Kasra village in Bahadurgarh in Jhajjar district, police said. According to the complaint lodged by Mukesh's brother with the police, four men, who are part of the ongoing farmers' agitation at the Tikri border, allegedly set Mukesh on fire on Wednesday evening, the police said. The complainant also alleged that the four accused were in an inebriated state at the time of the incident.  Mukesh succumbed to burn injuries in the early hours of Thursday, police said. Police said an investigation in the case is under way. A murder case has been registered against four persons, police said. One of the accused has been identified and he is a resident of Jind in Haryana, they said. On Thursday, the family members of Mukesh and some villagers held a protest and demanded compensation for his next of kin. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha accused the Haryana government of defaming the ongoing farmers' agitation and said Mukesh’s was a case of suicide. “As part of the continuous efforts to defame and slander the ongoing farmers' movement, an unfortunate case of suicide by a local villager is being used by the BJP/JJP government, its political agents and their troll army to somehow implicate the farmers' movement,” said the morcha, an umbrella body of various farmers' bodies spearheading the farmers' agitation against the Centre's three farm laws. In a statement here, SKM leaders including Balbir Singh Rajewal and Darshan Pal claimed that Mukesh allegedly poured petrol on him and then set himself on fire. “As soon as the Kisan Morcha volunteers noticed it, they rushed in to douse fire and save his life. They learnt that this attempted suicide was spurred by a conflict in his family,” the SKM said. An employee from the petrol pump identified Mukesh and informed his family who took him to hospital, it said. The morcha said it is shocking that the farmers who tried their best to save an unknown person are now being implicated. It appealed to the Haryana government to carry out a fair investigation in the matter and also assured of its “complete cooperation in bringing the truth of this case to light.” “We appeal to the public not to be taken in by yet another attempt to slander this historic movement,” the farmers’ leaders said in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-resident-set-on-fire-dies-family-alleges-accused-part-of-farmers-protest-998637.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||Rebel AAP MLAs from Punjab merge outfit with Congress||Three Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) rebel MLAs from Punjab led by Sukhpal Singh Khaira merged their outfit Punjab Ekta Party with Congress after a meeting with Rahul Gandhi on Thursday. Khaira, a former Leader of the Opposition in the Punjab Assembly, and two of his colleagues Jagdev Singh and Pirmal Singh met Gandhi at his 12, Tughlaq Lane residence. The trio was elected on the AAP ticket in the 2017 assembly elections when Khaira was appointed as the Leader of the Opposition. However, following differences with AAP convenor Arvind Kejriwal, Khaira was stripped of the post of the Leader of the Opposition. He quit AAP soon after. AAP has been seeking the disqualification of the three MLAs under the anti-defection law but to no avail. The three MLAs had joined the Congress earlier this month in the presence of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, but a meeting with Rahul was pending. Khaira was a Congressman earlier and had quit the party in 2015 to join the AAP. However, he was soon “disillusioned” by the “dictatorial” ways of Kejriwal and fell out of favour. He also unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha elections in 2019 from Bhatinda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rebel-aap-mlas-from-punjab-merge-outfit-with-congress-998664.html
17-06-2021||North and Central||Haryana on top in crime, unemployment: Hooda||Hitting out at the BJP-JJP government in Haryana, former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday alleged that the state has reached at the top in crime, unemployment and scams under it. Meanwhile, Congress spokesman and senior leader Randeep Singh Surjewala lambasted the BJP-JJP government, describing it as "most unpopular and anti-people." The attack by the Congress came hours after Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced several schemes and programmes on the completion of 600 days of his coalition government. Hooda in a statement said "Debt, unemployment, crime and scams broke all records. The coalition government is considering only passing time as its achievement. This is the most unpopular government in the history of Haryana." He said according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) data, every third person in the state is unemployed. "This government emphasised on retrenchment of employees more than recruitment. Instead of giving jobs to the youth, the policy of sacking the employees was adopted. The government was engaged in the game of issuing advertisements of recruitment and then cancelling them throughout its tenure," he said. He said the Khattar government encouraged the practice of contractual employment and by this, it exploited the youth. Never in the history of the state has crime increased as much as it has increased under the BJP-JJP government, Hooda alleged. After the NCRB data, it has become clear in the report of the NITI Aayog that the law and order situation in Haryana has been worse, he claimed. "This government has made Haryana among the top states of the country in the case of murder, rape, theft, robbery, dacoity, ransom and kidnapping," he added. He said even during the Covid pandemic, liquor and paddy scams were carried out. "After many big revelations, instead of taking action on anyone, the government buried its own investigation report under the table," he said. Hooda said never in the history of Haryana has there been such a big farmers' movement as it is happening during this government. The BJP-JJP alliance has emerged as the biggest anti-farmer government in the country, he said. "It is unfortunate that despite the martyrdom of hundreds of farmers, the state government is advocating for three agricultural laws," he said. Hooda said that the debt on Haryana has too increased to Rs 2.25 lakh crore, "whereas no big project, big institution or industry has been established during the entire tenure of this government", he added. Referring to CM Khattar, Congress spokesman Surjewala wrote on Twitter, "You are the head of the most unpopular and anti-people government in the 54-and-a-half year history of Haryana. That is why neither you nor any of your ministers can dare to go in public." “Answer 6 big failures of 600 days-Why is the unemployment rate highest in Haryana? Why Haryana No. 1 in crimes? Why are farmers on the streets for seven months? Why is the state in debt? Why is corruption at its peak? Why is the government closed in homes and offices," he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-on-top-in-crime-unemployment-hooda-998667.html
17-06-2021||Oasis||Do not live in suspicion||Suspicion means to believe something to be bad without any substantial evidence. In the social sense, allowing suspicion to become a habit can have a disastrous effect on society. In moral terms, suspicion is a sin. In both cases, it is to be avoided. Bhagavat Gita says that some of the impediments to sound health are suspicion, anger and frustration. The Quran says, “Believers, avoid much suspicion, indeed, some suspicion is a sin” (49:12). Prophet Muhammad said: “Don’t be suspicious of your fellow men.” Suspicion is tantamount to a lie. When we suspect another person of some wrongdoing and we have no irrefutable evidence in support of our suspicion, we are committing falsehood. In other words, we are telling a lie. The habit of suspicion is like smoking. It not only ruins the health of the individual, who has the habit, but it also pollutes the social atmosphere. Suspicion is like moral pollution. Just as air pollution is harmful to everyone, so is this kind of moral pollution. It is, in fact, spiritual pollution. The Bible tells us that sin produces five sets of perverting attitudes, among them is suspicion. It further tells us to set aside our anxieties, doubts and suspicion. All those in society, where the majority are of a suspicious cast of mind, are bound to inhale its morally polluted air. Everyone is bound to suffer from bad health in terms of morality. Suspicion is not an individual, but rather a social evil. Thus in a society, everyone becomes unpredictable, causing the mutual trust to disappear. There will beno unity and solidarity in such a society. Suspicion is not a solitary evil. It leads to many others. Suspicion is like a poisonous weed that rapidly multiplies in a jungle of moral evils. When the individual develops the habit of suspicion, it gradually becomes his second nature. He starts suspecting everything and feels that every person except himself is a suspicious person. He does not realise that suspicion is the result of confused thinking and suspicious nature is very dangerous for himself as well as for other individuals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/do-not-live-in-suspicion-998641.html
17-06-2021||Opinion||Asia’s second-richest man Gautam Adani needs more quality investors||By Andy Mukherjee Gautam Adani’s debt-fueled empire received a jolt this week when the Economic Times reported that three of the six Mauritius-based funds that have invested most of their money in the Indian billionaire’s stocks had seen their accounts frozen by the national share depository. The Adani Group refuted the report as “blatantly erroneous,” helping to put a floor below plunging share prices. But not before $6 billion of wealth was lost on Monday. The jitters returned the next day with an announcement that the accounts for Cresta Fund Ltd., Albula Investment Fund Ltd. and APMS Investment Fund Ltd. are in “suspended for debit” status as per a Securities and Exchange Board of India regulation. Adani Total Gas Ltd., Adani Power Ltd. and Adani Transmission Ltd. all fell by their 5 per cent daily limit in Mumbai on Tuesday. The selling continued on Wednesday. A temporary bout of nervousness in the stock market won’t shake Asia’s second-richest man, who has managed to sustain — without any visibility on future profit — a decade-long entanglement in a controversial and costly coal mine investment in Australia. Behind that confidence lies the workhorse of the group. Adani Ports & Special Economic Zone Ltd. is spewing $1 billion of cash annually, a nine-fold jump from 2014.  The coming together of the different pieces in Adani’s sprawling infrastructure jigsaw has mirrored the rise of Narendra Modi, the long-time chief minister of Gujarat — Adani’s home state — who has been India’s prime minister for the last seven years. All that the businessman needs to make his bets pay off is a decade-long dream run in which India goes from lower-middle-income economy to higher-middle-income nation.  That jump in per capita income may have been delayed even before Covid-19. Still, when the growth spurt eventually comes, it should trigger a hunger for commodities similar to what China witnessed between 2006 and 2016. By supplying electricity to 1.4 billion Indians when they’re sleeping, providing them with piped gas when they’re sitting down for breakfast, and hosting their data when they’re browsing the Internet and waiting for a flight to take off from one of his airports, Adani will collect the cash that will justify the estimated $20 billion debt in the group’s listed companies.  That’s why the turbulence this week isn’t entirely without significance. In case of lingering damage to investor confidence, the conglomerate may need to taper its breathless expansion, lest financiers turn skittish as well. And that won’t do for Adani. In less than three decades, his low-key trading firm has transformed itself into a massive owner of energy and transport assets in a country that doesn’t have enough of them. Now the businessman wants to expand into cement manufacturing, presumably making use of the fly ash produced by his power plants. An initial public offering for the airport business may also be on the cards. It would be a typical move. To grab the capital-guzzling opportunities that have come its way, the original firm, Adani Enterprises Ltd., has spun off several units into the public market. But the list of shareholders of these stocks, which have risen 200 per cent to 900 per cent in value in the past year, need some explaining. Take Adani Green Energy Ltd., which wants to be the world’s largest renewable energy producer by 2030. Earlier this year, the firm sold a 20 per cent stake to Total SE. That’s a solid name. As are Vanguard Group Inc. and Blackrock Inc. which have small shares. Sandwiched between them, however, are the likes of Elara India Opportunities Fund. The $4 billion investment vehicle seems to have found most of its opportunities in Adani group shares. Look beyond the 97 per cent of the fund’s assets that are parked in five of them, and it doesn’t hold even a $1 million stake in what other fund managers would typically buy in India — for example, a major bank, a top-tier software exporter, or Reliance Industries Ltd., the country’s largest company by market value.  Elara isn’t alone. Six Mauritius-based offshore funds, the biggest holders within the foreign investor pool, have put more than 95 per cent of their assets ($2 billion to $4 billion) into Adani’s firms, Bloomberg Intelligence strategists Gaurav Patankar and Nitin Chanduka noted last week.  In an interview with CNBC yesterday, Jugeshinder Singh, the chief financial officer of Adani Group, said that more high-quality institutions will come as the firms establish a longer track record in public markets. He also argued that the questions that are being asked of him about obscure fund managers should ideally be answered by the investors themselves. Trouble is, where do we find them? I could have asked analysts, but I couldn’t find a single one who covers the Adani Green stock the market values at $25 billion.  The Adani juggernaut will roll on. However, as the group gets bigger — and more covetous of cash-generating assets — it would need larger dollops of outside equity. It would be helpful if it comes from investors who at least have a website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/asia-s-second-richest-man-gautam-adani-needs-more-quality-investors-998331.html
17-06-2021||Opinion||LJP episode could queer BJP's Dalit outreach in Bihar||Chirag Paswan's bungalow at 12 Janpath in Lutyens Delhi is 12 minutes' walk from the residence of his "backstabber" uncle, Pashupati Kumar Paras, who lives at 18 Rajendra Prasad Road. But, piquantly, only half that distance separates Chirag Paswan's house with BJP chief JP Nadda's at 7B, Motilal Nehru Marg. The widening space between uncle and nephew and the younger man's proximity with the BJP leadership went beyond the symbolic after Chirag Paswan's father, Ram Vilas Paswan, passed away in October 2020. Since his father's death, Chirag Paswan did not walk or drive the 950-metres that separate Paras' bungalow from his and expected his elderly uncle to bridge the widening gulf between the two. Instead, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, sitting in Patna, exploited the estrangement between Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) 's leading lights to consolidate his position within the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance. In 2014, Ram Vilas Paswan, the LJP's founder and Chirag Paswan's father, credited his actor-turned-politician son for convincing him to ally with Narendra Modi-led BJP for the Lok Sabha polls.  When his followers praised him for his gumption to ditch the Congress-led UPA to join the BJP-led NDA months before the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, Paswan senior told them it wasn't his decision but his son's who understood the pulse of the people better. Except for the 2015 Bihar Assembly polls, the switch kept the party in good stead in both the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections. As a result, the LJP found representation in the Lok Sabha and Paswan senior a berth in the union cabinet. Paswan senior had his ups and downs with Modi. Someone who went to bed late, he found it inconvenient, at least in the initial months of Modi's first term, that the PM phoned him at the crack of down to take stock. But Paswan was also often the only minister from among the allies, and apart from Arun Jaitley in the BJP, the PM would turn to seek advice in the meetings of the union cabinet. It was also Paswan, or so he would tell some of us, who convinced the PM to make a statement on the attacks on Dalits in 2016. Not hard political realities, but heartwarming stories of Modi's respect for Paswan senior possibly convinced 38-year-old Chirag Paswan, born and raised in Lutyens Delhi, that the BJP leaders had his interest close to their hearts. Unlike his father, who always kept cordial relations with Nitish Kumar, Chirag Paswan followed the BJP's script in the Bihar Assembly polls by fielding his party's candidates against Kumar-led Janata Dal (United). As a result, the LJP's vote share contributed to the JD(U)'s losses on 29-seats. It relegated the JD(U) to the number three position in the Assembly. Rival Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and JD(U)'s ally BJP outscored Kumar's party by 30-seats each. Chirag Paswan did not anticipate that Kumar could return as the Bihar CM. He would announce during the election campaign that the next government in Patna would be a BJP-LJP coalition. The election results proved that Paswan senior's confidence in his son's ability to read the political temperature was misplaced. More troublingly for his supporters, Chirag Paswan failed to appreciate the compulsion of his father's decisions since he founded LJP in the year 2000 to enable the survival of the fledgling outfit. Neither did Chirag Paswan understand the political economy of Bihar – the precarious existence of the communities that support the party and the need of the party's rank and file to find support from the state government and lower bureaucracy in the state's districts, towns and villages. Kumar has held the reins of power in Bihar nearly continuously since 2005. He has appointed much of the bureaucracy in the last 17-years, which heeds his instructions. The BJP's say in decision making, particularly after Sushil Modi's exit, is feeble despite its better numbers in the Assembly. Predictably, LJP's leaders in Bihar, who had fought against Kumar's JD(U), soon faced obstacles in their dealings with the state government. If the BJP used Chirag Paswan to cut Kumar's wings in the Assembly polls, the Bihar CM has now turned the tables to use Paswan's party to bolster his claim as the strongest BJP ally who should now get its pound of flesh. The BJP saved some blushes when Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla moved quickly to recognize the five LJP MP led by Paras as a separate block, nipping in the bud the possibility of them joining the JD (U). Contrast the Speaker's alacrity in this episode with the delay in resolving the Trinamool Congress' plea to disqualify its two MPs who have crossed over to the BJP. The LJP's five MPs joining the JD(U) would have increased its strength to 21, four more than BJP's 17-seats from Bihar, strengthening JD(U)'s demand for a more significant presence in the union council of ministers. However, the LJP episode comes on the heels of several moves, which sources say, have been made at Kumar's behest since May 2, the day results to the five Assembly polls were announced and where the BJP performed poorly. On May 24, Kumar's ally Jitan Ram Manjhi, who heads the Hindustan Awam Morcha, wondered in a tweet, which he later deleted, why death certificates of coronavirus victims do not have the PM's photograph when certificates given to those receiving Covid-19 jabs have his picture. Another ally, Vikashsheel Insaan Party (VIP) 's Mukesh Sahni, has taken to hobnob with the RJD leadership. JD (U) vice president Upendra Kushwaha praised RJD leader Lalu Prasad Yadav on his birthday. There is speculation in the Bihar media that Kumar is in contact with 10 of the 19 Congress legislators and needs the support of another three to engineer a defection. Since November, Kumar has increased the JD(U) 's strength in the Assembly from 42 to 45 by employing similar outreach. The developments dovetail into speculation about the expansion of the union cabinet. Currently, only one NDA partner has a seat in the 53-member union council of ministers – the Republican Party of India (A) 's Ramdas Athawale. But the LJP episode is also Kumar's way of telling the BJP's top leadership to accord him more respect. Kumar believes he has suffered the ignominy of not even getting an audience with the PM during his visits to Delhi. While Kumar has some more cards up his sleeves, interesting should be Chirag Paswan's gameplan hereon and whether this adds to BJP's increasing troubles from within the party and outside. The LJP commands a dedicated six per cent Dusadh community votes in Bihar. The JD (U) and CPI (ML) are other claimants to the state's much larger Dalit vote share. The BJP, which knows it will remain a marginal player in Bihar if not for the support of the OBCs and Dalits, has taken to raise recent Dalit versus Muslim clashes in the Purnia district. It has also promoted a Paswan leader of its own in Guru Prakash Paswan, son of former union minister Sanjay Paswan. Watch latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/ljp-episode-could-queer-bjps-dalit-outreach-in-bihar-998464.html
17-06-2021||Panorama||Fear of China pushes EU nations to act||France President Emmanuel Macron, in his speech at the Kigali Genocide Memorial in Rwanda on May 27, said, “Only those who went through that night can perhaps forgive, and in doing so give the gift of forgiveness.” By saying so, he recognised France’s complicity in the 1994 Rwandan genocide in which 8,00,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus were killed. A day later, Germany apologised to Namibia over the colonial-era genocide against the people of the Herero and Nama tribes. Germany promised Namibia reparations worth €1.1 billion— It took five years to conclude these talks. The apologies and the promises of reparations to the African nations by their former colonisers could be dubbed as a watershed moment in the continent’s history— closing a dark chapter of the historical injustices of slavery, genocide, colonialism and dependency politics. But this could be misleading. There is an “unseen force” in Africa which is challenging the West’s monopoly over the continent’s markets and this is driving a behavioural change in Europe’s interactions with Africa This unseen force is China, which is content with the lack of spotlight received so far. China is the second-largest importer of African goods— the first being the European Union. Beijing has invested in high-value infrastructure projects in all African nations except Swaziland and these include a high-speed railway project in Kenya, the headquarters of the African Union, parliament buildings and mining projects— The Chinese are ubiquitous in the continent. Its soft power too has increased over time. There are over 54 Confucius centres in the African nations and many schools have incorporating Mandarin in their curriculum. China is in Africa for the long haul. After a free trade area was enabled this year, there are more players in Africa and the nations there have the freedom to choose who they do business with. This has enabled the African nations to hold their former masters accountable for rampant economic, ecological and physical abuse that their forefathers suffered. The Chinese never lets them forget this. Beijing does not fail to highlight the abusive practices of European nations in Africa in the past, while it conducts business with the African countries. This has driven the European Union nations to better their ties with the African nations by public statements of apology, constituting fact-finding committees and giving reparations— this will be the new norm in Europe’s interaction with Africa. Before his speech at the Kigali Genocide Memorial, Macron acknowledged the torture and killing of Algerian freedom fighter Ali Boumendjel. The killing was earlier covered up as a suicide. Algeria over time has increased its diplomatic engagements with China, apart from being a part of China’s belt and road initiative. Algiers is the third-largest recipient of Chinese Foreign Direct Investment in Africa. Considering Algeria’s proximity to Southern Europe and Algeria being the origin of the central extension of the trans-Mediterranean corridor from Europe to Southern Africa, the country is crucial for Europe. In the near future, we could see Macron offering similar apologies or recognise the crimes committed in Senegal (Thiaroye massacre), Madagascar, Cameroon, Chad and Morocco. We could also see Germany extending its apologies to Tanzania and Burundi. Geopolitics aside, this could be the start of a new wave of holding the European nations accountable and responsible for their crimes committed in Africa. The victims could be offered justice by reparations and stripping the titles of the murders and by adding an ounce of truth in the popular culture. With regards to geopolitics, this not-so-sudden apology train chugging along Africa is not pulled by the engines of ethics and morality. If it was so, it would’ve been done in the 18th century. Rather the apology train is driven by core national interests and the fear of China dominating Europe’s African peripheries. The dragon’s rise in Africa is a bittersweet one. On one hand, it is forcing open discourse of holding European nations accountable for their historical injustices, on the other, the strings attached with each Chinese deal comes with a dear price such as isolating Taiwan (only 3 African countries recognise Taiwan) or voting in favour of China in the United Nations. African nations must make the choice between a so-called reformed colonizer and an adventurist genie. (The writer is a final year masters student from the University of Hyderabad)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/fear-of-china-pushes-eu-nations-to-act-998643.html
17-06-2021||Panorama||Why the Right to Education law hasn't worked wonders||The Right To Education Act (RTE) brought new dawn upon the human capital of a rapidly developing country like India. The Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) 2018 states that substantial improvements are visible, over the 8 years since the Act came into being, in the availability of many school facilities as mandated by RTE. Over 40 lakh children have been said to benefit from the RTE Act which came into effect to ensure the government has a responsibility towards ensuring the fundamental Right to Education is not curtailed for any child. One of the fundamental and characteristic provisions of the RTE Act has been the reservation of 25 per cent seats for underprivileged children across all schools, i.e government-aided and private schools. It has been deemed to be an excellent intervention that uses existing resources to get optimum results to close the gap between education and children. One of the primary reasons why children dropped out of school was the lack of access to affordable schools within a plausible radius from their residence. While the government could have built more schools to meet that demand, it wouldn’t have been feasible for quality control and hiring of resources (teachers, staff etc) that are already short in number. Therefore, the government intervened to ensure that the existing schools that are already functional cater to all children irrespective of their social-economic background. Unfortunately, the output of the intervention hasn’t quite been as desired. Only about 1/3rd of the seats available via RTE are filled each year, which indicates that 2/3rd of the seats go empty. This is also the time that saw low-income private schools mushrooming around underprivileged communities, providing a lucrative opportunity to parents for their children’s education. The problem with these schools was the same because of which the government didn’t build schools of its own all over. There were too many schools in an area, the fees was between Rs 2,000-4,000 per month and the schools had underqualified teachers who were also severely underpaid, thereby starting a chain of workforce exploitation.  That brings us to the question, what didn’t work?  The government had a plan of deriving maximum utility with minimum investment and that made a lot of sense to the nation. However, the one thing that went unnoticed was the absence of a feedback mechanism. As with almost all welfare policies in India, feedback mechanism has often been ignored which led to several policies turning into implementational failures. The haphazard implementation has diluted the impact of a well-thought-out intervention. Here are the loopholes that have weakened the estimated impact of RTE Act: Lack of participation by states While the intent of the RTE Act has been commendable, there are many states where schools haven’t introduced the Act in its spirit and made seats accessible to children. The lack of a standard implementation process under the state’s leadership was an excellent loophole for exploitation. This is largely due to the centralised nature of the Act which doesn’t see the state government playing an active role. Much as it may be argued that centralised processes are good for quick service delivery, from an implementational point of view, without support from the state government, it is an incredible challenge to successfully invest all stakeholders on the ground.  No provision of a cluster-wise list of potential schools for beneficiaries  The Act assumes that beneficiaries would understand its fine print and get their children admitted to schools on their own. An unacknowledged fact to remember here is the awareness around any Act in India, specifically, if it’s a welfare Act for disadvantaged people is abysmal. It may not only be the fact that the government doesn’t promote it via news/letters etc but that literacy or access to television is a novelty for many. Therefore many beneficiaries have no idea about the existence of the Act, even though it has been 11 years now that it has come into play. In such circumstances, even though there is both demand and supply, there is no awareness of the supply.  Non-standard quality of admission tests for students across the grade level The schools have been given instructions on admitting students under the RTE quota through their regular process of admission tests to evaluate if the child fits. While it was thought to bring uniformity in the classroom and help the teachers gauge the student’s readiness when they joined the school, it became another tool for systemic exclusion. In many schools, admission tests are designed separately for children who wish to avail admission via the Act. The rigour of the admissions tests would at least be two grades higher to reject a student based on poor performance. This has worked in two ways: A) Beneficiaries haven’t been able to avail the benefit of the Act at a school where the child could have studied and made a future and B) Indicated to underprivileged students that they may in fact not be at par with the other students in the school and therefore should not attempt to seek equity in education. Therefore, defying the purpose of the Act entirely. Lack of a mechanism to measure the learning outcomes of children who have availed RTE Some schools accept students under the Act and make a separate section entirely for them. While the rationale behind doing it is often that these children aren’t at the same academic level as the other children in their class and therefore would need extra attention, it is often seen that the students are largely ignored or given up on under the pretext of being difficult kids. In direct conflict with the idea of inclusivity that the Act stands upon, the arrangement reduces it to a mere exercise for show and utterly disregards the learning outcomes of the children who avail admissions through RTE. The focus has been so intent on enrolment that there was no observation of the quality of learning that happened for these children until ASER stepped in.  Lack of a dynamic dashboard that updates the status of reserved seats in each school The primary driver for accountability is transparency. In the absence of a dynamic dashboard, monitoring is delayed and inefficient. The beneficiaries have no idea about the extent of the impact made by RTE so far. Everything about the output of the policy remains ambiguous and therefore checks and measures are ineffective when no dynamic data shows regular updates. (The writer is a career consultant at the Indian School of Public Policy)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/why-the-right-to-education-law-hasnt-worked-wonders-998655.html
17-06-2021||Right in the Middle||Those luxurious shaving days||Rousseau’s observation that “man is born free but he is everywhere in chains” rings true when I find myself unable to satisfy a seemingly innocuous desire. This unfulfilled desire is to enjoy a nice, lazy shave as my late father did in a leisurely manner that set the pace for the rest of his day in those halcyon days when humans ruled over the clock rather than be its slave. The imagery of my father’s typical morning always appears in an audio-visual format as it opened at 5:55 am with the haunting signature tune of All India Radio created by Walter Kauffman 88 years ago. Coming alive from a large battery operated valve radio occupying the pride of place in our drawing-room, it set Dad in motion. After his first cuppa tea, he picked up the day’s newspaper and remained glued to it till he received a telepathic message at quarter to eight from Roshan Menon or Melville de Mellow that they would arrive shortly on the air. That was the time to assume Padmasan on a settee and reverently open his tin shaving box— originally a gift box containing cream cracker biscuits but now Pandora’s box. Besides the expected shaving cup soap, razor and a shaving brush, it contained several exotic items. Topping the list was a greenish translucent glass cube on whose concave belly razor blades were ground repeatedly to obtain seemingly inexhaustible service extensions like a minister’s favourite bureaucrat. Then there was a nail clipper, a thin twisted steel item that resembled a knitting needle but was in fact used to extricate wax from ears, and a pair of small scissors that shaped Dad’s moustache. The incongruous looking Dettol bottle came in years later to replace its modest ancestor— a block of translucent alum. Dad would arrange his gadgets and accessories in a semicircle in front of him as if he was going to give a performance on Jaltarang (a musical instrument comprising waterfilled bowls that are struck with wooden sticks to produce melody). Next came the vigorous sharpening of used razor blades to breathe fresh life into them. After this would begin the apparently most gratifying exercise of lathering his face by countless strokes of the shaving brush, its rhythm is broken only by an occasional dip in the cup soap. The actual ploughing of the razor through the thick creamy foam came in the end as an ingloriously short act after the prolonged preparations. The thirty minutes shaving drill ended in perfect synchronization with the end of the AIR English and Hindi news bulletins. The shaving regimen that began with the baritone of Roshan Menon or Melville de Mellow announcing “This is All India Radio,” would end in unison with “Here are the headlines again”. Dad would then pick up the block of alum and rub it on his cheeks with a sense of satisfaction and achievement that I never get when I hurriedly run my shaver on my face standing in front of the bathroom mirror.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/those-luxurious-shaving-days-998642.html
17-06-2021||Second Edit||GST rate reductions too little, too late||The decision of the Goods and Services (GST) Council to reduce tax rates for some Covid-related medicines and equipment is welcome, but it is too little, too late. Even that little would have made a difference for many when the pandemic situation was much worse than it is now. The GST on some medicines has been waived, and on others it was reduced from 12% to 5%. Oxygen and some medical equipment will be taxed at 5%, and the tax on ambulances has been cut to 12% from 28%. Though some state governments had demanded a tax exemption for vaccines, they did not insist on it because the Centre will now be buying 75% of the requirement and distributing it for free to states. The demand for tax exemptions and reductions had been made from the beginning of the Covid pandemic over a year ago. The government, already short of revenues, resisted and arguments were made against effecting the exemptions and reductions -- making too many changes in tax rates is not advisable because taxpayers, whether individuals or businesses, look for stability in a tax system; making such changes for a limited period is not a good practice; zero-rating of these items would have called for an amendment of the GST Act; exemptions would hurt manufacturers because they would not then be able to claim input tax credit. These may have been valid in normal circumstances but not in an emergency situation when the health and lives of so many are at stake. All these were technical in nature and there was enough time for the government to get around them. Exemptions and lower taxes, effected at the right time, would have reduced the burden on many people who sought treatment. Medical capacity could have been augmented in a low-tax environment, and that would have helped, because apart from the prices, shortage of Covid-related items was a major problem for many. Even now, the tax relief is only till September. A longer term of relief would have been better because it is uncertain when the pandemic would end. Though the GST Council meeting was held only to take a decision on tax relief, some other issues were sought to be raised at the meeting. Some states wanted the GST compensation period to be extended beyond 2022 because they think that the damage done by Covid will continue. The matter is bound to be discussed in the coming months. An early decision on it will help both the Centre and the states in planning their post-Covid finances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/gst-rate-reductions-too-little-too-late-998650.html
17-06-2021||South||Kerala govt eases Covid lockdown in restricted manner, public transport opens||After 40 days of Covid-19 induced lockdown, Kerala on Thursday limped back to normal as the government eased the curbs allowing shops to open in a restricted manner andpermitting public transport on a limited basis. In the major towns, where the Test Positivity rate (TPR) was less, people could be seen venturing out as the state was under lockdown since May 8. The chief minister had earlier said that there will be relaxation on the curbs in the state based on the average weekly TPR in Local Self Government bodies. The state-run beverages outlets witnessed rush in most of the places on Thursday, buttipplers strictly followed the social distancing norm and other Covid-19 health protocols. The government has taken away the curbs on activities in the industrial and agricultural sectors. "Shops selling essential goods will be open every day from 7 AM to 7 PM. Akshaya Kendras will be open from Monday to Friday. Central and State Government Offices, Public Sector Undertakings, government companies, Commissions, corporations and autonomous institutions will be allowed to operate with 25 per cent staff on a rotation basis from June 17," Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said onJune 15. However, the government has restricted participation in weddings and funeral services to 20 and said no social gatherings or public events are allowed. All shops (with up to 50 per cent staff) will be allowed to operate from 7 AM to 7 PM, in areas with a TPR of up to eight per cent. Private companies are allowed to operate with 50 per cent employees from Thursday. "Only home delivery and takeaway will be allowed from restaurants, no dine-in. Tourism, recreation, and crowded indoor activities including malls are not allowed. Bevco outlets and bars can open from 9 AM to 7 PM," the government had said. The local bodies with an average TPR of less than 8 per cent will have limited restrictions whereas there will be partial lockdown in places with 8-20 per cent TPR, full lockdown for 20-30 per cent TPR and triple lockdown in areas with TPR above 30 per cent. Kerala reported 13,270 new positive cases and 147 Covid-19-related deaths on Wednesday taking the total affected in the state to 27,61,474 and the death toll to 11,655. The test positivity rate was 11.79 per cent and currently, there were 1,09,794 peeople under treatment in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-eases-covid-lockdown-in-restricted-manner-public-transport-opens-998430.html
17-06-2021||South||21-year-old girl stabbed to death by 'jilted lover' in Kerala||A 21-year-old girl was stabbed to death by a suspected jilted lover in Malappuram district of Kerala on Thursday. Drishya, daughter of Balachandran of Elamkulam near Perinthalmanna in the suburbs of Malappuram district, was stabbed to death. Her younger sister also suffered serious stab injuries. The suspect Vineesh Vinod has been arrested by the police. Balachandran's shop was gutted on Wednesday night, suspected to be done by Vinod. Police's prima facie information was that the accused entered the house and stabbed Drishya. Her sister was also attacked when she tried to save her. Their mother, who was in the bathroom at the time of the incident, came out hearing the children screaming. The accused had left the spot by that time. Though the two sisters were rushed to the hospital, Drishya's life could not be saved. Malappuram district police chief Sujith Das told reporters that the accused was held by the police and is being questioned. Vineesh is suspected to have committed the crime without the support of anyone else. According to local sources, Vineesh was earlier warned by the police on the basis of a complaint of Drishya's family that he was pestering her. Drishya, who was pursuing an LLB course, studied with Vineesh in high school.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/21-year-old-girl-stabbed-to-death-by-jilted-lover-in-kerala-998454.html
17-06-2021||South||Interim anticipatory bail for Lakshadweep actor facing sedition case||The Kerala High Court on Thursday granted interim anticipatory bail to Lakshadweep filmmaker Aisha Sultana in the sedition case registered against her by the Kavaratti police. The court ordered that in case the police arrest her in the sedition case, she shall be granted bail. The court also directed that her lawyer's presence should be allowed in case her arrest was recorded. The anticipatory bail plea would be considered again next week. The Kavaratti police registered the case on the basis of a petition filed by BJP Lakshadweep president Abdulkhader Haji citing a remark of Sultana in a TV channel discussion that Covid-19 surge in Lakshadweep due to decisions of administrator Praful Khoda Patel was a 'bio weapon' of the BJP. She was issued a notice to report at the police station on June 20. Subsequently, she filed the anticipatory bail plea. Sultana maintained that she only reacted against the various decisions of the Lakshadweep administration as she also hailed from the island and the sedition charges were baseless. But the Lakshadweep administration maintained that she allegedly tried to spread hatred. Various rights forums had backed Sultana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/interim-anticipatory-bail-for-lakshadweep-actor-facing-sedition-case-998526.html
17-06-2021||South||Scrap New Education Policy, CAA, and farm laws: Tamil Nadu CM Stalin to PM Modi||Meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the first time after assuming office last month, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Thursday submitted a long list of demands exceeding over 100 pages that included the scrapping of the New Education Policy, Citizenship (Amendment) Act, and three farm laws. Segregating the demands department-wise, Stalin submitted a voluminous memorandum to Modi during their 25-minute long meeting at the latter’s Lok Kalyan Marg residence in the national capital. The Chief Minister also told the Prime Minister that permission should be granted to Karnataka for the construction of a reservoir in Mekedatu across River Cauvery while reiterating the dam for raising the water level of Mullaperiyar Dam in Kerala to 152 feet. Stressing on the need to vaccinate the maximum population at the earliest, Stalin suggested to Modi that two vaccine manufacturing units in Tamil Nadu can be used to produce the Covid-19 vaccines while seeking an adequate amount of Covid-19 vaccine shots for the state. He also took a jibe at the Union Government for asking states not to make public details about vaccine stock and admitted that Tamil Nadu was getting fewer supplies.  “We will extend our hand for a (harmonious) relationship with (the Union Government) but will continue to raise our voice for our rights,” Stalin told reporters at the Tamil Nadu House when asked whether his government will adopt “harmonious” or “confrontational” approach towards the Centre. In the memorandum, Stalin reiterated his government’s stand on various projects to be implemented by the Centre or in the pipeline seeking their immediate scrapping. The Chief Minister, pointing to the region’s status as a Protected Agricultural Zone, demanded that no hydrocarbon exploration activity should be carried out in the fertile Cauvery Delta region and that the neutrino project in the Theni district should not be proceeded with. Stalin demanded to scrap the New Education Policy 2020 which his party views as just another of imposing Hindi on Tamil Nadu and bringing back the hereditary system of education and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The new chief minister also asked the Prime Minister to revoke the three farm laws passed by the Parliament. On the release of seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, Stalin said the Governor has pushed the ball onto the court of the President, and that the state government will take a call once there is a response from the President. While demanding the dropping of NEET and attempts to extend such medical entrance to other courses, Stalin asked the Centre to expedite construction of AIIMS in Madurai, and establishment of a new AIIMS in Coimbatore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/scrap-new-education-policy-caa-and-farm-laws-tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-to-pm-modi-998547.html
17-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu: Panel studying impact of NEET welcomes suggestions from public||A high-level committee constituted by the Tamil Nadu government to study the impact of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) on students of the state has invited suggestions or opinions from the general public. In a public notification, the Justice A K Rajan committee has asked public to send their suggestions or opinion on the issue either by e-mail or by post before June 23. The panel is expected to study the impact of the exam introduced in the state in 2017 and submit a report to Chief Minister M K Stalin within a month. Stalin, who had promised to scrap NEET for admissions into medical colleges in the state, constituted the nine-member committee last week to study the impact of the national-level entrance exam on aspirants from socially disadvantaged sections of the society. The committee said suggestions can be sent to it via neetimpact2021@gmail.com. The panel will study data related to medical admissions in the state and make necessary recommendations within a month to safeguard the interests of students from the backward sections. Once the committee submits its recommendation, the state government will explore ways to scrap the exam, sources said. After taking charge as Chief Minister, Stalin wrote to Modi seeking scrapping of entrance tests to professional courses for this year due to the Covid-19 spread. DMK has been opposed to conducting NEET ever since it came into existence. The party has been urging the BJP government at the Centre to scrap the exams contending that it discriminates against students from the rural areas and those coming from disadvantaged sections of the society. NEET is also an emotional issue in Tamil Nadu with several students ending their lives after failing to clear the entrance test. Almost all political parties in Tamil Nadu demand that NEET be dispensed within the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-panel-studying-impact-of-neet-welcomes-suggestions-from-public-998587.html
17-06-2021||South||Woman dies allegedly because of faulty lift with no signboard in Kerala hospital||A 22-year-old woman who was under treatment following a lift collapse at a government hospital in Thiruvananthapuram died on Thursday. Nadeera, a native of Pathanapuram in the suburbs of Kollam in Kerala, had suffered serious injuries after the lift under maintenance at the Regional Cancer Centre in Thiruvananthapuram collapsed on May 15. The lack of warning signs at the lift allegedly led to the mishap. Nadeera, a mother of a one-year-old child, was a bystander for her cancer patient mother. Her relatives said that Nadeera stepped into the lift from the second floor as the door was open. The lift plunged to the ground floor and she remained unnoticed for a couple of hours. Later she was admitted to the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College hospital where she was battling for life with spine and head injuries. Nadeera was also reported to have got Covid-19 infection while under treatment. The relatives also alleged that improper medical care led to her death and demanded a detailed probe and due compensation to the family. Kerala Health Minister Veena George said that action would be taken against RCC officials in this connection. "Adequate compensation would be given to the victim's family," she said. The city police had already registered a case for negligence. Medical College police station house officer said that with Nadeera's death more stringent sections would be included in the case. The hospital authorities were asked to give a report on the incident, based on which the accused would be identified. The Kerala State Human Rights Commission also initiated a case on the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/woman-dies-allegedly-because-of-faulty-lift-with-no-signboard-in-kerala-hospital-998629.html
17-06-2021||South||Pressure builds on Kerala govt to ease restrictions on places of worship||While Kerala has eased coronavirus lockdown restrictions from Thursday with some offices functioning with 25 per cent staff and liquor outlets reopening, various religious heads are pressing the government to allow devotees at places of worship, too. Religious heads said that there was no justification for restricting worship centres when liquor outlets were also allowed to open. At present, worships centres are allowed to conduct only routine rituals and entry of devotees is restricted.  The lockdown imposed in Kerala from May 8 was relaxed as Covid-19 positivity rate came down. Regions with high test positivity rates are still under curbs, and these rates are reviewed every week. Lockdown on Saturdays and Sundays will continue. Transport bus services would be allowed on an odd-even basis. The liquor outlets across the state witnessed long queues as the shops had been shut for more than a month. Only takeaway sales are allowed from bars. The Kerala State Beverages Corporation reportedly suffered a revenue loss of over Rs 1,500 crore due to the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pressure-builds-on-kerala-govt-to-ease-restrictions-on-places-of-worship-998635.html
17-06-2021||State||Congress looks to cash in on BJP infighting in Karnataka||Hoping to cash in on the infighting in the ruling BJP in Karnataka, the Congress high command has asked Karnataka leaders to launch a statewide campaign against both the state and central governments. The All India Congress Committee general secretary K C Venugopal has asked KPCC president D K Shivakumar and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah to spearhead protests across the state against the rising fuel and edible oil prices and inept handling of the Covid-19 pandemic by the BJP-led central and state governments. Anticipating a mid-term poll due to discord within BJP state unit, the Congress leadership also asked its sitting MLAs and elected representatives to visit their constituencies and extend help to those who suffered due to the Covid-19, a senior leader in Congress told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congress-looks-to-cash-in-on-bjp-infighting-in-karnataka-998270.html
17-06-2021||State||Advancing southwest monsoon brings widespread rain in Karnataka||The advancing southwest monsoon has brought widespread rain across the state on Wednesday, while coastal and Malnad regions experienced very heavy to heavy showers, many parts of north and south interior districts received spells of light to moderate rain throughout the day. The swollen rivers have increased the water level of several dams in the state. Tunga dam in Gajanur, Shivamogga district, reached its full reservoir level on Wednesday.  Similarly, Hidkal dam across Ghataprabha in Belagavi district is seeing good inflow following the heavy showers in its catchment.  Both Shivamogga and Belagavi districts have been witnessing sharp showers in the last few days. Chikkamagaluru, Hassan and Kodagu districts also received heavy showers. All three coastal districts - Uttara Kannada, Udupi and Dakshina Kannada - continued to receive heavy rain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/advancing-southwest-monsoon-brings-widespread-rain-in-karnataka-998271.html
17-06-2021||State||Karnataka govt shelves plan to allow online liquor sale||Karnataka has “no plans” to start online sale and door-delivery of liquor during the pandemic even as several states across the country have resorted to it to boost sales. The state government had mulled allowing online sale of liquor, but this won’t be done for now, Excise Minister K Gopalaiah told DH. While former Excise minister H Nagesh had mooted the idea last year, it was not taken forward. As of now, the government is not considering it, Gopalaiah said.  After the Covid first wave in 2020, a few states in the country had begun online sale of liquor. The state Excise department had mulled the idea at that time. West Bengal, Odisha, Kerala, Punjab, Delhi are among the states where online sales are permitted.  Speaking to DH, officials in the Excise department said they had studied the online liquor sales model in Maharashtra and West Bengal and did not find it feasible.  If at all someone has to go for online delivery, a proper system should be in place. Especially because there are children at home. The government cannot implement it without taking these factors into consideration, the official added.  The Karnataka High Court, too, had recently dismissed the appeal of a private company seeking permission for online sale of liquor.  According to data available with the Excise department, the government saw merely Rs 1.06 crore revenue in April last year compared to Rs 2,205 crore this year. In May, the government was able to generate a revenue of Rs 1,445 crore compared to Rs 1,403 crore for the same period last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-shelves-plan-to-allow-online-liquor-sale-998274.html
17-06-2021||State||High Court dismisses plea against postponement of NEET||The High Court has dismissed a PIL challenging the postponement of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) beyond August 31, 2021. A division bench, headed by Justice B V Nagarathna, said that the decision of the Union government to hold the test after August 31, 2021, cannot be faulted as it would have been on the basis of the opinion of experts and on sound discretion being exercised by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The petition is filed by G B Kulkarni Memorial Legal Trust, represented by its president Dr Vinod G Kulkarni. The petition sought for a direction to the concerned not to postpone the exam for a further period of four months from the earlier stipulated date of April 8. “We find that the postponement of NEET was on account of the circumstances as they emerged and based on the views of the experts. This is not a case where there is cancellation of NEET this year. It is only a case of postponement of the test from April 2021 to a period “second wave” of the Covid-19 pandemic and the need to enlist the services of doctors for duties so as to manage the medical facilities and attend to the patients suffering from the disease,” the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/high-court-dismisses-plea-against-postponement-of-neet-998281.html
17-06-2021||State||Form district committees to develop, maintain lakes, HC tells Karnataka govt||The High Court of Karnataka has directed the state government to constitute district-level committees for the purpose of maintenance and development of lakes/tanks in districts. These committees will be set up in each district except the areas within the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, passed this order by modifying the directions issued by the court on April 11, 2012. The order was passed on an Interlocutory Application (IA) filed by the Environmental Support Group. The IA sought modification to the earlier order so as to enable formation of lake protection committees at grassroots level. The district committees will be headed by respective deputy commissioners. The committee will have respective ZP chief executive officers, senior officers of Forest Department, Minor Irrigation Department and Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) as members. The member-secretary of the respective district legal services authority will be the secretary of the committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/form-district-committees-to-develop-maintain-lakes-hc-tells-karnataka-govt-998283.html
17-06-2021||State||Three agri centres opened in Karnataka with Israeli help||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday inaugurated three Centres of Excellence in the state that have been sanctioned under the Indo-Israel Agricultural Project.  These centres will help farmers choose and adopt technology that suits them best with the goal of doubling their income, the government said. There are 29 operational Centers of Excellence in 12 states and they implementing advanced Israeli agro-technology tailored to local conditions. Karnataka has three of them - one in Kolar for mango, second in Bagalkot for pomegranate and third in Dharwad for vegetables.  “There is a lot of scope for adoption of new technologies in crop production and post-harvest management to increase the production and productivity of the horticulture produce in Karnataka,” Yediyurappa said after virtually inaugurating the centres with Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar.  According to Tomar, these centers will give Karnataka farmers access to the latest innovative Israeli technologies.  The mango centre in Kolar will will implement drip irrigation and fertigation systems that will result in optimal water use, according to a statement. The pomegranate centre in Bagalkot will introduce irrigation management based on precision agriculture by satellite imaging, advanced fertigation and canopy management techniques.  The vegetables centre in Dharwad will produce high-quality seedlings, demonstrate best practices in a range of greenhouse structures with Israeli standards and introduce Israeli vegetable varieties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/three-agri-centres-opened-in-karnataka-with-israeli-help-998286.html
17-06-2021||State||Now Karnataka govt teachers to maintain student profiles||The teachers working with government schools in the state need to maintain individual ‘profiles’ for every child this academic year. This is part of the fresh directions issued to the teachers from the department of public instruction to improve the quality of education and also to keep track of children during that particular academic year. According to officials from the department, maintenance of child profiles has been made mandatory following the issues faced by the department while promoting children between class 1 and 9 without conducting examinations or any form of assessment. “Other boards are having assessments done for their children. But in state board schools, specially government schools, there is no such exercise done. The lack of periodical assessment is one of the major issues while promoting the students. Considering this difficulty, we have asked the teachers to maintain profiles of children both in manual and digital form,” said a senior official of the department. As explained by officials, the profiles of children not just include their personal information. It will be more about academic activities conducted by the school in each subject. “Even if they are given a small dictation, that should be included in the profile. This is basically to assess the child’s learning level at the end of the academic year while promoting them to next grade,” the official said. From the 2021-22 academic year, the teachers have to upload and keep all academic activities-related documents of all children in all subjects and assess them under continuous comprehensive evaluation and upload the results on the students’ achievement tracking system (SATS) on a timely basis. This applies to all grades from 1 to 10. However, teachers feel it is double work for them as many children, specially in rural areas, are not accessible and it will be difficult to reach them physically due to the pandemic situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/now-karnataka-govt-teachers-to-maintain-student-profiles-998287.html
17-06-2021||State||No data on Covid-19 vaccines supplied to private hospitals||As people struggle for vaccines amid limited supply, lack of transparency over purchase of doses by the private sector is a cause for concern with fears that big hospitals are ‘monopolising’ procurement. Though the private sector has administered more than 26.67 lakh doses till date in the state, the Health Department has supply data for only 15.63 lakh doses out of orders placed for 21.71 lakh doses by 33 private establishments till June 2.   An official told DH, “We have asked the Union Health Ministry for data. We don’t have data now.” According to the Health Department, Manipal Hospital Group has been supplied 3.01 lakh doses, followed by Apollo group (2.9 lakh), Aster CMI Hospital (2.48 lakh), Narayana Health group 2 lakh and Fortis group (85,000). Apollo said it has administered 2.8 lakh doses (96 per cent), NH 1.2 lakh (60 per cent), and Fortis 63,000 odd doses (75 per cent). Manipal and Aster CMI did not reveal the vaccine stock remaining with them. The need to track the number of doses supplied to private hospitals and the resultant coverage becomes important as only 20.33 per cent of state population has received the first dose and a mere 4.33 per cent got the second dose ahead of the unlock and amid concerns of a new Delta variant and a possible third wave. The Karnataka High Court on May 27 had expressed concern over private hospitals procuring 18,000 doses more than the 25 per cent quota of total vaccines produced and asked the Centre to make its stand clear on the issue.  Some members of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) have also questioned the lack of access to vaccine doses. The association, in a recent letter to Health Minister K Sudhakar, stated that “a few hospitals, especially the large chain corporate hospitals have taken the lion’s share of state’s quota of vaccines depriving small and medium size hospitals”. According to PHANA, 6,000 private hospitals are registered under the KPME Act.  The latest guidelines, to come into effect from June 21, have put the state government in charge of sourcing vaccines for private hospitals. The private sector will be entitled to 25 per cent of the vaccines which cannot be purchased from manufacturers directly and has to be channeled via the government. However, it is unclear if officials can lay their hands on the data for the last five weeks. Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Jawaid Akhtar, told DH, “Earlier, we did not have the need to maintain supply data, the Union government did it. From now, we will have it as supply will happen through us. From Monday (June 21), all supplies will be routed through the state government. We are collecting the ‘demand’ from hospitals and sending it to the Centre, once they allocate it, we will do the job of a nodal officer for vaccine procurement.” ‘Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar told DH, “I agree that currently the procurement is skewed in favour of the large cities, especially metros, with most of the procurement being monopolised by large corporate hospital chains. Small and medium-scale private hospitals in the state are finding it hard to procure vaccines directly from the manufacturers.  We are looking into this matter and we will certainly address this soon to ensure equitable distribution of vaccine,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-data-on-covid-19-vaccines-supplied-to-private-hospitals-998288.html
17-06-2021||State||HC directs Karnataka govt not to declare results of II PU fresher candidates||The High Court on Thursday directed the state government not to declare the results of II PU fresher candidates till the expert committee decides on the promotion policy. A division bench headed by Justice B V Nagarathna was hearing a petition filed challenging the decision of the Department of Pre-University Education (DPUE) to promote only regular/fresher students of II PU while holding examinations for repeaters.   The petition alleged that it would amount to discrimination if only repeaters and private candidates are asked to take up the examinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-directs-karnataka-govt-not-to-declare-results-of-ii-pu-fresher-candidates-998418.html
17-06-2021||State||Minor girl's 3 am wedding averted in Mandya village||The Kikkeri police rescued a 6-year-old girl from a marriage in KR Pet taluk on Thursday. The girl's father had lodged a complaint that his family members and relatives were trying to marry off his daughter to a 31-year-old man. He was assaulted for refusing to accept the alliance and sought justice. The wedding was scheduled at Kanneshwara temple at 3 am. On learning of the raid by the police, the family changed the wedding venue to Doddakeramma temple in Chikkosahalli. However, police rushed to the spot and averted the wedding. All the guests escaped from the spot, said the police. The girl's grandparents have been taken into custody. The groom is at large and measures are taken to nab him, said police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/minor-girls-3-am-wedding-averted-in-mandya-village-998486.html
17-06-2021||State||117 black fungus patients discharged against advice, K'taka govt tells HC||||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/117-black-fungus-patients-discharged-against-advice-ktaka-govt-tells-hc-998588.html
17-06-2021||State||Relief: HC asks govt to help domestic workers with registration||The High Court on Thursday directed the state government to give wide publicity about facilities available to get online registration for domestic workers who cannot register themselves for purpose. The Domestic Workers Rights’ Union claimed that the May 28, 2021 order makes registration in the Seva Sindhu portal mandatory for getting Rs 2,000 benefit, announced for the unorganized sector by the government. The petitioner claimed that such an insistence would disentitle a large number of members from receiving the compensation. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, pointed out that though the state has given a large number of advertisements, it was not mentioned that the beneficiaries can approach common service centres along with the document and get the registration done. “Perhaps the state government is proceeding on the assumption that all domestic workers can use the internet and upload photos and employment certificates,” the court said, asking the government to give wide publicity to agencies that can be used by the domestic workers to register themselves. The court also directed the petitioners to depute representatives to various common service offices with a view to ascertain the facilities claimed by the government are available.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/relief-hc-asks-govt-to-help-domestic-workers-with-registration-998590.html
17-06-2021||State||Don't announce II PUC results of freshers for now: HC||The High Court on Thursday directed the government not to announce the results of fresher candidates of II PU, till the state government takes a comprehensive decision bearing in mind all categories of students. A division bench headed by Justice B V Nagarathna passed this interim order on a petition filed challenging the decision of the Department of Pre-University Education (DPUE) to promote only regular/fresher students of II PU, while holding examinations for repeaters and private candidates. Repeaters are those who wish to re-appear for II PU examination for either having failed last year or withdrawn the result with a view to improve the performance.  The government and DPUE submitted that an expert committee has been constituted to look into the issue of various categories of candidates. During the hearing, the additional government advocate submitted that private students are those who have not studied I PU. Therefore, they would have to appear in the examination as and when the date is notified since there is no data available about the I PU marks.   The bench pointed out that the main grievance of the petitioner is about the discrimination and that there should be level playing field/parity between the students. The court said since data of I PU marks of repeaters is available, the state government can consider parity for them with fresher candidates. The DPUE had announced to promote fresher students solely on the basis of I PU performance. “In the circumstances, pending a comprehensive decision to be taken by the state, the Pre-University Board shall not announce the results of the freshers, namely those who have to take II PUC examination for the first time. It is needless to observe that a decision which is comprehensive shall be taken bearing in mind all categories of students,” the court said. The petition is filed by S V Singre Gowda, secretary of Jnanamandira Education Trust in Bengaluru. It claimed that repeaters/failed II PU candidates are being forced to write examinations, whereas fresh candidates have been promoted without examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dont-announce-ii-puc-results-of-freshers-for-now-hc-998593.html
17-06-2021||State||No compromise in teaching Kannada, says DCM||Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan has clarified that there is no compromise in Kannada at undergraduate level. In a media statement on Thursday, the minister said, "We will work according to the National Education Policy which emphasises on education in regional languages. Even at professional courses we need to teach in regional language." "There is no proposal before the government to cut the Kannada learning at undergraduate level from existing two years to one year. We have plans to extend Kannada at higher levels," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-compromise-in-teaching-kannada-says-dcm-998595.html
17-06-2021||State||Mantralaya Vrundavana Darshan from June 22||The devotees would be allowed to have the 'Darshan' of Shri Raghavendra Swami Vrundavana at Mantralaya from June 22, the Mutt manager Venkatesh Joshi said. The devotees could visit the Vrundavan from 6 am to 2 pm and from 4 pm to 9 pm. The guest houses of the Mutt would also be opened but the mass feeding service would not be available. The devotees have been told to strictly follow the Covid-19 guidelines. The online Darshan and pooja services will continue, as usual, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mantralaya-vrundavana-darshan-from-june-22-998596.html
17-06-2021||State||Rains pummel Malnad; some respite for Karnataka coast||Unrelenting showers continued to batter Malnad and Kodagu, affecting normal life in the regions. The downpour in the last two days has left several houses, acres of crop and road infrastructure damaged. While the coastal part of Uttara Kannada received some respite from showers on Thursday, the Malnad half of the district suffered extensive damage. Rain, coupled with strong winds, damaged houses in several villages of Sirsi, Siddapur and Yellapur taluks. A few houses also suffered partial damages due to tree fall. Vehicular movement at several places was hit following the tree fall incidents. Relentless showers have swelled the water level in Gundbala and Badagani rivers and rivulets, triggering flood fears on the banks. Several minor bridges in Alnavar and Dandeli taluks have gone underwater. About 60 arecanut trees were damaged in a lightning strike at Boppanahalli in Sirsi taluk. Krishna basin  With the Western Ghats in Maharashtra experiencing heavy showers, the water level in Krishna, Vedganga, Doodhganga and Hiranyakeshi rivers has gone up considerably, resulting in the submergence of many low-lying bridge-cum-barrages in Belagavi and Bagalkot districts. Inflow into Raja Lakhamgouda reservoir in Hidkalclocked 17,114 cusecs on Thursday. Heavy rains hit normal life in Belagavi city. Rainwater gushed into houses in low-lying residential areas and the make-shift vegetable market, causing hardships to the residents. Kanakumbi in Khanapur taluk recorded a whopping 20 cm of rain in the last 24 hours. Asoga and Jamboti registered 18.08 and 16.06 cm of rain respectively. Shivamogga dams swell Tunga, Bhadra and Linganamakki reservoirs in Shivamogga district have been receiving good inflow following the heavy downpour in their catchments. On Thursday, Bhadra dam received 1.40 tmcft of water, Linganamakki 1.65 tmcft. Many waterfalls, including the famed Jog and Baalebare falls have come alive. Davangere and Chitradurga districts also saw good spells of rain in the day. Downpour in Coffee dists Coffee-growing districts - Chikkamagaluru, Hassan and Kodagu - have been witnessing heavy rain in the lastfew days. The Mugrahalli bridge in Mudigere, Chikkamagaluru district, is in danger of collapse. A road near Bhadra estate has sunk while several trees and electricity poles have been uprooted in the rain.Hosakere in the district witnessed a staggering 22.4 cm of rain while Kottigehara recorded 21.9 cm. Sustained showers in Kodagu have infused life into the Cauvery river. Rain has also poured misery on farmers and coffee growers, submerging acres of land in the hilly district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rains-pummel-malnad-some-respite-for-karnataka-coast-998599.html
17-06-2021||State||BJP would require ventilator support if BSY is removed, warn seers||A group of 15 Lingayat seers from the district on Thursday expressed their support to B S Yediyurappa amid the talks of unseating the septuagenarian as chief minister. “A section of BJP leaders, citing the party’s 75 years age cap rule, wants Yediyurappa to step down as chief minister. Wasn’t he (BSY) old when the party went to 2018 Assembly polls under his leadership? Now, the party has come to power, the vested interests in the party are making a hue and cry to further their political interests,” the seers toldreporters here. They demanded the BJP leadership to continue Yediyurappa as chief minister for the remaining term. “Yediyurappa is like oxygen to BJP state unit. If he is removed, the party will need ventilator support. This is the opinion of the community and we are just the mouthpiece of the community,” the seers warned. President of Veerashaiva Mathadeeshara Dharma Parishat Mallikarjun Swami of Mariyammanahalli, Vamadeva Mahanta Shivacharya of Yemmiganur Mahant Mutt, Abhnava Halaswami of Hirehadagali, Musturu Rudramuni Shivacharya of Jagalur, Vishwaradhya Shivacharya of Bukkasagar, Marisidda Basavasami of Halekote Shantaviraswami of Hadagali Gavisiddeshwara Mutt among others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-would-require-ventilator-support-if-bsy-is-removed-warn-seers-998601.html
17-06-2021||State||Party in-charge leaders loot state: H D Kumaraswamy||JD(S) legislature party leader and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy said the national parties appoint state in-charge leaders not to resolve the issues within the party, but to loot the state. Speaking to reporters here on Thursday, he alleged, "BJP state in-charge Arun Singh is not interested over resolving the issues within the party here. He gets more money if the problems are more. BJP and Congress have appointed state in-charges for looting the state. The people should understand this." He said the Congress party is the reason behind the present crisis within BJP. People had not given their mandate to BJP. But it is Congress that made them to come to power. "All great leaders of Congress conspired to ensure that I descend from the post. They might have thought that Yediyurappa is aged and will not be in power for even six months, and it will be easy for them to come to power. BJP is struggling to be in power. They are interested to be in power than the welfare of the state", he said. "I will not lure the people like Congress leaders. I will announce my future political plans after January 15, 2022," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/party-in-charge-leaders-loot-state-h-d-kumaraswamy-998605.html
17-06-2021||State||NGT reserves order on Karnataka's plea on Mekedatu||The Principal Bench of the NGT on Thursday reserved its order on Karnataka's plea seeking a stay on the Green Bench Southern Bench order on forming a committee for spot inspection to find out whether the state has made preparation to build a reservoir at Mekedatu without getting environmental clearance.  The NGT Principal Bench headed by its chairperson Justice  Adarsh Kumar Goel concluded the hearing of the appeal by Karnataka and reserved the order. Recently, the NGT Southern Bench comprising Justice K Ramakrishnan and expert member K Satyagopal, taking suo motu cognisance of a news report that Karnataka has started making preparation to construct a dam at Mekedatu without getting necessary forest clearances, had ordered forming a committee and sought a report. While pleading for stay the Southern Bench order, Karnataka Advocate General Prabhulinga Navadagi argued that Karnataka has not started the works. Karnataka in its appeal against the Southern Bench said that since the proposed Mekedatu reservoir issue was pending before the Supreme Court, the Southern Bench can't take up the matter suo moto. Karnataka planned to build a balancing reservoir across the Cauvery river at Mekedatu to provide drinking water to Kanakapura and surrounding areas and applied for green clearance from the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests. Tamil Nadu had all along strongly opposed the project and approached the Supreme Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ngt-reserves-order-on-karnatakas-plea-on-mekedatu-998616.html
17-06-2021||State||Covid positivity rate in Karnataka drops to 3.77%||Karnataka reported 5,983 new cases of Covid-19 and 138 related fatalities as the caseload swelled to 27,90,338 and the toll to 33,434, on Thursday. The day also saw 10,685 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 26,10,157. Out of new cases reported on Thursday, 1,209 were from Bengaluru Urban. Dakshina Kannada reported the next highest single-day case tally with 679, Mysuru registered 596 new cases, Hassan 424 and Mandya 309 As on June 17, the state has 1,46,726 active carriers of the virus. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 3.77%, case fatality rate (CFR) was 2.30%. Mysuru reported 26 fatalities, the highest in the state on Thursday 26. Bengaluru Urban recorded 17 deaths followed by Dakshina Kannada and Davangere 11 each and Dharwad 9. So far, 3.22 crore samples have been tested in the state, out of which 1,58,442 were tested on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-positivity-rate-in-karnataka-drops-to-377-998618.html
17-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||SIT grills ex-journos who 'blackmailed' Ramesh Jarkiholi with CD||Two alleged kingpins of the infamous CD scam involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi were questioned by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Monday and Tuesday.  Naresh Gowda and Shravan, who earlier worked with Kannada news channels, have been accused of masterminding the video of the former minister getting intimate with a woman and using it to blackmail him.  The duo was on the run soon after the scandal broke, and they got anticipatory bail from the court. They appeared before the officials who quizzed them in the interrogation cell. The two men have been asked to appear before the officials once again. Sources said Gowda and Shravan were questioned by CCB Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Dharmendra Kumar and his team. While Gowda was interrogated on Monday, Shravan was quizzed Tuesday.  They were questioned based on Jarkiholi’s statement and evidence of money transaction after they asked the former minister to transfer a large sum to hold back the video from appearing on news channels.  But the video was posted on social media on March 2, some time after social activist Dinesh Kallahalli filed a complaint against the former minister with the Cubbon Park police.  Jarkiholi also filed a complaint of blackmail against the woman and the duo at the Sadashivanagar police station. Though the former minister initially claimed that the video was fake, he allegedly admitted later that it was consensual physical intimacy with the woman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sit-grills-ex-journos-who-blackmailed-ramesh-jarkiholi-with-cd-998298.html
17-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||K S Eshwarappa refuses to comment on Karnataka CM change issue||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa denied commenting on the issue of changing Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa being made by a section of leaders of BJP. He said he was on a visit to the city to review the progress of the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department. Eshwarappa told reporters on Thursday that BJP General Secretary in-charge of State Arun Singh has been visiting the state and has held a meeting with all cabinet ministers to review the functioning of the government. He said the BJP state core committee meeting has been scheduled in Bengaluru on Friday evening and he would participate in it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/k-s-eshwarappa-refuses-to-comment-on-karnataka-cm-change-issue-998402.html
17-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||My phone has been tapped, claims BJP MLA||BJP legislator Arvind Bellad, in the news for his ‘disgruntlement’ with the B S Yediyurappa administration, claimed Thursday that his phone had been tapped.  Bellad, the Hubli-Dharwad (West) MLA, also said he received a call from a person who identified himself as Yuvaraj Swamy, an alleged con man accused of cheating government job aspirants and politicians by claiming he was an RSS leader.  Bellad has lodged a complaint with Assembly Speaker Visweshwar Hegde Kageri and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai seeking an inquiry. "Recently, I returned a call I missed and the speaker introduced himself as Yuvaraj Swami. I disconnected after cutting the conversation short. A few days later, he called me again saying that he was wrongly jailed and was currently at the hospital. I think there is a conspiracy behind the call. Since (my detractors) could not find any weakness in me, I think they are making people like Swami call me and fix me in something. Also, how can a jailed man call me anyway?” Bellad said. Asked about his phone being tapped, Bellad said, “There are some people who are present wherever I go. How can they possibly know my whereabouts? That’s why I think my phone has been tapped.” Bellad said that he did not suspect anyone. “Let authorities conduct an inquiry and find out,” he said.  Asked if it was the government tapping his phone, Bellad said he was not sure. “There’s new technology that allows even private individuals to tap phones. I have sought an inquiry (about phone tapping) and security from the Speaker to ensure that I work independently as an MLA,” he said. Of late, Bellad has been identified with the anti-Yediyurappa camp. The ministerial aspirant sulked when he did not find a place in the Cabinet during its expansion earlier this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/my-phone-has-been-tapped-claims-bjp-mla-998485.html
17-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 5,983 new Covid cases, 138 deaths||Karnataka has clocked 5,983 new cases of Covid-19 and 138 fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 27.90 lakh and the toll to 33,434, the health department said on Thursday. The day also saw 10,685 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 26,10,157. Out of 5,983 new cases reported on Thursday, 1,209 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 1,510 discharges and 17 deaths. The total number of active cases in the state is 1,46,726. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 3.77 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 2.30 per cent. Out of 138 deaths reported today, 26 were from Mysuru, Bengaluru Urban 17, Dakshina Kannada and Davangere 11, Dharwad 9, followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 1,209, Dakshina Kannada 679, Mysuru 596, Hassan 424, Mandya 309, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,01,963, followed by Mysuru 1,60,393 and Tumakuru 1,13,206. Cumulatively a total of 3.22 crore samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,58,442 were tested on Thursday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-5983-new-covid-cases-138-deaths-998660.html
17-06-2021||West||'Delta plus' variant may trigger third Covid-19 wave in Maharashtra: Health Department||The highly virulent "Delta plus" variant of the novel coronavirus could stoke a third wave in Maharashtra, according to a presentation made at a meeting attended by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday. “The number of active patients could reach up to eight lakh, while 10 per cent out of them could be children,” said the presentation made by the state health department, as per an official release. The meeting was held here to take stock of preparations to tackle a possible third wave of Covid-19 even as Maharashtra, the state worst-hit by the pandemic, emerges out of a devastating second wave of the infection. Besides Thackeray, health minister Rajesh Tope and members of the state task force on Covid-19 attended the meeting. The presentation made by the health department at the meet portrayed possible scenarios in case a fresh wave of the infection hits Maharashtra. The health department said there were 19 lakh cases in the first wave (post-March 2020 outbreak), while in the second wave (which started around mid-February 2021) so far, more than 40 lakh infections had been registered in Maharashtra. “The Delta plus variant could stoke a third wave in Maharashtra. It could spread at double the rate," said an official during the presentation. Thackeray asked officials to be prepared to deal with any situation in terms of availability of medicines, beds and other necessary resources. "If we do not follow Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, we would be hit by the third wave before we can fully recover from the second one," Thackeray was quoted as saying in the release at the meeting. “We have learned lessons from the first and second waves. We have been told that Maharashtra would get around 42 crore vaccine vials from August-September. The officials need to make all necessary preparations,” he said. In the first wave, the number of patients was highest at 3,01,752 on September 13, 2020, while it was 6,99,858 on April 22 this year during the second wave of Covid-19, the release said. The weekly positivity rate was 23.53 per cent on September 9, which was the highest in the first wave, and it reached 24.96 per cent on April 8 this year, officials said. The task force pointed out that in some EU countries, lockdown-like measures were re-introduced following a surge in cases. Earlier this week, scientists in New Delhi said the highly transmissible Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 has mutated further to form the ‘Delta plus’ or ‘AY.1′ variant, but there is no immediate cause for concern in India as its incidence in the country is still low. The new Delta plus variant has been formed due to a mutation in the Delta or B.1.617.2 variant, first identified in India and one of the drivers of the deadly second wave, they had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/delta-plus-variant-may-trigger-third-covid-19-wave-in-maharashtra-health-department-998304.html
17-06-2021||West||Antilia case-Hiren murder: NIA raids former cop Pradeep Sharma’s house in Mumbai||In a significant development, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) raided the residence of former encounter specialist and Shiv Sena leader Pradeep Sharma. A NIA team swooped at the Andheri residence of Sharma, who was, however, away from home. Sharma is likely to be grilled again by the NIA. The federal agency is investigating the former police officer’s role in he twin cases of planting of gelatin sticks-laden Scorpio near the residence of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani and killing of SUV owner Mansukh Hiren. So far, seven persons have been arrested in the case including Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze, Assistant Police Inspector Riyazuddin Qazi, Inspector Sunil Mane, Vinayak Shinde, a dismissed constable undergoing life sentence and a bookie, Naresh Gor,  Santosh Atmaram Shelar and Anand Pandurang Jadhav. Sharma has earlier been questioned on two to three occasions by the NIA in its Mumbai office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/antilia-case-hiren-murder-nia-raids-former-cop-pradeep-sharma-s-house-in-mumbai-998350.html
17-06-2021||West||Maharashtra faces fear of third Covid-19 wave due to 'Delta plus' variant||Although Covid-19 daily infections seem to dwindle, concern over a possible third wave has been haunting the country that has been battered by the pandemic. Maharashtra, which was the worst-hit state during the second wave, has already started preparation to face the possible third wave, which some believe will be triggered due to the 'Delta plus' variant. On Wednesday, a state task force warned citizens to strictly adhere to Covid norms as refusal to follow the same would inevitably lead to a third Covid wave in the state within a month or two. Thackeray was informed of the threat posed by the 'Delta plus' variant that could spark a third wave, during a meeting to review state Covid preparation. The Delta variant, health officials said, was responsible for more cases in the second wave compared to the first. The 'Delta plus' variant could cause an even higher number of cases in a potential third wave. They further said that the third wave could lead to 8 lakh active Covid cases, 10 per cent of which are likely to be children, according to The Indian Express.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-faces-fear-of-third-covid-19-wave-due-to-delta-plus-variant-998357.html
17-06-2021||West||Maharashtra leaders wish Governor Koshyari on his birthday||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray visited Raj Bhavan here on Thursday to extend his greetings to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on the latter's 79th birthday. Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly Devendra Fadnavis also paid Koshyari a visit and wished him on the occasion. As per a release issued by the Raj Bhavan, President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu, Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to the Governor over the phone to extend birthday greetings. Rajasthan Governor Kalyan Mishra, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Teerath Singh Rawat also wished Koshyari on the occasion. Taking to Twitter, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut wished Koshyari and urged him to give a gift to the state by clearing the names of 12 members for appointment to the legislative council from the Governor's quota. In November last year, the MVA government, comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, had recommended 12 names for appointment to the legislative council, which are yet to be cleared by the Governor. The Maharashtra Legislative Council has a total of 78 members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-leaders-wish-governor-koshyari-on-his-birthday-998444.html
17-06-2021||West||Meet Pradeep Sharma, the Dirty Harry of Mumbai Police||Encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma has seen many ups and downs in his career. In the 1990s, as the Mumbai Police went after organised gangs and eliminated criminals, Sharma earned the sobriquet of ‘Dirty Harry of Mumbai Police’ and ‘encounter specialist’. Sharma, who belongs to the 1983-batch of the Nashik-based Maharashtra Police Academy, had eliminated 103 criminals during his chequered career of 35 years in the police force — perhaps the highest by anyone in India. The Nana Patekar-starrer ‘Ab Tak Chappan’ is said to be inspired by him. Like Sharma, several of his colleagues and contemporaries are booked in cases or are totally sidelined within the force barring a few. During their heyday, these "encounter specialists" together killed more than 1,000 criminals of different gangs, but now, they just kill time. These poster-boys of Mumbai Police came to be eulogised as "encounter specialists" or "encounter cops" and earned sobriquets like "super cops". Also, the rivalry among these groups of elite officers and men had come to the fore. But today, if one rewinds to the period of late nineties and compares them to the present, the larger-than-life cops are history. In September 2019, he took voluntary retirement, joined the Shiv Sena and contested the Vidhan Sabha polls from Nalasopara, but he lost. When Sharma joined the Shiv Sena, president and now chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had said, "When Pradeep Sharma was in police, his gun spoke, now his heart will speak." After this Sharma said, “I was always inspired by Balasaheb Thackeray. He always stood by us." Sharma also mentored cops including Daya Nayak, a canteen boy from Karnataka, who rose to become a policeman, and also the much controversial Sachin Waze. On August 31, 2008, Sharma was dismissed from the Mumbai police on charges of corruption but was reinstated on August 16, 2017, at the orders of Maharashtra Administrative Tribunal. He also faced charges for the fake encounter of gangster Lakhan Bhaiyya but was acquitted by court. His last posting was the head of the Anti-Extortion Cell of Thane Police. Sharma was from the famed 1983-batch with B Raju Pillai, Vijay Salaskar, Praful Bhosle, Ravindra Angre and Vinayak Sawade. Salaskar laid down his life during the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks. Together, they mentored several others and broke the backbone of underworld gangs led by Dawood Ibrahim, Chhota Rajan, Arun Gawli, Abu Salem, Chhota Shakeel, Amar Naik and so on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/meet-pradeep-sharma-the-dirty-harry-of-mumbai-police-998469.html
17-06-2021||West||Five injured in blast at firecracker factory in Palghar, Maharashtra||At least five persons were injured, some of them seriously, in an explosion in a firecracker factory at Dahanu in Maharashtra's Palghar district on Thursday morning, an official said. The incident took place at Dehne village around 11 am, said chief of the District Disaster Cell Vivekanand Kadam. The explosion was followed by a fire, he said. The area is over 125 km away from Mumbai. Fire engines from Dahanu and surrounding industrial areas were rushed to the spot, Kadam said. Four of the injured were admitted to a hospital in Dahanu and another at a hospital in Vapi. Local MLA Vinod Nikole claimed that more persons have been injured as around 100 workers were inside the factory at the time of the incident. Sparks from welding work might have triggered the blast, he said. Tehsildar Rahul Sarang along with senior police officers reached the spot after learning about the incident to supervise the rescue operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/five-injured-in-blast-at-firecracker-factory-in-palghar-maharashtra-998470.html
17-06-2021||West||Elgar Case: Bombay HC extends activist Stan Swamy's stay at private hospital till July 5||The Bombay High Court on Thursday extended the stay of Jesuit priest and activist Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, at a private hospital in the city till July 5 after the medical facility submitted a report saying his health condition remains "critical". Swamy (84) was shifted to the Holy Family Hospital in suburban Bandra for medical treatment from Navi Mumbai's Taloja prison, where he was lodged as an undertrial, following HC's order on May 28. Swamy, who suffers from several ailments, including Parkinson's disease (a brain disorder) had moved the HC earlier this year through his counsel, senior advocate Mihir Desai, seeking treatment and interim bail on health grounds. He had tested positive for Covid-19 at the private hospital and was shifted to the ICU. A bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamdar said on Thursday that Swamy's latest medical report submitted by the private hospital said while he had recovered from Covid-19, his health condition continued to be "critical" and he "required continued intensive care." "As per the report, there are serious medical issues. In view of aforesaid report, we deem it appropriate to extend the stay of appellant till July 5," the HC said. It directed that the National Investigation Agency (NIA), the prosecuting agency in the case, be given a copy of the medical report. The bench directed the NIA to go through the report and make its submissions on Swamy's plea on July 3, the next date of hearing. The octogenarian tribal rights activist, who hails from Jharkhand, was arrested in October 2020 and has been in jail since then. The Elgar Parishad case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at a conclave held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial on the western Maharashtra city's outskirts. The Pune Police had claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists. The NIA later took over the probe into the case in which several activists and academicians have been named as accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/elgar-case-bombay-hc-extends-activist-stan-swamys-stay-at-private-hospital-till-july-5-998489.html
17-06-2021||West||Heavy rains reported in parts of Maharashtra||The Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara districts of Maharashtra on Thursday received heavy rainfall resulting in inundation at several places affecting normal life. Traffic on the Pune-Bengaluru Highway was affected due to rainfall in the two districts that touch the twin South Konkan districts of Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg. Mumbai and neighbouring North Konkan districts of Palghar, Thane and Raigad saw downpour at regular intervals. The Vasai-Virar township in the far western suburbs of Mumbai received heavy rainfall resulting in water-logging and traffic at several places. In Kolhapur district, the Panchganga river was flowing over the danger mark at several places. Monsoon was vigorous in several places like Gaganbavda, Chandgad, Bhudargad and Radhanagari – where over 150 mm average rainfall has been reported in the last 24 hours. The hill station of Mahabaleshwar in Satara district received over 200 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours. In Sangli district, the Krishna river was above the danger mark at a couple of places. “Heavy rainfall warnings issued by IMD for the coming days for Pune, Satara, Kolhapur, Ratnagiri and Sindudurg districts for the coming 48 hours. Mumbai and Thane will receive heavy isolated rainfall for next 3 days,” said KH Hosalikar, Head, Climate and Research Services, IMD, based in Pune. Private weather forecast agency SkymetWeather said, “Moderate to heavy showers will continue today over most parts of Mumbai. Intermittent heavy spells are more likely towards evening and night over Mumbai. A cyclonic circulation over the east-central Arabian Sea and an offshore trough across Konkan and Coastal Karnataka will push active monsoon conditions onshore. These two sub-divisions are expected to have heavy rains for the next 36 hours.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rains-reported-in-parts-of-maharashtra-998512.html
17-06-2021||West||Maharashtra minister to meet Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa over Almatti Dam||A Maharashtra delegation would meet Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on the issue of Almatti Dam on Saturday. The Almatti Dam has been a contentious issue between Maharashtra and Karnataka vis-à-vis flooding of Krishna River during excessive rains during monsoon. The delegation would be led by water resources and command area development minister Jayant Patil. “I will be visiting Bengaluru on Saturday... some officials will accompany me... we will be meeting the Karnataka Chief Minister and discuss the Almatti issue,” Patil said. “Every time there is flooding because of Krishna River... the management of discharge of water from Almatti Dam is important,” he said, adding that people from both the states are forced to suffer.   “The meeting is meant to enhance coordination... secretary-level talks have already been held between the two states,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-minister-to-meet-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-over-almatti-dam-998518.html
17-06-2021||West||Maharashtra prepares for Covid-19 third wave; Uddhav asks agencies to work together||As the second wave of Covid-19 eases gradually across the country and a systematic unlocking process ensues, Maharashtra is simultaneously gearing up to face the third wave which is expected to hit earlier than projected. The Delta-Plus variant of novel coronavirus could trigger the third wave of the pandemic in Maharashtra, the worst pandemic-affected state of India. In a review meeting with doctors, officials and members of the Task Force, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray directed agencies to work in tandem to prevent the third wave. “Let's work as per plan and ensure beds, liquid medical oxygen, medicines, equipment and maintain adequate stock, especially in the rural areas,” he said. Thackeray has asked people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. “We need to keep up with testing even if positive cases go down,’ said Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the Task Force. In the first wave, the number of active patients was highest at 3,01,752 on September 13, 2020, while it was 6,99,858 on April 22, 2021 during the second wave of Covid-19. The weekly positivity rate was 23.53 per cent on September 9, 2020, which was the highest in the first wave, and it reached 24.96 per cent on April 8, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-prepares-for-covid-19-third-wave-uddhav-asks-agencies-to-work-together-998563.html
17-06-2021||West||No patient died due to oxygen shortage in Gujarat in second wave: CM Rupani||Unlike other states, not a single coronavirus patient died in Gujarat due to lack of oxygen during the second wave of the pandemic, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani claimed on Thursday. The state fought both the waves of Covid-19 pandemic with firmness, and it has also started preparations to tackle a possible third wave, he said while inaugurating through video link a 13,000-litre liquid oxygen tank installed at SGVP Holistic Hospital in Ahmedabad. "Over one lakh persons received treatment for coronavirus infection during the second wave in Gujarat. But unlike other states, not a single patient has died due to shortage of medical oxygen," Rupani was quoted as saying in a press release. Senior government officials have been assigned various duties as part of the government's planning to tackle a possible third wave, Rupani said. Medical oxygen production capacity in the state will be raised to 1,800 metric tonnes, the chief minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-patient-died-due-to-oxygen-shortage-in-gujarat-in-second-wave-cm-rupani-998580.html
17-06-2021||West||Maratha quota review petition to be filed next week||The Maharashtra government would file a review petition in the Supreme Court next week against the May 5 ruling of the apex court which quashed reservation in jobs and education for the Marathas, a senior minister said here on Thursday. BJP MP Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, who met Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray during the day, said the ongoing agitation for quota will not be withdrawn. Speaking to reporters after the meeting which lasted for over two hours, PWD minister Ashok Chavan appealed to the Rajya Sabha member to withdraw the agitation. The state will file a review petition in the Supreme Court within eight days, Chavan said. Chavan also said that the BJP MP put forth seven demands related to the welfare of the community. Hostel facilities are being made available for Maratha students in 23 districts as per his demand, while as to the issues with the functioning of SAARTHI training institute, deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar will hold a meeting in Pune on Saturday, Chavan said. On the demand to expedite the trial of the Kopardi rape case, Chavan said the government has completed the legal process and will request the court to start a trial. Jobs have been given to the kin of those who lost life during the quota agitation barring four to five cases which were pending because of inadequate paperwork, the minister said. As to the fate of 2,200 Maratha candidates who appeared for MPSC exams before the quota was quashed, the government has asked the state public service commission to accommodate them in Economically Weaker Section and open category, he said. Sambhajiraje told reporters that the government was positive about addressing all issues. He was told that the government will file review petition next Thursday, he said. "I told the government that Rs 1,000 crore are needed for SAARTHI and the government assured that all funds will be provided," he said. It also accepted the demand to appoint four independent directors on the institute, he said. The government also assured that 149 cases filed against Maratha activists during the quota agitation will be withdrawn, he said. 'We are not withdrawing the agitation. We will meet on June 21 in Nashik to discuss the future course of action," he said. The Supreme Court on May 5 quashed a Maharashtra law that gave quota to the Marathas, holding it unconstitutional. It also said that breaching of 50 per cent cap on quota in the state was not justified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maratha-quota-review-petition-to-be-filed-next-week-998598.html
