18-06-2021||First Edit||Rising inflation is cause for worry||The latest inflation data is cause for worry as it reflects a broad-based rise in prices at a time of shrinking or stagnant incomes for most individuals and households. It should be a matter of concern for the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) which had earlier this month underplayed inflation in its policy statement. Retail inflation, measured by the consumer price index, was at a six-month-high of 6.3 per cent in May, well above the tolerance level of the RBI’s inflation targeting regime. While core inflation rose to a seven-month high of 6.6 per cent, food price and fuel price components also registered increases, and the latter was as high as 11.6 per cent. The inflation rate based on the wholesale price index increased to 12.94 per cent. The trend is likely to continue, and so the matter can no longer be ignored.  Quite a few events and situations have contributed to the rise in prices. The disruption in the supply chain caused by the lockdowns and the resulting constraints on economic activities was one reason. The inflation levels were subdued during the interregnum between the first and second waves of the pandemic but started rising when lockdowns were imposed again. But it may not be right to assume that the prices will go down again when the economy starts opening up. There are other factors that have come into play now. Fuel and commodity prices have been rising steadily, and they have a cascading effect. Commodity prices are in a global bull cycle. Since production was widely hit in the past many months, inventories have depleted and that has created pricing pressures. The stimulus packages which were announced worldwide created an environment conducive to inflation everywhere. The RBI’s estimate of inflation at 5.1 per cent for the fiscal year is bound to be exceeded. Since its attention is now on supporting growth, which has taken a big beating, it is unlikely to increase interest rates now. This is right policy now, but a stage may come when the central bank will have to think of balancing the present policy with measures to contain inflation. The MPC’s main mandate is inflation control. Failure to take timely action may lead to a further fall in real incomes and savings rate and may adversely affect the growth of consumer demand when the economy has to take off. The government has a lot to do. Since the rise in fuel prices is a major cause of inflation, it can go in for a reduction in excise duties on petrol and diesel. It should take steps to reduce prices of materials like steel and cement. Of course, it must first admit that there is a problem with prices that needs to be tackled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/rising-inflation-is-cause-for-worry-999029.html
18-06-2021||In Perspective||Scientific temper is key in these times||More than 57 years after Jawaharlal Nehru’s death, his conception of the nation’s ‘scientific temper,’ a term he coined in his book The Discovery of India, remains freshly relevant, especially in these times of doubts over vaccines, modern medicine and governance principles. Scientific temper was a framework, Nehru argued, that one should adopt to overcome bias, prejudice and irrationality. He grounded his vision of modern India in it. As India grapples with Covid-19, conflicts between the Centre and state governments, and communal and caste-based violence, revisiting Nehru’s rich legacy and how scientific thinking embodied his approach to democracy, diplomacy and the economy, is essential. It is a blot on Nehru’s legacy to see that large swathes of India possess a temper, just not a scientific one. In a speech titled, ‘The Spirit of Science,’ Nehru explained his perspective on what science was and how that shaped scientific thinking in post-independence India. He contended that through science, “We seek the cooperation of nature, we seek to uncover the secrets of nature, to understand them and utilise them for the benefit of humanity…the active principle of science is discovery…Science does not repeat the old in better ways but creates something new to the world and to human consciousness.” In essence, by embracing a scientific mindset, pre-existing ideas are challenged and eliminated from society, potentially removing prejudices. To Nehru, “the basic thing that science should do is to teach us to think straight, to act straight, and not to be afraid” of accepting or rejecting ideas, as long as justifications for doing so are rational and logical. He hoped that India would develop a “social and scientific consciousness,” and reject communalism and religious bigotry that had resulted in the deaths of nearly a million people during Partition. Scientific temper was not limited to just developing scientific institutes or embracing economic planning but encompassed an approach to understanding culture and society. Scientific thinking would help unite India and help it form a common aim for itself: the elimination of poverty. This view informed his vision of modern India, which would be fulfilled through a combination of economic planning, democracy, and the development of a scientific temper through universal education. This triad could overcome the biggest challenges facing India at the time — communalism, poverty and casteism. By truly embracing ‘the spirit of science,’ the country could also learn to question authority figures and, in turn, strengthen the democratic foundations of India. This sentiment is well reflected in a 1938 speech to the National Academy of Sciences: “We have vast problems to face and to solve. They will not be solved by the politicians alone, for they may not have the vision or the expert knowledge; they will not be solved by scientists alone, for they will not have the power to do so, or the larger outlook which takes everything into its ken. They can and will be solved by the cooperation of the two for a well-defined and definite social objective.” This speech showed how Nehru envisioned the challenges and the approaches needed for India to become a truly independent country. As Prime Minister, he made significant strides in achieving these aims, which India must remember today to overcome its crises of Covid-19, a shrinking space for dissent, and the limits of federalism. Under Nehru, India became a leading diplomatic power, able to punch well above its economic and military weight in global affairs. His foreign policy of non-alignment was grounded in the view that developing nations had to chart their own destiny, independent of the superpowers. It was his belief and support in science that helped build India’s scientific institutes, from the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to the IITs, ISRO, etc. India became a beacon of democracy in the post-colonial world as it was the only former British colony to not fall to military rule or to creeping authoritarianism as Pakistan and other former colonies did. Instead, Nehru’s presence in Parliament, his willingness to follow the rules of procedure, to the extent of being reprimanded by the Speaker, demonstrated a commitment to democracy and a fear of developing a cult of personality. His ability to respond to criticism from sections of Parliament, whether it was from the Jan Sangh or Feroze Gandhi, his son-in-law, are testament to the same. Free and fair elections were organised thrice in his reign that set the template for democratic transitions ever since.   Raghuram Rajan has called Covid-19 the biggest crisis India has faced since independence. At the time of independence, India lacked the resources, clout and talent that it has today. However, even with a poorly dealt hand, the violence of Partition, 200 years of exploitative colonial rule, and a lack of robust institutions to protect free speech and democracy, India charted a destiny away from authoritarianism and communalism under Nehru’s leadership. His scientific temper was at the heart of this achievement. India must find its scientific temper again. (The writer studies Anthropology and History at Stanford University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/scientific-temper-is-key-in-these-times-999026.html
18-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Passion for baking brings out mouthwatering delicacies at ‘Oven Groove’||A passion for baking helped two friends, who had just graduated from the Manipal University, turn it into a source of income. For the past six months, Shreyas Mendon and Natasha P have ensured Jewish Bread, ‘Babka buns’ of Jewish origin, Chocolate Hazelnut Tart, Blueberry Cream Cheese, customised cakes, among others, are a must on the menu of get-togethers, small parties organised in and around Mangaluru. “We are baking at home as according to the orders of the customers for past six months,” informs Shreyas Mendon. He and Natasha had graduated from Welcomgroup Graduate School of Hotel Administration of Manipal University in 2020. “I had passion for baking since my childhood,” he recollects. “With Covid-19 pandemic and fewer job opportunities, Natasha and myself decided to venture into home baking,” Shreyas said. They had created FB page and Instagram account — ‘Oven Groove’ – to showcase their mouth-watering delicacies like Babka buns (a sweet braided bread swirled with fillings). “We also take orders online. But a majority of orders come from those who have seen our signature dishes on social media. “We are also into customised cakes,” says Shreyas with a smile. It is not just a variety of cakes that these two friends offer, but savouries and brownies too. That their dishes are customised to the requirements of customers and taste wholesome, is perhaps what attracts many customers, add Natasha and Shreyas. “We use ingredients of high quality and all products are made at home,” says Natasha and added they focus on savouries which are new to the region and had not been prepared by others. Stuffed buns are one of our best and highest selling product, said Shreyas. A few of the products that ‘Oven Groove’ offer are Classic Banana Cake, Vanilla Delight, Classic Carrot cake, Brownie Tart, Chocolate Tart, Rasbetty Babka Buns, Blueberry Cream Cheese, Dulce de Leche, Assorted Babka Buns, a variety of cookies, including Biscoff Stuffed Cookies, Red Velvet Cookies, Chicken and Cheese Quiche, Mushroom Ghee Roast, Cheesecake Brownies, Fudge Brownie and so on. To place orders, contact: Shreyas Mendon – 95911 22303, or Natasha P - 81058 79234.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/passion-for-baking-brings-out-mouthwatering-delicacies-at-oven-groove-998759.html
18-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru DHO transferred to Bengaluru||District Health Officer (DHO) Dr T Amarnath has been transferred. Dr Prasad has been posted in the place of Amarnath, who was shifted to Bengaluru. It has to be noted that Amarnath had been in the news for expressing his helplessness in arranging beds for Covid-19. Even MLAs and MPs had expressed displeasure against the officer in connection with procuring medicines for Covid patients||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-dho-transferred-to-bengaluru-998772.html
18-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man hacks daughter to death because she loved a youth belonging to another community||A man hacked his daughter to death, as she was in love with a youth belonging to another community, in Periyapatna taluk, Mysuru district, on Thursday. The man has surrendered to the police. The deceased is Gayathri (19) and the accused is her father Jayaram, 54, residents of Gollarabeedhi, in Periyapatna town. According to Police, the girl was in love with a youth, belonging to another community, which was opposed by Jayaram. Despite Jayaram advising her against it, Gayathri was adamant. There was a lot of arguments between them related to the issue for the last one month. Jayaram was working at his field on Thursday afternoon when Gayathri brought lunch for him. Jayaram tried to convince her again to forget the youth belonging to another caste. There were heated arguments between the duo, when the irate Jayaram hacked Gayathri with a machete, killing her on the spot. He later surrendered to the town police. Deputy SP Raviprasad, Inspectors Jagadish visited the spot. A case has been registered against Jayaram and a probe initiated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-hacks-daughter-to-death-because-she-loved-a-youth-belonging-to-another-community-998876.html
18-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Complaint against MLA H D Revanna for inciting violence against hospitals||A psychiatrist filed a complaint at Puttur police station accusing MLA and former minister H D Revanna of inciting the public into violence against hospitals. Psychiatrist Dr Ganesh Prasad Mudraje, who is also serving as chairman of the Harassment committee, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Karnataka, filed the complaint accusing Revanna of publicly threatening medical professionals and hospitals across the state of physical violence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/complaint-against-mla-h-d-revanna-for-inciting-violence-against-hospitals-999018.html
18-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||From The Newsroom: No political crisis in Karnataka, says CM Yediyurappa||In your evening news brief, B S Yediyurappa says there is no political crisis in Karnataka; Uttar Pradesh Police sent a legal notice to the Managing Director of Twitter India and Sri Lankan authorities have said that the highly transmissible Delta variant of Covid-19 has been detected for the first time in the community.  Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday asserted that there was no political crisis in the state, in the wake of dissident activities seeking his ouster. Yediyurappa also rubbished corruption allegations against his son, BJP vice-president BY Vijayendra. “There’s no political crisis or confusion. What’s happening is that our media friends have developed a misunderstanding because of 1-2 people,” Yediyurappa told reporters. Uttar Pradesh Police sent a legal notice to the Managing Director of Twitter India and asked him to appear before it over a viral video, where elderly man Abdul Samad Saifi was allegedly beaten up, had his beard chopped, and was forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' by four men. A notice sent by the Ghaziabad Police, probing the incident of assault on Saifi, asked Twitter India MD to appear before the investigating officer at Loni Border Police Station to record a statement in seven days. Sri Lankan authorities have said that the highly transmissible Delta variant of Covid-19 has been detected for the first time in the community. Chandima Jeewandara of the University of Sri Jayawardenapura here said the strain was detected in samples collected from an area in the Colombo central suburb of Dematagoda. Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/from-the-newsroom-no-political-crisis-in-karnataka-says-cm-yediyurappa-998848.html
18-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka govt dismisses BJP MLC's Rs 21,473-crore tender scam allegation||A day after BJP MLC H Vishwanath alleged irregularities in the tender process of the Upper Bhadra project, the state government on Friday issued a formal clarification refuting the charges.  Vishwanath had alleged that a tender worth Rs 20,000 crore was floated for the Upper Bhadra project without the consent of the Finance Department. However, these allegations are baseless. The tender process is completely transparent, Water Resources Secretary Laxmanrao Peshve said in a statement.  The Finance Department has given administrative approval for Rs 21,473 crore in concern with the Upper Bhadra Project, based on a detailed project report in December 2020. The project has also received the approval of the state Cabinet. Followed by this, the technical committee of the Jal Shakti Ministry has given approval for Rs 16,125 crore and this amount will be pitched in by the Centre. The Centre has also directed Karnataka to complete the project by 2023-24. There is no dearth of funds for the project to be taken forward as claimed by Vishwanath, the statement said. Followed by this approval and the deadline set by the union ministry, the state government called for tenders worth Rs 4,026 crore in seven packages for the drip component. These tenders are in different stages.  Also, a proposal has been sent to the Centre to declare this as a national project and it is before the Centre's investment clearance board, the official said.  The project is expected to provide water for drought-prone parts of Chikkamagaluru, Chitradurga, Davanagere and Tumakuru covering 5,57,022 acres. Vishwanath, on Thursday, levelled corruption allegations against Yediyurappa and his son BY Vijayendra citing the example of the Upper Bhadra project in which he claimed kickbacks were involved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-govt-dismisses-bjp-mlcs-rs-21473-crore-tender-scam-allegation-998938.html
18-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP core panel pushes for action on dissidents||The BJP core committee, which met Friday, set the ball rolling on disciplinary action against leaders who have indulged in dissidence activities, causing much damage to the image of the party and the B S Yediyurappa administration. The core committee meeting was the culmination of BJP national general secretary Arun Singh's 3-day visit to Bengaluru. Legislators Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, Arvind Bellad, AH Vishwanath and Tourism Minister CP Yogeshwar are under the party's scanner for their controversial statements and dissidence. The party also seems to be unhappy with the chief minister's political secretary MP Renukacharya for his signature campaign in favour of Yediyurappa and the government's chief whip V Sunil Kumar who recently tweeted asking for a platform to be heard. According to sources, Yediyurappa's camp is gunning for the suspension of Vishwanath, who publicly accused the CM and his family of corruption. Singh said that action will be taken against leaders who damage the party's image. "There are only 2-3 people who are doing things to damage the party and they're hurting the feelings of party workers. Certainly, there will be action against them at the right time," he said.  Singh also said that the party leadership will "talk to some of them", which was understood as a hint that disciplinary action may not be possible against every dissenting voice. Briefing reporters, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said that the core committee did not discuss anything on replacing the chief minister or reshuffling the Cabinet. "Yediyurappa is our leader and there is no change in that," he said. Asked about disciplinary action against the dissidents, he said: "In a couple of days, there will be tough action 100% against those who’ve issued (controversial) statements." The core committee decided to take steps towards improving the image of the party and the government. "We also discussed the need for coordination between the party and the government," Ashoka said. In other decisions, the core committee resolved to observe June 25 as 'Black Day' in all taluks to mark the imposition of the Emergency. On June 21, the party will celebrate Yoga Day. Booth-level activities will be taken up in the name of Shyama Prasad Mukherjee between June 23, his death anniversary and July 6, his birthday. It was also decided that all BJP district units should start preparing for the Zilla Panchayat and taluk panchayat elections. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-core-panel-pushes-for-action-on-dissidents-998983.html
18-06-2021||Main Article||The doctor and the 'vaid' must engage||Baba Ramdev, the brain behind the Patanjali brand, has courted another round of controversy with his diatribe against allopathy and its practitioners. In a recent video, he described himself as a ‘divine doctor’, a doctor without a formal degree. Notwithstanding the irony of the moment, its trademark crassness, and by now the too obvious design aimed at brand-building, the questions that Ramdev raised merit engagement. Allopathy and its epistemology of medicine and healthcare rode on the chariot of modernity, with its totalising and universalising streaks. The phenomenal journey of modern medicine and science and their expansion coincided with and brought in their wake the shrinking significance of indigenous healthcare and systems of wellbeing and their contextual and ontological roots. Only a feeble mind will seek to question and undermine the transformations brought in by allopathic medicine and the enormous role it has played in adding to the quality of healthcare through its advances. But that is not the point. The larger concerns associated with the “practice” of this system point to a parallel narrative of its hijacking by mercantile interests. It is the story of its gradual disconnect from and inaccessibility to the teeming millions of the poor and the dis-privileged. This is where Ramdev entered the scene to tap on this resource of smouldering discontent to embellish his own brand with massive grassroots support. In doing so, Ramdev picked up concerns and questions cleverly. He may not be the right person and he may be crass, but his questions resonated with the masses. Theoretically, all medical systems have and follow their own protocols. However, allopathy has been procedurally rather opaque and impersonal from its genesis. Its language and codes of communication have always had a ring of detachment and distance from the people. Modern medicine largely works on the ‘formal trust’ component that is conveyed to the people via the system’s overwhelming network of agencies depicting its indispensability and singular significance. On the contrary, with an Ayurveda practitioner or vaid, the associated ‘lay trust’ has been rooted in the community’s experiential history, both immediate and distant. It had an inherent aura of familiarity and personalised touch to it. In the duel between the ‘formal’ and the ‘reflexive’ in the domain of knowledge production, the practitioners of allopathy displayed enormous arrogance, looking down upon all other existing systems as inferior, infantile and unscientific. It is this attitude that hurriedly designates a benevolent Ayurveda practitioner in a remote village, for instance, as a “quack”, “spurious” and “fake”, with total disregard for his contribution in maintaining and preserving an age-old ecosystem of healthcare and in being perhaps the only glimmer of hope for the people around him in moments of crisis when all else looked beyond reach. The story has a further twist. There is a deadly combination of this arrogance of the formal with the consistent apathy of the institutional, given the colossal neglect of the health sector for decades. A cursory look at just one statistic – the number of doctors per thousand population in India compared to the global benchmark – is enough to expose the background of the duel between Ramdev and the Indian Medical Association. Health and education have received, especially in the rural areas, mere lip service throughout. As privatisation picked up in the 1990s, the healthcare sector too, like the education sector, fell prey to the avaricious business model of infrastructure augmentation and growth. The rural, already on the margins, got further marginalised. Medicine and doctors became hostage to corporates. Horrific stories of networks of doctors and medicine manufacturers collaborating to fleece people in distress, pushing people to swanky so-called hospitals and nursing homes that mushroomed in the smaller towns, got amplified during the pandemic. This illegitimate nexus and its greedy ways have always been in the realm of public knowledge, but no one had cared. Ramdev’s empire emerged in this background, built on the insecurity and helplessness of the masses, long left to fend for themselves. Yoga predates Ramdev by thousands of years, but Ramdev inaugurated yoga to the household, and he did so on fertile ground, left behind by the State as it gradually withdrew from its welfare commitments. Between a distant, impersonalised AIIMS in a metropolis and a Patanjali product at a nearby grocery shop, with pompous, unverified claims of being capable of the same effect as the former, the choice was never difficult for the ordinary masses. The ever-present fatalistic streak combined surreptitiously with the dictates of deficits and became Ramdev’s marketing agent as his Patanjali juggernaut throughout the length and breadth of the country. Sadly, the formal world of the knowledgeable community inexplicably shows scant proclivity to learning from others, even the ordinary. They talk amongst themselves, insulate themselves from questions and criticism, or get agitated when provoked. None of it has helped. Can this pandemic be the moment when they depart from this course with a journey undertaken by the doctors of AIIMS to Varanasi’s ghats to engage with the Ayurveda practitioners of the city, once known for its eminent vaids but who have since been progressively ignored and pushed to the margins along with their tradition? That would be the real response to Ramdev, rather than the agitated and angry rebuttal of the IMA officials, which appeared to the masses as elitist, arrogant and a case of them shouting down from their high pedestal. If the idea is to rescue people from the miasma of ignorance, medical illiteracy and to protect people from the deadly claws of unscrupulous elements, the practitioners of modern medicine will have to introspect and be ready to recognise and respect other systems of health and cure. More importantly, they will have to distance themselves from mammon and come closer to the masses. As the philosopher of the sociology of knowledge Karl Mannheim would have cautioned, thinking that one’s own perspective is the absolute truth is unscientific and offers no path forward. Knowledge systems are co-travellers and should exhibit camaraderie rather than conflict and hierarchical attitudes toward each other. When the originals engage with each other and have a dialogue, the photocopy shops will automatically shut down. The answer to Ramdev is as simple as that. (The writer is a Chandigarh-based Sociologist and commentator)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/the-doctor-and-the-vaid-must-engage-999024.html
18-06-2021||National||Punjab Ekta Party merges with Congress, Khaira and 2 other MLAs meet Rahul Gandhi||The Punjab Ekta Party, led by former AAP leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira, announced its merger with the Congress on Thursday, with its leaders calling on Rahul Gandhi here. Khaira, the former leader of opposition in the Punjab Assembly, said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is a "one-man show" and his quitting the Congress to join the Arvind Kejriwal-led party in 2015 was a "mistake". Khaira, an MLA from Bholath, along with Jagdev Singh Kamalu (MLA from Maur in Bathinda district) and Pirmal Singh Khalsa (MLA from Bhadaur in Barnala district), met Gandhi and joined the Congress formally. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and the party's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala were also present on the occasion. "The AAP is only a one-man show and there is nothing beyond Arvind Kejriwal in the party," Khaira told reporters after meeting Gandhi at his Tuglaq Lane residence. Khaira said he is rejoining his old party and reposed his faith in the leadership of Gandhi. He attacked the AAP as being undemocratic and said there was no system of internal democracy or dialogue within the party. Khaira also alleged that he was undemocratically removed as the leader of opposition in the Punjab Assembly and thereafter, he quit the party to form the Punjab Ekta party, which has units in every district of the state. "Kejriwal is in the habit of scoring self-goals," he said, adding that a number of NRIs who had supported the AAP in the last Punjab Assembly polls stood disillusioned with the party. Khaira alleged that the NRIs had supported the party financially during the last Assembly polls but no money ever reached the people of Punjab. "The trust of the NRIs in the AAP stands shattered," he said, urging them to back the Congress now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-ekta-party-merges-with-congress-khaira-and-2-other-mlas-meet-rahul-gandhi-998675.html
18-06-2021||National||Twitter row: Congress says PM Modi wants to suppress voice of 140 crore Indians||The Congress on Thursday alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants to suppress the voice of 140 crore Indians and does not want them to say anything against him and his government. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the action against Twitter and other social media platforms is only aimed at suppressing the freedom of their speech and expression. He said this in the context of the government initiating action against Twitter. The government has asked Twitter to comply with intermediary guidelines and said it has lost its "safe harbour" protection in India over non-compliance with IT rules and failure to appoint key personnel mandated under the new guidelines. IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had said Twitter failed to comply with intermediary guidelines and has "deliberately" chosen the path of non-compliance despite being granted multiple opportunities. Surjewala said Twitter does not write anythng of its own, it is the people of the country who write against this government and its policies. "Prime Minister Modi wants to suppress the voice of 140 crore Indians. It is the fight for the freedom of speech. Today, journalists in the country cannot write against this government, else they will lose their job or life. In such a situation, only YouTube, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, social platforms are left and Modi ji himself is the creation of such platforms," he told reporters. "Twitter does not write anything of its own. It is the people of India -- the youth, the Dalits, the farmers, the poor -- who write against the government and criticise Modi ji, then they have problems. Now, they want to lock down every social media platform as well and this is their intention," the Congress leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-row-congress-says-pm-modi-wants-to-suppress-voice-of-140-crore-indians-998692.html
18-06-2021||National||Mehul Choksi remanded to state prison in Dominica, but to remain in hospital: Lawyer||A magistrate court in Dominica on Thursday moved businessman Mehul Choksi from police custody to a state prison, his lawyer in India said, but added that he would continue to remain in hospital as his medical condition "deteriorated". "Yes, (Choksi's) police custody has been changed to prison custody but he shall remain in hospital as his medical condition has deteriorated," lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said. His legal team had submitted a medical certificate from doctors at the Dominica China Friendship Hospital, where Choksi is undergoing treatment, of "mental stress" and elevated blood pressure. The change in custody is being seen as a ray of hope for India which has approached the Dominica High Court seeking to be impleaded as a party in the case filed by lawyers of Choksi whose bail plea was earlier rejected. Choksi is wanted in India in a case of loan fraud worth about Rs 13,500 crore in the state-run Punjab National Bank. The CBI and the Ministry of External Affairs have sought to be impleaded in the habeas corpus matter, which seeks return of Choksi to Antigua and Barbuda, by filing two affidavits in the Dominica High Court, officials said here. The central agency is likely to focus on establishing criminal culpability of Choksi, fugitive status, pending warrants against him, Red Notice and charge sheets while the Ministry of External Affairs will argue that Choksi continues to be an Indian citizen, they said. The affidavits, if admitted by the high court, will pave the way for noted lawyer Harish Salve pleading India's case in Dominica, they said. The fresh development seems to indicate that India stands a chance to be heard and make a legal attempt to bring the fugitive diamantaire back to the country and face a trial. The CBI had on Wednesday filed a supplementary charge sheet against him alleging him of having prior knowledge of the impending Enforcement Directorate (ED) enquiries against him in 2017 which triggered him to plan his escape from India and cover his tracks by concealing evidence. The CBI in its supplementary charge sheet has invoked Section 201 of the IPC among other charges which pertain to the destruction of evidence by a suspect as part of criminal conspiracy. Choksi has been admitted at the Dominica China Friendship Hospital since May 29 after being held by the authorities of the Caribbean island country for "illegal entry" on May 24, a charge denied by him. His lawyers in Dominica have contended that Choksi was removed from Antigua and Barbuda, where as a citizen he enjoys rights to approach the British Privy Council as the last resort in cases on his citizenship and extradition, to Dominica where these rights are not available to him. "The aim was to remove him from Antigua to Dominica was to diminish his protection under the law. Choksi has ongoing proceedings in Antigua in regards to attempts by the Prime Minister to remove his citizenship, the only citizenship that he possesses, and to extradite him to India," his lawyer had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mehul-choksi-remanded-to-state-prison-in-dominica-but-to-remain-in-hospital-lawyer-998704.html
18-06-2021||National||DH Toon | Covid-19 test scam at the Kumbh Mela||The Uttarakhand government on Thursday lodged a case against a company and two private labs for fudging coronavirus test reports during the Haridwar Kumbh Mela in April. The firm, Max Corporate Service, Nalwa Laboratories Private Limited of Hisar and Delhi-based Dr Lalchandani Lab have been accused of issuing fake negative test reports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-covid-19-test-scam-at-the-kumbh-mela-998710.html
18-06-2021||National||Fresh hike in fuel prices; petrol at Rs 103 in Mumbai||A fresh hike on Friday took the fuel prices to new record highs as petrol now costs over Rs 100 (per litre) in several parts of the country.  Bengaluru became the latest city to witness the metre touching three digits. The dramatic hikes are now a spectacle of once every two days in the country. In the financial capital of Mumbai, petrol is now priced at a record Rs 103.08 and diesel at 95.14, according to Indian Oil Corporation. In Delhi, petrol stood at Rs 96.93 and diesel Rs 87.69 per litre.  Petrol rates were up by at least 26 paise while diesel increased by 28 paise. In Chennai, the petrol is at Rs 98.14 and diesel at Rs 92.31. While in Kolkata people now have to pay Rs 96.84 for petrol and Rs 90.54 for diesel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fresh-hike-in-fuel-prices-petrol-at-rs-103-in-mumbai-998721.html
18-06-2021||National||With 1,587 deaths, India's single-day Covid-19 deaths fall to 2-month low||With 62,480 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 2,97,62,793, while the death toll climbed to 3,83,490 with 1,587 fresh fatalities, the lowest in 61 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on  Friday. The active cases have fallen below 8 lakh after 73 days and the national Covid-19 recovery rate has crossed 96 per cent.   The active cases have declined to 7,98,656 comprising 2.68 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.03 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed.    A net decline of 28,084 cases has been recorded in the Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. A total of 19,29,476  tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 38,71,67,696. The daily positivity rate  was recorded 3.24 per cent. It has been less than 5 per cent for 11 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 3.80 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 36th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,85,80,647, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.29 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 26,89,60,399 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far  under Nationwide Vaccination Drive.    India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 1,587 new fatalities include 636 from Maharashtra, 210 from Tamil Nadu and 138 from Karnataka. A total of 3, 83,490 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,16,026 from Maharashtra, 33,434 from Karnataka, 30,548 from Tamil Nadu, 24,886 from Delhi, 22,030 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,182 from West Bengal, 15,738 from Punjab and  13,361 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-1587-deaths-indias-single-day-covid-19-deaths-fall-to-2-month-low-998737.html
18-06-2021||National||Covovax may begin trials for children soon: All you need to know about this Covid-19 vaccine||After Novavax’s recombinant nanoparticle protein-based vaccine, Covovax, has shown promising results in its Phase 3 trials in the US, the UK and Mexico, the Centre is keen to start trials of the vaccine on children. Here’s all you need to know about this Covid-19 vaccine: > US-based biotechnology firm, Novavax, produced a Covid-19 vaccine -- NVX-CoV2373, which will be manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII) under the name of ‘Covovax’ in India. > Covovax uses recombinant nanoparticle technology to generate antigen derived from the coronavirus spike protein to create the vaccine. Similar technology has been used in the past to create Human papillomavirus (HPV), hepatitis and influenza vaccines. > In Phase 3 trials of the vaccine on 29,960 participants in US and Mexico, Novavax reported 90.4 per cent efficacy rate. Even in the UK, it has shown 96 per cent efficacy. > The results are on par with Pfizer-BioNTech’s and Moderna’s mRNA vaccines and better than Oxford-AstraZeneca (Covishield) and Johnson & Johnson’s vaccine. > In Novavax’s US trials, the vaccine candidate 'NVX-CoV2373' showed a great result of 100 per cent protection against moderate and severe infection of Covid-19. > This vaccine suits India’s cold chain requirements as it can be stored between 2° and 8° Celsius temperature. > Trials of the Covovax Covid-19 vaccine on adults started in March in India and SII CEO Adar Poonawalla expects to launch the vaccine in September 2021. Currently, it is in its Phase 3 trials, consisting of 1,400 volunteers across 20 sites in the country. > After Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Zydus Cadila’s ZyCov-D, Covovax will become the third vaccine to start trials for children in India. > The Centre aims to get approximately 20 crore doses of Covovax between August and December. > In collaboration with SII, Novavax will be providing 110 crore doses of this vaccine to the Covax facility to help the vulnerable group get access to the vaccine. According to Stanley C. Erck, president and CEO of Novavax, the firm will initially distribute its vaccine in low-and middle-income countries, including India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covovax-may-begin-trials-for-children-soon-all-you-need-to-know-about-this-covid-19-vaccine-998749.html
18-06-2021||National||Chinese, Indian workers among 11 killed in Nepal floods, 25 missing||Landslides and flash floods triggered by heavy rain across Nepal this week killed 11 people including one Indian and two Chinese workers at a development project, while 25 people were missing elsewhere, officials said on Friday. The bodies of the three workers were recovered near the town of Melamchi in Sindhupalchowk district, northeast of Kathmandu, which was hit by flash floods on Wednesday that also forced many people from their homes, district administrators said in a statement. "The foreign nationals were working for a Chinese company that is building a drinking water project," district official Baburam Khanal told Reuters. The Home Ministry said late on Thursday that 25 people were missing in floods in Sindhupalchowk, a mountainous district bordering the Tibet region of China, and other parts of the country. The monsoon rains, which normally begin in June and last until September, kill hundreds of people in mostly mountainous Nepal every year. Heavy rain since Tuesday have damaged roads, destroyed bridges, washed away fish farms and livestock, and wrecked homes. Hundreds of people have been forced to move to community shelters, including schools, sheds and tents, authorities said. Aid agencies said the crisis this year could add to the social and economic woes of a country hard hit by Covid-19. Nepal has been reporting among the highest coronavirus test positivity rates in the world. "Those who have lost homes are sleeping in community centres," said John Jordan of the US-based charity World Neighbors. "This forced density raises risks for a community that has been recovering from Covid-19."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-indian-workers-among-11-killed-in-nepal-floods-25-missing-998770.html
18-06-2021||National||SC stays FIRs against actor Munmun Dutta for using casteist slur||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed the criminal proceedings initiated against actor Munmun Dutta in multiple FIRs under the Atrocities Act for allegedly using a casteist slur against a community. A bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian issued notice to states and complainants on her contention to club the FIRs lodged in Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Haryana. The actor of TV serial 'Tarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashma' has triggered an outrage with the YouTube video posted last month, leading to lodging of FIRs under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. She has however tendered an apology and took the offensive part of the video down, saying she used the word because of language barrier. Senior advocate Puneet Bali, appearing for her, submitted that she has not used the word 'Bhangi' intentionally and there was no mens rea. The word was used in West Bengal and also referred to those who took intoxicants. She agreed that she used the word but after realising the meaning of the word, she removed the video, he said. The counsel said the petitioner was a woman and five FIRs had been lodged against her, though she had not called anybody as Scheduled Caste. The bench, however, asked him, if she could demean the entire community. Do women have better rights or equal rights, the bench questioned. However, finally, the bench agreed to examine her plea and stayed the proceedings in the FIRs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stays-firs-against-actor-munmun-dutta-for-using-casteist-slur-998776.html
18-06-2021||National||PM Modi launches crash course to skill, upskill over one lakh 'Covid warriors'||Launching six customized crash courses from 111 centres in 26 states that aim at skilling over one lakh Covid-19 warriors to meet new challenges, Prime Minister Narendra Modi cautioned that the virus is present and the possibility of mutation is also there. The programme has been designed especially under the Central Component of Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana 3.0, with total financial outlay of Rs 276 crore. The programme will create skilled non-medical healthcare workers to fill the present and future needs of manpower in the health sector. "The second wave of the pandemic illustrated the kind of challenges that the virus may present to us. The country needs to stay prepared to meet the challenges and training more than one lakh frontline warriors is a step in that direction," Modi said, adding that this training will be over in the next two-three months. The move is significant, coming in the wake of experts predicting a third wave of Covid-19 in a few months. Modi also said work is underway on a war footing to ready over 1,500 oxygen plants and efforts are on to reach every district. Three days before phase III of the immunisation drive kicks in with 75 per cent procurement and distribution of vaccines by the Centre free of cost to states, Modi said the government is "committed to give free vaccines to every citizen" while following Covid protocol. The PM said many guidelines have been issued related to the campaign, which is to start from June 21, and now people below 45 years of age will get the same treatment for vaccination as those above 45. On the course that was launched on Friday, Modi said top experts of the country have designed these six courses as per demands of the states and Union Territories. The training will be imparted to Covid warriors in six customised job roles -- namely Home Care Support, Basic Care Support, Advanced Care Support, Emergency Care Support, Sample Collection Support and Medical Equipment Support. This will include fresh skilling as well as upskilling of those who have some training in this type of work. This campaign will give fresh energy to the health sector frontline forces and will also provide job opportunities to youth. Hailing it as an important next step in the fight against Covid-19, Modi reminded everyone that the pandemic tested the strength of every country, institution, society, family and person of the world. Modi said far-flung hospitals are being provided with ventilators and oxygen concentrators, besides new strides in manufacturing PPE suits, testing kits and other medical infrastructure. "Amidst all these efforts, skilled manpower is critical. For this and to support the current force of Covid warriors, one lakh youths are being trained," Modi said. Modi also hailed the role of health professionals like ASHA workers, ANM, Anganwadi and health workers deployed in the dispensaries in the villages in preventing the infection and supporting the world's largest vaccination campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-launches-crash-course-to-skill-upskill-over-one-lakh-covid-warriors-998781.html
18-06-2021||National||Supreme Court refuses to cancel, postpone PG final year medical exams||The Supreme Court Friday refused to direct the medical universities to cancel or postpone the final year Post Graduate exams on the ground that the examinee-doctors have been engaged in Covid-19 duty. A vacation bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and M R Shah said it cannot pass any general order to all the universities to not conduct or postpone the final year post graduate medical examination. The top court noted that the National Medical Council (NMC) has already issued an advisory in April asking the universities in the country to take the Covid situation into consideration while announcing the dates for final year examination. “We have interfered where it was possible like postponing by one month the INI CET examination conducted by AIIMS, New Delhi, where we have found that there was no justification in fixing the date for the examination without giving appropriate time to students to prepare,” the bench said. It rejected the submission of senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for 29 doctors, who have filed the writ petition that NMC be directed to issue directions to all the universities to give reasonable time to students for preparing for the examination. “We don’t know what could be the reasonable time for preparing for the examination. How can the court decide the reasonable time? Everyone may have their reasonable time. Let the university decide on the basis of the advisory of NMC as per the pandemic situation prevailing in their area,” the bench said. The top court said, “In a vast country like India, the pandemic situation cannot be the same. In April-May the situation in Delhi was very bad but now it is hardly 200 cases per day. In Karnataka, however, the situation is not that good even now. Therefore, we cannot pass any general order without hearing the universities”. Advocate Gaurav Sharma, appearing for NMC said that not all doctors were engaged in Covid duty and the council had issued an advisory in April to all the universities to hold the examination after taking into consideration the Covid situation in their respective areas. Hegde said that since the doctors were engaged in Covid duty, they were not able to prepare for the examination, which will enable them to become senior resident doctors. At the outset, the bench clarified that it is not allowing the doctors to be promoted without appearing for the examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-refuses-to-cancel-postpone-pg-final-year-medical-exams-998793.html
18-06-2021||National||India should brace for third Covid-19 wave by October, say health experts||A third wave of coronavirus infections is likely to hit India by October, and although it will be better controlled than the latest outbreak the pandemic will remain a public health threat for at least another year, according to a Reuters poll of medical experts. The June 3-17 snap survey of 40 healthcare specialists, doctors, scientists, virologists, epidemiologists and professors from around the world showed a significant pickup in vaccinations will likely provide some cover to a fresh outbreak. Of those who ventured a prediction, over 85% of respondents, or 21 of 24, said the next wave will hit by October, including three who forecast it as early as August and 12 in September. The remaining three said between November and February. But over 70% of experts, or 24 of 34, said any new outbreak would be better controlled compared with the current one, which has been far more devastating - with shortage of vaccines, medicines, oxygen and hospital beds - than the smaller first surge in infections last year. "It will be more controlled, as cases will be much less because more vaccinations would have been rolled out and there would be some degree of natural immunity from the second-wave," said Dr Randeep Guleria, director at All India Institute Of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). So far, India has only fully vaccinated about 5% of its estimated 950 million eligible population, leaving many millions vulnerable to infections and deaths. While a majority of healthcare experts predicted the vaccination drive would pick up significantly this year, they cautioned against an early removal of restrictions, as some states have done. When asked if children and those under 18 years would be most at risk in a potential third wave, nearly two-thirds of experts, or 26 of 40, said yes. "The reason being they are a completely virgin population in terms of vaccination because currently there is no vaccine available for them," said Dr Pradeep Banandur, head of epidemiology department at National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS). Experts warn the situation could become severe. "If children get infected in large numbers and we are not prepared, there is nothing you can do at the last minute," said Dr Devi Shetty, a cardiologist at Narayana Health and an advisor to the Karnataka state government on pandemic response planning. "It will be a whole different problem as the country has very, very few paediatric intensive care unit beds, and that is going to be a disaster." But 14 experts said children were not at risk. Earlier this week, a senior health ministry official said children were vulnerable and susceptible to infections but that analysis has shown a less severe health impact. While 25 of 38 respondents said future coronavirus variants would not make existing vaccines ineffective, in response to a separate question, 30 of 41 experts said the coronavirus will remain a public health threat in India for at least a year. "Covid-19 is a solvable problem, as obviously it was easy to get a solvable vaccine. In two years, India likely will develop herd immunity through vaccine and exposure of the disease," said Robert Gallo, director of the Institute of Human Virology at the University of Maryland and international scientific advisor, Global Virus Network.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-brace-for-third-covid-19-wave-by-october-say-health-experts-998795.html
18-06-2021||National||Govts should prepare for potential third Covid-19 wave, says Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Friday asked the governments to make preparations in advance, especially in rural areas, to effectively deal with a possible third wave of Covid-19. "Public participation in the coronavirus vaccination can be ensured only when the vaccine is available easily to everyone everywhere. Like the second wave of the coronavirus, preparations should completed at every level, especially in the rural areas, to save people from a possible third wave," she said in a tweet in Hindi. "This is the demand of the BSP from all state governments," Mayawati added. 2. देश में सामान्य जनजीवन व अर्थव्यवस्था को पटरी पर लाने व कोरोना से उत्पन्न विभिन्न जन समस्याओं के निदान के लिए सभी सरकारों को निष्ठापूर्वक काम करना जरूरी, वरना देश की आत्मर्निभरता व अस्मिता के प्रभावित होने का खतरा व लोगों को फिर बुरे दिन और अधिक परेशान करेंगे। 2/2 In a related tweet, the BSP supremo said it was necessary for the governments in the country to work sincerely towards bringing normal life and the economy back on track. It is necessary to solve the public problems arising out of Covid-19 or else the country's self-reliance will be at risk, and then people will have to face bad days, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govts-should-prepare-for-potential-third-covid-19-wave-says-mayawati-998799.html
18-06-2021||National||Covid-19 Vaccine Matters: Government battles misinformation, hesitancy in bid to scale up vaccination||With the fear of a looming third Covid-19 wave, the government has shifted focus to the scale of vaccinations, looking at a huge target of administering at least 1 crore doses daily.  So far, Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered to over 26.86 crore people, out of which 5 crore have been given to those in the age group of 18 to 44 years, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. The second Covid-19 wave across the country has been declining steadily and many states and Union Territories have started easing Covid-19 curbs.  When the Covid-19 curbs eased in New Delhi on Tuesday, thousands of commuters were seen crowding into underground train stations and shopping malls. This prompted doctors to warn that such behaviour could lead to a resurgence in Covid-19 infections. While the peak daily vaccination rate attained till date is 42.65 lakh, the government is of the view that "doubling the shifts and possibly vaccinating 24x7 for a couple of months can enable the ambitious, but possible, throughput of 1 crore shots a day".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-matters-government-battles-misinformation-hesitancy-in-bid-to-scale-up-vaccination-998804.html
18-06-2021||National||SC declines to interfere with release of student activists in Delhi riots case||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to interfere with the release of three student activists on bail in a Delhi riots case but directed that the Delhi High Court's judgment, concerning anti-terror law, should not be treated as a precedent in other cases. A bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian agreed to examine a petition by Delhi Police against the June 15 judgment interpreting provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, saying it would have pan-India ramifications. "A 100-page judgment discussing all laws is very surprising in a bail application. What we can say is, bail has been granted and they will not be affected but will stay the effect of the HC order," the bench said. The court issued notice to JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal and Jamia Milia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, released from Tihar jail here on Thursday in a case of larger conspiracy for Delhi riots in February 2020, which claimed the lives of 53 people and left hundreds of others injured.  The court sought a response from the activists without four weeks and posted the matter for consideration in July. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, arguing for Delhi Police, contended the High Court has turned the entire UAPA and the Constitution on its head. He said the riots took place as the three accused have conspired with others when the US president was on a visit to the country. He said as many as 53 people were killed and over 700 others were left injured.  The High Court, however, said no offence was made out. "If I put a bomb somewhere and the squad diffuses the bomb, then it reduces the offence," he asked, pressing for the stay of the judgment. He said the right to protest cannot include the right to kill people. Mehta said if the High Court judgment was accepted the woman who assassinated former Prime Minister (Rajiv Gandhi) was innocent as she in her mind was just protesting.  He said he would not object to the three accused being remained out on bail but the effect of the judgment must be stayed. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the activists, submitted that the High Court's judgment should not be stayed but it can be said that the verdict would not be treated as a precedent. In its plea filed on Wednesday, the police questioned the approach adopted by High Court, saying the three separate bail judgments, were without any foundation and appeared to be based more on the social media narrative than the evidence gathered and elaborated in the charge sheet.  "The misdirection of the High Court is writ large from the observation that the present case was foisted in anxiety to suppress dissent," the police contended, adding this was "an insinuation, albeit unfounded and perverse," and was "beyond the purview of the bail petition".  In its appeal, the police said, "The High Court has not only conducted a mini-trial but has also recorded perverse finding which is contrary to the record and the arguments made during the hearing of the case."  "Unfortunately, the High Court has decided the case on a pre-conceived and a completely erroneous illusion, as if, the present case was a simpliciter case of protest by students," it added.  The February 2020 riots were triggered after a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act. All three were in jail for over one year. The police claimed the High Court completely lost sight of the evidence and statements, which clearly made out "a sinister plot of mass-scale riots being hatched by the three accused along with other co-conspirators".   The police contended that the High Court's view that provisions of UAPA can only be applied to deal with matters of profound impact on the ‘defence of India’, nothing more and nothing less, was "an irrelevant consideration to grant bail to the accused". “Secondly, it will have far-reaching consequences for cases investigated by NIA and other investigating agencies. The order is thus unsustainable in law and deserves to be stayed," the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-declines-to-interfere-with-release-of-student-activists-in-delhi-riots-case-998807.html
18-06-2021||National||India denies attack claim on Sri Lankan fishermen by Indian Navy||India on Friday rejected as "blatantly false" the local media reports about the Indian Navy’s alleged assault on a group of Sri Lankan fishermen, saying no such incident has taken place. A group of 13 local fishermen claimed that they had ventured into the sea on May 7 onboard trawlers 'Thushan 1' and 'Thushan II' and were physically assaulted by the Indian Navy in the international waters around Diego Garcia on June 4. "They demanded drugs from us even after we told them that we were only fishermen," two fishermen told the local Hiru TV on Thursday. Responding to their claims, the Indian High Commission here denied that the fishermen had been assaulted by the Indian Navy. "Media reports on June 17 stating that a group of Sri Lankan fishermen was attacked physically by the Indian Navy are blatantly false. We deny any such incident having taken place,” the High Commission said. "The Indian Navy is a highly disciplined and professional force which discharges its responsibilities in an impeccable manner,” it said in a statement. India is firmly committed to addressing all fishermen-related issues between India and Sri Lanka in a humanitarian manner through established bilateral mechanisms and understandings, it added. After the media reports, Secretary to the Fisheries Ministry Indu Rathnayake told the local media here that a discussion will be held with India after the report is investigated. Indian fishermen have also alleged in the past that the Sri Lanka Navy attacked them while poaching on Sri Lanka borders. In October last year, a leader of the fishermen claimed that groups of Indian fishermen were attacked by the Sri Lankan Navy personnel using bottles and stones while fishing near Dhanushkodi, resulting in injuries to some and damage to their gear. Fishermen from both countries are arrested frequently for inadvertently trespassing into each other's waters. The fishermen issue has become a major irritant in the bilateral ties. In January, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar visited Sri Lanka and met with Fisheries Minister Douglas Devananda. He raised the fishermen issue and reviewed bilateral cooperation in fisheries. "We look forward to the early return of our fishermen from Sri Lanka," Jaishankar had said. Later, a three-member committee was appointed by the Sri Lankan government which will make recommendations on measures to stop poaching by Indian fishermen inside the country's waters after four people were killed when an Indian trawler capsized after colliding with a Sri Lankan Navy vessel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-denies-attack-claim-on-sri-lankan-fishermen-by-indian-navy-998815.html
18-06-2021||National||Covid-19: Karan Johar sets up Yash Johar Foundation to help entertainment industry||In a bid to extend help to the members of the Indian entertainment industry amid the coronavirus pandemic, filmmaker Karan Johar on Friday launched a foundation named after his late father, film producer Yash Johar. In a social media post, the 49-year-old director said the Yash Johar Foundation has been set up with an aim to look into financial well-being, health and educational and vocational training of people from the industry. He said the initiative will work towards improving the quality of life for people in the Indian entertainment industry. "My father understood being in the movie business was hard, which is why we announce the launch of the foundation considering the current scenario and taking into effects and after effects of Covid-19 we have initiated YJF 2021 Covid response to address issues such as food, shelter, medicines of those within the entertainment industry who have been negatively impacted by the pandemic," Karan Johar said. The Ae Dil Hai Mushkil director announced the initiative via a video featuring photographs of his father and behind the scenes moments from the shoots of various films produced by his father and him under their banner Dharma Productions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-karan-johar-sets-up-yash-johar-foundation-to-help-entertainment-industry-998816.html
18-06-2021||National||Gujarat civil society seeks withdrawal of editorial criticising poem on Covid deaths||Days after an editorial published in Gujarat Sahitya Akademi's mouthpiece calling everyone praising a poem titled "Shav Vahini Ganga" as "literary Naxals," a group of prominent civil society members have issued a statement demanding withdrawal of the editorial. Gujarat Sahitya Akademi in the latest edition of its magazine "Shabdsrushti" has published an anonymous essay titled "No this is not a poem, it is the misuse of a poem for anarchy..." while criticising the poem and its author without identifying them. The statement issued by the members on Thursday said, "The necessary obligation of writing the author’s name is not honoured which should be deemed immoral, criminal and dangerous according to government procedures."   "The anonymous writer (of the essay) makes outrageous statements such as ‘the poem is bad though the poet is good’, and through such insinuations attempts to issue an indirect threat to Gujarati writers indicating in an authoritative voice what they should write and what they should not write. This is reminiscent of the time of The Emergency (During the Emergency in 1975 newspapers and journals had to be approved by government officials) and is absolutely condemnable. This is beating the pen with the hammer, a death knell for the right to freedom of expression of Gujarati writers," the statement read. Over 170 people have signed the statement including Mallika Sarabhai, Nirjhari Sinha, Abhijit Joshi, Manishi Jani, Ghanshyam Shah, Salil Tripathi, Gulammohammed Sheikh, Hanif Lakdawala, Dakxin Chhara, Dev Desai,  Mehul Dholakia, Zakia Soman, among others. "In an attempt to gag the glorious literary tradition of Gujarat this government-controlled institution, which functions in a democratic structure, has opened the floodgates for a practice that goes against the interests of the people and has a dangerous and fascist tendency which we strongly condemn," reads the statement. In the eye of the controversy is the Gujarati poem "Shav Vahini Ganga" (Ganga, the carrier of corpses) written by Parul Khakhar, originally from Rajkot, who lives in Amreli. She had posted it on her Facebook page in early in May and since then it has been translated into several languages. The poem describes large scale deaths due to coronavirus pandemic and crowded crematoriums. It talks about the "Ram Rajya" (Kingdom of Lord Ram), where the river Ganga has become a "shav vahini" or hearse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-civil-society-seeks-withdrawal-of-editorial-criticising-poem-on-covid-deaths-998829.html
18-06-2021||National||Centre, states took multiple legislative steps to prevent spread of coronavirus in 2020: Report||The Centre and the state governments took multiple legislative steps in 2020 to prevent the spread of the coronavirus pandemic in the country, according to a report by a think tank. The Central government invoked the Disaster Management Act, 2005 to assume primary responsibilities of addressing the pandemic. State governments either amended the central law, the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 (in its application to their respective states), or prescribed temporary regulations under the 1897 law. The Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 provides for the prevention of the spread of dangerous epidemic diseases in the country. The Act empowers states to take special measures to prevent the outbreak and spread of epidemic diseases.  Several states, including Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Punjab and Telangana issued Covid-19 regulations for the prevention of the spread of the virus, PRS Legislative Research said in its annual review of state laws, 2020. Some states such as Karnataka, Kerala, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh promulgated various ordinances for prevention and control of epidemic diseases in their respective states. These ordinances were either amending or replacing the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 or the states’ own epidemic diseases laws. These ordinances gave the respective state governments the power to notify any disease as an epidemic disease in their states, the report noted. They could also impose restrictions such as lockdown, an inspection of travellers, sealing of state borders, and suspension of public and private transport for preventing the spread of the disease. They also increased the penalties for contravention of rules. "For example, the Uttar Pradesh ordinance prescribed a punishment of one to three years of imprisonment and a fine of Rs 10,000 to Rs 1,00,000 for violating quarantine or isolation, and for escaping from the hospital during treatment," the report said. The impact of Covid-19 extended to other areas of legislation as well, it observed. "For example, some states enacted laws to bring changes in elections to local governments. Maharashtra enacted a law to postpone the elections to the offices of the Mayor and Deputy Mayor of some municipal corporations. "Kerala amended its panchayat and municipal laws to facilitate postal and direct voting for persons affected by Covid-19 or those in quarantine," the document observed. Other legislative actions triggered by the pandemic included reducing salaries of legislators to conserve financial resources. The World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 as a global pandemic on March 11, 2020, it noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-states-took-multiple-legislative-steps-to-prevent-spread-of-coronavirus-in-2020-report-998831.html
18-06-2021||National||Over 2.58 crore Covid-19 vaccines still available with states, says Centre||More than 2.58 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs and over 19,95,770 doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. Over 27.90 crore (27,90,66,230) vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far through the Government of India (free of cost channel) and through direct state procurement category. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage is 25,32,65,825 doses, the ministry said. It said 2,58,00,405 vaccine doses are still available with the  states and UTs to be administered. "Furthermore, more than 19,95,770 vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by the states and UTs within the next three days," the ministry said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-258-crore-covid-19-vaccines-still-available-with-states-says-centre-998837.html
18-06-2021||National||Supreme Court judge recuses herself from hearing West Bengal post-poll violence case||A Supreme Court judge, Justice Indira Banerjee on Friday recused from hearing a plea seeking CBI probe into the murder of a BJP worker in post-poll violence in West Bengal, citing personal difficulty. "I have some personal difficulty in hearing this," Justice Banerjee said as soon as the matter came up for hearing. She was presiding over a bench that also comprised Justice M R Shah. With the development, the matter would be posted before another bench. Justice Banerjee hails from West Bengal. The matter related to the petition filed by Biswajit Sarkar, the brother of slain Bengal BJP worker Abhijit Sarkar. The petitioner, who claimed to be an eyewitness to the killing of Sarkar on May 2 at North Kolkata, alleged that the mob dragged him out of his house, tied the CCTV camera wire around his neck, and smashed his head and brutally killed him in front of his mother. On May 18, the court had issued notice to the West Bengal government on the plea for a CBI probe into the killings of two BJP workers in the post-poll violence, witnessed after the ruling TMC secured third consecutive term victory in Assembly elections. A 60-year-old woman and a 17-year-old minor girl from West Bengal had also filed an application, alleging horrific gang rape by TMC workers, for their families' support to the BJP in the recently held Assembly election. They sought SIT probe into all incidents of post-poll violence.   In a response to the petition by Sarkar, the West Bengal government had told the top court that no interference was required as the High Court was already seized of the matter.  In an affidavit, the West Bengal government claimed the allegations were misleading and politically motivated. It also said the state was cooperating with National Commission for Women already probing violence. It also said the FIR was already lodged, arrests were made and compensation paid to the victims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-judge-recuses-herself-from-hearing-west-bengal-post-poll-violence-case-998838.html
18-06-2021||National||Annual 'Kheer Bhawani Mela' observed in Kashmir amid Covid-19||Amid the Coivd-19 pandemic, the annual 'Kheer Bhawani Mela' in Tulmulla area of central Kashmir's Ganderbal district was observed without any large public gatherings. However, small groups of devotees, some of whom had come from the other parts of the country as well, thronged the famous temple of Ragnya Devi in Tullamulla. The holy rituals and aarti of the deity were conducted as per the tradition by the priests in the temple and were shared with the public and devotees via social media, a member of the Trust said. Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ganderbal, Kritika Jyotsna said that all required arrangements for the mela were made and the puja was held wherein a limited number of devotees participated. “As per the Covid-19 guidelines, the ceiling on the number of people permitted to attend gatherings was observed as the same had been conveyed to the representatives of the Dharmath Trust that manages the affairs of Kheer Bhawani shrine,” she said. Nestled in the shade of mammoth Chinars, Ragnya Devi temple in Tullamulla usually receives thousands of devotees, mostly Kashmiri Pandits, on Zyestha Ashtami, which fell on June 18 this year. However, due to the pandemic, this year no congregation of the devotees was held. Last year also, there was minimal participation of the devotees at the famous temple due to the Covid-19. Over the decades, the mela has become a symbol of communal harmony as Muslims in the locality of Kheer Bhawani temple make all the arrangements for the devotees, including setting up stalls for flowers and other offerings. On January 25, 1998, when suspected Lashkar-e-Toiba terrorists killed 23 Pandits in nearby Wandhama village, the arrivals of devotees in the subsequent years decreased. However, after 2003, attendance at the festival started increasing with each year. In recent years (except 2020 and 2021), thousands of Pandits, including women and children, would converge at the temple from various far-off places including Delhi and Jammu to offer special prayers on the occasion of the annual holy day ‘Zyeshth Ashtami.’ Around 55,000 Pandit families left their ancestral homes in 1990 and migrated to Jammu and other parts of the country when a bloody insurgency broke out in Kashmir in 1989. Before their migration, Pandits used to visit the temple once a month for conducting ‘havan’ and ‘puja.’ Now, it is held on Jyeshtha Ashtami once in a year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/annual-kheer-bhawani-mela-observed-in-kashmir-amid-covid-19-998853.html
18-06-2021||National||Southwest Monsoon advances further into Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh||The southwest monsoon has further advanced into some more parts of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, the India Meteorological Department said on Friday. Delhi will have to wait longer for monsoonal showers. The wind system is expected to reach the capital around the usual date of June 27, officials said. However, conditions are favourable for further advance of the monsoon into some more parts of Gujarat, south Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh and remaining parts of Madhya Pradesh during next the next 24 hours, the IMD said. The Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) passes through Junagarh, Deesa, Guna, Kanpur, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar, the weather department said. "The impact of mid-latitude westerly on the monsoon is likely to continue till June 23, and hence the advance of the monsoon into Rajasthan, remaining parts Punjab, Haryana and Delhi is not likely during the same period," the IMD had said on Thursday. It had said the monsoon flow pattern is likely to organise and strengthen gradually between June 26 and June 30, and the further advance to most parts of northwest India is likely during the same period. The MeT office had earlier predicted that the wind system may reach Delhi by June 15, 12 days early. Normally, the monsoon reaches Delhi by June 27 and covers the entire country by July 8.   Last year, the wind system had reached Delhi on June 25 and covered the entire country by June 29, according to Skymet Weather, a private forecasting agency. Mahesh Palawat from Skymet Weather said westerly winds have been blocking the advance of the monsoon in northwest India for the last three to four days.  "These winds will persist for another week. Hence, chances are that Delhi will get monsoonal showers only around the usual date of June 27," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/southwest-monsoon-advances-further-into-gujarat-rajasthan-madhya-pradesh-998856.html
18-06-2021||National||Narada sting case: SC to hear pleas of West Bengal, Law Minister Moloy Ghatak on Jun 22 on filing of affidavits||The Supreme Court Friday decided to hear on June 22 the appeals against Calcutta High Court's denial for filing of affidavits by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Law Minister Moloy Ghatak on their role on the day of arrest of four leaders on May 17 by the CBI in connection with the Narada sting tape case. A vacation bench of justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian, meanwhile, requested the high court not to hear the case on Monday but a day after the apex court considers the appeals of the state government and Ghatak against the order. “List on Tuesday. Mr Solicitor General (Tushar Mehta) has put in appearance. The copy of the special leave petitions (SLPs) be served ion him... In the meantime, we hope that the High Court defers the hearing scheduled on Monday before it to Wednesday,” the bench said in the order. On June 9, a five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court, hearing CBI's application for transfer of the Narada sting tape case from the special CBI court to the high court, had said it will decide later on considering the affidavits by the Banerjee and Ghatak on their respective roles on the day of the arrest of four leaders in connection with the case. Senior advocates Rakesh Dwivedi and Vikas Singh appeared for the law minister and the state government and said it was necessary to bring on record the affidavits of the high court as they deal with the roles of the persons concerned on May 17. The law minister was attending the cabinet meeting and was not in the court premises at the time of hearing, Dwivedi said, adding that even the CBI officials were not there on the spot as the lawyer for the agency addressed the court virtually. It has been alleged that the state ruling party leaders played key role in stopping CBI from performing its legal duty after arresting four leaders on May 17 in the case. “You may not be partly correct. It was stated that he (law minister) was in court,” the bench observed. “The CBI is an agency which aims to find the truth. They were themselves in CBI office and addressed the court virtually. They do not know as to what happened in the court. The law minister is yet to address court on this,” Dwivedi said. Singh said that under the rules there is a right to file affidavits and, moreover, CBI filed as many as three affidavits and did not take the permission of the court. The high court, which on June 9 decided to consider later the affidavits of Banerjee and Ghatak, was urged by the Solicitor General that the affidavits cannot be accepted on the ground of delay as they were filed after the completion of his arguments. The CBI, which has filed an application seeking transfer of the Narada sting tape case from the special CBI court to the high court, has made the chief minister and the law minister parties in its plea there. It had claimed that while the Chief Minister had sat on a dharna at the CBI office in Kolkata soon after the arrest of the four accused, Ghatak had been present at the Banshall Court premises during the virtual hearing of the case before the special CBI court there on May 17. Ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamool Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor of Kolkata Sovan Chatterjee were arrested by the CBI which is investigating the Narada sting tape case on a 2017 order of the high court. The five-judge bench, comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and justices I P Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Arijit Banerjee, had adjourned the hearing and fixed the case for further hearing on Monday. The bench had granted interim bail on May 28 to the four accused. The special CBI court had granted them bail on May 17 itself, but the order was stayed by the high court, which remanded them to judicial custody. They had been placed under house arrest on May 21 by the high court, modifying its earlier order of stay on the bail. The Narada sting operation was conducted by journalist Mathew Samuel of Narada News, a web portal, in 2014 wherein some people resembling TMC ministers, MPs and MLAs were seen receiving money from representatives of a fictitious company in lieu of favours. At that time, the four arrested politicians were ministers in the Mamata Banerjee government. The sting operation was made public ahead of the 2016 assembly elections in West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narada-sting-case-sc-to-hear-pleas-of-west-bengal-law-minister-moloy-ghatak-on-jun-22-on-filing-of-affidavits-998863.html
18-06-2021||National||Supply of food to pre-schools, anganwadis, mid-day meals exempt from GST||Supplying food to schools under a mid-day meal scheme, pre-schools and Anganwadis is exempt from GST, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has said. Issuing a set of clarification on certain decisions taken by the GST Council in its 43rd meeting on May 28, the CBIC said it had received representations regarding the applicability of GST on the issues as to whether serving of food in schools under the mid-day meals scheme would be exempt if such supplies are funded by government grants and/or corporate donations.   Under the goods and services tax (GST), any catering service, including mid-day meals, provided to an educational institution is exempt from the levy. The CBIC said this would cover the serving of any food to a school, including pre-school. Further, an Anganwadi inter alia provides pre-school non-formal education and hence, Anganwadi is covered by the definition of an educational institution (as pre-school). "...it is clarified that services provided to an educational institution by way of serving of food ( catering including mid-day meals) is exempt from levy of GST irrespective of its funding from government grants or corporate donations. "Educational institutions as defined in the (GST) notification include Anganwadi. Hence, serving of food to Anganwadi shall also be covered by said exemption, whether sponsored by the government or through a donation from corporates," the CBIC said on June 17. EY Tax Partner Abhishek Jain said the clarification by the government that the GST exemption on catering services provided to educational institutions will have a wide ambit will be much appreciated by the stakeholders. "This clarification will help reduce the cost on account of GST, for the educational institutions involved in providing such meals thereby saving on the corpus of such institutes," Jain added. In a separate clarification on levy of GST on supply of various services by the Central and State Board (such as National Board of Examination), the CBIC said GST is exempt on services provided by central or state boards (including the boards such as NBE) by way of conduct of examination for the students. It includes the conduct of entrance examination for admission to the educational institution. "Therefore, GST shall not apply to any fee or any amount charged by such boards for the conduct of such examinations including entrance examinations," it said. Besides, GST is also exempt on input services related to admission to, or conduct of examination, such as online testing service, result publication, the printing of notification for examination, admit card and questions papers etc when provided to such Boards. However, an 18 per cent GST would be levied to other services provided by such Boards, like providing accreditation to an institution or to a professional, the CBIC clarified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supply-of-food-to-pre-schools-anganwadis-mid-day-meals-exempt-from-gst-998866.html
18-06-2021||National||Rule of land supreme, not your policy: Parliamentary panel to Twitter India officials||Amid a tussle between the Union government and Twitter over the new IT rules, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on IT on Friday told the US-based social media giant that the rule of the land was supreme and the company must abide by the Indian laws. During a 90-minute deposition before the panel, chaired by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, the Twitter India officials were asked "tough and searching questions", including why the company should not be fined as it has been found "violating" rules of the country, sources said. Twitter India's public policy manager Shagufta Kamran and legal counsel Ayushi Kapoor deposed before the parliamentary panel. Later in a statement, a Twitter Spokesperson said the company "stands prepared to work with the Committee on the important work of safeguarding citizens' rights online in line with our principles of transparency, freedom of expression, and privacy." "We will also continue working alongside the Indian Government as part of our shared commitment to serve and protect the public conversation", the spokesperson said while appreciating the opportunity to share views of Twitter before the Standing Committee on Information Technology. BJP MPs --Nishikant Dubey, Rajyawardan Rathore, Tejasvi Surya, Sanjay Seth, Zafar Islam, Subhash Chandra-- were among those present during the meeting while from the opposition there were TMC MP Mahua Moitra and TDP MP Jaidev Galla apart from Tharoor. During the meeting, panel members mostly from ruling BJP asked Twitter officials whether their policy is more important or rule of land, to which officials responded that they respect the Indian laws but they have to follow their policy as well for larger interest, sources said. The panel members took strong objection to Twitter stance and categorically told them that the rule of land is supreme not the company policy, sources said. As per sources, there was unanimity in the panel that the Twitter should abide by IT rules and appoint chief compliance officer. "The answers (by Twitter officials) lacked clarity and were ambiguous", a source said. It was also raised by the MPs in the meeting that instead of appointing a full-time compliance officer, Twitter has appointed an interim officer, who is a lawyer, sources said. According to sources, Dubey also raised question over neutrality of fact-checks on Twitter and claimed that many of them are not "politically neutral". The parliamentary panel had last week summoned Twitter over issues related to misuse of the platform and protection of citizens' rights. According to sources, the opposition members opined that another round of meeting should be held with Twitter officials, but the panel has sought written reply from Twitter on various questions. The panel members also held a meeting with Information and Technology Ministry officials after the deposition. Earlier this month, the Central government issued a notice to Twitter, giving it one last chance to "immediately" comply with the new IT rules and warned that failure to adhere to the norms will lead to the platform losing exemption from liability under the IT Act. Sources said the panel will also summon top officials of Google, Facebook, YouTube and other tech giants. Twitter and the Centre have been at loggerheads over several issues for the last few months. The microblogging site had also faced backlash when it briefly removed the 'blue tick' verification badge from the personal account of Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu and of several senior RSS functionaries, including its chief Mohan Bhagwat. Earlier, Delhi Police had sent a notice to Twitter, seeking an explanation of how it described an alleged "Congress toolkit" against the Central government as "manipulated media". The police reportedly had also questioned Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari on May 31 and visited the Twitter India offices in Delhi and Gurgaon on May 24 over the toolkit issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rule-of-land-supreme-not-your-policy-parliamentary-panel-to-twitter-india-officials-998885.html
18-06-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi wishes people on Jyeshtha Ashtami||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday extended wishes to people, particularly the Kashmiri Pandit community, on the occasion of Jyeshtha Ashtami. In Jammu and Kashmir, Jyestha Ashtami is celebrated by people at the shrine of Kheer Bhawani in Tullamula in honour of their patron goddess Ragnya Devi. ''Kheer'' (rice boiled in milk) is prepared on this day as a food offering. "On the auspicious occasion of Jyeshtha Ashtami, greetings and best wishes to everyone, particularly the Kashmiri Pandit community," PM Modi tweeted.  "We bow to Mata Kheer Bhawani and pray for everybody's health and wellness," he said. On the auspicious occasion of Jyeshtha Ashtami, greetings and best wishes to everyone, particularly the Kashmiri Pandit community. We bow to Mata Kheer Bhawani and pray for everybody’s health and wellness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-wishes-people-on-jyeshtha-ashtami-998891.html
18-06-2021||National||PM Modi has lost moral authority to rule: Kapil Sibal||Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Friday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has "without doubt" lost the moral authority to rule for not standing with people in need of medical aid during the second wave of Covid-19 and for doing playing political one-upmanship in polls instead. In an interview with PTI, the former union minister launched a hard-hitting attack on the prime minister saying the lack of a credible political alternative did not mean that he should stop discharging his duties believing that his political fortunes are secure. Sibal also attacked the government for what he called its ineptness to strategise the Covid-19 vaccination, saying it borders on criminal negligence and its priorities in tackling the pandemic are "misplaced and faulty and lack sincerity". He also said that the toolkit issue is nothing but an attempt to "deploy forgery" to divert public attention from his government's failures. "A prime minister who should have stood with the people while they were languishing outside hospitals in need of medical aid during the pandemic, was busy playing political one-upmanship during Assembly elections in West Bengal, Assam etc, has, without doubt, lost the moral authority to rule. "There may or may not be a credible alternative but does it mean that he should stop discharging his responsibilities believing that his political fortunes are secure," Sibal told PTI while blaming the prime minister for inaction in saving precious lives during the second wave of the pandemic. Sibal said he agreed that at present "there is definitely a void in terms of a strong political alternative" and that is why he has suggested reforms in his own party so that the country has strong and credible opposition. The senior Congress leader, who was one of the 23 leaders who had written to Sonia Gandhi suggesting the party's overhaul, said when the whole world was doing its best to tide over the pandemic and save precious human lives, our Prime Minister was busy addressing election rallies in West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The Covid-19 protocols that the government under him had itself put in place were openly flouted, he alleged, saying, "I believe that is what defamed India". He said it is so convenient for this government to pin blame on others for its "monumental failures" rather than to introspect and do the course correction in order to provide succour to those affected. "The toolkit issue is nothing but an attempt to deploy forgery to divert public attention from the Modi government's failures in managing the coronavirus pandemic," he said referring to the issue that has been marked as 'manipulative media' by Twitter leading to a tiff with the government. Sibal also alleged multiple flip-flops in the government's vaccine policy and said India was hugely embarrassed within a short span of time from a vaccine supplier to a country that was gasping for oxygen. He also blamed the government for doing nothing to ramp up medical infrastructure between the first and the second wave that cost the country heavily and many precious lives were lost for want of medical aid including oxygen, ICU beds and medicines. The Congress leader also accused the government of doing nothing to ramp up vaccine production and said it was shocking that the first order for procurement of vaccine from foreign manufacturers was placed as late as January 2021. "Our ineptness to strategise the Covid-19 vaccination drive borders on criminal negligence. Globally, mass immunization is key to managing the pandemic. The two pillars of immunising a large population quickly and efficiently are procurement and delivery. In India, we have struggled on both fronts," he said. Sibal alleged that the people of this country know that the priorities of this government in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic were "misplaced, faulty and lacked sincerity and that it was completely clueless and unprepared to deal with the enormity of the challenge despite expert advice and warning". He also accused the government of cleverly shifting the burden of procurement to state governments, after having failed to timely procure vaccines and said both the decentralised model for vaccination and the new liberalized pricing model were "deeply flawed". "Public anger resulting from vaccine shortage was deflected by the government by blaming state governments," he said, adding the reality was that the states only wanted flexibility in vaccine distribution and not in vaccine procurement. "People dying for as basic a medical aid as oxygen was a bigger embarrassment and that actually defamed the country," the former union minister said. He said since the National Disaster Management Act, 2005 was in force, the Union Government is solely charged with the responsibility to deal with such disasters and it cannot wash its hands off by putting forward the oft-repeated rant of health being a state subject.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-has-lost-moral-authority-to-rule-kapil-sibal-998899.html
18-06-2021||National||Active 'black fungus' cases in India at 27,142; govt ready to boost availability of Amphotericin B if needed||India has 27,142 active cases of mucormycosis, also known as 'black fungus', and if the number rises, the country is prepared to increase the availability of Amphotericin B and other drugs used in the treatment of the disease, Union Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Friday. "On June 16, 2021, active cases of Mucormycosis were 27,142. Even in the future, if cases of 'black fungus' increases, India is prepared to have more than sufficient availability of Amphotericin B and other drugs which are required to treat patients of Mucormycosis," Mandaviya said in a tweet.  The Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilisers noted that domestic production of Amphotericin B has already gone up five-folds so far. "Domestic production of Liposomal Amphotericin B was just 62,000 vials in April 2021 and now it is expected to cross 3.75 lakh vials in June 2021," Mandaviya said. While increasing the domestic production, the government has also placed an order to import 9,05,000 Liposomal Amphotericin B vials, he added. "India is leaving no stone unturned to boost the availability of Amphotericin B drugs in the country," Mandaviya noted. The Department of Pharmaceuticals has allocated total of 7,28,045 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin B to all the states and central institutions till June 17, 2021, he added. Amphotericin B is used for the treatment of mucormycosis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/active-black-fungus-cases-in-india-at-27142-govt-ready-to-boost-availability-of-amphotericin-b-if-needed-998900.html
18-06-2021||National||Ensure safety of healthcare workers, strictly implement Epidemic Disease Act, Centre tells states||The Union Health Ministry has urged all states and Union Territories to review in detail and ensure prompt steps for the safety and wellbeing of healthcare workers while strictly implementing the amended Epidemic Disease Act. Healthcare workers are the most crucial resources in Covid-19 management on all fronts, said Joint Secretary in the Union Health Ministry Lav Agarwal in a letter to additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries and health secretaries of all states and Union Territories. On multiple occasions, the Health Ministry has highlighted the need to ensure the safety and security of healthcare workers at their living and working premises, he said. "Our endeavours to manage Covid-19 are replete with examples of commitment by our healthcare workers at all levels. While the country at large has applauded the efforts of the health fraternity, there were examples of them being stigmatized and even violence resorted to against healthcare workers," the officer pointed out. Recently, there have been reports of physical violence against doctors, healthcare workers and other professionals particularly from Assam, West Bengal and Karnataka, the letter by Agarwal stated. "Such incidents impact the morale of our healthcare workforce who have shown exemplary commitment against all odds in Covid-19 management. "Considering the importance of the issue, it is requested that all states may undertake a detailed review and ensure that prompt and necessary steps are taken for healthcare workers safety and wellbeing besides strict implementation of the amended Epidemic Disease Act," he said. The joint secretary in the health ministry said the Centre had brought an ordinance and later notified it as an act, under which violence against healthcare personnel is a non-bailable and cognizable offence. On April 22 last year, the Health Ministry had issued an ordinance to amend the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, providing protection to healthcare personnel and their property against violence during epidemics. It was notified as an act on September 29, 2020. The amended Act states that "whoever commits or abets the commission of an act of violence against healthcare service personnel, or causes damage or loss to any property" shall be punished with imprisonment and with a fine. Such offences are also cognizable and non-bailable, the letter highlighted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-safety-of-healthcare-workers-strictly-implement-epidemic-disease-act-centre-tells-states-998909.html
18-06-2021||National||Avenge criticism made by Opposition: Goa CM to cops||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Friday directed the state police to avenge comments made against them by opposition politicians. Addressing a function organised to inaugurate a new police station in Colvale village in North Goa, Sawant said that the police should take strict action against those who are unnecessarily disturbing people during the pandemic and slandering Goa's image. "Everyone should be shown their place by the police. I have seen some people from political parties blaming the police... I feel the police need to show them their place," the Chief Minister said. Sawant's comments come at a time when the state is heading for state Assembly polls, which are scheduled to be held in early 2022. "If these crimes do not stop, then strict action will be taken by my department. I am saying this on purpose on (Goa) Revolution Day. They are habituated to unnecessarily disturbing people, even during the pandemic," Sawant also said. "You can criticise politicians, I do not worry about it. As a CM I am used to abuses. I do not mind. That is their job, our task is to do our job. Do not slander my department. Appreciate the good work done by doctors. Appreciate work by the police department," the Chief Minister said. Sawant also warned political opponents against slamming key government departments including the police and health. "Do not slander my department(s). Appreciate the good work done by doctors. Appreciate work by the police department. Do not slander the name of the state on social media, Twitter. My advice to them is the state belongs to everyone. Politics will be there today and tomorrow. But for the sake of politics do not slander the name of the state. Let our image in the country not tarnish," the Chief Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/avenge-criticism-made-by-opposition-goa-cm-to-cops-998912.html
18-06-2021||National||Railways to operate 660 additional trains in June||Due to a decline in Covid-19 cases and an increase in passengers' demand, Indian Railways on Friday said it will operate an additional 660 trains this month. 983 long-distance Mail/Express trains are currently being operated, the railways said in a statement. The operation of additional trains is mainly to facilitate the movement of migrant labourers and to clear the waiting list in various origin-destination clusters, the statement said. During pre-Covid times, an average of about 1,768 Mail/Express trains were operated daily. The number of trains is being enhanced gradually as per demand and commercial justification, the railways said. "Zonal Railways are advised to restore trains in a graded manner keeping in view local conditions, tickets demand situation, and Covid cases in the region," said the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-operate-660-additional-trains-in-june-998916.html
18-06-2021||National||India, Bhutan sign MoU for cooperation on climate change, waste management||India and Bhutan have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for cooperation in the environment sector, Union Environment Prakash Javadekar said on Friday. "India has symbiotic relationship with Bhutan. Today, both countries signed an MoU which will open new vistas of bilateral cooperation in the areas of climate change, waste management, etc.," the minister tweeted. The MoU between India's Ministry of Environment and Bhutan's National Environment Commission will strengthen technological, scientific and management capabilities, and expand the areas of cooperation in the field of environment to promote a mutually beneficial partnership, ministry officials said. "The MoU will be the platform to further enhance our partnership and support, exchange best practices in areas of #AirPollution, Waste Management, Chemical Management, #ClimateChange, etc.," the ministry tweeted. Javadekar and Tandi Dorji, Bhutan's Minister of Foreign Affairs and Chairperson of the National Environment Commission, signed the MoU during a virtual meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-bhutan-sign-mou-for-cooperation-on-climate-change-waste-management-998927.html
18-06-2021||National||Monuments reopen, but people not too keen to visit iconic sites||Two days after monuments across the country reopened their doors to visitors following a gap of around two months due to the coronavirus pandemic, only a handful of people have visited these sites. The iconic Taj Mahal in Uttar Pradesh's Agra still held on to the top spot in the list of monuments with most footfall with 1,919 visitors, including 67 children, on June 16, the day of reopening, and 2,379 visitors, including 106 children, on Thursday, according to official figures. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), which reopened the over 3,000 monuments under its control in the country to the public from June 16, has not capped the number of visitors and has allowed only online booking of tickets. However, officials say the local authorities in Agra have capped the daily number to 15,000 as a precaution.  Delhi's iconic structures, which received around 8,000-10,000 visitors per day in the pre-Covid times, also saw a handful of visitors. According to the data, popular sites like the Red Fort, which was closed for five months since January, first due to a bird-flu scare and then due to the pandemic, received 112 visitors on Wednesday and 65 on Thursday. The 13th-century brick minaret, Qutub Minar, received 420 visitors on Wednesday and 527 on Thursday. Humayun's Tomb saw 454 visitors on Wednesday and 400 on Thursday. The Safdarjung Tomb saw 32 visitors on Wednesday and 41 on Thursday. Officials in the national capital said these numbers are "encouraging" given that the country is still in recovery mode. Other popular sites such as the twin forts in Rajasthan -- Chittorgarh Fort and Kumbhalgarh Fort -- received 69 and 28 visitors respectively on Wednesday. The data for Thursday for the two forts is not available. The world heritage sites of Ajanta and Ellora caves, along with three other historical monuments in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district, reopened for tourists but the footfall was far from the pre-Covid days. While the Ajanta caves and the Daulatabad Fort received just 10 visitors each, the Ellora caves had only six visitors. Unheard of during normal times, some of these sites had even less than 10 visitors combined over the two days, reflecting the sluggish mood of the country dealing with the pandemic, which has claimed over 3.8 lakh lives in India. These include the Aurangabad caves (four), the Palace of Tipu Sultan in Bengaluru (nine) and the ruined Buddhist Stupa in Amaravati (five). ASI officials say they are hopeful that things will normalise soon and as the days pass, the footfall will increase. Some states like Karnataka have held off the opening of around 500 ASI monuments till June 21, while Tamil Nadu is yet to take a call on reopening the 411 such sites in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monuments-reopen-but-people-not-too-keen-to-visit-iconic-sites-998931.html
18-06-2021||National||BJP warns against 'tormentor of Hindus' Tipu Sultan's statue in Andhra Pradesh||A row has erupted in Andhra Pradesh over Tipu Sultan, with a statue of the erstwhile Mysore ruler planned to be erected in Proddatur town in Kadapa district. The desire of the Muslim community in Proddatur is backed by YSRCP MLA Rachamallu Siva Prasad Reddy, while the attempt is met with opposition from the locals and the state BJP leaders.  Projecting Tipu as a tormentor of Hindus, the AP BJP leaders have warned of agitation and demolition of the structure, if built. On Friday, police took BJP state general secretary Vishnuvardhan Reddy and others into custody, when they went to protest at the site at the Jinnah Road circle. Vishnuvardhan accused the YSRCP of indulging in vote bank politics at the cost of communal harmony. The Mysore ruler of the 18th century has become a controversial figure lately and especially in Karnataka, with the right-wing groups accusing him of religious hatred and killings, persecution of Hindus and Christians. Several Rayalaseema towns in Kurnool, Anantapuram, Kadapa, and Chittoor districts have a considerable presence of Muslims. It is said that Tipu had married the daughter of the Kadapa Nawab. Speaking to DH, YSRCP MLA Rachamallu said he was previously unaware of the controversy surrounding Tipu. “But if he is really the tyrant and Hindu oppressor, why is the BJP government in Karnataka not pulling down Tipu's statues in Bengaluru and other places?” Reddy questioned. The MLA, a graduate in history, however, admitted that there are contradictory versions about Tipu. “If it can be proved that Tipu committed such religious atrocities I will express regret and disassociate from the project,” Rachamallu, who attended the foundation ceremony earlier this week, said. According to the ruling party legislator, the local Muslims approached him with the statue proposal “as there are idols installed by other communities like that of Ambedkar, Uyyalawada Narasimha Reddy.” Uyyalawada is a Rayalaseema chieftain who had rebelled against the British in the 1840s and was executed in 1847. Tipu fought the British in the Anglo-Mysore wars and was killed in 1799. The BJP said Tipu's image could cause communal tensions and is instead suggesting former president APJ Abdul Kalam statue in the town centre, a proposal supported by other communities of the town known for its gold business. “We are not in favour of a statue of Tipu, who has reportedly butchered Hindus. We will raise our objections if the work advances,” said Busetty Rammohan, vice-president, AP gold and diamonds merchants association. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-warns-against-tormentor-of-hindus-tipu-sultans-statue-in-andhra-pradesh-998935.html
18-06-2021||National||Delhi High Court declines to interfere with Centre's Dental Council President order||The Delhi High Court on Friday declined to interfere with the Union government's May 11 order allowing Dr Ashok Khandelwal to discharge function as President of the Dental Council of India.  A vacation bench of Justice Amit Bansal, however, directed for holding elections to the post of Vice-President forthwith as the matter related to election to the post of President was subjudice.  The court appointed former judge, Justice G S Sistani as an observer for the conduct of the virtual poll. The court passed its order on a petition filed by Dr Vivek Kumar and three others questioning the validity of the May 11 order, on the ground that the Centre did not have the power to nominate President.  "Whether the Union government has the power to appoint a person to discharge function of President or Vice President of the Dental Council of India can only be decided at the final hearing of the present petition and not at the interim stage," the bench said. The court noted the Centre rightly invoked the doctrine of necessity in the present scenario, where the council was left in an unprecedented situation without a President and a Vice President. It also pointed out that the appointment was made on a temporary basis till the election took place. The court, however, said, "It is essential that institutions like the council, that perform important public functions, continue to retain their democratic character. After all, democratic values are the essence of our society and  elections are the bedrock of democracy." Though the election of the President is subjudice, there is no impediment in the election of the Vice President, it noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-high-court-declines-to-interfere-with-centres-dental-council-president-order-998944.html
18-06-2021||National||AstraZeneca vaccine's chief investigator backs India's 12-16 week Covishield dose gap||Backing the 12-16 weeks gap between the two doses of Covishield in the country, the chief investigator of the AstraZeneca vaccine clinical trials on Friday said that the level of protection provided by one dose of the preventive significantly increases in the second and third months after the jab. In an interview with The Wire, Professor Andrew Pollard said the immunization policy in Britain and India should not be compared because of the different circumstances in the two countries. "An immunization policy that aims to vaccinate the largest number of people in the quickest possible time with at least one dose makes sense in the present circumstances in India," Pollard, who is also the Director of the Oxford Vaccine Group, said. The scientist noted that in India, the vast majority of the population is unvaccinated and, therefore, unprotected at a time when the Delta variant, first identified in the country, is "a widely spreading and increasing threat." India has administered a cumulative number of 26,89,60,399 (26.89 crore) Covid-19 vaccine doses so far. Pollard, who is also a Professor of Paediatric Infection and Immunity at Oxford University in the UK noted that AstraZeneca is not working on a single-dose vaccine. "Two doses are needed. One may be good but the second is needed to boost protection," said the scientist. He also said that his group is not planning or working on a booster or a third jab, saying it may not be "necessary". Pollard said that in a situation of vaccine shortage it makes sense to ensure a measure of protection for the widest number of people rather than provide a better level of protection for a smaller number of people He explained this by saying that one dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine, known as Covishield in India, provides above 70 per cent protection against serious illness and hospitalisation which has to be the main concern. "One should not be deterred or deflected by the fact that one dose provides only 30 per cent protection against symptomatic illness," the scientist said, adding symptomatic illness usually means nothing more than a cold, cough, and fever, which most people can easily handle. He also noted that as more mutations and variants inevitably appear, symptomatic protection from vaccines is likely to diminish. "What we need to focus on is a high level of continuing protection against serious illness and hospitalisation," Pollard said. In India, the gap between two Covishield doses was four to six weeks, then increased to six to eight and is now 12-16. Referring to the UK reducing its Covishield doses gap just as India increased its, Pollard said that Britain reduced the gap at a time when a substantial proportion of its population was already vaccinated. "In India, the converse is the case. The vast majority of people are unvaccinated and unprotected. Therefore, you need to ensure that as many as possible are protected against serious illness and hospitalisation, even if that means a large number will have lower levels of protection against symptomatic infection," the scientist explained. Pollard said another sensible reason for extending the gap in circumstances where the supply of vaccine is short is that the level of the protection provided by one dose of AstraZeneca significantly increases in the second and third months after the jab. AstraZeneca is an adenovirus vectored vaccine. Scientists have engineered a version of adenoviruses that infect chimpanzees to carry the gene responsible for the spike protein of the coronavirus, which the virus uses to enter and infect human cells. With 62,480 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 2,97,62,793, while the death toll climbed to 3,83,490 with 1,587 fresh fatalities, the lowest in 61 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/astrazeneca-vaccines-chief-investigator-backs-indias-12-16-week-covishield-dose-gap-998947.html
18-06-2021||National||In 5 months, 5% target population fully vaccinated in India||Five months into the Covid-19 vaccination programme, about five per cent of India’s target population has been fully vaccinated, health officials said in New Delhi on Friday. Only 5.03 crore Indians received both doses of the vaccine whereas 22 crore individuals had been inoculated with the first dose, said Luv Agarwal, joint secretary in the Health Ministry. More than 27 crore doses have been administered so far with a daily average of 31 lakh shots recorded last week. Considering a target population of 95 crore, which needs to be administered two doses, a back-of-the-envelope calculation shows that the daily vaccination should be in the range of nearly 83 lakh for each of the remaining 196 days of 2021. “Recent evidence from real-world vaccine effectiveness studies conducted in India highlights the benefits of being fully vaccinated with two doses. It is important that the government ramps up the vaccine delivery programme to ensure the vulnerable are receiving two doses in a timely manner,” Oommen John, a senior researcher from the George Institute of Global Health told DH. The Union government earlier stated that 12 crore vaccine doses would be available in June. But halfway through the month around five crore doses have been used so far, prompting the experts to point out the need to accelerate the pace of vaccination. “Several countries are scheduling both doses while a beneficiary is registered for vaccination. This should have been considered. Going forward all new registrations should provide confirmed vaccination slots for both doses for maximal benefit and operational efficiencies,” said John. About 70 per cent of the health care workers and less than 50 per cent of the front line workers have received both doses even though they were the first two groups to get off the block in the world’s biggest adult vaccination drive. “Unless India's vaccination rates rise from 30 lakh doses per day to 55-60 lakh doses per day, it will not be able to vaccinate 100 per cent of the 18 plus population by early-2022. At the present rate, it will reach that target only by 2023,” tweeted R Ramkumar, a professor at Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. 15/ Unless India's vaccination rates rise from 30 lakh doses/day to 55-60 lakh doses/day, it will not be able to vaccinate 100% of 18+ population by early-2022. At the present rate, it will reach that target only by 2023. But by then, ~30 crore <18 persons will join the net. On the positive side, there is five times increase in the number of districts reporting less than five per cent positivity in the last five weeks. In the week between April 30 and May 6, there were only 103 such districts, but the number rose to 513 districts between June 11-17, Agarwal said. Only 147 districts – mostly in coastal and southern India, and parts of the North East – now report more than 100 daily new infections. Almost 85 per cent decline has been noted in daily new cases since the highest reported peak on May 7 whereas 78 per cent decrease has been recorded in total active cases since the peak on May 10. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-5-months-5-target-population-fully-vaccinated-in-india-998948.html
18-06-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination reduces chances of hospitalisation by 75-80%: Study||Studies among healthcare workers have shown that following vaccination the chances of hospitalisation reduce by 75-80 per cent, while oxygen requirement comes down to 8 per cent even after contracting Covid-19, the government said on Friday. Addressing a press conference, NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul said in these studies, which have been conducted among healthcare workers who fall in high risk group, also showed that the risk of ICU admission remains only 6 per cent and the protection against infection was 94 per cent. "Lives of thousands of healthcare workers have been saved by vaccination. Studies show that chances of hospitalisation reduce by 75-80 per cent after vaccination if they contract Covid. The possibility of oxygen requirement is around 8 per cent and the risk of ICU admission is only 6 per cent. The protection is 94 per cent. These are reasonable sample sized studies and they have been conducted in age groups where maximum risk is there," he said. Paul said that in one particular study, there was one death out of 7,000 cases and it was also because the person had comorbidities. "Similar studies in other countries have also shown the protection vaccine gives.  I request people to please accept the vaccine and not hesitate... people might get infected even after that but it will not turn severe, lives will not be lost and by vaccination thousands and thousands of lives can be saved," he said. Citing a study on prevalence of Covid-19 among children, Paul said it shows that seropositivity above and below 18 years of age is almost equivalent. "Seropositivity rate above 18 years was 67 per cent and below 18 years was 59 per cent. So even at those places, where more intense wave came, which were urban, the seropositivity among children and adults remained almost the same," Paul said. Overall, it was seen that children contracted the infection but it remained mild among them and children might not get affected in isolation in the next wave but preparations have been stepped up in case the virus changes its behaviour, he said. From June 21, Paul said new guidelines for vaccination will be implemented under which 75 per cent vaccines will be procured by the Centre and distributed free of cost to states and the role of private sector in procurement of 25 per cent is "well defined".   "I want to emphasise the fact that private sector engagement is critical to the success of vaccination programme to reach the possible number of people and we value that and in the present guidelines this system has been streamlined as a partnership in which state governments play a facilitatory role of aggregation and ensuring spread and large and small hospital participation," Paul said. On reopening schools, he said several factors have to be kept in mind like there are teachers, helpers and also the aspect of social distancing reduces. So that needs to be given a thought and there are many other issues, he said. "...As we get more information so we can take necessary steps but this must be kept in mind that in other countries schools reopened and then there were outbreaks. We cannot put our students and teachers in this situation till we have more confidence that the pandemic will not harm us". Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said almost 85 per cent decline has been noted in daily new cases of Covid-19 since the highest reported peak on May 7. Also, 78.6 per cent decline has been recorded in the total active Covid cases since the peak reported on May 10. The active cases have further declined to 7,98,656, comprising 2.68 per cent of the total infections, while the national recovery rate has improved to 96.03 per cent, he said. "There has been a sharp decline of 81 per cent in weekly Covid case positivity rate since the highest reported weekly positivity of 21.6 per cent recorded between April 30-May 6. The number of districts reporting less than 5 per cent positivity has increased from 103 (April 30-May 6) to 513 (June 11-17)," Agarwal said. The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 27 crore, he said. Agarwal also highlighted the need to stay cautious while activities resume in the country. He urged people to stay inside as much as possible and venture out only when necessary, follow Covid appropriate behaviour, stressed on 100 per cent vaccination of priority groups, and said one should get tested and isolate themselves in case of any symptoms so as not to spread the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-reduces-chances-of-hospitalisation-by-75-80-study-998951.html
18-06-2021||National||Olive branch: 'J&K parties may soon get invite from New Delhi'||To break the political logjam in the union territory (UT), local parties of Jammu and Kashmir may soon get an invite from the Centre for a dialogue in New Delhi. Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s meeting in New Delhi on Friday where he reviewed various development projects of J&K and stressed on “Development with Transparency” has given credence to recent reports that the Centre was preparing the ground for holding a meeting on Kashmir soon. “If everything goes alright, formal invitation letters will be sent to all the top leaders of J&K mainstream parties both regional level and national level for participation in the round table conference in a week or so in New Delhi,” sources told DH. They said the Centre was in touch with the leaders of Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Deceleration (PAGD) through intermediaries.   The PAGD -- an alliance of NC, PDP, CPM, Peoples Movement and Awami National Conference -- was formed in October last by Kashmir centric leaders with the pledge of perseverance and steadfastness towards the restoration of the special status of J&K revoked by the Centre in August 2019. However, CPI(M) leader, Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami, who is also the spokesperson of the PAGD, said they have not received any formal invitation from New Delhi yet. “If any leader of the PAGD is in touch with the Centre, I have no information about it. However, as an alliance nobody has reached out to us so far,” he told DH over the phone. Tarigami said they always believe that dialogue is the only way to move forward and the onus of initiating lies on those who “arbitrarily and unconstitutionally revoked J&K’s special status and downgraded the erstwhile state into two UTs.” Sources within the PAGD revealed that there was a lack of consensus among the constituents of the alliance on terms of engagement with New Delhi. “Publicly all the constituents have stated that they want the pre-5 August 2019 position of J&K restored. It may be a reference point for the PAGD, but they can show some flexibility if the dialogue process has to start and move forward,” they added. After chairing a meeting of the PAGD last week, the NC president Farooq Abdullah, who is also chairperson of the alliance, had said they had not shut the doors for dialogue with the Centre giving enough hints of their willingness to enter into talks with New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/olive-branch-jk-parties-may-soon-get-invite-from-new-delhi-998967.html
18-06-2021||National||Doctors join IMA’s nationwide protest over violence against healthcare professionals||A nationwide protest called by the Indian Medical Association over recent incidents of violence against healthcare professionals and demanding a central law to curb such cases, was held on Friday. The Indian Medical Association (IMA), in a statement, said as many as 3.5 lakh doctors, with proper Covid protocol, participated in the agitation. “All across the country, in every state, in different hospitals, the doctors and healthcare professionals wore black badges, ribbons and black shirts, and raised slogans ‘Save the Saviours’ and uploaded their photographs on social media,” the statement said. As many as 3.5 lakh doctors, individually and in groups, with proper Covid protocol, participated in this, it said. The IMA said medical professionals from other speciality organisations like ASI, API, FOGSI, among others, also joined the protest, while several corporate hospitals put up hoardings demanding safety of doctors. “In Delhi, in 10 different places, including outside AIIMS, the protest was organised by the doctors, junior doctors and medical students,” it said in the statement. The IMA and its branches also submitted a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to ensure safety of the medical fraternity and also take appropriate action against people involved in spreading fake news against Covid vaccination and its protocol. "In many medical colleges, students boycotted their classes and organised virtual students' parliament in which more than 1,000 students participated. Today, the national president and the secretary general, IMA met Union health secretary and submitted the memorandum to him. They also met Delhi Special Police Commissioner and requested for enhancing security for the hospitals," the statement said. The apex medical body said women doctors also organised special protest meets in various parts of the country. The doctors have sought enhanced security of hospitals and that the hospitals be declared as “protected zones”. "Those who assault doctors or the profession should be punished under the fast-track trial mode. IMA believes that the Government of India will respond to this unified peaceful protest and initiate steps to bring a central law, and ensure the medical fraternity serves without fear in the hospital premises. “IMA urges that these demands be fulfilled ahead of July 1, the Doctors' Day, as a gift to the suffering medical fraternity," the statement added. In Delhi, a group of doctors belonging to both the IMA and FAIMA (Federation of All India Medical Association) stood with placards outside the AIIMS main gate to raise their voice on the issue. The doctors, both in government and private sectors, organised standing protest in front of the secretariat in Kerala, and in various district headquarters besides hospitals. About 35,000 doctors of the IMA Tamil Nadu branch also joined the nationwide protest. “Our members wore black badges as a sign of protest. Our medicare service to the patients remained unaffected," A K Ravikumar, honorary state secretary of IMA, told PTI. Cases of violence against doctors and other healthcare workers have been reported lately from some parts of the country, including Jammu and Kashmir and Assam among other places. On June 1, a doctor at a medical facility in Hojai in Assam was allegedly assaulted by attendants following the death of a patient suffering from Covid and pneumonia at Udali Model Hospital. The National Human Rights Commission had later taken cognisance of the case and asked the Assam government and the state police chief to inquire into the alleged assault and take "needful, preventive and punitive action" in the case. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-join-ima-s-nationwide-protest-over-violence-against-healthcare-professionals-998972.html
18-06-2021||National||Centre defaming farmers' stir hoping it would dissipate, that won't happen: Samyukta Kisan Morcha||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Friday accused the Union government of "defaming" the farmers' stir against the contentious farm laws and said the long-drawn agitation would not dissipate as being "hoped" by the BJP dispensation. The SKM, an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions, claimed that several state governments are standing firmly with the agitation and that more farmers have reached the protest sites on the Delhi border to join the movement. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's border points for over six months now protesting the three agri laws and demanding a new law be made guaranteeing minimum support price (MSP).  "Every opportunity is being desperately seized upon to slander the protestors. However, their failed strategy is bound to fail again," the SKM said. "What the farmers are asking for is that their fundamental right to livelihood is protected. In a democracy, it is expected the government would accept their legitimate demands. Instead, the BJP dispensation is unnecessarily prolonging the agitation, defaming it and hoping it will just dissipate. That is not going to happen," it said in a statement. The SKM claimed that many BJP leaders have been asking the Union government to resolve the farmers' issues. "In a recent memorandum from Tamil Nadu chief minister (M K Stalin) to the prime minister (Narendra Modi), the issue of repeal of three farm laws was raised. Maharashtra is reportedly in the process of amending its law to neutralise the ill effects of the central legislations on its farmers," it said. "West Bengal CM (Mamata Banerjee) has been asking that the protesting farmers' demands be met. Governments led by other parties in a few other states have stood with the farmers' movement and joined their calls for a countrywide action," the SKM added. It claimed that hundreds of farmers from Jaspur in Uttarakhand reached the Ghazipur Border Thursday and a large contingent, led by BKU (Tikait), reached the Ghazipur border on Friday after walking for five days. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. The protesting farmers, on the other hand, have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-defaming-farmers-stir-hoping-it-would-dissipate-that-wont-happen-samyukta-kisan-morcha-998975.html
18-06-2021||National||Assam cancels state board exams due to Covid-19||The Assam government on Friday cancelled this year's class 10 and 12 state board examinations due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation, Education Minister Ranoj Pegu said. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by the minister and attended by officials of the Health and Education departments and other stakeholders including the All Assam Students' Union (AASU) and All Bodo Students' Union (ABSU). "The matric and higher secondary examinations for 2021 have been cancelled as the positivity rate due to the prevailing Covid situation is yet to be brought under control," Pegu told reporters after the meeting. Two committees, one each for class 10 and 12, will be constituted on Saturday to suggest a formula for preparing the results. "The results will be record-based and not subjective. They will be based on records available with the schools and the boards," Pegu said. The reports of both the committees will be submitted within a week and the results of both matric and higher secondary exams will be declared by July 31, he added.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-cancels-state-board-exams-due-to-covid-19-998976.html
18-06-2021||National||AgustaWestland scam case: Court dismisses middleman Christian Michel's bail pleas||A Delhi Court on Friday dismissed the bail pleas of alleged middleman Christian Michel in connection with alleged AgustaWestland scam related corruption case filed by the CBI, and the money laundering case by the Enforcement Directorate. The judge also took strong note of the British High Commission directly communicating to the court about Michel without moving an application saying it was not permissible. Special CBI Judge Arvind Kumar refused to grant relief to the British national, who was extradited from Dubai in 2018, noting that the stage was not fit to grant him bail. “Considering the overall facts and circumstances, serious nature of accusations, gravity of offence and aforesaid conduct of the accused, I do not consider it to be a fit case for grant of bail. Application for bail filed by accused is, thus, dismissed,” the judge said. In its 17-page order, the court further said, “Before parting with the matter it needs to be mentioned that British High Commission has sent a letter addressed to this Court stating therein that medical condition of accused Christian Michel James and his pre-trial detention of two and half years may be taken into account when his bail application is considered.” “Vide order dated May 13, 2021 it was made clear that such direct communication to court from third party is not permissible and if anyone has any grievance or wants to participate in the court proceedings, he may move appropriate application and same shall be considered as per law,” the judge said. In his bail applications both the CBI and ED cases, the accused had said he was not required for the purpose of investigation, and expressed willingness to cooperate with the probe. The applications said that the accused never sought to evade the process of law, and that no purpose will be served by keeping him in further custody. They said Michel made no attempt to suborn witnesses, tamper with documentary evidence, or in any other manner to obstruct the judicial process. The Rs 3,600-crore alleged scam relates to the purchase of 12 VVIP helicopters from AgustaWestland.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/agustawestland-scam-case-court-dismisses-middleman-christian-michels-bail-pleas-998980.html
18-06-2021||National||Merchant vessel off Kerala coast faces power outage, asks ICG for help||A merchant vessel off the Kasaragod coast in Kerala asked the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) for help on Friday after it witnessed a blackout due to a power outage, according to an official statement. A team of officials from the Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL) has reached the vessel -- which has a total of 14 crew members -- to rectify the power outage issue, the statement noted. "The ICG swiftly responded to SOS call from MV JSW Mihirgad with 14 crew facing total blackout due to power failure off Kasaragod," the coast guard wrote on Twitter. "ICG helicopter airlifted CSL team & gadgets for analysis from Mangalore & disembarked on ship amidst inclement weather. Rectification in progress," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/merchant-vessel-off-kerala-coast-faces-power-outage-asks-icg-for-help-998981.html
18-06-2021||National||Ministry of Education to take decision on pending entrance exams JEE, NEET soon||The Ministry of Education is expected to soon decide on conducting the two remaining editions of the engineering entrance examination JEE-Mains and the medical entrance test NEET in August, according to officials. "The situation is being reviewed to decide on the schedule of the pending editions of JEE-Mains and whether NEET-UG can be conducted on August 1," a senior official said. From the current academic session, JEE-Mains is being conducted four times a year to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores. The first phase in February was followed by the second phase in March, while the next phases were scheduled for April and May. But those were postponed after an exponential rise in the number of Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic in the country. The JEE-Advanced exam, which is conducted for admission to the prestigious Indian Institutes of Technology and the National Institutes of Technology, was also postponed. The exam was scheduled on July 3. While no further decision was taken on NEET-UG, the registration for the exam, which was supposed to commence from May 1, was kept in abeyance. The ministry is also yet to decide on the fate of the Central University Common Entrance Test (CUCET). The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Thursday announced the marks tabulation policy for the Class 12 exams, which were cancelled on June 1 in view of the Covid situation. The schedule for the subsequent entrance examinations is expected to be decided soon. According to the policy decided by a 13-member panel set up by the board, the theory paper evaluation formula is that a 30-per cent weightage will be given to the marks obtained in Class 10, another 30-per cent weightage to the Class 11 marks and a 40-per cent weightage to the Class 12 marks obtained in the unit test, mid-term and pre-board exams. The CBSE scheme further elaborated that for Class 10, the 30 per cent marks based on the average theory component of the best three performing subjects out of the main five subjects will be taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ministry-of-education-to-take-decision-on-pending-entrance-exams-jee-neet-soon-998982.html
18-06-2021||National||As Sri Lanka drifts closer to China, India likely to raise pitch for equality, justice for Tamils||As Sri Lanka drifts towards China, India is likely to raise its pitch for full implementation of the 13th amendment to the constitution of the island nation to ensure devolution of power to the local governments in its Tamil-majority Northern and Eastern Provinces. New Delhi’s envoy to Colombo, Gopal Baglay, of late had a meeting with a delegation of the Tamil National Alliance (TNA), a coalition of political parties representing minority Tamils of Sri Lanka. He reiterated to the TNA leaders New Delhi's support for devolution of power to local governments in Northern and Eastern provinces “within the framework of a united Sri Lanka on the basis of full implementation of the 13A (13th amendment of the country’s Constitution), which would be in line with Tamil aspirations for equality, justice, peace and reconciliation” and would strengthen the island nation, according to a press release issued by the High Commission of India in Colombo.  The TNA delegation was led by its president R Sampanthan. The 13th amendment to the Constitution of Sri Lanka was an outcome of the July 29, 1987 accord between New Delhi and Colombo. It was passed by the Sri Lankan Parliament in November 1987 resulting in the creation of the provincial councils. The process of devolution of power to the local governments as envisaged by it remained incomplete though. Since the Rajapaksa clan returned to power riding on a Sinhala-Buddhist nationalist wave, a section within the ruling Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) party started opposing the full implementation of the 13th amendment of the Constitution of the Indian Ocean island. Baglay met the TNA leaders even as New Delhi sent out a message to Colombo, tacitly indicating that it was keeping watch on the growing role of China in infrastructure projects in Sri Lanka and its implications for the security of India. Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), told journalists in New Delhi that India expected Sri Lanka to remain mindful of excellent bilateral cooperation between the two South Asian neighbours, including for mutual security in the shared environment, including the maritime domain. He was responding to a query on India’s view on China’s role in the Colombo Port City project. “We have been closely following recent developments from our security perspective. We have also noted the concerns that have been raised in Sri Lanka regarding several aspects of the framework for the Colombo port city project.” New Delhi, according to the sources, is particularly concerned over the CHEC (China Harbour Engineering Company) Port City Colombo project. It anticipates that the Port City Colombo could eventually be turned into an overseas colony of China – less than 300 kilometres away from the southern tip of India. China’s debt-trap diplomacy earlier made Sri Lanka giving it the Hambantota Port on lease for 99 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-sri-lanka-drifts-closer-to-china-india-likely-to-raise-pitch-for-equality-justice-for-tamils-998984.html
18-06-2021||National||Over 27 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India||Achieving a significant milestone on the 154th day of the inoculation drive against Covid-19, the total number vaccine doses administered in the country has gone past the 27-crore mark, the health ministry said on Friday. It said 19,43,765 beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group were given the first dose, while 77,989 were administered the second dose of the vaccine on Friday. Cumulatively, 5,15,68,603 people in the 18-44 age group have received the first dose while 11,40,679 have received the second dose of the vaccine since the start of the third phase of the vaccination drive across the country. Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered the first dose of the vaccine to over 10 lakh beneficiaries each in the 18-44 age group, the ministry said. A total of 27,20,72,645 Covid vaccine doses have so far been administered across the country, according to a provisional report compiled at 7 pm. As on the 154th day of the vaccination drive (June 18), a total of 29,84,172 vaccine doses were given -- 26,24,028 beneficiaries received the first dose and 3,60,144 got the second dose -- the ministry said. The final report for the day would be compiled by late night. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-27-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-998985.html
18-06-2021||National||Man shot at by militants in J&K's Anantnag||Militants shot at and injured a man in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, police said. The incident took place in Hasanpora Arwani area of Bijbehara in the south Kashmir district, a police official said. The injured has been shifted to a hospital, he said, adding that further details are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-shot-at-by-militants-in-jks-anantnag-998990.html
18-06-2021||National||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla rules out virtual meetings of parliamentary panels for now||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has ruled out virtual meetings of Parliamentary Standing Committees, for now, contending that consensus is required on the issue and present rules do not permit it. Birla said very few Lok Sabha members have sought virtual meetings of Parliamentary Standing Committees and most members are opposed to the idea. He pointed out that Rule 266 of the Rules and Procedures of the Lok Sabha make it clear that the proceedings of the Parliamentary committees are confidential in nature as members tend to speak rising above party lines. Congress leaders Shashi Tharoor, Anand Sharma and Jairam Ramesh, and BJD leader Bhratruhari Mahtab had written to the presiding officers of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha demanding virtual meetings of the Parliamentary panels citing lack of quorum during the pandemic. “A Parliamentary committee is a forum where members can enforce accountability and officials are expected to speak their mind freely,” Birla said, adding that change of rules will be a long-drawn process. Birla said during his tenure as Speaker, he has encouraged Parliamentary committees to use information and communication technologies such as e-portal for circulation of all the information related to sittings, circulation of agenda papers including background notes, draft reports and PowerPoint presentations. Asked about the appointment of a Deputy Speaker, he said it came under the purview of the government and the Speaker had no role in that decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-rules-out-virtual-meetings-of-parliamentary-panels-for-now-998996.html
18-06-2021||National||Construction of new Parliament building 16 days behind schedule: Speaker Om Birla||Construction of the new Parliament building is running 16 days behind schedule due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Friday. He rejected Opposition criticism of the project, contending that not a single member had objected to the project when it was discussed at the General Purposes Committee or when it was announced in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha by the respective presiding officers. Birla, speaking to reporters, said that he was confident about the new Parliament building being ready by October 2022, in time for the 75th anniversary of Independence. “I have no comments to offer on what is being said outside of the precincts of Parliament, but inside nobody opposed the new Parliament building,” Birla said. He said the government is building a new Parliament at the request of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha as the old building, which was a witness to many historic moments, had undergone several internal changes. “Now, there is no scope for any further expansion,” the Speaker said, adding that the new, modern parliament building was a necessity. Birla claimed that the Parliament Secretariat has saved more than Rs 400 crore over the past two years by exercising fiscal prudence. He said the amount saved was nearly half of the total cost of the new Parliament building. The new Parliament building is being constructed at a cost of Rs 971 crore and the project has been awarded to the Tata Group. The Speaker said work on the new Parliament building was progressing well and at one time was 27 days ahead of the planned schedule. However, the work got affected due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and was now 16 days behind schedule.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/construction-of-new-parliament-building-16-days-behind-schedule-speaker-om-birla-999020.html
18-06-2021||National||Onus on China to address unresolved issues, says Foreign secretary on Ladakh row||India on Friday said the onus is on China to address the remaining unresolved issues relating to the eastern Ladakh row and that peace and tranquillity along the frontier were key for the restoration of normal relations between the two sides. In an interactive session at a virtual conference, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said the entire basis of the relationship was predicated on having peace and tranquillity along the border. "Today, that is not the case," he said, referring to "multiple provocations" along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh by China last year. "We have obviously seen this as a unilateral provocation, we have tried to deal with it... through negotiations and through talks, and to some extent, we have addressed some of the issues that had arisen out of this situation that was created by China," he said. The foreign secretary said there are still issues that needed to be addressed. "But there are still friction points and there are still issues that we need to...and we are very clear that until these issues are addressed and our border areas are peaceful and tranquil, we will not be able to go into what is known as a normal relationship as we go forward," he said. "How do you see that situation evolving and I think we will have to be guided by the progress and the level of cooperation, the willingness that you see on the part of China in how we take the issues forward," Shringla added. He was replying to a question on India's ties with China at the conference organised by the Public Affairs Forum of India (PAFI). The foreign secretary said the onus is on China to ensure that the remaining issues are addressed. "Obviously the fact is that we need to work on it, we have to see how to; we are obviously looking at resolving the issues...The onus is on China to ensure that the issues that remain are addressed," he said. In his address on India's foreign policy in the post-Covid world, Shringla also said "the rise of China has also placed us in a central role at the geopolitical stage." "It is our largest neighbour and one with which we share more than just a border and proximity. We have also had to confront a specific strategic challenge posed by China and its tactics on our shared border," he said. India and China were locked in a military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year. However, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. India has been particularly pressing for disengagement of troops in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. Shringla said India has a fair amount of trade and economic linkages with China and mentioned supply chains and raw materials for Indian industry, saying a part it comes from the neighbouring country. "Obviously, as with any other country, there are economic and other factors which form part of that relation, an inter-dependent relation. But I think the entire basis of that relationship has been predicated on having peace and tranquillity on our borders. "After all, in 1988, when we decided to open a dialogue and normalise relations with China, it was based on the borders remaining settled," he said. Shringla said it was decided to isolate the border-related issues until both sides could sit down and try and address them without impacting the relationship. He said both sides have been fairly clear that a normal relationship is based on the borders being peaceful and tranquil. On Thursday, External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said early completion of the disengagement process in the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh could pave the way for both Indian and Chinese troops to consider de-escalation and ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas. There was no visible forward movement in disengagement of troops in the remaining friction points as the Chinese side did not show flexibility in their approach on it at the 11th round of military talks. Last month, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane said that there can be no de-escalation without complete disengagement at all friction points in eastern Ladakh and that the Indian Army is prepared for all contingencies in the region. Gen Naravane also said that India is dealing with China in a "firm" and "non-escalatory" manner to ensure the sanctity of its claims in eastern Ladakh, and that it was even open to initiating confidence-building measures. In his address, Shringla also said that completely new threats and security challenges such as terrorism, climate change and biological and other non-traditional threats have emerged and continue to emerge. "New technologies have created both new industries and new political currents. Non-traditional threats and new technologies have combined to form a whole new spectrum of sub-conventional security challenges," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/onus-on-china-to-address-unresolved-issues-says-foreign-secretary-on-ladakh-row-999031.html
18-06-2021||National||Gudiya rape-murder case accused sentenced to life imprisonment||A court in Shimla on Friday sentenced a 28-year-old man to life imprisonment for the remainder of his natural life in the Gudiya rape and murder case, which had triggered outrage across Himachal Pradesh four years ago. The court also imposed a penalty of Rs 10,000 on convict Anil Kumar, alias Nillu, a woodcutter. The 16-year-old girl was raped and killed in a forested area in Shimla's Kotkhai when she was returning home from her school on July 4, 2017. The court had held Anil guilty on April 28 under the Indian Penal Code sections related to rape and murder as well as provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Special Judge Rajeev Bhardwaj pronounced the order in the presence of the convict on Friday. Not satisfied with the verdict, Gudiya's mother demanded reinvestigation into the case. She told PTI that the crime was not committed by a single man. The case should be reinvestigated and all culprits should be hanged, she demanded. Claiming innocence, the convict told reporters outside the court that he would challenge the order in the High Court. Meanwhile, Congress MLA Vikramaditya Singh and CPM legislator Rakesh Singha too raised questions over the CBI investigation, claiming that the real culprits are still roaming freely. However, the CBI in a press release said the case was very challenging as there was not eyewitness and the crime took place in a dense forest with “least human encroachment”. The involvement of the accused in the crime was established through DNA profiling, along with other evidences, the CBI said. The case saw several twists and turns, including the custodial death of a man earlier suspected of having committed the crime and the arrest of a senior police officer. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) then took charge of the case and arrested Anil Kumar three years ago. The judge said 12 of the 14 crucial points of evidence presented by the CBI went against the convict. The most important of them was the matching of his DNA with samples found at the crime spot, he said. During hearing over video conference on April 28, the judge ruled that the crime was committed on the spur of the moment when Anil came across the girl as she walked home through the forested area. Anil, who attended the hearing from a prison in Shimla, pleaded innocence. In a Facebook post in Hindi, Congress MLA from Shimla (Rural) Vikramaditya Singh said his father and the then chief minister Virbhadra Singh had handed over the investigation to the CBI for providing justice to Gudiya but a poor woodcutter had been implicated in the case due to wrong investigation. The Congress MLA said the Kotkhai police would have done better investigation than the CBI. The real culprits are still absconding while the poor woodcutter has been falsely implicated, he added. Lone CPM MLA Rakesh Singha told reporters that the case should be reinvestigated. Even a layman knows that the crime was not committed by a single persons but by a gang and the culprits are roaming freely, he added. The girl's body was found in the forest two days after she went missing. A post-mortem report then indicated rape and murder. Days later, the state police set up a special investigation team headed by Inspector General Z Zahur Zaidi. Police arrested six men on July 13. One of them, Suraj, died in police custody on July 19. Amid public outrage, the Himachal Pradesh High Court handed over the case to the CBI, which arrested nine policemen, including the IGP for the custodial death. The proceedings against the five men arrested along with Suraj were dropped for lack of evidence. The custodial death case against the police officers was later transferred to Chandigarh, where it is currently being heard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gudiya-rape-murder-case-accused-sentenced-to-life-imprisonment-999032.html
18-06-2021||National Politics||Assam MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi resigns from Congress, set to join BJP||In a jolt to the opposition Congress in Assam, Mariani legislator Rupjyoti Kurmi on Friday resigned from the party and the assembly, announcing that he will join the BJP soon. The tea community leader tendered his resignation to Speaker Biswajit Daimary at his assembly office here. Kurmi told reporters that he has tendered his resignation to AICC President Sonia Gandhi. The four-time MLA said he will join the saffron party on June 21. The Congress, meanwhile, expelled Kurmi from the party for "his anti-party activities". Assam Pradesh Congress President Ripun Bora said in a statement that the decision was approved by the All India Congress Committee. Bora also constituted a three-member team, led by former MLA Rana Goswami, to visit Mariani assembly constituency and take stock of the political situation there. Thowra MLA Sushanta Borgohain and Manoj Dhanowar are other members of the team. Kurmi, a prominent member of the tea tribe community, is the son of former Congress minister late Rupam Kurmi, and has been elected from Mariani constituency since 2006.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/assam-mla-rupjyoti-kurmi-resigns-from-congress-set-to-join-bjp-998766.html
18-06-2021||National Politics||Suvendu Adhikari submits petition to Speaker seeking Mukul Roy's disqualification as MLA||Leader of the Opposition in Bengal Assembly Suvendu Adhikari on Friday submitted a petition to Speaker Biman Banerjee seeking disqualification of Mukul Roy's membership in the House under the anti-defection law as he has recently crossed over from the BJP to the TMC, a senior leader in the saffron party said. The TMC, in response, insisted that the Opposition leader should request his father and parliamentarian Sisir Adhikari to lead by example, as he, too, switched over to the BJP from the Mamata Banerjee camp ahead of the assembly polls. The speaker, when contacted, however, said he won't be able to say anything about the petition for now as he was yet to visit the Assembly.  "We have submitted a letter to the Speaker seeking disqualification of MLA Mukul Roy's membership in the House. He had won the election on a BJP ticket, but joined the TMC subsequently. Therefore, as per law, he should resign. We have requested the Speaker to look into the matter," saffron party MLA Manoj Tigga said. Earlier this month, Roy rejoined the TMC, of which he was once the second-in-command, following his three-and-a-half year-long stint in the BJP. He had contested the March-April assembly polls on a BJP ticket and bagged the Krishnanagar Uttar seat. Adhikari, a few days ago, had met Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to complain about Roy. Taking to Twitter, Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta, who had unsuccessfully contested the assembly election on a BJP ticket, said the law demands that he resign as MLA as he was elected on the BJP symbol. "Last week Mukul Roy joined AITC in presence of @MamataOfficial. There was no ambiguity over his defection. Politics will take its course, but the law demands he resign as MLA elected on BJP symbol. Let him follow his own course of resigning from Rajya Sabha in 2017 before joining BJP," Dasgupta tweeted. Making light of BJP's assertions, TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh, said the Leader of the Opposition should ask his father Sisir Adhikari, who joined the saffron camp in March, to "resign as our party MP before lecturing others". Sharing a similar view, TMC Rajya Sabha deputy leader Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said the BJP, which has formed government in other states by "poaching MLAs" from others parties, shouldn't be the one giving sermons on the anti-defection law. "The TMC has not forced anyone to join the party, unlike the BJP. The BJP in other states have used every trick -- from threats to intimidation -- to poach MLAs of other parties," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/suvendu-adhikari-submits-petition-to-speaker-seeking-mukul-roys-disqualification-as-mla-998894.html
18-06-2021||National Politics||Govt ready to talk to farmers but not on the repeal of laws: Narendra Singh Tomar||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday said the government was ready to talk to the agitating farmers "even if they come at midnight", but not about their demand to repeal the three new laws which are the bone of contention. Thousands of farmers are camping on Delhi's borders since last November, seeking withdrawal of the new agriculture laws. “The government is always ready to talk to any farmers' union, I will welcome them even if they come at midnight," the Union minister told reporters here.  “The government is ready for talks anytime but not on the repeal of the laws," he said. To a question about vaccination against Covid-19, Tomar said vaccines would be available in enough quantity in August. On Congress leader Digvijaya Singh's reported statement that his party would reconsider the abrogation of provisions of Article 370 if it came to power, Tomar said the entire country is against the restoration of Article 370. "Digvijaya Singh's statement would make the country free of Congress," he said, adding that there was no possibility of the opposition party coming to power, and even if it did, it can not restore the article's provisions which conferred a special status on Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-ready-to-talk-to-farmers-but-not-on-the-repeal-of-laws-narendra-singh-tomar-998925.html
18-06-2021||National Politics||Polls and performance to guide imminent Cabinet reshuffle of Modi government||Polls and performance could be the guiding lights as the Narendra Modi government is slated to carry out the first reshuffle of its Union Cabinet likely this month, two years after BJP's second run-in to power. The Modi 2.0 government may seek to give a message to the youth, who in the past had backed the Prime Minister solidly, by inducting several young faces in the Cabinet. Keeping in mind the priorities of keeping the performance of the ministers during the Covid-19 pandemic and the need to send out a message to states going to polls in 2022, there is a buzz that leaders like former Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, former Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, former Union Minister and Apna Dal (S) leader Anupriya Patel from Uttar Pradesh, whose party has a base among the second most dominant OBC caste Kurmis, and the recent inductee from Congress Jitin Prasada, who was a Union Minister during UPA governments may be given Cabinet berths.  Sonowal, who belongs to Assam's indigenous Sonowal-Kachari tribe, was the Chief Minister of Assam from 2016 (when BJP formed its first government in the state leading to its expansion in the entire Northeast) till May 2021 when he was replaced by Himanta Biswa Sarma. He is rated highly in the party. While Sonowal is in Delhi and will meet top BJP leaders, Shah has already met Anupriya Patel and Nishad Party leader Sanjay Nishad from UP. The BJP and RSS have held a series of high-level feedback exercises in UP as well as in Delhi over poll and pandemic in the last fortnight.   Besides, Jyotiraditya Scindia, who gave Madhya Pradesh back to BJP in March 2020 when he deserted Congress with his band of MLAs, is set to get a heavyweight ministry. Recently, Scindia had scotched rumours about a change of Chief Minister in Madhya Pradesh, showering praise on Shivraj Singh Chouhan. After Mukul Roy's departure to Trinamool Congress, BJP is keen to send a message to the hordes of TMC leaders who had joined it since Roy's entry in 2017. Hence, former Railway Minister Dinesh Trivedi, who joined BJP from TMC this year, could be accommodated in the Union Cabinet. Bihar could have at least three inductions. Former Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Modi, who was denied the post after NDA's poll victory in the state, could be inducted along with JDU's RCP Singh and LJP's Pashupati Kumar Paras, who recently staged a coup, showing the door to late Ram Vilas Paswan's son Chirag and becoming the party's leader in Lok Sabha as well as its president.  Inductions are also likely from Gujarat, where there is a demand for a leadership change and some internal dissension, besides Karnataka, where the clamour to replace Chief Minister B S Yeddyurappa is gaining some ground. The needs of upcoming state polls in states Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Goa could also be drafted when the decision on Cabinet reshuffle is taken. Some vacancies on account of the death of ministers like Ram Vilas Paswan (Bihar) in October 2020 and Suresh Angadi (Karnataka) in September 2020 and some due to exits of allies like Shiromani Akali DAl and Shiv Sena (Harsimrat Kaur Badal (protesting against farm laws in 2020) and Arvind Samant (November 2019, when Shiv Sena walked out of NDA) have also to be fulfilled. The Prime Minister has met several Union Ministers in person in the last few days besides back to back meetings by BJP and RSS top brass in Delhi and elsewhere this month. On June 11 Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP chief Nadda huddled with the Prime Minister over the Cabinet formation issue after which Shah and Nadda held meetings with Union ministers and party officers for two days on the weekends.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/polls-and-performance-to-guide-imminent-cabinet-reshuffle-of-modi-government-998964.html
18-06-2021||North and Central||Ghaziabad assault case: Police slap legal notice on Twitter India MD||A notice sent by the Ghaziabad Police, probing the incident of assault on Saifi, asked Twitter India MD to appear before the investigating officer at Loni Border Police Station to record a statement in seven days. For the first time, Twitter faced a case in Uttar Pradesh earlier this week as the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology claimed that Twitter lost legal protection for third-party contents after the company failed to follow the new IT rules.   The Ghaziabad police registered an FIR on June 15 against the US-based microblogging site for third-party content saying that the video circulated on its platform with the intention of "provoking communal unrest." The police also booked a case aganst a news portal and six people, including journalists and Congress leaders for circulating a video in which Saifi said that he was thrashed and told to chant "Jai Shri Ram'', claiming that it was done to create communal unrest. Ghaziabad police, who arrested a few people, had ruled out a communal angle in the assault. The police said the accused were unhappy about a ''tabeez'' (amulet) he had sold to them. The police in the FIR also said that despite police clarifying the issue, the accused did not delete their tweets and neither did Twitter make efforts to delete them. Recently, Delhi Police's Special Cell interrogated Twitter India Managing Director Manish Maheshwari in Bengaluru over the 'Congress toolkit case' matter. A complaint has been filed with the Delhi Police  against the social media giant's India MD Manish Maheshwari, Bollywood actor Swara Bhasker, journalist Arfa Khanum Sherwani and others for giving communal colour without fact-checking the truthfulness of an incident. The complaint, which also named Mohammad Asif Khan, was filed on June 16 at Tilak Marg police station by advocate Amit Acharya. Journalists' bodies, including the Press Club of India, condemned the case registered against the social media company and journalists, and demanded the immediate withdrawal of all cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ghaziabad-assault-case-police-slap-legal-notice-on-twitter-india-md-998715.html
18-06-2021||North and Central||Ladakh's Covid death toll reaches 200, total cases 19,704||With one more patient succumbing to Covid-19, Ladakh's overall death toll due to the disease has reached 200, officials said Friday, as 22 new infections pushed the case tally to 19,704. However, the number of active cases in the region dropped to 482 -- 348 in Leh and 134 in Kargil -- as 77 more patients recovered during a 24-hour period, the officials said this morning. The new death was reported from Kargil on Thursday, taking the district's tally to 57. The rest of the Covid fatalities -- 143 -- have been reported from Leh, the officials said. Of the new cases, 11 each were detected in Leh and Kargil, taking the individual district's tally to 16,254 and 3,450, respectively. The officials said 63 patients were discharged in Leh and 14 in Kargil after treatment. With this, the number of such patients has gone up to 19,022, or 96.54 per cent of the total caseload.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakhs-covid-death-toll-reaches-200-total-cases-19704-998753.html
18-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC takes cognisance of Covid norm violation in markets, says breach will hasten 3rd wave||The Delhi High Court Friday took cognisance of the violation of Covid-19 protocols in various markets in the national capital and observed that such breaches will only hasten the third wave which cannot be permitted at all. The high court asked the Centre and Delhi government to take strict measures, sensitise shopkeepers and hold meetings with markets and vendors associations in this regard. A vacation bench of Justices Navin Chawla and Asha Menon took note of certain photographs sent to one of the judges of the high court by an AIIMS doctor showing scant regard for Covid-19 protocols by street vendors in markets. "We have paid a huge price in the second wave. We don't know if there is any household which has not suffered in the second wave, closely or remotely," the bench observed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-takes-cognisance-of-covid-norm-violation-in-markets-says-breach-will-hasten-3rd-wave-998765.html
18-06-2021||North and Central||After resentment among locals, J&K mulls cancelling auction of mineral blocks||After widespread resentment among locals, Jammu and Kashmir government is mulling cancelling 58 e-auctioned minor mineral blocks of the river Jhelum that were allotted to outside companies last year. As the outside companies also failed to get environmental clearance (EC), the union territories Geology and Mining department is now contemplating opening these blocks for traditional mining by locals. According to the minutes (No: 986/MCC/DGM/GMM/20/1284-85 dated 15-06-2021) of the recently held meeting of the Geology and Mining department, it was decided to revive the traditional, customary sand mining by identifying the rightful beneficiaries. “The proposal, once finalised, shall be forwarded to GOI (government of India) for consideration,” the minutes of the meeting read. If the e-auction process is cancelled, the successful bidders will be refunded the 50% bid amount of these blocks. Till the special status of J&K under Article 370 was revoked on 5 August 2019, the rights for extraction of the minerals were exclusively reserved with local contractors. In 2020, when high speed internet services in J&K were suspended, the UT administration had e-auctioned around 100 sand blocks along the Jhelum and its tributaries. Most of these blocks were bagged by companies from Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan leaving thousands of people from contractors to sand diggers, labourers and transporters without livelihoods. The newly introduced e-auctions of minor mining contracts of construction material led to a deadlock in the supplies and black market amid a ‘grinding halt’ on the construction activities. The shortage led to illegal extraction and hoarding of construction material like sand, aggregate, gravel and stones resulting in halt on work on several prestigious developmental projects. J&K opened up minor mineral extraction to non-locals at a time when states like Chhattisgarh reserved certain mining rights for their local residents. In 2019, Chhattisgarh issued a circular making domicile certificates mandatory for those applying for riverbed mining leases in the state. Environmental experts in Kashmir had cautioned about the new trend saying the likely mechanization of the sand mining will not only wreak havoc with the livelihood of locals, but also the fish diversity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-resentment-among-locals-jk-mulls-cancelling-auction-of-mineral-blocks-998777.html
18-06-2021||North and Central||Owner of Delhi's 'Baba ka Dhaba' attempts suicide, hospitalised||The owner of south Delhi's 'Baba ka Dhaba', Kanta Prasad, allegedly attempted suicide and has been admitted to the Safdarjung Hospital, police said on Friday. Prasad, 81, attempted suicide on Thursday. The reason behind his extreme step is not yet known, they said. "On Thursday at 11.15 pm, information was received from the Safdarjung Hospital that Prasad was admitted there. Police reached the hospital and collected MLC (medico-legal case) which mentions the intake of alcohol and sleeping pills as the cause of unconsciousness," Deputy Commissioner of Police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said. The statement of Prasad's son Karan was recorded. He said his father consumed alcohol with sleeping pills, the police said, adding that further inquiry is underway. Prasad shot into the limelight last year when a video of him tearfully talking about the lack of customers at his eatery and his financial woes went viral, triggering an outpouring of support in cash and kind from all over the country. The video was shot and uploaded by YouTuber Gaurav Wasan. Later, the octogenarian filed a complaint against Wasan for alleged misappropriation of funds raised through donations. Prasad went on to open a restaurant. However, he faced losses and had to shut it. Recently, Prasad returned to his 'dhaba' and apologised to Wasan. The YouTuber visited Prasad and accepted his apology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/owner-of-delhis-baba-ka-dhaba-attempts-suicide-hospitalised-998822.html
18-06-2021||North and Central||Fire breaks out at Noida's Ganga shopping complex||A fire broke out at the Ganga shopping complex in Noida's Sector 29 on Friday afternoon, officials said. Six fire tenders were rushed to the spot where firefighting was underway, a police official said. The fire was reported around 2.15 pm, prompting the immediate deployment of the local police along with firefighters, the official added. The Ganga Shopping Complex in the posh Sector 29 of Noida houses several daily utility shops, restaurants and fast-food outlets besides the office of the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) and the Noida Media Club.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-at-noidas-ganga-shopping-complex-998827.html
18-06-2021||North and Central||BJP seeks to mend fences with estranged allies in poll-bound UP||Apparently anticipating a tough fight in the next Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, which is due in nine months, the BJP has been frantically trying to mend fences with its estranged allies in the state and bring them back to its fold, and prevent them from aligning with the rival political players. The former allies of the saffron party, however, are proving tough nuts to crack and have asked the BJP to resolve the issues which had led to their parting of ways. According to the sources in the state BJP here, efforts were on to persuade Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) president Om Prakash Rajbhar — whose party had contested the 2017 UP Assembly polls in alliance with the BJP but quit later — to once again join the BJP-led alliance in the state. Sources said that BJP national president J P Nadda had called Rajbhar but the latter chose not to take the call and instead had his secretary take the same. ''We have made it clear to the BJP that there will be no alliance unless our demands are met....and this time we want results not promises,'' a senior SBSP leader here said on Friday. ''BJP knows that we can dent their electoral prospects, especially in the eastern UP region....all these times they (BJP) ignored us and now as the polls near, they want our support,'' the SBSP leader added. Rajbhar, who was a minister in the Yogi Adityanath cabinet, had made an unceremonious exit before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls after his demand for LS seats was rejected by the BJP. Similarly, the top BJP leadership ghas also sought to assuage the hurt feelings of Apna Dal (AD) president Anupriya Patel, who wields influence over the 'kurmi' community, and Nishad Party leader Sanjay Nishad, who has an influence over the fishermen community in the eastern UP districts.  Both parties were allies of the BJP but had recently signalled that all wasn't well. There were rumours that they were in touch with the Samajwadi Party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-seeks-to-mend-fences-with-estranged-allies-in-poll-bound-up-998843.html
18-06-2021||North and Central||After losing father to Covid, class 6 girl sells shirts on footpath||Losing her father to Covid in April, a Class 6 girl selling ready-made shirts outside her house in busy Khirni Bagh area of Shahjahanpur district has caught the attention of both the police and the locals. Mahi's father, the sole bread earner of the family, used to supply ready-made shirts to shopkeepers. He had installed four sewing machines and used to get the work done with the help of tailors from home. In April this year, Pradip Kumar (45) suffered from high fever for three days and was tested Covid positive. He was admitted to government medical college where he died during treatment on April 30. With no help from anywhere for the family of four comprising her mother and ailing grandparents, the young girl set up a shop outside the house, placing the shirts lying in stock on a bench. “We have been facing hardships ever since my father died. My grandfather is over 70 and has not been keeping well. Since there was no help available, we decided to sell the shirts which were lying in the house stitched,” Mahi told PTI. Fondly recalling the good days when her father was alive, Mahi said that he used to bring ice cream and pastries for her daily. But now things have changed completely, she added. Taking notice of the girl sitting in a shop all alone, Sadar Bazar police station in-charge Ashok Pal rushed his men to enquire about the problems of the family. “I came to know that her father had died of Covid infection sometime ago so the girl has to sell shirts on the footpath. Taking the immediate needs of the family into consideration, necessary things have been sent to them," he said. He added, "The family has also been assured of all help from my side.” The matter has also come to the notice of District Magistrate Indra Vikram Singh. “I have come to know of this matter. Information regarding the children who have been rendered orphans or lost the earning members of their family is being gathered. They will be given Rs 4,000 per month by the government till they reach the age of 18 years. This money will be given to their guardians,” he told PTI. A team is at work and all the cases which come to the notice till June 25 will be disposed of. Besides, school-going children will be given admission in government schools, the DM said. A local journalist had appealed to the people through social media to help the girl after which some social organisations came forward to help the family by depositing their electricity bill and supporting through other such means. Another girl from Shahjahanpur was in news recently after she helped the needy with oxygen cylinders using her scooty. Breathing hope into the lives of people in need of oxygen amidst the Covid pandemic, 26-year-old Arshi has earned the nickname “cylinder waali bitiya”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-losing-father-to-covid-class-6-girl-sells-shirts-on-footpath-998847.html
18-06-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand cop who fined MLA for violating Covid-19 lockdown rules transferred||A police sub-inspector posted in Uttarakhand's Mussoorie was transferred days after he fined an MLA for allegedly violating Covid-19 guidelines, fuelling allegations that he was penalised for acting against a sitting legislator. Last Sunday, a video clip surfaced on social media in which Roorkee MLA Pradeep Batra was seen throwing money at a police sub-inspector who had fined him and walking away. The MLA was stopped for not wearing a mask properly and roaming around with his family despite the lockdown enforced in Mussoorie. The sub-inspector, Neerak Kathait, was on Thursday transferred to Kalsi, around 40 km from Dehradun, Mussoorie Circle Officer Narendra Pant said. The sub-inspector can be heard in the video reprimanding the MLA, whom he apparently did not recognise, for violating Covid-19 guidelines. He is also heard saying that Batra will have to pay a fine of Rs 500. Angered by this, the MLA is next seen hurling the money at the officer. As the news of the officer's transfer spread, local people rallied behind him in support, saying he was being penalised for doing his duty. The Mussoorie Traders Association (MTA) even submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat, seeking his intervention and stopping the SI's transfer. "The legislator broke the law. The sub-inspector took action and should be praised for what he did instead of being punished," MTA president Rajat Aggarwal said. Mussoorie unit president of the Congress, Gaurav Agarwalla asked the state government to revoke Kathait's transfer and warned of an agitation. Circle Officer Pant, however, said Kathait has already completed three years in Mussoorie and his transfer was due.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-cop-who-fined-mla-for-violating-covid-19-lockdown-rules-transferred-998860.html
18-06-2021||North and Central||Milkha Singh battles 'rough day' as oxygen saturation level dips||Legendary Indian sprinter Milkha Singh has developed a fever and his oxygen saturation level has also dropped as he battles to regain his health, after a bout with Covid-19, in the Intensive Care Unit of the PGIMER hospital here on Friday. The 91-year-old, who tested negative for Covid-19 on Wednesday and was shifted to the general ICU, is being closely monitored by a team of doctors. "He suddenly developed a fever Thursday night and his oxygen saturation levels dipped. A team of doctors is monitoring him," PGIMER sources said on Friday. Milkha had been "stable before this. "It's been a slightly rough day for Milkha Ji. But he is battling away," read a statement from his family. He had contracted Covid-19 last month and his 85-year-old wife Nirmal Kaur, who had also been infected by the virus, passed away at a private hospital in Mohali on Sunday. Kaur was a former national women's volleyball team captain. Milkha was admitted to PGIMER on June 3 after his oxygen levels dipped at home following treatment at the Fortis hospital in Mohali for a week. The legendary athlete is a four-time Asian Games gold medallist and 1958 Commonwealth Games champion but his greatest performance remains the fourth-place finish in the 400m final of the 1960 Rome Olympics. He also represented India in the 1956 and 1964 Olympics and was bestowed the Padma Shri in 1959.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/milkha-singh-battles-rough-day-as-oxygen-saturation-level-dips-998864.html
18-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi L-G Baijal, CM Kejriwal discuss action plan to tackle possible third wave of Covid-19||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal held a meeting on Friday to discuss the roadmap and an action plan to tackle a possible third wave of Covid-19 infection in the national capital. A state-level task force, more healthcare staff and a special task force for treatment of children are part of the Delhi government's action plan to deal with the third wave, the chief minister's office tweeted. During the meeting, the L-G and the chief minister also discussed bed and oxygen management, availability of drugs and Covid-19 vaccination, the CMO said. The Delhi government will train 5,000 youths to assist doctors and nurses as part of preparations for a possible third wave. The health assistants or community nursing assistants will be imparted a two-week basic training in nursing and lifecare that will start from June 28 in batches of 500 candidates.  In May, the Delhi government had set up a 13-member committee to prepare an action plan for a third wave of Covid-19 after assessing the current status and projected requirement of the health infrastructure such as hospitals, oxygen plants and drug supplies in the city. Another eight-member expert committee was set up to devise a strategy for mitigation and management of the third wave of Covid-19. Kejriwal had earlier said his government has made preparation for around 37,000 cases a day which is expected at the peak of the third wave. A paediatric task force has been set up to give suggestions on protecting children during the third wave. Two genome sequencing labs, to identify variants of the virus, are coming up at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital and the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) in Delhi. The Delhi government is also working on creating a buffer stock of important medicines. On Saturday, Kejriwal had inaugurated 22 oxygen plants at nine Delhi government hospitals. The Pressure Swing Adsorption oxygen plants have a total production capacity of 17.3 metric tonnes. Seventeen more oxygen plants are scheduled to become operational by July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-l-g-baijal-cm-kejriwal-discuss-action-plan-to-tackle-possible-third-wave-of-covid-19-998868.html
18-06-2021||North and Central||Asaram hospitalised, his plea for shifting to ayurvedic centre infructuous: Rajasthan government to Supreme Court||The Rajasthan government on Friday told the Supreme Court that self-styled godman Asaram Bapu, serving a life term in two rape cases, has been hospitalised and is in an intensive care unit. A bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and M R Shah was informed by senior advocate Manish Singhvi, appearing for Rajasthan, that Asaram’s plea for transferring him to an ayurvedic centre near Haridwar in Uttarakhand has become infructuous as now he cannot be shifted due to his hospitalisation. Senior advocate Siddharth Luthra, appearing for Asaram, said his client has been admitted to the hospital and the court should call for the medical records. “We don't know what his ailments are. This court should order for the calling of his medical records from the state as the hospital authorities will not give the details to them,” Luthra said. The bench said however that it was adjourning the matter till the reopening of the court after the summer vacation. On June 8, the state government had told the top court that Asaram is fit and stable but trying to change the venue of his custody on the pretext of medical treatment. The state government had made this submission to the apex court in its reply to Asaram’s fresh plea, seeking suspension of his sentence and interim bail to undergo treatment for various ailments at an ayurvedic centre near Haridwar in Uttarakhand. Asaram is serving varying jail terms including life sentences in two sexual assault cases.   “The accused/petitioner with ulterior motives has been attempting to change the venue of his custody, under the guise of medical treatment. Such change, with due respect, is an abuse of the process of law,” the state government had said in its affidavit. “The accused is also deliberately delaying the pending trial at Gandhi Nagar as well as Jodhpur, raising such pleas with mala fides whereas he is stable and fit,” it had said. The state government had said Jodhpur is one of the rare centres, where both the allopathic and ayurvedic treatments are available. It had also said Asaram tested positive for Covid-19 on May 6 and was having mild symptoms, with low-grade fever and was treated properly. Apprehending threat to the life of family members, the father of the rape victim has also moved the top court opposing the bail plea of Asaram.  The application for intervention has been filed in the pending petition of Asaram in which he has sought suspension of his sentence and interim bail to undergo treatment for various ailments at an Ayurvedic centre near Haridwar in Uttarakhand. A Jodhpur court, on April 25, 2018, had sentenced Asaram to life in prison after finding him guilty of raping a teenage girl in his ashram in 2013.   The plea filed through advocate Utsav Bains has said that in case Asaram is admitted to interim bail, there is a likelihood that out of vengeance, he may get the applicant, his daughter and his family members killed.   On June 4, the apex court had sought the Rajasthan government's response to Asaram’s plea for the court’s permission for the treatment at an ayurvedic centre near Haridwar. The top court had then orally observed that it was not inclined to grant interim bail by suspending the self-styled godman's sentence. Asaram had sought the suspension of his sentence for two months saying he needed to get “holistic” treatment of his multiple ailments at a medical centre near Haridwar.   Asaram has moved the apex court, challenging the Rajasthan High Court order which had earlier dismissed his plea for the suspension of his sentences to undergo treatment at a medical centre of his choice. The plea of Asaram has been filed through lawyer Saurabh Ajay Gupta.   Asaram's accomplices Sharad and Shilpi were also sentenced to 20 years in jail by the court in the 2013 case for their roles.   The teenager had said in her complaint that Asaram had called her to his ashram in Manai area near Jodhpur and raped her on the night of August 15, 2013. The 16-year-old girl from Shahjahanpur of Uttar Pradesh was studying at Asaram's ashram in Chhindwara in Madhya Pradesh.   He was also convicted in a 2002 rape case and sentenced to 20 years in prison. Asaram is also facing a rape case in Surat in Gujarat. He was arrested in Indore and brought to Jodhpur on September 1, 2013 and is in judicial custody since then.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/asaram-hospitalised-his-plea-for-shifting-to-ayurvedic-centre-infructuous-rajasthan-government-to-supreme-court-998869.html
18-06-2021||North and Central||NGT forms committee for rejuvenation of Ganga tributaries in Varanasi||The National Green Tribunal Friday formed a committee for rejuvenation of Varuna and Assi rivers in Varanasi which join Ganga after taking note of a plea alleging discharge of untreated sewage and unauthorised constructions. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel constituted an independent Monitoring Committee for the purpose comprising members from Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), State Pollution Control Board, National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) and District Magistrate, Varanasi. “The Committee may meet within two weeks and review the action plan on the subject in the light of the pre-existing action plans, if any, with such modifications as may be necessary.  “The Committee will be at liberty to take assistance of any other expert/institution, including an agency dealing in rejuvenating works. It may undertake field visit, including sample collection and analysis as required,” the bench said. Based on the report of the Committee, the NMCG may give an action taken report in the matter before August 4, the next date of hearing. "The report may cover status on water quality of Assi, Varuna, action taken on diversion and treatment of sewage, water quality of upstream and downstream of confluence of Assi and Varuna to River Ganga, demarcation of Flood Plain Zones of Assi, Varuna and Ganga (in the said area), in accordance with the River Ganga (Rejuvenation, Protection and Management) Authorities Order, 2016," the NGT said. The action taken report may be furnished by e-mail, the tribunal said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Saurabh Tiwari against pollution of rivers Varuna and Assi in Varanasi by discharge of untreated sewage and unauthorised constructions. The plea said that Varuna and Assi rivers are tributaries of Ganga and cleaning of river Ganga cannot be imagined without first ensuring prevention of pollution of these two rivers. The pollution of the said rivers is subject matter of various media reports and water quality of river Ganga at Varanasi is in bad condition, the plea said.  “Fecal coliform bacteria count at Varun-Ganga confluence is 71 million per 100ML of water (Ganga Jal) and fecal coliform count at Assi River and Ganga confluence is 52 Million per 100ML of water and on Assi Ghat fecal coliform is 1 lakh 40 thousand per 100ML of Ganga Jal.  “Permissible limit of fecal coliform bacteria should not exceed 500 per 100ML of water. Reference has been made to a report on water quality prepared by Sankat Mochan Foundation in Varanasi,” the plea said. The petitioner further stated that there is concrete construction inside Ganga water channel at Lalita Ghat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngt-forms-committee-for-rejuvenation-of-ganga-tributaries-in-varanasi-998887.html
18-06-2021||North and Central||Commercial vehicles without RFID tags, sufficient recharge to be not allowed in Delhi from July 1||Commercial vehicles without valid radio frequency identification tags or sufficient recharge amount will not be allowed to enter Delhi from July 1, authorities said on Friday. According to a public notice dated June 14, issued by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), the work on installing the radio frequency identification (RFID) system at entry points of the national capital, has been completed, and tags can be purchased or recharged at several points of sale system. "Honourable Supreme Court of India vide orders 10.08.2020 and Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) have directed for cashless collection of ECC and toll tax from specified commercial vehicles entering Delhi," reads the notice. "It has also been directed that commercial vehicles without valid RFID tags and sufficient recharge be not permitted to enter Delhi w.e.f. 01.07.2021," it said. So, owners, drivers and transporters of all specified commercial vehicles, entering Delhi from any of the 124 entry points, are required to be equipped with RFID tags, the notice said. A senior SDMC official on Friday said, till date, 5,02,323 RFID tags have been issued. The SDMC is the nodal agency for the RFID system implementation at toll plazas in Delhi. The civic body also has a mobile application for recharging tags online. One can download the application 'MCD-Toll', enter the mobile number and recharge their tag using debit or credit card or net banking, and same process can be followed for recharging tag at www.ecctagsdmc.com, officials said. However, no tags will be issued without physical examination of vehicles, they said. In August last year, the SDMC had said that till that time, RFID systems had been installed at 13 locations, and installation of remaining 111 RFID systems were to be completed by early 2021. The civic body had also said that it had been decided to waive off penalty imposed on commuters for not having RFID tags or for inadequate balance, till October 15 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.  The work on completing the RFID system also slowed down due to the pandemic, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/commercial-vehicles-without-rfid-tags-sufficient-recharge-to-be-not-allowed-in-delhi-from-july-1-998926.html
18-06-2021||North and Central||BJP using state machinery to secure votes for UP Zila Panchayat poll candidates: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday alleged that the ruling BJP in Uttar Pradesh is misusing official machinery to intimidate panchayat members to force them to vote for its candidates in the upcoming zila panchayat chairperson polls. He said the SP recently complained to the state police chief, but to no avail. Polling for the election of zila panchayat chairpersons in Uttar Pradesh will be held on July 3. Zila panchayat chairpersons are elected from among the members of zila panchayats of various districts. There are 75 districts in the state. A statement issued by the SP here quoted Yadav as saying, "The BJP is upset over its defeat in the panchayat elections. Not having the numbers, the distraught BJP leadership is misusing the government machinery to ensure that their party nominees win the posts of zila panchayat chairpersons." "This is a gross misuse of power and democracy is in danger due to these repressive policies," he said. In the UP panchayat elections held in April, the BJP won just eight out of the 40 zila panchayat seats in Ayodhya while the SP claimed candidates it backed won 22 seats. The result was particularly bad for the BJP in the Sohawal sub-district with the party drawing a blank. The SP claimed to have won three of the four zila panchayat seats there, leaving one for an independent candidate. Yadav alleged that in Auraiya, Mainpuri, Firozabad, Etah, Hapur, Siddharthnagar, Rampur, Gorakhpur and Farrukhabad, etc. the BJP is openly victimising the elected zila panchayat members of the SP and those supported by it. He claimed the family members of panchayat members are also being harassed in different ways using the government machinery. An SP delegation had complained to the director general of police, but in vain. Yadav warned the BJP that it will have to face "massive public outrage" if it tries to get its people elected as zila panchayat chairpersons by misusing police, administration and the power of money. In another release, SP spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said the party has suspended former zila panchayat chairman of Baghpat Omkar Yadav and former district unit president Kiran Pal alias Billu for six years for indulging in anti-party activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-using-state-machinery-to-secure-votes-for-up-zila-panchayat-poll-candidates-akhilesh-998961.html
18-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi reports 165 new Covid-19 cases, 14 deaths; positivity rate at 0.22%||The national capital on Friday recorded 165 fresh Covid-19 cases and 14 more deaths due to the disease while the positivity rate stood at 0.22 per cent, according to health department data. With the fresh cases, Delhi's caseload has increased to 14,32,033. The latest fatalities pushed the death toll to 24,900, the bulletin stated. The number of active cases dropped to 2,444 on Friday from 2,554 the day before, it said. Delhi is reeling from a brutal second wave of the pandemic that swept the country. Daily cases and deaths began spiralling upwards from April 19 onwards. The city recorded the biggest single-day jump of over 28,000 cases on April 20. It registered a record 448 deaths on May 3. The number of cases has shown a downward trend over the last several days and the positivity rate, too, has been shrinking. The number of daily deaths has also shown a declining trend. The infection rate, which had surged to 36 per cent in the last week of April, has fallen below 0.50 per cent now. A total of 76,480 tests, including 53,724 RT-PCR tests, were conducted the previous day, the bulletin said. Over 14 lakh patients have recovered from coronavirus, it said. The number of people under home isolation dropped to 698 on Friday from 733 the previous day while the number of containment zones fell to 5,452 from 5,799 on Thursday, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-165-new-covid-19-cases-14-deaths-positivity-rate-at-022-998974.html
18-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi increases minimum wage for daily wagers||The Delhi government increased the dearness allowance for unskilled, semi-skilled, skilled and other workers in all scheduled employments on Friday, thus increasing the overall amount of the minimum wage. In a statement, the city government said the order shall be applicable from April 1. "These steps have been taken in the interest of the poor and working class, who have suffered disproportionately due to the current (Covid-19) pandemic. This order shall also benefit those in clerical and supervisory jobs," Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said. He added that those in the unorganised sector, who are employed on minimum wages, should not be deprived of the dearness allowance. Under the dearness allowance, the monthly wages for unskilled labourers have been increased from Rs 15,492 to Rs 15,908. For semi-skilled labourers, the monthly wages have been enhanced from Rs 17,069 to Rs 17,537. For skilled labourers, the wages have been increased from Rs 18,797 to Rs 19,291 a month.  "Additionally, the minimum wage rates for the supervisor and the clerical cadre of employees have also been increased. The monthly wages for non-matriculate employees have been increased from Rs 17,069 to Rs 17,537 and for matriculate employees, from Rs 18,797 to Rs 19,291," Sisodia said. For graduates and those with higher educational qualifications, the monthly wages have been increased from Rs 20,430 to Rs 20,976. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader claimed that the minimum wages in Delhi are the highest in comparison to any other state. "Every section of the society has been adversely affected due to the pandemic. Adding to the woes of the masses is the soaring prices of daily essentials such as oil and pulses. I hope that this increase in wages will provide some relief to our labour brethren," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-increases-minimum-wage-for-daily-wagers-998994.html
18-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi Congress to observe Rahul Gandhi's birthday as 'Sewa Diwas', distribute medicines, meals||The Delhi Congress will observe party leader Rahul Gandhi's birthday on Saturday as "Sewa Diwas" and distribute free essential items, including face masks, medicine kits and cooked meals to people across the national capital, the organisation said on Friday. Delhi Congress workers will distribute these items to people lining up to receive 'free ration' in the 272 wards of the municipal corporations, it said. Delhi Congress workers, under the leadership of Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee (DPCC) president Chaudhary Anil Kumar, will distribute masks, medicine kits, cooked meals, water and other items to people across the national capital, the organisation said in a statement. Notably, the Delhi government has been distributing food grains among the needy -- including people without ration cards -- as part of the relief measures announced by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal last month in view of the lockdown. "Delhi Congress workers will continue to do noble works on the birthday of Rahul ji tomorrow, without any ostentatious celebration, as the Congress party's motto has always been to sincerely serve the people, more so when they are facing challenging situations like now. "The aim is to reach out to people, who have been ravaged by the Covid-19 pandemic, with help and support," Kumar said in the statement. The Congress leaders will also visit the families of those who have lost their near and dear ones to the deadly coronavirus, and extend help and support to them, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-congress-to-observe-rahul-gandhis-birthday-as-sewa-diwas-distribute-medicines-meals-999010.html
18-06-2021||North and Central||Chirag Paswan-headed LJP faction urges EC to seek its view over Paras group's claims||A Lok Janshakti Party delegation led by Chirag Paswan urged the Election Commission on Friday to seek its view before taking a decision on any claim over the party by the other faction headed by Pashupati Kumar Paras.  After submitting his memorandum to the Election Commission, Paswan told reporters that he was elected party president for five years in 2019 as he rejected his uncle Paras' election in his place.  "The EC has assured to hear us in case of any other contrary claim," he said.  LJP secretary general Abdul Khaliq, who was part of the five-member delegation, said Paras' election was not lawful.  The Paswan faction has called a meeting of party national executive on Sunday in what seems a show of strength in support of Chirag Paswan after all five other MPs of the organisation joined Paras to divest him of key positions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chirag-paswan-headed-ljp-faction-urges-ec-to-seek-its-view-over-paras-groups-claims-999036.html
18-06-2021||Opinion||How to approach Covid-19 vaccine hesitancy?||India, a perpetual paradox, is grappling with the fear of not getting the jab and the fear of getting it. Many wait anxiously for their turn to get the Covid-19 vaccine; others are running away from vaccinators. In Champakana, a tribal village of barely 500 people, in Odisha’s Rayagada district, people fled when they heard that a health team was coming. Health workers who had come with 100 doses for those above 45 found no takers. “Almost all the doors in the village were locked after we reached there, around 8 a.m. We waited for them for the next 2-3 hours, but as no one turned up, we wound up the camp,” Dr G Shailaja, medical officer of Kolnara community health centre, told the national media. The rumour mill, fuelled by video clips, had convinced villagers they would die within two years of being vaccinated. The incident in early June is a telling marker of the serious problem of vaccine hesitancy in parts of the country, alongside vaccine shortages. Data indicates vaccine hesitancy may be somewhat higher among the elderly population compared to the young, says health economist Rijo John. As more and more among the 45+ age group get vaccinated, getting the remaining ones in that group vaccinated would become increasingly challenging. The Government of India will have to find ways to encourage vaccine uptake among them, he says. For the younger population, the demand is much higher than the supply, and there is no hesitancy factor kicking in as yet, John adds. The second wave of Covid-19 infections has hit rural India more brutally. Worryingly, the hinterland, traditionally handicapped by weak health infrastructure, has had far fewer jabs than urban India. Reason: less access to vaccines as well as vaccine-wariness. Vaccine hesitancy, however, is not a new story in India. Look back to India’s long-drawn-out battle against polio. I remember walking down a narrow by-lane, flanked by open sewers, in the outskirts of Moradabad, in 2006. This was when few had hopes of India ever successfully defeating polio. There were pockets of severe resistance against the oral polio vaccine in several districts in Uttar Pradesh. I met Muslim families convinced that a geopolitical conspiracy lay behind the persistent attempts to give polio drops to their children. Hina, a mother of four, told me she was highly suspicious of volunteers who knock on doors, trying to track children who have been “missed” during the regular polio vaccination drives. Listening to her, it was clear that the vaccine hesitancy one saw in these parts reflected a complete breakdown of trust in the State. Hina alleged that her four-year-old son had been forcibly given polio drops when he was out playing. “We will not let the other children be vaccinated. We want to know why the government is so keen on protecting our children against polio when it pays no attention to other diseases that strike us. We have heard the polio drop makes male children impotent,” Hina told me. The family’s anger at an uncaring, dysfunctional healthcare system helped seed irrational fear and complete distrust of “outsiders”, especially health workers and field operatives of international agencies. Mischief mongers tapped into fears and resentment. Science had answers to most of their doubts about the safety and efficacy of the oral polio vaccine. But till then, no one they trusted had bothered to explain in a language and idiom they understood. Despite all the difficulties, India finally eradicated polio. Vaccines helped, but equally critical was social mobilisation - religious leaders got involved, so did other community influencers, academia, civil society, UN agencies, organisations like Rotary alongside frontline health workers. They went from door to door, lane to lane, trying to reach the unreached in the crucial last mile. The past can guide the present. The first thing to keep in mind is vaccine hesitancy is complex. Though one of the top 10 threats to global public health, it is part of a spectrum of conditions. There are hard-core anti-vaxxers. Then, there are those sitting on the fence, who have doubts and questions about vaccines or a specific vaccine and social copiers who are highly susceptible to misinformation and can swiftly shift to vaccine-hesitancy, says Dr Naveen Thacker, a Gujarat-based vaccination expert and president-elect of the International Pediatric Association. What works? “First, you have to listen to the community, its fears, anxieties. That is what we did during the polio campaign. Community mobilisers, religious leaders, medical doctors, teachers were all roped in to spread awareness. We had micro-planning,” says Thacker, a Rotarian, who was deeply involved in Rotary’s campaign against polio. No single intervention can address the entire spectrum of vaccine-hesitancy, especially in the context of Covid-19, where evidence for effective strategies to address it is currently limited. “There is a mutation of misinformation ...not just mutation of the virus. Therefore community mobilisers need to be equipped to convey uncertainty with total honesty,” says Thacker. Other public health experts make the same point. “The fundamental principle of vaccination in any pandemic, especially the Covid-19 that is spawning multiple mutants, is that ‘no one is immune unless and until everyone is immune,’ says P V Ramesh, a physician, public health expert and former principal advisor to the Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister and part of the state’s Covid management team. One big problem, he says, is that the current approach to vaccination is too hospital-centric, app-based, and favours the rich and the upper-middle class rather than being people-centric and community-based. It excludes the most vulnerable. “Paradoxically, we see vaccine hesitancy alongside denial of access to vaccines to everyone who most needs, and want them.” Ramesh says vaccine hesitancy is partly due to the lack of proper communication. “Relevant information has to be communicated consistently, effectively, credibly, and authentically in a language that people understand, especially since we have not had adults being vaccinated on a mass scale like this in the past. There needs to be more granular communication that hinges on explaining in detail to village heads, community influencers, etc., why people need to be vaccinated and the possible side effects. This can be done at cluster levels, panchayat offices, sub-centres, primary health centres, using the existing cold-chain networks.” He points out that the vaccine hesitancy challenge is further compounded by the epidemic of pseudo-science and magical remedies, which are likely to cause irreparable damage to the pandemic management. Amid the doom and gloom, there are promising signs. It is important not to stereotype entire communities as vaccine-hesitant. The tribals in Odisha’s Rayagada district fled fearing inoculation. But tribal communities are not the most vaccine-hesitant. Quite the opposite. According to the government, vaccination per million population in tribal districts is higher than the national average, and 128 out of 176 tribal districts are performing better than the all-India vaccination coverage. “In the tribal-dominated West Singhbhum District, where we work, the second wave of Covid19 has had a severe impact. We face the double challenge of food security and disease. We offer ration support to vulnerable families and continuing care to persons with severe mental illness,” says Dr Sachin Barbde, a physician who is part of Ekjut, an NGO that works among tribal communities in remote parts of Jharkhand. There are lots of myths and false information going around about vaccines, says Barbde. He and his team are trying to address the problem by leveraging WhatsApp, which has a good reach even in remote areas, and with help from youth volunteers called yuvasathis Yuvasathis have made short videos in local dialects like Ho, Santhali, Munda and shared them widely with their friends and communities. The volunteers accompany villagers to vaccination centres, help them with online registration. Ekjut also supports the West Singhbhum district administration in running a helpline for the post-vaccination follow up. The youth volunteers call villagers who have taken the jab to check if they face any problems, counsel them about proper care and urge them to take the 2nd dose in due course, Barbde told me. The challenges on the ground are indeed daunting. But if there is one key lesson from the past, it is simply this: connecting with the community is essential, and listening to the community pays. (The writer is an independent journalist and columnist.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-to-approach-covid-19-vaccine-hesitancy-998788.html
18-06-2021||Right in the Middle||A teacher's thoughts amid a pandemic||A year ago, when the pandemic began, online teaching was a big challenge for all teachers. It was something we had never done before. It was never difficult for a teacher to look into the sparkling eyes of students in a class and teach. But it was difficult to look into the camera lens. I can relate to the actor in Photo Prem, a Marathi movie. It’s a story about a camera conscious woman. It took me some time to focus on the camera and teach. It always gives me a feeling of being a director who would should “lights, camera, action”. I tell myself “lights, camera, teach” before every class. After a year of online teaching, the most unexpected thing happened. The exams were cancelled. Of course, it was done taking into consideration the health of students and teachers and I support the decision but I feel bad for a few students. Generally, one would feel blessed if exams are cancelled. Especially, if it’s a board exam. It happened this year and I expected many of my students to be happy. To my surprise, I received calls from students asking “Is this really true? We want to write the exam because we want to score a 100 in maths.” I was stunned. I took some time off to think. I was under the impression that we teachers are Covid warriors adapting to the technology and teaching with the help of new tools. Students are no less than any Covid warrior. They have stayed home for over a year. They have missed their birthday celebrations with their best buddies. Many have missed the last year of schooling, their farewell and many more such things. These are priceless moments that will not come back. At least we as teachers will get back to work— back to blackboard, chalk and talk. But the moments that students have lost are irreplaceable. These are the memories that a student cherishes for a lifetime. Having known that the pandemic situation is not predictable, students still have the urge to study and become competent. What more would be more inspiring for a teacher to teach. Thank you, dear students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-teachers-thoughts-amid-a-pandemic-999019.html
18-06-2021||Second Edit||Police brutality is unacceptable||Justice Anand Narain Mulla of the Allahabad High Court had once famously remarked that “there is not a single lawless group in the whole of the country whose record of crime comes anywhere near the record of that organised unit which is known as the Indian Police Force.” Karnataka police seem to be living up to these words, if recent incidents of custodial torture, brutality during the initial phase of the lockdown and other misdemeanours, are any indication. The latest case is that of Roy D’Souza (50), a mentally-challenged epileptic patient who died in the ICU of a private hospital where he was admitted in a serious condition after he was allegedly tortured at the Virajpet police station in Kodagu. While the police, who claim that Roy had swung a knife and injured one of them, have the right of self-defence, it cannot be extended to condone torture. The post-mortem reportedly confirmed external injuries on D’Souza’s body and damage to internal organs. This is not the first time that Karnataka police have come under the scanner for human rights violations. Indeed, it has a history of it. Way back in 1987, several senior police officers were arraigned in the Rasheed murder case where an advocate from Kerala was tortured and murdered, allegedly at the instance of the then Home Minister. Not much has changed since. Recently, a Dalit boy was hung upside down, tortured and made to drink the urine of another accused at Gonibeedu police station in Chikkamagaluru. Last month, the Sanjay Nagar police in Bengaluru detained a doctor for two days on charges of illegally selling Remdesivir, administered third-degree beatings and allegedly even extorted Rs 5.5 lakh from him. Though rights violations of varying degrees are common, most go unreported. Installing CCTV cameras at police stations, as repeatedly directed by the Supreme Court, is necessary to act as a deterrent to custodial ill-treatment. But the bigger problem is the failure of the police top brass to discipline and sensitise the force at all levels, while the human rights commission appear to be in deep slumber. What further emboldens errant men in uniform is that they are reinstated in service after a brief suspension, with hardly any of them facing exemplary punishment. The state’s top police officer, Director General of Police Praveen Sood, should take the lead, initiate stringent action against those guilty in recent incidents and parallelly start a human rights sensitisation programme for his men and women at all levels and humanise the force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/police-brutality-is-unacceptable-999027.html
18-06-2021||South||No shortage of vaccines in Puducherry, ready to face third wave: Lt Governor||Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Friday said Puducherry did not have a shortage or lack of vaccines to cover all the eligible people in the fight against Covid-19. Talking to reporters at Raj Nivas here after handing over medical equipment to the Health Department, she said when there were reports of people facing difficulty in getting the jabs for want of adequate stock of the vaccine in several parts, Puducherry had full stock to meet the requirements. The Prime Minister had also promised that more stocks would be distributed to states and union territories including Puducherry from June 21, she said. "Hence, there is no shortage of medicines here," she said and asked the people to come forward and get vaccinated against coronavirus. A special vaccination festival was in progress in 100 centres since June 16. "I would only appeal to the people to get innoculated as vaccination alone is the most powerful weapon to combat the coronavirus," she said. Stating that the Puducherry Health department was "battle ready" in case a third wave of Covid occurred, she said, "We are particularly keen to ensure that necessary facilities including beds and drugs are ready for the children in case they contracted the virus." "Special beds for children were also being readied in hospitals as the requirements (of children) would be different from the elderly people," she added.  Tamilisai Soundararajan said the Pradhan Mantri Health insurance scheme for those coming under the below poverty line category was also being implemented in Puducherry. There was an estimated1.91 lakh people identified to be eligible for the health insurance scheme. Already 70,000 people have enrolled themselves for the scheme, she added. The Lt Governor earlier declared open a Covid Care Centre on the premises of the Pondicherry University in neighbouring Kalapet. She also handed over relief materials to economically backward families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-shortage-of-vaccines-in-puducherry-ready-to-face-third-wave-lt-governor-998794.html
18-06-2021||South||Temples, places of worship won't reopen soon, says Kerala Minister||Kerala Devaswom Minister K Radhakrishnan on Friday said devotees would have to wait for some more time before places of worship including temples reopen in the state as the Covid-19 situation is still a cause of worry though the government had eased lockdown curbs. He said the government could not announce an exact date right now on the reopening of places of worship and it would depend on a dip in the spread of the virus infection. "Any rush in temples or other places of worship will result in the increasing spread of the disease. That is why the government is showing utmost seriousness in the issue," he told reporters here. Stating that it was not the policy of the government to upset anyone, he said their only aim was to contain the spread of the disease. Safety of devotees is the priority of the Left government, the minister added. After 40 days of Covid-19 induced lockdown, Kerala on Thursday limped back to normalcy as the government eased the curbs allowing shops to open in a restricted manner andpublic transportation was allowed on a limited basis. In the major towns, where the Test Positivity rate (TPR) was less, people could be seen venturing out as the state was under lockdown since May 8. The chief minister had earlier said thatthere will be relaxation on the curbs in the state based on the average weekly TPR in Local Self Government bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/temples-places-of-worship-wont-reopen-soon-says-kerala-minister-998808.html
18-06-2021||South||NGT directs Telangana to submit closure plans for Medigadda sand stock yard||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Telangana government to comply with a committee's recommendation asking it to submit closure plans for Medigadda sand stock yard enabling it for agriculture. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel also asked the state government to comply with the recommendations of the committee, formed by it, comprising of the Central Pollution Control Board, state PCB and SEIAA, Telangana. The committee visited the 100-hectare Medigadda sand stock yard containing 4 lakh cubic metre per day (as reported by Telangana State Mineral Development Corporation officials) in a private land taken on lease.  The committee recommended that the TSMDC have to submit closure plans for all the stock yards enabling it for agriculture use again once the stocks are cleared. Reclamation of land for agriculture. “Apart from compliance of the recommendations of the Committee by the State of Telangana and its authorities, Sustainable Sand Mining Guidelines issued by the MoEF under the EP Act may be followed. “The issue of free distribution of sand in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution is beyond our jurisdiction and the said issue may be raised at appropriate forum, if so desired,” the bench said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by NGO, 'Readiness for Empowerment' through Legitimate Action (RELA) and others, filed through advocate Sravan Kumar, alleging that in the name of de-siltation, sand mining is being done without mandatory environmental clearance, to provide free sand to the construction companies. “Sand mining is said to be taking place at various places including in District Guntur, Andhra Pradesh. In the State of Telangana, sand is being mined illegally from Godavari and Krishna Rivers. The same is booked online at the rate of Rs 9000/- per truck. In Hyderabad, it is sold at the rate of Rs 45,000/- per truck. “The State of Telangana is allotting such sand to private contractors for diverting the same to black mafia. Transportation results in accidents and air pollution,” the plea alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ngt-directs-telangana-to-submit-closure-plans-for-medigadda-sand-stock-yard-998826.html
18-06-2021||South||As Covid-19 cases decline, Andhra Pradesh relaxes curfew timings||With the daily new Covid-19 cases on the decline, the Jaganmohan Reddy government has decided to relax the curfew in the state from 6 pm and 6 am, from 21 to 30 June. The present curfew timing of 2 pm to 6 am will however continue in East Godavari due to the district's high positivity rate.  During the Covid-19 review meeting on Friday, Reddy directed that shops and business establishments should close by 5 pm and instructed the officials to implement the curfew strictly from 6 pm to 6 am. The government offices will function in their regular timings and all employees are expected to attend the office from now on. On Friday morning, Andhra Pradesh had 67,629 active cases. 6,341 new positive cases were recorded from the 1,07,764 samples tested. The chief minister has directed the officials to expedite the construction of a new 350-ton liquid oxygen manufacturing plant so that the state will attain self-sufficiency in medical oxygen. Oxygen generated from this plant can be used for industrial purposes in case not required for medical purposes. In preparation of the third wave, officials said that 12,187 oxygen concentrators will reach AP by July 15, and 10,000 D-type cylinders by June 24. Steps were being taken to provide oxygen facilities to 50 or more bedded hospitals. 10 kilolitre oxygen tankers are being made available in hospitals with 100 or more beds. Health officials said that Andhra Pradesh has the second lowest mortality rate in the country at 0.66 percent. The case positivity rate stands at 5.99 per cent, while recovery rate is at 95.53 per cent. The lowest Covid-19 positivity rate of 2.58 per cent was registered in Kurnool district while the highest in was seen in East Godavari district at 12.25 per cent. 2,584 'black fungus' cases were registered so far in the state, out of which 185 patients have died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-covid-19-cases-decline-andhra-pradesh-relaxes-curfew-timings-998830.html
18-06-2021||South||Well-wishers in Hyderabad raise money to buy Zomato delivery boy a bike||A Zomato delivery worker’s dedication to fulfill an order on time has earned him goodwill in cash and kind as Hyderabad citizens pooled enough money together to replace his bicycle with a motorbike. When the post gained traction on social media from some online groups in which Mukesh was a member, he decided to start a fundraiser in order to buy Ahmed a motorcycle. The fundraiser raised Rs 60,000 in 10 hours’ time and went on to total Rs 73,370 before Mukesh halted the campaign, having collected more-than-enough funds. Mukesh took to Facebook once more to thank everyone who had contributed to the cause. “As promised, we handed over the keys of TVS XL to Aqeel along with helmet, raincoat, mask packet and sanitizer,” he wrote in a post. “We now hope he will be able to perform his duties more efficiently and support himself and his family and wish him all the very best.” Mukesh told The News Minute that the bike cost around Rs 65,000, and the rest of the amount collected from the fundraiser would go towards paying for his college fees. Ahmed told the publication that he did not have a vehicle and had to keep working despite the problems he faced because of his financial condition. “It is a really generous gesture. I have been working for a year now and I have been delivering food on my bicycle throughout. Earlier as well, someone else had offered to help me, but it did not fall into place.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/well-wishers-in-hyderabad-raise-money-to-buy-zomato-delivery-boy-a-bike-998872.html
18-06-2021||South||Rat-ted out! Rodents expose liquor sent via postal service||Rodents in a Postal Department of Kochi have "ratted out" a suspected friendly gesture of sending liquor through parcel from Bengaluru to Kerala amid Covid-19 curbs. The "smuggling", said to be exposed by a rat that gnawed the parcel attracted by a packet of mixture (snacks) inside it, is likely to invite up to ten-year imprisonment and a fine of Rs 1 lakh for both. According to Kerala Excise officials, whether it was a friendly gesture or not, the act of sending liquor bottles is an offence under section 58 of the Abkari Act that warrants up to ten years of imprisonment and a fine of not less than Rs 1 lakh. It was on Tuesday that the Postal Department officials in Kochi came across the parcel with one portion gnawed by a rat. On checking the parcel, officials found three 375 ml liquor bottles of liquor apart from the mixture packet. They informed the excise officials who registered a case.  The sender was learnt to be a Malayali in Bengaluru and it was suspected that he sent the liquor to one of his friends in Kochi as liquor shops in Kerala remain shut for more than a month owing to Covid-19 lockdown. Excise Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar T A told DH that the sender and the recipient were traced and their addressed were being re-verified. The chances of someone else sending the parcel by using the address of others could not be ruled out as a similar modus operandi was often found in drug smuggling, he said, adding that it was for the first time that liquor smuggling through postal department was spotted in the state. Sources said that the sender had already told the excise officials that he sent the liquor by parcel without knowing the serious consequences involved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rat-ted-out-rodents-expose-liquor-sent-via-postal-service-998875.html
18-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin meets Sonia Gandhi, Rahul in Delhi||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister and DMK President M K Stalin on Friday met Congress interim President Sonia Gandhi, and party MP Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi, for the first time after his party’s emphatic win in the April 6 assembly elections. Stalin, who was in the national capital to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi to seek assistance for the state’s development, called on Sonia Gandhi at her 10, Janpath residence on Friday morning. Durga Stalin, the Chief Minister’s wife, also accompanied him for the meeting with the Congress President who was joined by her and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi. Stalin presented a copy of "Journey of a Civilisation - Indus to Vaigai" by R Balakrishnan, a retired civil servant, and a shawl to Sonia Gandhi during the meeting. DMK leaders said the meeting was a “courtesy call” as this is the first time Stalin came to Delhi as Tamil Nadu Chief Minister. “Our leader Kalaignar (M Karunanidhi) would always meet Sonia Gandhi during his visits to Delhi. His son just followed the tradition of his father, and this visit was special owing to the DMK’s win in assembly elections after a decade. They exchanged greetings and it was a very pleasant meeting,” a DMK leader said. Posting pictures of the meeting on his verified Twitter page, Rahul Gandhi said the Congress will “keep working” with the DMK to build a strong and prosperous state for the “Tamil people.” Congress President Smt. Sonia Gandhi and I had the pleasure of meeting Tamil Nadu Chief Minister, Shri M. K. Stalin and Smt. Durgavathy Stalin earlier today. Stalin also tweeted pictures of the meeting and said the relationship between Congress and DMK dates back to the days of his father Karunanidhi. The DMK and Congress are allies and have fought all elections, except the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, together since 2004. The book presented to the Congress President became a topic of debate on social media with many commenting it was a “good choice.” The new Chief Minister had presented a book on Tamil as the classical language to Modi on Thursday. According to publishers, the “Journey of a Civilisation - Indus to Vaigai" seeks to establish common grounds and connecting threads that link the riddles of Indology, namely the authorship and language of the Indus Valley Civilization and the origins of Dravidian language speaking people in general and Old Tamil traditions in particular.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-meets-sonia-gandhi-rahul-in-delhi-998878.html
18-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu sets up task force to prevent Covid-19 in animals||After a lion and a lioness at the Arignar Anna Zoological Park in Chennai succumbed to Covid-19, the Tamil Nadu government on Friday constituted a State Level Task Force to provide support and guidance to authorities about the prevention and mitigation of Covid-19 infections in wild and captive animals. The task force will formulate ways to prevent Covid-19 infections among captive animals in tiger reserves, national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and reserve forests. It will be headed by seasoned bureaucrat Supriya Sahu, Principal Secretary (Environment, Climate Change & Forests) and will have six members including the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden, and Special Secretary (Forests), Environment, Climate Change & Forests Department. Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Director, Advanced Institute of Wildlife Conservation, former IFS officer R Sundararaju, and Wildlife conservationist S. Theodore Baskaran are the other members of the team. “The task force shall have a close watch on disease surveillance, mapping and monitoring system, vaccination and other important associated departments and publish periodic reports,” a government statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-sets-up-task-force-to-prevent-covid-19-in-animals-998896.html
18-06-2021||South||Prosperity after Mann Ki Baat puts Kerala man in trouble||An aged, differently-abled person in Kerala, who was in the news after Prime Minister Narendra Modi appreciated him for collecting abandoned plastic bottles from the famed Vembanad lake, is again in the news- but this time for reasons due to prosperity. Rajappan, a native of Manjadikari near the popular tourist spot Kumarakom in Kottayam district, was flooded with assistance after his plight was highlighted by the Prime Minister in his 'Mann Ki Baat' address in January. He has now lodged a police complaint alleging that his sister siphoned off Rs. 5 lakh from his account. Based on Rajappan's complaint the police registered a case and started an investigation. PM Modi, in his 'Mann Ki Baat' address, had said that Rajappan's commitment to cleanliness despite being paralysed should be an inspiration to all.  Both legs of Rajappan, who is now around 70, got paralysed in childhood owing to polio. He used to move around using his hands. He has been eking out a living by collecting plastic bottles abandoned by tourists in the Vembanad lake and selling them to scrap vendors. After his plight was highlighted by the Prime Minister, Rajappan was learnt to have received around Rs. 20 lakh and two boats as assistance from various quarters, even from abroad. The account was learnt to be opened afterwards. The other day Rajappan gave a petition to Kottayam district police chief D Shilpa alleging that his sister siphoned off Rs. 5 lakh from their joint account.  Kumarakom police station house officer Saji Kumar told DH that a cheating case was registered based on the petition and the account details were sought from the bank. After receiving the details further investigation would be carried out. Local sources said that there was a dispute among the family members over constructing a house for Rajappan. His sister was allegedly demanding money for giving land to him. She was made a joint account holder as Rajappan had difficulties in operating the account owing to deformities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/prosperity-after-mann-ki-baat-puts-kerala-man-in-trouble-998914.html
18-06-2021||South||B S Yediyurappa's statement on Mekedatu 'unilateral', project should be dropped: M K Stalin||Condemning his Karnataka counterpart B S Yeddyurappa’s “unilateral announcement” on the construction of a reservoir in Mekedatu across River Cauvery, Tamil Nadu Chief M K Stalin on Friday demanded that the controversial project be “dropped” immediately as it is “detrimental” to the interests of farmers in his state. In a statement hours after Yeddyurappa said Karnataka will go ahead with construction of the reservoir once the Centre approves it, Stalin asked the Union Government not to accord permission to the project. He said Yeddyurappa’s statement is against the final award of the Supreme Court on sharing of Cauvery water and the “people of Tamil Nadu.”  “During my meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi (on June 17), I registered my protest against the project. In this circumstance, Yeddyurappa’s unilateral announcement on an issue that is pending before the Supreme Court will not help the good relations enjoyed between the two states in any way,” Stalin said in the statement.  He demanded that Karnataka drop the project immediately, and also appealed to the Union Government not to sanction permission for the same. Stalin’s statement came in response to Yeddyurappa’s assertions on Friday that Karnataka will go ahead with the project once the Union Government approved it. Tamil Nadu, Stalin said, has been opposing the project as it feels construction of another reservoir across the Cauvery is against the interests of farmers in the state and would lead to a reduction in the share of water allotted to the state by the Supreme Court. He recalled that the Tamil Nadu Assembly had passed a unanimous resolution on March 28, 2015, against the project and had also moved the Supreme Court in this regard. The construction of a reservoir in Mekedatu across River Cauvery is yet another source of friction between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. While Tamil Nadu says no reservoir can be built without its concurrence and that it is against the orders of the Supreme Court, Karnataka says the project is aimed at fulfilling the drinking water needs of Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/b-s-yediyurappas-statement-on-mekedatu-unilateral-project-should-be-dropped-m-k-stalin-998971.html
18-06-2021||South||Mother of jailed scribe Siddique Kappan no more||Jailed Malayali journalist Siddique Kappan's ailing mother Khadeejakutty, 91, died at her residence near Vengara on Friday, his colleagues said. Kappan was arrested in October last year while he was on his way to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh where a young Dalit woman had died after being allegedly gang-raped. He had visited his ailing mother in February after the Supreme Court granted him five-day bail. Kappan was arrested on October 5, 2020 while he was on his way to Hathras, home to the 19-year-old Dalit woman who died after being allegedly gang-raped by four upper-caste men on September 14. Her cremation at night by the authorities, allegedly without the parents' consent, had triggered widespread outrage. The police had said it has arrested four people having alleged links with the PFI (Popular Front of India) in Mathura and identified the arrested as Siddique from Malappuram, Atiq-ur Rehman from Muzaffarnagar, Masood Ahmed from Bahraich and Alam from Rampur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mother-of-jailed-scribe-siddique-kappan-no-more-998973.html
18-06-2021||South||Malayalam poet-lyricist S Ramesan Nair dead||Noted Malayalam poet and lyricist S Ramesan Nair died in a private hospital here on Friday, sources close to his family said. He died while undergoing treatment for Covid-19 related complications, they said. Nair, 73, is survived by wife and a son. Born in 1948 in the Kanyakumari district of Tamil Nadu, Nair started writing poems during his school days. He entered the world of lyrics in 1983 by penning songs for the Malayalam movie 'Pathamudayam' and headed the Tapasya Kala Sahithya Vedi, an art and literary organisation. He was honoured with the Kendra Sahitya Akademi Award in 2018 for the collection of his poems titled 'Gurupournami.' He had also won the Kerala Sahithya Academy award in 2010 for his contributions. Nair had worked as a sub-editor in the Kerala Bhasha Institute and also in the All India Radio as a producer in the 1970s. His cremation would be held here on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/malayalam-poet-lyricist-s-ramesan-nair-dead-998978.html
18-06-2021||South||Kerala CM Vijayan alleges new state Congress chief Sudhakaran once tried to kidnap his children||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that Kerala PCC president and Lok Sabha member K Sudhakaran had once planned to kidnap his children. Vijayan's statement quoting a former Congress leader came in response to certain critical remarks made by Sudhakaran against the two-time CM. Both Vijayan and Sudhakaran are Kannur natives. Vijayan told reporters on Friday that a former Congress local leader and Sudhakaran's close friend, who is now no more, had called on him at his house in Kannur many years back. That Congress leader said that he (Vijayan) should be cautious as Sudhakaran was even planning to kidnap Vijayan's children. Vijayan said that he did not tell anyone, including his wife, as they would be scared given his children were still going to school. Recollecting his college days, Sudhakaran said in a recent interview to a publication that during tensions at Brennen College at Thalassery in Kannur, Vijayan was roughed up during a political clash in the campus. Both Vijayan and Sudhakaran were alumni of the college. Denying that he was roughed up, Vijayan said that he was at the college to write exams during the said incident and following his intervention, Left student workers took away Sudhakaran. Vijayan also recollected many adverse remarks made by some Congress leaders against Sudhakaran earlier.  Congress sources said that Sudhakaran would be coming out with his fresh versions in a day or two. By making Sudhakaran Kerala PCC's new president the Congress leadership was planning to give a strong opponent to take on Vijayan. It seems to be proving right, said a Congress source.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-vijayan-alleges-new-state-congress-chief-sudhakaran-once-tried-to-kidnap-his-children-999008.html
18-06-2021||South||Kerala doctors join nationwide stir as attacks on healthcare workers become rampant||As a series of incidents of attacks on doctors are being reported in Kerala, various forums of doctors in the state joined a nationwide stir by doctors. According to the IMA-Kerala chapter, at least 60 incidents of attack on doctors were reported in Kerala over the last few years, the latest being the one at Mavelikkara in Alappuzha where a police personnel allegedly slapped a doctor accusing them of medical negligence after the former's mother died. All prominent forums of government and private sector doctors demanded the Kerala government to strictly enforce the law that offers protection to doctors as well as to take action against police officials for laxity in their probe into incidents of attack on doctors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-doctors-join-nationwide-stir-as-attacks-on-healthcare-workers-become-rampant-999012.html
18-06-2021||South||Telangana Cabinet to meet on Saturday, discuss lockdown, other issues||The Telangana Cabinet would meet on Saturday to take up key issues, including the ongoing lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 and farming during the monsoon season. An emergency State Cabinet meeting will be held here at Pragati Bhavan on Saturday at 2 PM under the chairmanship of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao," an official release said on Friday. In the meeting, the Cabinet is expected to discuss matters such as lockdown in the State, rainfall, cultivation in the monsoon season, agriculture-related seasonal issues, lifting of Godavari waters, hydel power generation and other issues," the release said. The present phase of lockdown comes to an end on Saturday and the Cabinet meeting is expected to take a decision on the issue against the backdrop of a decline in Covid-19 cases. Presently, relaxation in lockdown rules is being given from 6 am to 5 pm with a grace period of one hour (up to 6 pm) for people to reach home. On June 8, the Cabinet had decided to extend the lockdown for 10 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cabinet-to-meet-on-saturday-discuss-lockdown-other-issues-999028.html
18-06-2021||State||Karnataka issued 78K 'excess' death certificates this year||The number of death certificates issued by the government in the first six months of 2021 has gone up by 78,000 when compared with figures for the corresponding period in 2018 and 2019, suggesting a surge in the number of deaths.  These numbers come at a time when questions are being raised about the alleged under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths in Karnataka. According to the Civil Registration System (CRS), there were 3,37,580 death certificates issued across the state from January 1 to June 15, including 87,082 death certificates issued in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) jurisdiction.  Thursday alone, 4,302 death certificates were issued statewide. The number of death certificates issued in the first six months of 2018 and 2019, stood at 2.56 lakh 2.67 lakh, respectively. While 2018 saw an increase of 1.3 per cent compared to 2017 data, it was 4.2 per cent in 2019. The numbers for 2020 are not yet available but a mathematical projected increase of 5 per cent supposes that the state would have issued 2.75 to 2.8 lakh death certificates. However, this year’s numbers shockingly work out to a 20 per cent rise over the presumed total 2.8 lakh death certificates issued over a six-month period the previous year.  Assistant Registrar of Births and Deaths M B Madhu Kumar, specified that to interpret each certificate as one individual death would be inaccurate. “Multiple copies of death certificates are sometimes taken by family members for matters of property and inheritance. In some cases, certificates are issued for deaths which have happened in previous years,” he said. A data analysis by DH showed that duplicate death certificates accounted for an average of 5.23 per cent of all certificates issued in previous years. Delayed registrations (any death over 21 days), accounted for about 32 per cent of all certificates in previous years.  Sanjeev Mysore of the Project: Jeevan Raksha, a data project which conducts Covid-19 analysis, explained that had there been no pandemic, the number of death certificates issued during these six months should have been between 2.95 and 3 lakh. This is significantly lower than the 3.37 lakh certificates actually issued. Based on the available data, including the official Covid-19 death toll of 20,521 between January 1 and June 15 , Mysore said that there could be a gap of between 15,000 and 20,000 deaths statewide which “needs to be reconciled”. Officials declined to reveal the actual death toll in the state and the city. One BBMP official said that he is under instructions not to reveal facts or figures about the deaths which have happened so far. Nevertheless, an officer tacitly admitted that the death toll up to June 15 in BBMP limits was more than the officially disclosed number of 425. “This is due to delayed reporting of fatalities from families who could not report deaths during the period of the lockdown,” the officer said, without providing numbers. Based on insurance claim data, Project: Jeevan Raksha said it has analysed and submitted to the MoHFW indicating that Gujarat and Telangana have under-reported 15,000 to 20,000 Covid-19 deaths. Mysore said that Maharashtra has voluntarily started to reconcile its death toll, disclosing some 10,000 back-dated deaths in June alone. “This indicates that there is a fair amount of undisclosed Covid-19 death toll,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-issued-78k-excess-death-certificates-this-year-998682.html
18-06-2021||State||My phone is tapped, claims BJP MLA Bellad||BJP legislator Arvind Bellad, who is in the news for his ‘disgruntlement’ with the Yediyurappa administration, claimed on Thursday that his phone was being tapped. Bellad, the Hubli-Dharwad (West) MLA, also said he received a call from a person who identified himself as Yuvaraj Swamy, the alleged con man accused of cheating government job aspirants and politicians by claiming he was an RSS leader. Bellad has lodged a complaint with Assembly Speaker Visweshwar Hegde Kageri and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai seeking an inquiry. "Recently, I returned a call I missed and the speaker introduced himself as Yuvaraj Swami. I disconnected after cutting the conversation short. A few days later, he called me again, saying he was wrongly jailed and was currently at the hospital. I think there is a conspiracy behind the call. Since (my detractors) could not find any weakness in me, I think they are making people like Swami call me and fix me in something. Also, how can a jailed man call me anyway,” Bellad asked. Asked about his phone being tapped, Bellad said, “There are some people who are present wherever I go. How can they possibly know my whereabouts? That’s why I think my phone has been tapped.” Bellad said he did not suspect anyone. “Let the authorities conduct an inquiry and find out,” he said. Asked if it was the government tapping his phone, Bellad said he was not sure. “There’s new technology that allows even private individuals to tap phones. I have sought an inquiry (about phone tapping) and security from the Speaker to ensure that I work independently as an MLA,” he said. Of late, Bellad has been identified with the anti-Yediyurappa camp. The ministerial aspirant sulked when he did not find a place in the Cabinet during its expansion earlier this year. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah demanded an inquiry into Bellad's allegations. "I urge the CM to initiate an investigation by a sitting high court judge about the phone-tapping allegations made by BJP rebel MLA Arvind Bellad," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/my-phone-is-tapped-claims-bjp-mla-bellad-998686.html
18-06-2021||State||NGT Principal Bench closes suo moto proceedings on Mekedatu project||The Principal Bench of the National Green Tribunal on Friday closed the suo moto proceedings on forming a committee for spot inspection to find out whether Karnataka has made preparation to build a reservoir at Mekedatu, without getting environmental clearance.  "Since the issue of building reservoir is pending before the Supreme Court and Karnataka's request for forest clearances also pending before the Ministry of Forest and Environment, there is no need to take suo moto proceedings by the Tribunal," the Principal Bench said.  The Bench headed by its chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel passed the order on Friday after hearing a plea from Karnataka. Recently, the NGT Southern Bench comprising Justice K Ramakrishnan and expert member K Satyagopal, took suo motu cognisance of a media report that Karnataka has started making preparation to construct a dam at Mekedatu without getting necessary forest clearances. It had then ordered forming a committee and sought a report.  Seeking review of the Southern Bench order, Karnataka filed an application before the Principal Bench arguing that the state has not started the work.  Karnataka, in its review petition, said that since the proposed Mekedatu reservoir issue was pending before the Supreme Court, the matter can't be taken up suo moto. Karnataka's Advocate General Prabhuling Navadgi, in his submission, said that the media report gave a one-sided version and did not disclose the facts that the process of taking necessary clearances was pending before the authorities. Disposing of the petition, the Principal Bench said, "We find merit in the submission of Advocate General for Karnataka that the media report does not mention that the issue of statutory environmental clearances is already pending consideration before the concerned statutory authorities. Even the very same media report has been mentioned by the State of Tamil Nadu Government in its submission before the Ministry of Jal Shakti vide letter dated 27.4.2021 even before taking of cognizance by this Tribunal." "Further, the same issue has also been raised by the state of Tamil Nadu before the Supreme Court," the order said. Thus, the Bench concluded, there is no need for this Tribunal to continue the suo moto proceedings.  Karnataka planned to build a balancing reservoir across the Cauvery River at Mekedatu to provide drinking water to Kanakapura and surrounding areas and sought green clearance from the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests. Tamil Nadu had all along strongly opposed the project and approached the Supreme Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ngt-principal-bench-closes-suo-moto-proceedings-on-mekedatu-project-998841.html
18-06-2021||State||Religious body headed by Congress MLA extends support to Karnataka CM Yediuyrappa||Akhila Bharata Veerashaiva Mahasabha has extended support for the continuation of B S Yediyurappa as Chief Minister of Karnataka.  Speaking to media persons here on Friday, Akhila Bharata Veerashaiva Mahasabha President and Congress MLA Shamanur Shivashankarappa said tackling Covid-19 should be the main priority now. However, the Sabha has decided to support Yediyurappa as talks of a change of guard in Karnataka are doing the rounds. When questioned on religious leaders' support to Yediyurappa, he said they are seniors and he does not talk about them. He also made it clear that he has no idea of other issues. The Sabha will stand by Yediyurappa at this juncture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/religious-body-headed-by-congress-mla-extends-support-to-karnataka-cm-yediuyrappa-998874.html
18-06-2021||State||Unrelenting rain triggers flood alarm in Krishna basin||Heavy showers in Maharashtra’s Konkan belt and catchment areas of Karnataka have pushed up water level in Krishna river and its tributaries, triggering flood threat in basin districts. The overflowing rivers have submerged acres of paddy and sugarcane fields in Belagavi and Bagalkot districts. Nine low-lying bridges-cum-barrages in Nippani and Chikkodi have gone under floodwater as traffic has been diverted to alternative routes. Several temples, including Holebasaveshwara temple at Machaknur in Mudhol taluk and Bangali Baba temple on Doodhganga banks, are submerged. Inflow into Almatti dam, the lifeline of north Karnataka districts, on Friday evening clocked a whopping 1.46 lakh cusecs following the relentless showers in Krishna river catchments in Maharashtra and Karnataka. The dam has received 3.2 tmcft of water in the last 24 hours. Bennehalla, a feeder tributary of Malaprabha river, is in spate. The stream is notorious for its flash floods in Dharwad, Gadag and Bagalkot districts. Rain has subsided in the coastal belt of Uttara Kannada, but its ferocity has not come down in Malnad regions of the district. The owner of a house sustained serious injuries after a portion of roof collapsed in Yellapur town.  Dam levels go up further Meanwhile, there was some respite from heavy rain in Shivamogga district on Friday. Shivamogga, Sagar, Bhadravathi, Sorab and Shikaripur taluks experienced spells of light showers in the day. However, Yadur (20.3 cm), Hulikal (17.6 cm) and Agumbe (15.1 cm) continued to receive heavy rain. Tunga reservoir in Gajanur received 31,277 cusecs on Friday and the same quantum of water was released downstream. In the last 24 hours (ending 8.30 am on Friday), water level in Linganamakki dam swelled by 2.2 feet while Bhadra reservoir went up by 2.6 feet. The famed Ukkadagatri temple and Karibasaveshwara Gadduge on the banks of Tungabhadra facing imminent threat of flooding. Shivamogga DC K B Shivakumar has banned the movement of vehicles on Kollur Ghat road till August 30, after a portion of road near Nagodi, Hosanagar taluk, caved in on Friday. Kodagu rivers in spate Very heavy showers in Bhagamandala (21 cm) have rapidly increased the water level in Triveni Sangama in Kodagu district. Both Cauvery and Lakshmanathirtha rivers are in spate. Rain, coupled with strong winds, has brought down several trees and power lines, keeping Cesc staff on toes in the hilly district.     Many parts of north interior Karnataka, including Hubballi-Dharwad twin cities, continued to witness moderate to heavy rain for the fourth day on the trot. The sprawling Unkal lake in Hubballi breached on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/unrelenting-rain-triggers-flood-alarm-in-krishna-basin-998995.html
18-06-2021||State||II PUC students may get only marks not grades||It looks like the Department of Pre-university Education will award only marks instead of both marks and grades for second PUC  students who have been declared pass this year. Sources in the department said a 12-member committee, constituted to submit a report on promoting even repeaters students, has submitted its interim report. "The committee has recommended to provide only marks and also to consider promoting repeater candidates too," said a source from the department. According to the committee members and also the department officials, giving both grading and marks will be a black mark for this particular batch of students as their marks cards will look unique and they will be termed as 'Covid Pass'.  Though it was announced to give grades instead of marks in the beginning, the department later discussed providing both grades and marks. "We will wait for the final report from the committee and submit it before the government. Following the directions from the government, we will announce the method," the official source added. Meanwhile, the department is yet to finalise on weightage to be considered from SSLC and first PUC performance of second PUC students while declaring their results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ii-puc-students-may-get-only-marks-not-grades-998999.html
18-06-2021||State||Kasturirangan bats for problem-based learning in engg courses||Experts have urged the state government to introduce the problem-based learning in engineering courses. Speaking at the Regional Research Symposium on Problem-Based Learning, organised by Karnataka State Higher Education Council, experts said that the problem-based learning is one of the highlights of National Education Policy (NEP) and the state government should consider implementingit. Addressing the inaugural session of a two-day virtual event on Friday, Dr  K Kasturirangan, chairman, Committee for Draft National Education Policy,  said, “it is a right time to consider introducing the problem-based learning method in engineering courses. This method is aimed at helping students to look at real-life problems and motivate them to find out the solutions in a collective way.” “The method enables the students to experience the aesthetic, emotional, moral, creative, analytical and other aspects of the situation in a holistic way,” he explained. Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Naryan said “The government is committed to introducing novel learning methods in order to reduce the gaps between theoretical and practical knowledge in the higher education courses, including engineering, in its efforts to make the students globally competitive.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kasturirangan-bats-for-problem-based-learning-in-engg-courses-999002.html
18-06-2021||State||Star Air restarts Hubballi-Bengaluru flight||Star Air has restarted its four-day-a-week flight service between Hubballi and Bengaluru. Accordingly, the flight will take off from Bengaluru at 10.05 am and land in Hubballi at 11 am. It will leave Hubballi at 5.40 pm and reach Bengaluru at 6.35 pm. This flight service is available on Sunday, Monday, Wednesday, and Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/star-air-restarts-hubballi-bengaluru-flight-999004.html
18-06-2021||State||Multi-dept data sync removes 85K ineligible ration cards||A data synchronization exercise between various government bodies has resulted in some 85,000 ineligible BPL cards being weeded out. The process involved collating data from Karnataka for GST returns, Income Tax filings, revenue certificates and others based on the Aadhaar number provided against them. They were then tallied with the Public Distribution System data of the Food & Civil Supplies department to identify and remove ration cards that did not fit the income criteria for a BPL or Antyodaya card. The ongoing exercise, which started a couple of months ago, will ensure savings for the government during the cash-strapped pandemic period apart from removing ineligible beneficiaries. Speaking to DH, Additional Chief Secretary (Food & Civil Supplies) B H Anil Kumar said that comparing existing database of the government such as GST filings data of the Commercial Taxes department, Income Tax data, revenue certificates and land ownership data, helped weed out the bogus cards. During the comparison, if an Aadhaar number registered to a BPL card is found to own more than three hectares of land or having filed tax returns, then that household is ineligible. The card is cancelled straight away and converted to an APL card, Kumar said. The process is being undertaken with the help of the Centre for e-Governance. “They give us a list of those who are likely to be ineligible, which is then compared for exclusion of bogus cards,” he said. Following the exercise, there are demands for verification of the cancelled cards that are being processed as some claimed that they did not pay any income tax. Apart from the linkage with multiple databases, the department is also mapping death and birth data. This mapping will help not only in the efficient distribution of ration for beneficiaries, but also remove pension benefits provided to the deceased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/multi-dept-data-sync-removes-85k-ineligible-ration-cards-999005.html
18-06-2021||State||NGT has given green signal to Mekedatu project: CM Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday said the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has given a green signal to the Mekedatu project that Tamil Nadu is opposing. Yediyurappa said this after the Principal Bench of the NGT on Friday closed the suo moto proceedings on forming a committee to do a spot inspection to find out whether Karnataka had made preparations to build a reservoir at Mekedatu without environmental clearance. “Mekedatu is a significant project from Karnataka’s point-of-view. It’ll help generate 4,000 MW of power and supply water to Bengaluru. But the Tamil Nadu government is opposing this for various reasons,” Yediyurappa said. “They went to the NGT seeking a stay on the project. But NGT has accepted our argument and has given a green signal to the project. We will take measures to get all necessary clearances to start the project,” he added.  The project, which envisages a balancing reservoir across the Cauvery River at Mekedatu, aims to cater to the drinking water needs of Bengaluru. The project will help regulate the flow of 177.25 tmcft of water and provide drinking water to the Bengaluru metropolitan region. Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the state government was committed to protecting Karnataka’s interests in the face of Tamil Nadu’s opposition to the Mekedatu project. “We’re confident that we haven’t violated anything. There won’t be any problem,” he said. “The original suit is still pending before the Supreme Court, which we are pursuing. Be it Mekedatu or Mahadayi, we’re focussed on every issue,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ngt-has-given-green-signal-to-mekedatu-project-cm-yediyurappa-999011.html
18-06-2021||State||Enforce ban on temple entry: High Court||The Karnataka High Court on Friday said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s son B Y Vijayendra visiting a temple in violation of Covid-19 guidelines should be an eye opener for the authorities and politicians. The court directed the state government to instruct temples under the Muzrai Department to ensure that ban order is not violated. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka went through the Mysuru DC's report. An application alleged that Vijayendra had visited Nanjundeshwara temple at Nanjanagud during the lockdown. The court said it accepts that Vijayendra entered the temple despite a ban. The report also recorded the contention of the executive officer of the temple that he had not arranged any special darshan to Vijayendra. Regarding a BJP rally on January 17 at Belagavi, attended by Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Chief Minister Yediyurappa, the court sought a report from the officer concerned in a sealed cover by July 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/enforce-ban-on-temple-entry-high-court-999059.html
18-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No political crisis in Karnataka, says BSY||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday asserted that there was no political crisis in the state, in the wake of dissident activities seeking his ouster. Yediyurappa also rubbished corruption allegations against his son, BJP vice-president BY Vijayendra. “There’s no political crisis or confusion. What’s happening is that our media friends have developed a misunderstanding because of 1-2 people,” Yediyurappa told reporters. Yediyurappa said some 60 MLAs met BJP national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka, Arun Singh , on Thursday. “Those 1-2 of them who’ve been talking against me from the beginning were not even allowed (to meet Singh),” he said, in what was understood to be a reference to MLAs Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and Arvind Bellad. Singh’s visit to the state to take stock of the goings-on in the party has led to widespread speculation on a possible change in leadership. Senior BJP MLC AH Vishwanath, on Thursday, levelled corruption allegations against Yediyurappa and his son,, citing the example of a tender worth Rs 20,000 crore in the water resources department. “They are baseless allegations. Our irrigation secretary will clarify everything. Unnecessarily these allegations are being made,” the CM said. He declined to comment on Vishwanath. “The high command will think of taking action against him,” he said. Maintaining that there was no confusion, Yediyurappa said all ministers were “unitedly working for development” and that they are “not bothered” with the rumblings. Earlier in the day, Vishwanath reiterated his allegations and argued for Yediyurappa’s ouster. “We loved Yediyurappa. But, he doesn’t have the strength to run the administration anymore. He is aging and his health is not favourable,” he said, adding that he was upset with “dynasty politics and dynasty corruption”. He said Vijayendra’s interference in the administration was “known to every person in the state”. He said no minister was happy. “The government has approved the Upper Bhadra Project worth Rs 21,000 crore. Is there money with the government? This is being done just for kickbacks,” he claimed. Vishwanath also expressed fear that Yediyurappa might have to go to jail for corruption. “When he was the CM earlier, he had to go to jail because of his children. My panic is that the same will happen again,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-political-crisis-in-karnataka-says-bsy-998800.html
18-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Probe on into BJP MLA’s phone-tapping charge: Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said an enquiry into BJP MLA Arvind Bellad’s allegation that his phone was tapped had begun.  “Arvind Bellad has given a letter to the director general of police and the Assembly Speaker. The letter, with all its contents, has been referred to the (Bengaluru) Police Commissioner. The commissioner has said he’d get this probed by the officials concerned. The probe has started,” Bommai told reporters.  On Thursday, Bellad said his phone was tapped and lodged a formal complaint with Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, state police chief Praveen Sood and Bommai.  Bellad also claimed to have received a call from Yuvaraj Swamy, the alleged con man who cheated government job aspirants and politicians by claiming to be an RSS leader.  “Whenever there is such an issue, we will inquire. If there’s truth, we will take action,” Bommai said.  Bellad’s allegation assumes significance as he is identified with a faction of the BJP that is unhappy with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s leadership. In fact, Bellad is seen as a chief ministerial aspirant himself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/probe-on-into-bjp-mla-s-phone-tapping-charge-basavaraj-bommai-998849.html
18-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Decision on further relaxing Covid-19 restrictions in Karnataka on June 19: CM B S Yediyurappa||A decision on further relaxing lockdown restrictions in the state after June 21 when the current curbs come to an end, will be taken on Saturday, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said. "The situation is improving. There is also a possibility of a third wave in the future, but despite that we will have to give some relaxations. We will discuss it at a meeting tomorrow evening, and take a decision," Yediyurappa told reporters on Friday. According to official sources, the government may announce relaxations in 11 districts where lockdown measures have continued, while further relaxations in terms of movement of people and opening of businesses may be announced in the remaining 19 districts from June 21. The government had last week issued fresh guidelines extending the Covid-19-induced lockdown in 11 districts, which have a high positivity rate, till June 21, where citizens were allowed to buy essentials between 6 am and 10 am. Some relaxations were announced in the remaining 19 districts from June 14, allowing essential shops to be open from 6 am to 2 pm, and the movement of people till 7 pm.  It had also imposed a Covid-19 curfew (daily) from 7 pm to 5 am and a weekend curfew from 7 pm on Friday to 5 am on Monday. The 11 districts where strict lockdown measures have continued are Chikmagalur, Shivamogga, Davangere, Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Hassan, Dakshina Kannada, Bengaluru Rural, Mandya, Belagavi and Kodagu. The Karnataka government had initially announced 14 days 'close-down' from April 27 but subsequently imposed a complete lockdown from May 10 to May 24, as the Covid-19 cases continued to spike. Citing lockdown yielding results and experts' advice, it was further extended till June 7 and then again till June 14. Meanwhile, the Chief Minister along with a few ministers today held discussions with officials on precautionary measures to be taken in case of the flood situation, due to monsoon rains in the state. Yediyurappa said Maharashtra's irrigation minister will be visiting the state on Saturday and will hold discussions with him. The release of excess water from dams in Maharashtra during heavy rains there usually causes a flood-like situation in the bordering districts of the state. Yediyurappa said he will also hold a meeting via video conference on Saturday with Deputy Commissioners of 20 districts regarding monsoon preparedness and preventive measures to be taken in case of floods there. Noting that the state is receiving good rains and farmers are involved in sowing activities, he said measures have been taken to ensure the availability of seeds and fertilisers without any shortage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/decision-on-further-relaxing-covid-19-restrictions-in-karnataka-on-june-19-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-998854.html
18-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||H D Kumaraswamy hits out at BJP for not taking up Mekedatu reservoir issue||Former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy on Friday hit out at the ruling BJP for not taking up the issue of Mekedatu reservoir project due to internal squabbling in the party. In a series of tweets, he said the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin recently initiated steps to block the project that is detrimental to the interests of Karnataka. "The measure of the Tamil Nadu government with respect to Mekedatu reservoir as well as Cauvery river is detrimental to the interests of Karnataka," the JD (S) leader said. "Unfortunately, the BJP government in the State, which is supposed to look into such issues, has been debilitated by internal squabbling," he tweeted. The measure of Tamil Nadu government with respect to Mekedatu reservoir as well as Cauvery river is detrimental to the interests of Karnataka. Unfortunately the BJP government in the state, which is supposed to look into such issues, has been debilitated by internal squabbling. According to Kumaraswamy, Stalin had recently appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to give permission to Karnataka to go ahead with the construction of Mekedatu reservoir. "Such an important project is gripped by uncertainty though the BJP is in power both at the State and the Centre. This has proved wrong the BJPs promise of creating a heaven by using the advantage of being in power at both the State and the Centre," Kumaraswamy said. Such an important project is gripped by uncertainty though the BJP is in power both at the State and the Centre. This has proved wrong the BJP’s promise of creating a heaven by using the advantage of being in power at both the state and the Centre. He appealed to Tamil Nadu government to allow the Mekedatu reservoir project saying that it would not harm the interests of Tamil Nadu. "The Mekedatu project is not for irrigation, but taking care of only drinking water requirements. Stalin should realise this and co-operate with Karnataka with respect to the construction of reservoir," Kumaraswamy said. .. requirements. Stalin should realise this and co-operate with Karnataka with respect to the construction of reservoir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/h-d-kumaraswamy-hits-out-at-bjp-for-not-taking-up-mekedatu-reservoir-issue-998889.html
18-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government committed to introduce novel learning methods in higher education: Ashwath Narayan||Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan on Friday said the government is committed to introducing novel learning methods to reduce the gaps between theoretical and practical knowledge in higher education courses, including engineering, in its efforts to make the students globally competitive. Making his presidential remarks in the inaugural session of the Regional Research Symposium on PBL (problem-based learning), a two-day virtual event organised by the Higher Education Council, he said educational institutions will be encouraged to achieve collaborations in pursuit of acquiring knowledge and skills. He said that by the time a student graduates, along with the knowledge and skills, they also should be industry-ready. If this becomes a reality, the gap between academia and industry will be filled, paving the way for innovation and entrepreneurship, Narayan, who holds the Higher Education portfolio, opined. According to a release from the DCM's office, Prof K Kasturirangan, Chairperson, NEP Drafting committee, said the time is apt to consider introducing the 'PBL' method in engineering courses along the lines of implementing the National Education Policy. The 'PBL' method introduces students to real-life problems and motivates them to find out the solutions in a collective way, he said, adding that this also enables them to experience the aesthetic, emotional, moral, creative, analytical, and other aspects of the situation in a holistic way.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-committed-to-introduce-novel-learning-methods-in-higher-education-ashwath-narayan-998898.html
18-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reported 2,856 'black fungus' cases so far: Official||Karnataka has so far reported 2,856 cases of mucormycosis or 'black fungus' of which 225 lost their lives, the Health Department said on Friday. According to the data shared by the department, 2,316 patients were undergoing treatment in various hospitals across the State. Among the patients, 191 were cured, 225 lost their lives and 124 Left Against Medical Advice (LAMA), the department said. It said a maximum of 959 patients were in Bengaluru, of which 825 are undergoing treatment in the hospital, 49 cured and 72 dead. There are 229 cases in Dharwad, 168 in Kalaburagi, 159 in Belagavi, 130 in Vijayapura, 126 in Chitradurga, 110 in Ballari, 109 in Bagalkote and 98 each in Mysuru and Raichur. Mucormycosis has emerged as a major post-Covid complication in the State. With the surge in Covid cases, the cases of 'black fungus' too increased at an alarming proportion. The State, however, saw a substantial reduction in the number of cases from over 50,000 a day in April to 5,983 on Thursday. There are 1,46,726 active cases. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reported-2856-black-fungus-cases-so-far-official-998943.html
18-06-2021||West||Part of vacant building collapses in Thane, nobody hurt; 6 adjoining structures vacated||Part of a vacant 30-year-old building in Wagle Estate area of Maharashtra’s Thane city caved in early on Friday, although nobody was injured in the incident as it had already been sealed by the authorities, civic officials said. However, as a precautionary measure, residents of six neighbouring buildings were evacuated and shifted to a school, chief of Regional Disaster Management Cell of Thane civic body, Santosh Kadam said. “The incident occurred around 5.30 am today. Some portion of the first floor in the ground-plus-four storied Shiv Bhuvan building in D'souza Wadi collapsed. Since it was already tagged as a dangerous structure, it had been sealed and nobody resided in it,” he said. “But civic authorities vacated six adjoining buildings and their residents were shifted to a local school,” Kadam said, adding that the fire brigade and the RDMC personnel are engaged in the task of clearing the debris. Another official said that the 24 flats in the building had been vacated last year as its condition had turned precarious.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/part-of-vacant-building-collapses-in-thane-nobody-hurt-6-adjoining-structures-vacated-998739.html
18-06-2021||West||Farmer gets social boycott threat by village panchayat for damage to deity idol; 9 booked||A village panchayat in Amgaon tehsil of Maharashtra’s Gondia district imposed a fine of Rs 21,000 on a farmer for damaging the stone idol of a local deity while carrying out land levelling work at his farm, and also issued a threat that he would face social boycott if he failed to pay the amount, police said on Friday. The farmer, however, defied the diktat and lodged a complaint, following which a case was registered on June 16 against the village sarpanch and eight others in this connection, an official said. “The farmer, Tikaram Pritam Pardhi, a resident of Seetepaar village of Amgaon tehsil was carrying out the land leveling work at his farm on June 12, during which a stone idol of a deity got damaged accidentally,” Amgaon police station inspector Vilas Nale said. The villagers believe that the deity is their ‘kul devta' (clan deity), he said, adding that on getting information about the incident, villagers reached the spot and forced Pardhi to stop the work. “Later, a meeting of panchayat was convened, in which its members accused Pardhi of hurting the religious sentiments of the local residents, and imposed a fine of Rs 21,000 on him,” the official said. In his complaint, Pardhi said the panchayat also ruled that if he failed to pay the fine amount, he would face social boycott, Nale added. According to police, the panchayat told him that the fine amount would be utilised for the construction of the damaged idol and for animal sacrifice to "appease" the deity. But Pardhi expressed his inability to pay the money saying that his financial condition is bad and claimed innocence in the episode. Later, he approached the police and lodged a complaint. Based on the complaint, village sarpanch Gopal Fulichand Meshram, police patil ((village-level police assistant) Ulhasrao Bhaiyalal Bisen, Rajendra Hiwarlal Bisen, Puranlal Bisen, Yogesh Hiralal Bisen, Yadavrao Shriram Bisen, Pratap Lakhan Bisen, Sudhir Hiralal Bisen and Tekchand Dadiram Madavi were booked under various sections of the Maharashtra Prohibition of People from Social Boycott (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2016. Notices have been issued to all the accused, Nale said. Sarpanch Meshram said that as per the local tradition, the villagers begin the new crop season every year by worshipping the idol, which got damaged. The amount that Pardhi was asked to pay was meant for the repair of the idol and construction of the small temple-like structure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/farmer-gets-social-boycott-threat-by-village-panchayat-for-damage-to-deity-idol-9-booked-998767.html
18-06-2021||West||Covid-19: Over 50 lakh people in Maharashtra fully vaccinated in five months||More than half a crore people in Maharashtra have become fully vaccinated against coronavirus over the last five months as they have been administered both the doses of vaccines, a report by the state health department has revealed. A total of 53,72,219 people have got both the doses till now, it said. As per the Election Commission of India's data shared ahead of 2019 Assembly polls, there are a total of nine crore people in Maharashtra who are above 18 years of age. Considering that, the state has been able to vaccinate slightly over five per cent population in the last five months. The nationwide vaccination drive began on January 16 this year. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope has several times claimed that the state has an installed capacity of inoculating eight lakh people on a daily basis. However, the data revealed that the state has managed to administer average two lakh doses daily. Of the fully vaccinated people, 34,99,679 are from the above-45 age group category, followed by 8,47,938 frontline workers, 8,05,318 health care workers and 2,19,284 under-45 age group, the report said. A total of 1,55,11,585 people from above-45 age group have received the first dose, while as many as 12,38,085 health care workers have got the first jab. The health department inoculated 20,20,542 front line workers with the first dose and in the under-45 age group, 27,81,117 people have received the first dose, the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-over-50-lakh-people-in-maharashtra-fully-vaccinated-in-five-months-998782.html
18-06-2021||West||Mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery comes into effect||Mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery has come into force from June 16, according to Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS). Pramod Kumar Tiwari, Director General, BIS, said mandatory hallmarking has initially been launched in 256 districts of the country, which have assaying and hallmarking centres. He further added that jewellers with annual turnover upto Rs 40 lakh will be exempted from mandatory hallmarking. Export and re-import of jewellery as per the trade policy of the government, as well as jewellery for international exhibitions and government-approved B2B domestic exhibitions will also be exempt. Watches, fountain pens and special types of jewellery viz. kundan, polki and jadau will be exempted from hallmarking. Registration of jewellers will be one-time and there will be no fees charged for registration. Any manufacturer, importer, wholesaler, distributor or retailer engaged in selling precious metal articles has to mandatorily get registered with BIS. However, artisans or manufacturers who are manufacturing gold jewellery on job-work basis for the jewellers and are not directly related to sale are exempted for registration. Hallmark shall be done at the first point of sale, which may be the manufacturer, whole-seller, distributor or retailer. Alteration in hallmarked jewellery up to 2 grams of increase or decrease will be allowed with responsibility of purity on the jeweller. “There has always been a high demand from jewellers to increase the grades of gold purity for hallmarking. Considering this, gold of additional carats i.e. 20, 23 and 24 will also be allowed for hallmarking,” Tiwari said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mandatory-hallmarking-of-gold-jewellery-comes-into-effect-998783.html
18-06-2021||West||India’s largest solar carport launched at Tata plant in Pune||In line with the philosophy of promoting green manufacturing, Tata Motors and Tata Power jointly inaugurated India’s largest grid-synchronized, behind-the-meter solar carport at the Tata Motors car plant at Chikhali in Pune. The 6.2 MWp solar carport deployed by Tata Power will generate 86.4 lakh kWh of electricity per year and is estimated to reduce 7,000 tonnes of carbon emission annually and 1.6 lakh tonnes over its lifecycle. Spanning over 30,000 square metres, this carport will not only generate green power, but also provide covered parking for finished cars in the plant. Envisioned as part of its net zero carbon goal for 2039, Tata Motors had entered into a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) with Tata Power on August 31, 2020. Despite the challenges of Covid-19, both companies successfully managed to develop this massive carport in a record time of 9.5 months. Speaking on the occasion, Shailesh Chandra, President, Passenger Vehicle Business Unit, Tata Motors said, “At Tata Motors, we have consciously anchored sustainability in every aspect of our business by striving for more meaningful ways to reduce our impact on the planet, whilst providing exciting products and sustainable solutions to our customers. We have always been conscious of the need to conserve energy and are committed towards achieving 100% renewable energy source for all our operations. Our partnership with Tata Power to deploy India’s largest solar carport at our car plant in Pune is a step in that direction.” “As One Tata initiative, we are proud to partner with Tata Motors and inaugurate India’s largest solar carport. Our partnership is a testament to our collective efforts to lower the carbon footprint and provide innovative and future-focused green energy solutions. We will continue to explore new ways to harness clean resources and offer them to our partners and customers.” Dr. Praveer Sinha, CEO & MD, Tata Power said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/india-s-largest-solar-carport-launched-at-tata-plant-in-pune-998785.html
18-06-2021||West||HSBC India commits Rs 15 crore to Mumbai's Dabbawalas for Covid relief||The Dabbawalas of Mumbai, who are facing compounding problems because of Covid-19 and the lockdown measures, have got a helping hand from HSBC India. It has pledged financial assistance to the tune of Rs 15 crore to support Dabbawalas in Mumbai. This support will be provided in association with United Way Mumbai and aimed at providing relief to Dabbawalas who have been significantly impacted due to the pandemic and subsequent lockdowns. This donation will be utilised for a range of interventions to address the loss of income and livelihood of Mumbai’s renowned Dabbawalas, broadly covering: food security in form of rations and hygiene supplies to Dabbawalas and their families, life insurance to Dabbawalas, education support for learning and educational enablers for children grandchildren and livelihood support in form of bicycles to resume their services once lockdown restrictions are lifted. As part of the support and relief packages, each dabbawala will be provided ration and hygiene material supplies for three months. Financial protection in the form of life insurance cover will be provided through tie-ups with insurance providers. Additionally, educational tabs and access to digital resources will be provided to school-aged children/grandchildren of Dabbawalas whose education has been impacted due to a lack of smartphones at home, to facilitate online learning. With schools likely to continue classes virtually for few more months, this support will be crucial in bridging the learning gap. Lastly, the Dabbawalas will also be provided cycles, their primary mode of transport, to resume their services once the lockdown restrictions are lifted. Commenting on this initiative, Hitendra Dave, Interim CEO, HSBC India said, “The Dabbawalas have defined the grit and spirit of the city of Mumbai. An integral part of the city’s workforce and community, they have been hit hard by the pandemic with loss of livelihood. Our support to the Dabbawalas is in line with our endeavour of supporting the communities where we operate.” Ulhas Muke, President, Nutan Mumbai Tiffin Box Suppliers Charity Trust, said, “The Dabbawala service has never been shut in the past 130 years. But since March 2020 it has come to a total standstill. With no earnings over the past 14 months Dabbawalas are in financial crisis and it has been difficult for them to feed their families. Many of them had to return to their villages as survival in Mumbai is tough. Many have taken up temporary livelihoods such as selling vegetables and working as drivers.” According to him, the HSBC India’s initiative will help the families cope with these very difficult times. The mobile tabs will help our children study individually as most of them are studying in groups on one smartphone for the past one year. The bicycles will be important to resume our duties when restrictions are lifted and life returns to normalcy. “Dabbawalas are ready to work but the repair cost for the bicycle is very high and unaffordable. Lastly, the insurance will help provide the much needed safety cover to us and our families,” he said. The pandemic brought the operations of the Dabbawalas who deliver tiffins to almost two lakh people in Mumbai to a sudden halt. With the lockdown ensuring a move towards work-from-home, these Dabbawalas lost their source of livelihood, with many returning to their villages and unable to return since. Currently, a few Dabbawalas are working to bring in food to essential service workers. However, many others continue to struggle to make ends meet for their families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hsbc-india-commits-rs-15-crore-to-mumbais-dabbawalas-for-covid-relief-998791.html
18-06-2021||West||Four held, one detained in fake vaccination racket||In a major breakthrough, the Mumbai Police has busted the racket involved in a fake Covid-19 vaccination drive in the metropolis with the arrest of five persons in 72 hours. The incident was reported from Hiranandani Heritage at the Kandivli-West area of the metropolis. The Mumbai Police has also widened the check whether they did similarly duped people elsewhere. Hiranandani Heritage Residents Welfare Association filed a complaint with the Kandivli police station on Wednesday. The FIR was registered on Thursday. The management committee of the building had arranged a vaccination drive for its residents and their in-house staff, including the security guards, drivers and domestic help, on 30 May. The society has 435 flats, comprising three residential towers and around 390 residents were vaccinated during the drive. The police have arrested Mahendra Kuldeep Singh (39) Sanjay Gupta (25) Chandan Singh (32) Karim Akber Ali (21) and Nitin More (32). “So far we have picked up five people. While four of them have been arrested in Mumbai, we have detained one in a railway station in Madhya Pradesh and he is being brought to Mumbai,” Additional Commissioner of Police (North Region) Dilip Sawant said.  The residents said that a facilitator claimed to be a sales representative from Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital, negotiated with them for providing 400 vaccine doses on their society premises. The doses cost Rs 1,260 each and around Rs five lakh was paid to the facilitator. The KDAH management denied that it conducted any such drive – and asked people to be careful. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) also ascertained that no such permission was given for the Hiranandani Heritage building. “It is a major breakthrough for us and we are carrying out detailed investigations,” Sawant said, adding that three to four days after the vaccination was done, the residents started receiving certificates. “However, there were mistakes in date, time and place (of vaccination). Few days after that, when they realized that they had been duped, they approached the police. “We found that there was no permission by BMC for any vaccination drive in Hiranandani Heritage.  Besides, no qualified doctor was present when the vaccination was conducted, which is mandatory,” he said. Sawant also said that the accused have stolen identities of various hospitals.  “The vaccine was not procured from any authorized source,” he said, adding that whether the vaccines were genuine or fake is being checked. The accused persons have been booked under provisions of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/four-held-one-detained-in-fake-vaccination-racket-998792.html
18-06-2021||West||Mumbai's Malabar Hill area to get tree-top walkway||The picturesque Malabar Hill area of Mumbai would soon get a tree-top walkway – a first-of-its-kind project in India. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is working on the project. The walkway would be stretched over a length of 900 metres with a width of 1.5 metres. Visitors will be able to take a canopy walk through the Malabar Hills after the walkway is constructed. The project is expected to be completed by the end of 2021. Malabar Hill is one of the prominent residential areas in the city. Known for housing Walkeshwar temple and Banganga tank, this hillock is situated at a height of 50 metres, the highest point in Southern Mumbai. One of the most expensive residential areas in the world, Malabar Hills is home to mansions of many celebrities as well as ministerial bungalows. The area also houses the Raj Bhavan, the Chief Minister’s Residence and the Sahyadri Guest House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-malabar-hill-area-to-get-tree-top-walkway-998803.html
18-06-2021||West||Gujarat cops make first arrest under new anti-conversion law||Gujarat police have registered the first FIR in the state under the newly-notified law against forcible or fraudulent religious conversion through marriage, and arrested a 26-year-old man in Vadodara city, a senior official said on Friday. Based on a complaint, the Gotri police of Vadodara filed the FIR and arrested Samir Qureshi under the Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021, which invites stringent punishment for forcible religious conversion through marriage. Qureshi, who runs a mutton shop with his father, allegedly lured a woman of another religion by posing as a Christian and introduced himself to her as Sam Martin on social media in 2019, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2, Vadodara city, Jayrajsinh Vala said. "According to the complainant, Qureshi, using his fake identity on social media, trapped her in the name of love and then raped her. The accused started blackmailing her using her objectionable photos and forced her to marry him. He even forced her to undergo an abortion during their courtship," he told reporters. The girl, who was under the impression that Qureshi is a Christian, learnt about the accused and his faith around a year ago when a "nikah" ceremony was organised instead of a Christian wedding after she agreed to marry him, the official said. After marriage, the accused first changed her name and then started forcing her to convert, Vala said, adding that the accused also verbally abused the victim using casteist slurs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-cops-make-first-arrest-under-new-anti-conversion-law-998852.html
18-06-2021||West||Two Savdhaan India, Crime Patrol actors arrested for theft||Two actors who had worked in crime-related TV shows – Crime Patrol and Savdhaan India were on Friday arrested in a case of theft in Mumbai. The accused have been identified as Surabhi Shrivastav (25) and Mohsina Shaikh (19). Both the female actors were going through a rough financial patch because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown which has hit the entertainment industry hard. They were arrested in connection with the theft of Rs 3.28 lakh from the locker of a paying guest at Goregaon East locality of Mumbai. Around some time, both the actors had gone to their friend at a posh building near the Royal Palm area in Aarey colony, who provides accommodation as paying guest. Later, the duo left the place.  While staying in the room as paying guests, they stole cash of Rs 3.28 lakh from the locker of a woman, who too was a paying guest. The victim lodged a complaint with the Aarey police station. Both of them were seen in the CCTV footage and picked up. They were grilled and admitted to the crime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-savdhaan-india-crime-patrol-actors-arrested-for-theft-998871.html
18-06-2021||West||Pune college offers India's first-ever diploma course in mountaineering||For the first time, a diploma course in mountaineering & allied sports is being offered in India. The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and Guardian Giripremi Institute of Mountaineering (GGIM) have tied up to offer the one-year diploma course. The programme includes high-altitude training at the prestigious Nehru Institute of Mountaineering (NIM). GGIM’s aim is to promote the culture of adventure education and mountaineering sport across all sections of society. SPPU is the first and the only university in India to implement such a novel curriculum. “The programme will be of immense value to those who seek career opportunities in the field of adventure,” Umesh Zirpe, founder-director of GGIM and a veteran of several mountaineering expeditions including to Mount Everest, told DH over a phone call from Pune. The one-year course has been divided into two semesters and would carry a total of 1,200 marks and 36 credits. While the theory classes would be from Monday-Friday evenings, both online and offline, depending on the situation, the practical session would be held on alternate weekends. The minimum eligibility is 12th pass and the age bracket is 18-60. “Despite such a rising popularity for adventure and mountaineering sport, there was no specific institution which could provide systematic and scientific training considering the safety measures. However, the situation seems to be changing gradually,” said Zirpe. GGIM is affiliated to India’s apex mountaineering body – Indian Mountaineering Foundation, Maharashtra’s apex mountaineering body – Akhil Maharashtra Giryarohan Mahasangh, and various mountaineering institutions such as Himalayan Mountaineering Institute, Darjeeling, Nehru Institute of Mountaineering, Uttarkashi, and Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Mountaineering & Allied Sports, Manali.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-college-offers-indias-first-ever-diploma-course-in-mountaineering-998930.html
