19-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Surge in Covid-19 deaths, cases continue in Dakshina Kannada||The graph of Covid-19 continued to climb in Dakshina Kannada district with 1,006 cases being reported on Friday. The fatalities too increased with 15 deaths being reported for the day. The death tally has increased to 1,024. The positivity rate in the district is 10.07%, Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said. The district reported 665 discharges, while active cases stand at 6,931. So far, 87,350 positive cases have been reported since March last year, while the discharges stand at 79,395. A fine amount of Rs 85,85,767 has collected from 70,960 offenders, who were not wearing face masks, till now. Black fungus Meanwhile, two fresh cases of mucormycosis (black fungus) were reported in Dakshina Kannada on Friday. The total active cases increased to 39. Of the 39 cases, 10 are from Dakshina Kannada, and the remaining are from outside the district. So far, a total of 16 black fungus deaths have been reported, of which 14 were from outside the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/surge-in-covid-19-deaths-cases-continue-in-dakshina-kannada-999166.html
19-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLC Pradeep Shettar asks BJP leaders not to chase power||In the wake of dissident activities within the Karnatake unit of the BJP and issues of leadership change, MLC Pradeep Shettar on Saturday suggested elected representatives of the party not to chase power, saying the party itself would recognise their efforts at a suitable time. "Jagadish Shettar and Pralhad Joshi also never worked to occupy powerful positions, but the party itself accorded them important posts. I also did not expect BJP's ticket to context in MLC elections, but the party gave me the opportunity," he said. "We are not afraid of anybody, and we are committed to the party. Senior leaders have already stated that action would be taken against those indulged in activities damaging the government and the party," Shettar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mlc-pradeep-shettar-asks-bjp-leaders-not-to-chase-power-999170.html
19-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rain continues to lash Dakshina Kannada||After a lull for a day, Dakshina Kannada experienced intermittent rains on Saturday. The region experienced bountiful showers from Friday night. The sky remained overcast. Water levels in rivers Nethravathi, Phalguni, and Kumaradhara have increased following bountiful rain in catchment areas. From January till June 18, as many as 51 houses have been severely damaged and 300 houses have been partially damaged in Dakshina Kannada. As many as 2,687 electricity poles, 171 transformers and 59.277-km power supplying lines have been damaged in the district since January.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rain-continues-to-lash-dakshina-kannada-999173.html
19-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||This doctor plans to install ECGs in 50 gram panchayats across Karnataka||The Cardiology at Doorstep (CAD) Foundation, which has embarked on a mission to bridge gaps in rural cardiac healthcare, realised its dream by setting up ECG machines at four gram panchayats (GPs) in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts recently. Mucchur, Padumarnad, Mennabettu and Puthige GPs in Udupi and Dakshina Kananda districts received the ECG machines under the CAD's project — Gram Panchayat Anganwadi Project (GAP). The first of its kind project in the country, GAP focusses on the health of the rural population. "We intend to add more and hopefully cross 50 gram panchayats - anganwadi centres in the rural areas, by the end of this year under GAP," said Dr Kamath, who heads the CAD initiative. Dr Kamath said all the GPs have good buildings and space for conducting ECG facilities. The GPs are already playing a pivotal role in the fight against Covid-19. Thus, we decided to strengthen the healthcare sector in remote areas through gram panchayats, he said. Elaborating on the project, Dr Kamath said a panchayat development officer (PDO) and a GP member, designated by GP president, will carry out the ECG on those who approach the GP. The ECG report will be shared in the CAD WhatsApp groups. Cardiologists, including Dr Kamath, will read the report and guide patients to the nearest hospital for treatment. GPs with more than 10,000 population and 'pro-active' GP members had been shortlisted for the project. Three ECG machines had been installed at the anganwadi centres in Ampar and Iruvail and at a health sub-centre in Kanthavara.   "Tuesday is a great day in my life," said Dr Kamath, who is also serving as a professor and head of the Cardiology department at the KMC in Mangaluru. "Having spent most of my formative years and childhood education in the villages, I fully understood what this project means to a villager. "CAD GAP, with its robust network, local connect and direct beneficiary transfer of its benefits, has the potential to become reliable," Dr Padmanabha said. "By installing ECG machines in 50 GPs in five districts, a population of about 15 lakh will be covered," he said and added that donors had already pledged to donate 30 ECG machines. CAD was initiated in February 2018 to help patients in rural and remote villages. So far, 375 ECG machines had been installed in the PHCs, CHCs and the Janaushadhi Kendras across 25 districts in Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/this-doctor-plans-to-install-ecgs-in-50-gram-panchayats-across-karnataka-999176.html
19-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada initiates Covid-19 vaccination for bed-ridden at doorstep||In a bid to provide Covid-19 vaccines at the doorstep of bed-ridden people, Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V flagged off a special vehicle at the campus of University College in Mangaluru on Saturday. Considering the plight of the endosulfan victims and other aged and seriously ill who are bed-ridden in Dakshina Kannada district, the district administration in association with Indian Red Cross Society of Dakshina Kannada unit, Rotary Mangaluru and Bank of Baroda took the initiative. A team of health workers will visit households to administer vaccination, said the Deputy Commissioner. The KSRTC employees, private, contract and stage carriage bus employees, auto drivers have been categorised under priority sector and are being administered with vaccines in Mangaluru through the Red Cross Society. Already, professionals who wish to fly back to the foreign countries for work have been administered with vaccines on a priority basis by the organising camps. Now, vaccination for the NRIs have been decentralised and they will be administered with vaccines at PHCs, added the DC. The Dakshina Kannada district is likely to get more vaccines after Monday and the administration will plan to intensify the vaccination drive accordingly. Stating that the positivity rate in Dakshina Kannada is fluctuating, the DC said that it was 18 per cent two weeks ago and has come down to 8.5 per cent. The positivity rate was high on Saturday as a record number of 11,000 samples were tested. He urged people to effectively adhere to lockdown norms and covid-appropriate behaviour.   Saralappa, an auto driver who had arrived in University College premises for the vaccine, said “I did not know how to register for the vaccine and this vaccination camp for auto drivers and bus drivers have benefited people like me. None in the family have been vaccinated so far.” Private Bus Owners Association president Dilraj Alva said that the association had already collected details of the staff of the private buses who require vaccines. Accordingly, 400 have registered so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-initiates-covid-19-vaccination-for-bed-ridden-at-doorstep-999185.html
19-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||No zilla, taluk panchayat polls in Karnataka till December: Eshwarappa||Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa made it clear that zilla panchayat and taluk panchayat polls won't be conducted till December this year as the state is not yet free from Covid-19.  Speaking to media persons, here on Saturday, he said a state cabinet meeting will be held on June 21 at 4 pm and a decision would be taken in this regard. Experts have cautioned that the third wave of Covid-19 is likely to affect kids. So, the polls are unlikely to be conducted anytime soon.  When questioned on a charge related to tender, he said the chief minister and the department's secretary have given clarification. Don't ask it again, he said. He said BJP is like a family and dissidence is quite common in a political party. "Our central leaders held discussions it with legislators and resolved the issues. They collected opinions of all legislators. Our discussion was not only on change of chief minister in Karnataka. The issues related to Covid control, strengthening of party at the grass-root level, environment conservation and plastic-free state had been discussed."  He also stated that he would welcome Prime Minister Narendra Modi's decision to provide free vaccine to all and ration to BPL families. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's decision to provide compensation of Rs 1 lakh to those died of Covid-19 is a model to the country. "We have hailed the decision."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-zilla-taluk-panchayat-polls-in-karnataka-till-december-eshwarappa-999231.html
19-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||No plans to open temples for next 2 weeks in Dashina Kannada: DC||Dakshina Kannada (DK) Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that there were no plans before the district administration to reopen temples in the district for the next two weeks. Devotees from various parts of the state were travelling to Dharmasthala Temple, Kukke Subrahmanya temple and others assuming that they are open. “The district administration has directed police to seize such vehicles and book cases against them. Additional checkposts will be set up at Charmadi, Periyashanthi and other areas to prevent people from travelling to temples,” he told reporters during a Google meet.  The DC said the positivity rate in the district is fluctuating. It was 18 per cent before June 12 and had come down to 8.35 per cent. It stayed high on Saturday as a record number of 11,000 samples were tested but it is on a decline in the district. The positivity rate is fluctuating between 7 per cent to 9 per cent. "We were conducting 2500 to 3000 tests per day. We conducted tests on samples of four days in one day on Friday. Hence, there was an increase in the number of positive cases," DC said. He urged people to adhere to lockdown norms and adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour.  In the past seven days, 59,818 samples were tested in Dakshina Kannada, the second-highest in Karnataka next to BBMP. “The district is taking all measures to curb the spread of Covid-19. We have been conducting target-oriented testing and we expect a reduction in the number of cases within a week,” he said.  On Unlock, the DC said that a decision will be taken only on June 21. “The government will make a decision with regard to 'Unlock'. It will be implemented in a phased manner based on the directions of the government,” he said.  Dakshina Kannada zilla panchayat CEO Kumar said that 17 gram panchayats with more than 50 active cases, which were sealed down, had registered a decline in fresh cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-plans-to-open-temples-for-next-2-weeks-in-dashina-kannada-dc-999324.html
19-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||D K Shivakumar asks Congress leaders to stop projecting Karnataka CM faces||With the next election less than two years away, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar on Saturday issued a fresh diktat asking his party colleagues to stop projecting chief ministerial faces.  He was reacting to Chamarajpet legislator BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan repeatedly projecting Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah as the next chief minister, which has not gone down too well with Shivakumar.  Both Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar are seen as contenders for the CM’s post if the Congress wins the 2023 assembly polls.  “The Congress will go to polls under a collective leadership. We have told everyone to stay within limits. Delhi leaders have said this and I’m also saying this now. Some people may express personal opinions, but all that won’t be allowed,” Shivakumar told reporters.  “Me, Siddaramaiah, Mallikarjun Kharge, G Parameshwara and others will have aspirations and expectations. But our duty isn’t becoming CM. Our duty is to bring the Congress to power,” Shivakumar said. Choosing between Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar for the CM’s post is a contentious issue within the Congress with both leaders engaged in an apparent game of one-upmanship. Last month, the Karnataka Congress’ official Twitter handle tweeted that the Covid-19 pandemic would have been under control if Shivakumar was the CM. The tweet was deleted, but not before ticking off the Siddaramaiah camp. Earlier in the day, Khan once again hailed Siddaramaiah as the next chief minister. “My heart refuses to call (Siddaramaiah) as former CM. For me, he’s the next CM,” Khan said at an event in Chamarajpet that Siddaramaiah attended. “I know ours is a high command party, but people of the state want Siddaramaiah as the CM again. The high command will have to accept the people’s decision.”  However, Shivakumar maintained that there was no confusion in his party. “I am the president of the Congress party here. For me, the party is more important than worshipping an individual,” he said.  Siddaramaiah was the CM between 2013 and 2018, making him the first in 40 years to finish the full term. Shivakumar, as president, is looking to lead the party and is banking on his 'loyal party worker' tag to help him occupy the top post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/d-k-shivakumar-asks-congress-leaders-to-stop-projecting-karnataka-cm-faces-999228.html
19-06-2021||National||'Flying Sikh' Milkha Singh passes away after month-long battle with Covid-19||Indian sprint legend Milkha Singh died on Friday after a month-long battle with Covid-19, during which he lost his former national volleyball captain wife Nirmal Kaur to the same ailment. The Padma Shri awardee was 91 and is survived by his golfer son Jeev Milkha Singh and three daughters. "He breathed his last at 11.30pm," a family spokesperson told PTI. His condition turned critical this evening as he developed complications, including fever and dipping oxygen saturation levels, after a bout with Covid-19, in the Intensive Care Unit of the PGIMER hospital here. He had contracted Covid-19 last month and tested negative for the virus on Wednesday when he was shifted to general ICU in another block of the hospital. Milkha had been "stable" before Thursday evening. Milkha's 85-year-old wife Nirmal, who had also been infected by the virus, passed away at a private hospital in Mohali on Sunday. Milkha was admitted to PGIMER on June 3 after his oxygen levels dipped at home following treatment at the Fortis hospital in Mohali for a week. The legendary athlete is a four-time Asian Games gold medallist and the 1958 Commonwealth Games champion but his greatest performance remains the fourth-place finish in the 400m final of the 1960 Rome Olympics. He also represented India in the 1956 and 1964 Olympics and was bestowed the Padma Shri in 1959.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flying-sikh-milkha-singh-passes-away-after-month-long-battle-with-covid-19-999066.html
19-06-2021||National||Youths accused of beating elderly Muslim man out on bail||All nine youths arrested for allegedly beating up an elderly Muslim man from Bulandshar in Ghaziabad’s Loni area and chopping off his beard have been granted interim bail by a court here, said an advocate representing the accused. Key accused Parvesh Gurjar, who had allegedly got Bulandshahr resident Abdul Samad picked up through his friends from Gokulpuri in East Delhi and beaten him up after confining him in a room in a desolate area, was given bail in the case by Chief Judicial Magistrate Sandeep Chaudhary on Friday. Gurjar, however, will continue to be in judicial custody in another case of extortion in which he was arrested a few days after the incident involving the beating of the elderly Muslim man, said his counsel Parvinder Nagar. The others who have been given bail in the case are co-accused Mushahid, Babu Bihari alias Himanshu, Anus and Shavez, he said, adding all of them have been given interim bail till August 17. Prior to this, Kaloo, Adil, Intzar and Saddam were bailed out, said Nagar. All these youths were arrested after Abdul Samad, had in a viral video on June 14, accused some youths of beating him up, chopping his beard and asking him to chant “Jai Shri Ram” in the Loni area of Ghaziabad. The alleged incident had occurred on June 5 and Samad had lodged a complaint in this matter on June 7. The Ghaziabad police, however, had on June 14 said the man had not made any communal allegations in his original complaint on June 7 and made fresh accusations only in the video. The police had then also suspected that someone had instigated Samad to make communal allegations. Police had said Gurjar had got the man beaten up and humiliated by his friends because he had suspected that an amulet given by Samad, who also practised occultism, had brought misfortune on his family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/youths-accused-of-beating-elderly-muslim-man-out-on-bail-999097.html
19-06-2021||National||India says it hopes to resume Covid-19 vaccine exports||India, the world's largest manufacturer of vaccines, wants to resume exports of coronavirus doses but can't do so until its domestic needs are met, the head of the country's Covid-19 task force said Friday. “Once our immediate need of vaccinating a significant proportion of Indian people is achieved and vaccine stockpiles are visible from multiple sources, we would then like to play the role of serving others and providing vaccines to them,” Dr. Vinod K. Paul said in an interview with The Associated Press. Paul defended the Indian government's move to restrict vaccine exports in April as it battled a ferocious surge in infections. He noted that India had given away a “substantial” amount of vaccines at the start of the year as it launched its own immunization drive. “So that has to be respected and has to be recognized, as not many nations have done that,” he said. From January, India began exporting vaccines to more than 90 countries. But the exports stopped when infections soared in India, leaving many developing countries without adequate supplies and affecting millions of people. As critics accused India of mismanaging its sluggish vaccination efforts at home, countries such as Nepal and Bangladesh began looking toward China to fill their vaccine shortfalls. The Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine maker, also abandoned its role as the main supplier to COVAX, the U.N.-backed project to supply vaccines to poor regions of the world. Last month, it said it may not be able to start delivering doses until the end of this year, dealing a significant blow to global efforts to immunize people against the coronavirus. Paul said a resumption of exports is still “very much on the radar.” But when asked when the restrictions would be lifted, he answered, “It is not fair to put any date at this point in time.” Confirmed coronavirus cases in India have surpassed 29 million, while deaths have surged beyond 380,000. Experts believe both numbers are vast undercounts. Media reports have cast doubts on the government's data collection, with crematoriums and statewide tallies of deaths showing different figures. Paul said the government has no reason to hide deaths or cases. New cases are finally tapering off after exceeding 400,000 a day in May, a global record. But authorities are gearing up for another possible wave of infection and are focusing on yanking vaccination rates up. Currently, less than 5 per cent of India's people are fully immunized, with experts cautioning that vaccination rates must go up significantly to protect a sizable chunk of the population by the end of the year. The hope is that India will achieve a rapid increase in inoculations in the coming months. Last month, Paul told reporters that about 2 billion doses could be available by December under a roadmap that depends on India's two main suppliers -- Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech -- ramping up production and five other potential vaccines being made available in the coming months. But experts and critics pointed out that both Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech have struggled to boost manufacturing, and that the other potential vaccines are still undergoing trials with no clear date for when they would be available, raising questions over whether Paul's estimate was realistic. Paul acknowledged Friday that it was an “optimistic” projection. But he said it was based on estimates by the manufacturers themselves and that the figure showed “there is the potential.” “We are also mindful of the fact that there are steps to be met,” he said, conceding that vaccine makers may face regulatory hurdles or trouble obtaining raw materials. He said India can expect to see at least 740 million doses between August and December. But this includes 300 million of a vaccine that is still in late testing and not yet available. More orders will be placed in the future, he added. While much of India's vast rural hinterlands were largely spared from Covid-19 last year, that has not been the case during the recent surge. Access to healthcare is much more limited in the countryside, raising fears that the virus could rip through small towns and villages unabated. Going forward, the focus will have to shift to these small towns and villages, Paul said. “The spread of our preparedness will be much more into the hinterlands, into the rural areas,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-says-it-hopes-to-resume-covid-19-vaccine-exports-999100.html
19-06-2021||National||India abstains from voting on UNGA resolution on Myanmar||The United States, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Australia, Japan, Vietnam, Singapore, Malaysia, Philippines, Indonesia and 108 other nations voted in favour of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) resolution in a move to step up pressure on the military junta that took power in Myanmar in a coup on February 1. India, however, decided to abstain from voting, calling the move at the UNGA to pass the resolution against the military junta of Myanmar as a “hasty course of action”. The resolution was finally adopted by the UNGA with 119 nations voting in its favour and 36 abstaining. Belarus was the only nation to vote against the resolution that called upon the military leaders to respect the results of the elections and release the detained political leaders, including Aung San Suu Kyi, who was virtually heading the Government of Myanmar as State Counsellor since 2016 and again led her National League for Democracy to victory in November 2020 elections. Not only India, but almost all other South Asian nations, including Nepal, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Pakistan and Bhutan, abstained from voting. Maldives, however, voted in favour of the resolution. The ASEAN was split, with Brunei, Cambodia, Thailand, Laos abstaining, while five other members of the 10-nation bloc of the Southeast Asian nations – Philippines, Indonesia, Vietnam, Singapore and Malaysia – voting in its favour. Kyaw Moe Tun, whom the UN still recognises as Myanmar’s envoy to the international organisation, also voted in favour of the resolution, although he was withdrawn and charged with treason by the military government of his country. “The fact that there is lack of support from all neighbouring countries (of Myanmar), as well as several countries in the region itself, should, hopefully, serve as an eye-opener to those who choose to pursue a hasty course of action,” New Delhi’s envoy to the United Nations, T S Tirumurti, said, explaining India’s decision to abstain from voting on the resolution. India also argued that that tabling of the resolution at the UNGA for adoption at this juncture was not “conducive to aiding our joint efforts towards strengthening democratic process in Myanmar”. New Delhi has been cautiously avoiding directly criticising military rulers in Nay Pyi Taw, ostensibly to make it sure that its stand does not give away China a strategic advantage to spread geopolitical influence in Myanmar. India has also been expanding its security cooperation with Myanmar. “We find that our views have not been reflected in the draft being considered for adoption today. We would like to reiterate that a consultative and constructive approach involving the neighbouring countries and the region, remains important as the international community strives for the peaceful resolution of the issue,” Tirumurti said at the UNGA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-abstains-from-voting-on-unga-resolution-on-myanmar-999103.html
19-06-2021||National||DH Toon | Indians' wealth in Swiss banks highest in 13 years||Funds parked by Indian individuals and firms in Swiss banks, including through India-based branches and other financial institutions, jumped to 2.55 billion Swiss francs (over Rs 20,700 crore) in 2020 on a sharp surge in holdings via securities and similar instruments, though customer deposits fell, annual data from Switzerland's central bank showed on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-indians-wealth-in-swiss-banks-highest-in-13-years-999112.html
19-06-2021||National||India pays tribute to 'Flying Sikh' Milkha Singh||The nation mourned the end of an era as it paid homage to nonagenarian sprint icon Milkha Singh, who died on Friday after battling Covid-19 for a month, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi leading the tributes by describing him as a "colossal sportsperson". Milkha died at Chandigarh's PGIMER hospital, less than a week after he lost his wife Nirmal Kaur, a former national volleyball captain, to the same ailment. He was 91 and is survived by his golfer son Jeev Milkha Singh and three daughters. "In the passing away of Shri Milkha Singh Ji, we have lost a colossal sportsperson, who captured the nation's imagination and had a special place in the hearts of countless Indians," PM Modi said in a tweet. "His inspiring personality endeared himself to millions. Anguished by his passing away." I had spoken to Shri Milkha Singh Ji just a few days ago. Little did I know that it would be our last conversation. Several budding athletes will derive strength from his life journey. My condolences to his family and many admirers all over the world. India's sporting fraternity also paid homage to one of its most inspiring figures, who continued to be a keen observer even after quitting the track. Olympic-bound star javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra tweeted, "We lost a gem. He will always remain as an inspiration for every Indian. May his soul rest in peace." Condoling the death, Home Minister Amit Shah said the one of the brightest stars of Indian sports had been lost. "India mourns the sad demise of legendary sprinter Shri Milkha Singh Ji, The Flying Sikh. He has left an indelible mark on world athletics. Nation will always remember him as one of the brightest stars of Indian sports. My deepest condolences to his family and countless followers." The Sports Authority of India expressed "immense sadness" at the demise of one of India’s greatest sportspeople. "A gold medalist at the CWG & Asian Games, he held the 400m National record for 38 years. Condolences to his family & the millions whom he inspired," the sports body said in a tweet. The Athletics Federation of India tweeted: "Very very sad news for all #Indians, legend Shri Milkha Singh Ji passed away.(sic)" AFI President Adille Sumariwalla tweeted, "a Titan who lifted the profile of athletics in a young nation, his sharp observations on Indian sport will be missed. His towering legacy will continue to inspire generations of young Indians. Rest in peace legend." "A huge loss for the sport of athletics today. Rest well #MilkhaSingh ji," Olympian Anju Bobby George tweeted. "Really shocked by the demise of the legend Milkha sir. You will forever have a very special place in my heart.The Flying Sikh will live forever. RIP," tweeted Indian sprinter Mohamad Anas Yahiya. Really shocked by the demise of the legend Milkha sir. You will forever have a very special place in my heart.The Flying Sikh will live forever. RIP Former India off-spinner Harbhajan Singh also expressed also expressed his condolences on the micro-blogging site. "Very sad,heartbreaking to hear flying sikh Sardar Milkha singh ji is no more... waheguru RIPMilkhaSinghji." Indian tennis star Sania Mirza tweeted, "Had the honour of meeting you and you blessed me so many times .. the kindest and warmest... RIP Milkha Singh sir .. the world will miss a legend like you ..MilkhaSingh" "Really shocked and sad to learn about the passing away of the legend Milkha Singh ji. Om Shanti," Javelin thrower Devendra Jhajharia tweeted. Decorated doubles badminton player Jwala Gutta also expressed her sadness. "What an inspiration you were to the millions like us…. There will be none like you sir, rest in peace legend Milkha Singh," she said in her tweet. The official handle of the Indian football team also mourned Milkha's death. "We join the nation in mourning the loss of the iconic 'Flying Sikh' Milkha Singh. His incredible achievements will continue to inspire future generations. May his soul rest in peace RIP." We join the nation in mourning the loss of the iconic 'Flying Sikh' Milkha Singh. Assam Chief Minsiter Himanta Biswa Sarma said: "Saddened at the demise of ‘Flying Sikh’ Captain Milkha Singh. His laurels had not only made India swell with pride but also inspired generations of sports enthusiasts. My condolences to his family. Om Shanti!" Indian wicketkeeper batsman Wriddhiman Saha, squash player Joshna Chinappa and shooter Sanjeev Rajput also paid homage to the sprint icon. "Saddened by the passing away of #MilkhaSingh ji. RIP the Flying Sikh. An inspiration for millions. A great loss to our nation," Saha tweeted. "Very saddened to hear about the passing of Milkha Singh Sir. A True Legend and Champion. You will be greatly missed. RIP Sir," Chinappa wrote. "A great loss to the nation. Rest in Peace legend #MilkhaSingh ji. Om Shanti," Rajput tweeted. All India Football federation president Praful Patel said: "Deeply pained to learn about the passing of 'The Flying Sikh' Shri #MilkhaSingh Ji. The legendary athlete made India proud with his sporting achievements & his legacy will continue to be one of the most inspiring stories in Indian sports. May his soul rest in eternal peace" "Sad to hear about the passing away of legendary Indian sprinter Sardar #MilkhaSingh . He will always remain an inspiration for all. Om Shanti," Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pays-tribute-to-flying-sikh-milkha-singh-999115.html
19-06-2021||National||PM Modi likely to chair an all-party meet with J&K leaders next week||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to chair an all-party meet with the leaders of Jammu and Kashmir next week. This comes a day after Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s meeting in New Delhi where he reviewed various development projects of J&K and stressed on “Development with Transparency” has given credence to recent reports that the Centre was preparing the ground for holding a meeting on Kashmir soon. “If everything goes alright, formal invitation letters will be sent to all the top leaders of J&K mainstream parties both regional level and national level for participation in the round table conference in a week or so in New Delhi,” sources told DH. They said the Centre was in touch with the leaders of Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Deceleration (PAGD) through intermediaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-likely-to-chair-an-all-party-meet-with-jk-leaders-next-week-999117.html
19-06-2021||National||India reports 60,753 new Covid-19 cases, 1,647 deaths||With 60,753 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases crossed 2.98 crore, while the death toll climbed to 3.85 lakh with 1,647 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The active cases have declined to 7,60,019 after 74 days and the national Covid-19 recovery rate has crossed 96.16 per cent.   A total of 38,92,07,637 samples have been tested till June 18, out of which 19,02,009 samples were tested yesterday, the Indian Council of Medical Research said. Daily recoveries continue to outnumber the daily new cases for the 37th consecutive day. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-60753-new-covid-19-cases-1647-deaths-999126.html
19-06-2021||National||Bollywood pays homage to 'Flying Sikh' Milkha Singh||Megastar Amitabh Bachchan, superstar Shah Rukh Khan, Akshay Kumar, actor-filmmaker Farhan Akhtar and others from the Hindi film industry mourned the end of an era as they paid tributes to sprint icon Milkha Singh, describing him as an epitome of "hard work" and "determination". Singh, 91, died on late Friday night at Chandigarh's PGIMER hospital after battling Covid-19 for a month. He passed away less than a week after he lost his wife Nirmal Kaur, a former national volleyball captain, to the same ailment. He is survived by his golfer son Jeev Milkha Singh and three daughters. "In grief... Milkha Singh passes away... the pride of India... a great athlete... a greater human...," Bachchan wrote on Twitter on Saturday morning. T 3940 - In grief .. Milkha Singh passes away .. the pride of India .. a great athlete .. a greater human ..Waheguru di Mehr .. prayers 🙏🙏 Khan said Singh he was an inspiration to millions of people including him. The Flying Sikh may no longer be with us in person but his presence will always be felt and his legacy will remain unmatched... An inspiration to me... an inspiration to millions. Rest in Peace Milkha Singh sir. "The Flying Sikh' may no longer be with us in person but his presence will always be felt and his legacy will remain unmatched... An inspiration to me... an inspiration to millions. Rest in Peace Milkha Singh sir," he wrote. In a statement posted on his various social media accounts, Akhtar, who spent a lot of time and got to know Singh personally while playing the lead role in the 2013 biopic "Bhaag Milkha Bhaag", said he is unable to come to terms with the sports icon's demise. "A part of me is still refusing to accept that you are no more. Maybe it's the stubborn side I inherited from you...the side that when it sets it's mind on something, just never gives up. And the truth is that you will always be alive," he said. The 47-year-old actor described Singh as a large-hearted, down to earth man, who showed how with hard work, honesty and determination one can touch the sky. "You represented an idea. You represented a dream. You represented (to use your own words) how hard work, honesty and determination can lift a person off his knees and get him to touch the sky. For those who knew you as a father and a friend, it was a blessing. For those who didn’t as a constant source of inspiration and a reminder of humility in success," he added. Kumar, who was offered to star in the biopic prior to Akhtar, said he will regret not saying yes to the film. "Incredibly sad to hear about the demise of #MilkhaSingh ji. The one character I forever regret not playing on-screen! May you have a golden run in heaven, Flying Sikh. Om shanti, Sir," Kumar wrote. Recalling her first meeting with Singh, actor Priyanka Chopra Jonas said she was touched by his humility. "Warm and welcoming, you made our first meeting so so special. I have been inspired by your excellence, touched by your humility, influenced by your contribution to our country. Om Shanti #Milkha ji. Sending love and prayers to the family. #MilkhaSingh," Chopra Jonas posted on the microblogging site. Taapsee Pannu simply wrote "And he flew away," with a broken heart emoji. And he flew away 💔 Veteran actor Shabana Azmi posted, "RIP legendary sprinter #Milkha Singh ji". Actor-politican Sunny Deol Singh said people will continue to seek inspiration from Singh's life. "The nation will remember you & seek inspiration from your life forever. #MilkhaSingh #RIPMilkhaSingh," Deol said. Riteish Deshmukh said Singh's name will forever be synonymous with speed. "Shri #MilkhaSingh Ji‘s name was and will forever be synonymous with speed. He inspired generations to run & never give up. Extremely saddened to know about his demise. My deepest condolences to his family and loved ones. #LongLiveFlyingSikh." Filmmaker Madhur Bhandarkar said he was saddened to hear about the demise of Singh. "Broken heart. Been a great inspiration will remain in our hearts forever,” he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bollywood-pays-homage-to-flying-sikh-milkha-singh-999128.html
19-06-2021||National||Milkha Singh cremated with full state honours||Iconic sprinter Milkha Singh was on Saturday cremated with full state honours here, marking the end of an era in which his pioneering accomplishments on the track galvanised a newly independent India. Milkha, who was 91, was bid a tearful adieu in the presence of his family members and several dignitaries, including sports minister Kiren Rijiju. 'The Flying Sikh', as he was fondly called, died on Friday night due to Covid-19 related complications. His son and ace golfer Jeev Milkha Singh lit the funeral pyre. Punjab Governor and Chandigarh Administrator V P Singh Badnore, Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, Haryana's Sports Minister Sandeep Singh were among the other dignitaries who attended the last rites. Prof Jagat Ram, Director of PGIMER where Milkha was admitted, was also present. A police contingent reversed arms and sounded the last post in the sprinter's honour. Milkha was also given a gun salute. The Punjab government had declared a one-day state mourning and a holiday as a mark of respect to the legend. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had earlier in the day said the Punjab government will accord state funeral to Milkha Singh. Earlier, the funeral procession started from Milkha's Sector 8 residence. His body was carried in a bedecked vehicle, with common people turning up along the short route to the Sector 25 cremation ground to pay their last respects to the legend. The Milkha died on Friday night after a month-long battle with Covid-19. He had lost his former national volleyball captain wife Nirmal Kaur to the same ailment on Sunday. The Padma Shri awardee, who was nicknamed 'The Flying Sikh' for his achievements, is survived by Jeev and three daughters. The legendary athlete was a four-time Asian Games gold medallist and the 1958 Commonwealth Games champion but his greatest performance remained the fourth-place finish in the 400m final of the 1960 Rome Olympics. His timing of 45.6 sec at the Italian capital remained the national record for 38 years before Paramjeet Singh broke it in 1998. He also represented India in the 1956 and 1964 Olympics and was bestowed the Padma Shri in 1959.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/milkha-singh-cremated-with-full-state-honours-999137.html
19-06-2021||National||His life will continue to inspire every Indian: Arvind Kejriwal condoles Milkha Singh's demise||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday condoled the demise of legendary athlete Milkha Singh and said his life will continue to inspire every Indian. The 91-year-old died at a hospital in Chandigarh on Friday after a month-long battle with Covid-19, during which he lost his wife and former national volleyball captain Nirmal Kaur to the same ailment. Terming the sprint legend's demise as an end to a glorious chapter, the chief minister said he will remain immortal in the hearts of the people. "Demise of Flying Sikh Milkha Singh, who brought laurels to India in the world, is an end to a glorious chapter. His life will continue to inspire every Indian to dream and work hard to fulfil them. He will always remain immortal in our hearts. Condolences," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/his-life-will-continue-to-inspire-every-indian-arvind-kejriwal-condoles-milkha-singhs-demise-999138.html
19-06-2021||National||India remembers her flying Sikh: Rahul condoles Milkha Singh's demise||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday condoled the demise of sprint legend Milkha Singh and said he was not just a sports star but a source of inspiration for millions of Indians for his dedication and resilience.  The 91-year-old died at a hospital in Chandigarh on Friday after a month-long battle with Covid-19, during which he lost his wife and former national volleyball captain Nirmal Kaur to the same ailment. "Shri Milkha Singh ji was not just a sports star but a source of inspiration for millions of Indians for his dedication and resilience," Gandhi tweeted. Tributes to The Flying Sikh We will forever remember legendary sprinter Sh. Milkha Singh ji for his grit, determination, and perseverance. He will continue to inspire generations of Indians. His legacy will live on. "My condolences to his family and friends. India remembers her #FlyingSikh," the former Congress chief said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-remembers-her-flying-sikh-rahul-condoles-milkha-singhs-demise-999139.html
19-06-2021||National||Ensure lockdown opening up is 'carefully calibrated', follow '5-fold strategy': MHA to states||With the easing of Covid-19 restrictions leading to crowding in public places, the Centre on Saturday asked states to ensure that the re-opening process is "carefully calibrated" while emphasising the need for “scrupulously” following the "five-fold" strategy, including stepping up the pace of vaccination, in containing the virus spread. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla shot off letters to states and union territories, acknowledging the decline in number of active cases, but said the decision to impose or ease restrictions should be taken based on the assessment of the situation at the ground level. "While the opening of activities after decline in cases is essential, the states and UTs must ensure that the whole process is carefully calibrated," he wrote. The Home Secretary wanted the states and union territories to "step up the pace of vaccination to cover the maximum number of people in an expeditious manner", as vaccination is "critical to break the chain of transmission". Bhalla asked states and union territories to issue directions to district and all other authorities to keep a close watch on the situation while activities are opened in a "cautious manner". He also wanted them to "scrupulously ensure" that there is "no complacency" in adhering to the "five-fold strategy" of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour as well as test-track-treat-vaccine strategy. He pointed out that easing restrictions in some states have led to resumption of crowding of people, such as in markets, without adhering to Covid-appropriate norms like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. It is "essential to ensure that complacency does not set in, and there is no let-up in adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, while opening up activities", he wrote. Emphasising on the test-track-treat strategy, Bhalla said that the local administrations should ensure that the testing rate does not come down. As the situation is dynamic, he said, a close watch needs to be kept on early signs of a surge in active cases or high positivity rates. "A system should be in place at the micro-level to ensure that whenever cases rise in a smaller place, it gets checked there itself, through local containment measures...," he said. He said there should be regular monitoring of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour like use of masks, hand hygiene, social distancing and proper ventilation of closed spaces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-lockdown-opening-up-is-carefully-calibrated-follow-5-fold-strategy-mha-to-states-999149.html
19-06-2021||National||Centre seeks details from authorities about Indians' Swiss bank funds||The finance ministry on Saturday asserted that Indian customer deposits in Swiss banks have fallen since 2019, but said it is seeking details from Swiss authorities on the relevant facts along with their view on possible reasons for changes in the funds parked by individuals and entities in 2020. In a statement, the ministry said the deposits have halved but did not give numbers. Quoting data from Switzerland's central bank, PTI had reported on June 17 that funds parked by Indian individuals and firms in Swiss banks, including through India-based branches and other financial institutions, jumped to a 13-year high of over Rs 20,700 crore in 2020 on a sharp surge in holdings via securities and similar instruments, though customer deposits fell. In its statement, the ministry said the figures "do not indicate the quantum of much debated alleged black money held by Indians in Switzerland. Further, these statistics do not include the money that Indians, NRIs or others might have in Swiss banks in the names of third-country entities." The ministry noted that customer deposits have actually fallen from the end of 2019. The funds held through fiduciaries have also more than halved from 2019-end. "The biggest increase is in 'Other amounts due from customers'. These are in form of bonds, securities and various other financial instruments," the ministry added. It also listed out the reasons that could have led to the increase in deposits, including rising business transactions by Indian companies, rise in deposits owing to the business of Swiss bank branches located in India and increase in inter-bank transactions between Swiss and Indian banks. Besides, capital increase for a subsidiary of a Swiss company in India and increase in the liabilities connected with the outstanding derivative financial instruments could be the other potential reasons for this jump in deposits, the ministry explained. "The Swiss Authorities have been requested to provide the relevant facts along with their view on possible reasons for increase/decrease....," the ministry added. An automatic exchange of information in tax matters between Switzerland and India has been in force since 2018. Under this framework, detailed financial information on all Indian residents having accounts with Swiss financial institutions since 2018 was provided for the first time to Indian tax authorities in September 2019 and this is to be followed every year. The ministry said exchanges of financial account information in respect of residents of each country have taken place between both countries in 2019 as well as 2020. "In view of the existing legal arrangement for exchange of information of financial accounts (which has a significant deterrent effect on tax evasion through undisclosed assets abroad), there does not appear to be any significant possibility of the increase of deposits in the Swiss banks which is out of undeclared incomes of Indian residents," it added. As per Swiss National Bank data (SNB), the aggregate funds of Indian clients with Swiss banks stood at 899 million Swiss francs (Rs 6,625 crore) at the end of 2019, and the increase in 2020 reverses a two-year declining trend. The total amount of Rs 20,706 crore, described by the SNB as 'total liabilities' of Swiss banks or 'amounts due to' their Indian clients at the end of 2020, included over Rs 4,000 crore in customer deposits, over Rs 3,100 crore held via other banks, Rs 16.5 crore through fiduciaries or trusts and the highest component of nearly Rs 13,500 crore as 'other amounts due to customers' in form of bonds, securities and various other financial instruments. While the funds classified as 'customer account deposits' have actually declined from CHF 550 million at the end of 2019 and those through fiduciaries also more than halved from CHF 7.4 million, the money held via other banks rose sharply from CHF 88 million in this period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-seeks-details-from-authorities-about-indians-swiss-bank-funds-999150.html
19-06-2021||National||RIP Milkha Singh: Most memorable speeches of the 'Flying Sikh'||Besides being one of the best athletes India has ever produced, Milkha Singh had the remarkable ability to turn a phrase, candidly reflecting on his storied achievements and offering gems of wisdom to youngsters looking to follow in his footsteps. Over the years, Singh had addressed a number of events and sat down for a couple of interviews, where he spoke on a variety of topics and gave viewers a sneak peek into the character and spirit of the 'Flying Sikh'. Here are a few of his most memorable speeches and interviews: ‘Another Milkha Singh’ In 2016, Milkha Singh visited Nagpur as the chief guest for Maazee Metro Nagpur Marathon 2016 at LIT College, where he regaled his young listeners with anecdotes from his 1958 British Empire and Commonwealth Games gold-winning effort. “I am saddened by the fact that even 60 years after I stopped running, we have not produced another Milkha Singh from 130 crore people,” he lamented in his speech. "Before I leave this world, I want to see the youth in this country lift the gold medal that slipped out of my hands in the Rome Olympics, fly the tricolour I could not fly and sing the national anthem that I failed to do.” Singh gave all the credit for his fame and success to the Indian Army. He also recalled how he would run for six hours at a stretch until he vomited blood at times, but his will to break the world record kept him going. He also spoke about how Jawaharlal Nehru’s sister, Vijayalakshmi Pandit, ran to embrace him after he won gold at the 1958 Commonwealth Games.  'Credit success to the Army' A rare interview of the Flying Sikh two years after his gut-wrenching 1960 Rome Olympics race, where he fell just short of clinching a bronze medal, shows Milkha Singh coaching young runners, playing badminton, swimming, hunting and spending time with his family. In the interview, the talks about how it took him four attempts to join the Indian Army after his family came to India during the Partition. He expressed his gratitude to the Army for giving him the opportunity to run cross-country and identifying his talent. He said the happiest moment in his life was when he won gold for India in the Commonwealth Games, followed by when he was recognised as a respected athlete by the United States and handed an award by the country. Speaking about his 1960 Olympic effort, he disregarded the suggestion that he was sure to win a medal had he participated in the 200-metre event, refusing to make excuses after a loss. He said the next Indian who could replicate and even better his success on the international stage would need to be disciplined, hardworking and full of character.  ‘Life is not written in the lines on our palms’ In a short speech at IIM Rohtak’s mini-marathon in 2013, Singh fondly talks about how he had been swamped with 200-300 letters a day after the release of the film Bhaag Milkha Bhaag, based on his life. Repeating his desire to see an Indian reach the heights of international athletics, Singh also recited an inspiring poem in Urdu: “Life is not written in the lines on our palms, we too have a big part to play in our destiny.”  The three times Milkha Singh wept Milkha Singh was the chief guest at the StarsTell Astrology and Wellness Award 2019, where he touched upon a range of topics. In a particularly poignant bit, he talks about the horrors he saw during the Partition — the murder of his parents and siblings in front of his eyes. He says it was one of three times he had cried in his life. He said the second time he cried was when he missed out on a medal at the Rome Olympics, talking about his disappointment and bad luck after a 15-year-long struggle to run faster. Singh said the third and final time he cried was when a movie (Bhaag Milkha Bhaag) was made on his life, where Farhan Akhtar played the leading role. He said he cried after watching the film, because it laid bare all his vices but was still worthy of inspiring the youth of the country to achieve great success.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rip-milkha-singh-most-memorable-speeches-of-the-flying-sikh-999155.html
19-06-2021||National||Row erupts over BJP MP Pragya Thakur's lecture on International Yoga Day||BJP MP Pragya Singh Thakur, scheduled to deliver a lecture to parliamentarians at an event organised by the Lok Sabha Secretariat to mark the International Yoga Day on June 21, has faced backlash from the opposition, with the Congress wondering if PM Modi has 'changed his mind' on forgiving her. A tentative schedule notified by the LS Secretariat has listed Thakur's lecture on "Yoga: A Way of Life" at 12 noon. However, Congress MP Manickam Tagore has raised an objection to her session, and questioned PM Modi's statement on not forgiving her. "Had Modi sahib changed his heart on Pragya Thakur? During PM’s pet project on Yoga Day, she will be the chief guest for all MPs shows the mann se maaf, (sic)" Tagore tweeted. In May 2019, Thakur had kicked up a huge row during the Lok Sabha polls by calling Mahatma Gandhi's assassin Nathuram Godse a patriot, but apologised later and withdrew the statement. Thakur is one of the accused in the 2008 Malegaon blast case. Following her remarks, she was expelled from the 21-member Parliamentary Consultative Committee on Defence and also barred from BJP's parliamentary party meetings. "Members are informed that celebration of International Day of Yoga is being organised by PRIDE, Lok Sabha Secretariat in online mode on 21st June, 2021. The celebration will consist of various practical sessions and lectures on various aspects of significance of Yoga in current situation," it said. With PTI inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/row-erupts-over-bjp-mp-pragya-thakurs-lecture-on-international-yoga-day-999156.html
19-06-2021||National||Karnataka, Maharashtra agree to work together to mitigate floods||Karnataka and Maharashtra on Saturday agreed to share real-time rainfall data and manage their dams in a coordinated manner in the Krishna river basin, which both states hope will help mitigate floods. A Maharashtra delegation, led by its Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil, held talks with Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, Law Minister Basavraj Bommai and other senior officials where both states jotted down some brass tacks on effective flood management. “It was decided to have better coordination and communication at the levels of ministers, secretaries and field officials. Both the states have agreed to share real-time data on rainfall and water release from reservoirs both in Krishna and Bhima basins in order to manage the floods effectively,” Yediyurappa said. Both states share the Krishna river basin, where Karnataka suffered devastating floods in 2019 due to heavy inflow from Maharashtra. “Maharashtra already has a real-time data acquisition system in the Krishna basin. A similar system will be extended up to the Narayanapura dam in Karnataka,” Patil said. “That will make the entire Krishna basin more effective. We need to dynamically manage the height of the water in the Almatti dam and Maharashtra’s water flowing into it,” he added. During the meeting, Karnataka stressed that Maharashtra should not release water from its dams “all at once”, which Patil’s side agreed upon. “Maharashtra is the upper riparian state. We said Maharashtra should not release water all at once, but do so incrementally. That will give us a 48-hour window to ensure effective management in the Almatti dam,” Bommai, a former water resources minister, explained. “We face two challenges: One is to ensure there’s no flooding at Almatti and two, that there’s no flooding downstream towards Narayanapura.” In other decisions, both states agreed to form a technical committee to work out mutual release of 4 TMC water. “During April-May, Karnataka faces a shortage of 4 TMC in the Krishna basin. Maharashtra will give Karnataka 4 TMC water during summer. We will give back 4 TMC during the rainfall season when Karnataka will have more water,” Bommai said. Karnataka asked Maharashtra to complete its side of the Dudhganga inter-state canal project. “We’ve almost finished our side of works and Maharashtra has agreed to complete their side of works in two years,” Bommai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-maharashtra-agree-to-work-together-to-mitigate-floods-999163.html
19-06-2021||National||New software developed for identifying patients requiring ventilator support: Centre||The government on Saturday said that a new software -- Covid Severity Score -- has been developed to identify patients who require ventilator support as well as detect emergency and intensive care unit needs early. The software consists of an algorithm that measures a set of parameters, and then identifies patients likely to require ventilator support in an intensive care unit (ICU), aid on time referral and make necessary arrangements before an emergency sets in. It can also help in reducing hospital referral for those unlikely to require critical care support, thus freeing more beds, the Science and Technology Ministry said in a statement. The software scores the parameters against a pre-set dynamic algorithm multiple times for each patient and allocates a Covid Severity Score (CSS), mapping it in a graphical trend, it said. It measures symptoms, signs, vital parameters, test reports and comorbidities of Covid-19 patient and scores these against the pre-set dynamic algorithm, thus allocating the CSS, the statement said. "The technology is being used in three community Covid care centres at Kolkata and its suburbs, including a 100-bed government mandated Covid care centre at Barrackpore, Kolkata," the ministry said. Noting that sudden ICU and other emergency requirements during the pandemic have been a challenge for hospitals to manage, the ministry said timely information about such situations would help manage the health crisis better. The algorithm has been developed jointly by the Foundation for Innovations in Health, Kolkata, with support from the Science for Equity, Empowerment and Development (SEED) division of the Department of Science and Technology. IIT Guwahati, Dr Kevin Dhaliwal, University of Edinburgh and Dr. Sayantan Bandopadhyay, formerly WHO (SE Asia Regional Office) also collaborated in developing CSS, according to the statement. This technology has been made available at primary care e-health clinics in resource poor settings through SEED project support. Frontline health workers trained in the National Skills Qualifications Framework (NSQF) aligned model and certified by the National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) are trained to record all these parameters in a tablet computer which has the software loaded in it, the statement said. The CSS is regularly monitored multiple times by 'remote' specialist doctors thus reducing the doctor's consultation time per patient and reducing the doctors travel requirement, it said. It will also help in providing monitored medical support to those patients who cannot afford treatment or cannot isolate at home due to poor housing conditions, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-software-developed-for-identifying-patients-requiring-ventilator-support-centre-999165.html
19-06-2021||National||The Milkha Singh-Abdul Khaliq rivalry to be Asia’s fastest runner||It has been 63 years since two of the fastest sprinters of Asia first faced off on the racing track at the 1958 Asian Games held in Tokyo, hailing from two countries that have been neighbours and rivals since Partition. Before Milkha Singh's arrival on the international scene, Pakistan’s Abdul Khaliq was considered Asia’s fastest runner and had the accolades to back that title — winning 36 international gold medals, 15 international silver medals, and 12 International bronze medals for Pakistan in his career. Singh and Khaliq shared some uncanny coincidences in their race to the top of their field. They were born just under 500 kilometres apart, but ended up on opposite sides of the border after the Partition, which left Singh orphaned as a child. Both have been awarded highly respected civilian awards in their respective countries. One of the more striking criss-crossings in the two athlete’s lives is the fact that the monikers they were popularly known by were handed to them by leaders of the rival country. It was then-Pakistani President Muhammad Ayub Khan who first referred to Singh as the “Flying Sikh” after his performance at the Indo-Pak meet in 1960, a name that was attached to the champion sprinter till his death. Similarly, India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru gave Khaliq the nickname “The Flying Bird of Asia” in 1954. Singh writes about his long rivalry with the Pakistani athlete in his autobiography, where he describes the dramatic events during the 200-metre dash at the Tokyo Games. He defeated Khaliq in what he described as a neck-and-neck contest, despite pulling a muscle in his right leg three or four yards from the finish line, tripping over it in the end. In 1960, India was invited to take part in the Indo-Pak Sports Meet. Singh had refused to go because of tragic memories of his childhood in the country. Nehru finally convinced the star runner to participate in the event and compete against Khaliq for the title of being the best sprinter on the continent. Before their clash in the deciding 200-metre sprint, Khaliq had won the 100-metre dash and Singh the 400-metre run. Milkha writes that he came from behind to pip the Pakistani sprinter to the finish line, matching the world record of 20.7 seconds. Singh mentions that Khaliq was absolutely devastated by the loss, and that he had lent him a few words of consolation after the race to little avail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-milkha-singh-abdul-khaliq-rivalry-to-be-asia-s-fastest-runner-999169.html
19-06-2021||National||M K Stalin greets Rahul Gandhi on his birthday||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Saturday greeted Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on his 51st birthday, praising his "selfless, untiring work to establish an egalitarian India." "Wishing my beloved brother @RahulGandhi on his birthday and I join others in praising his selfless, untiring work to establish an egalitarian India in every aspect," Stalin tweeted. "His commitment to the ethos of the Congress Party has been exemplary," the DMK President added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/m-k-stalin-greets-rahul-gandhi-on-his-birthday-999177.html
19-06-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi turns 51, decides not to celebrate birthday in view of pandemic||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday turned 51 with party leaders and workers wishing him on his birthday, which he has decided not to celebrate in view of the Covid pandemic. Rahul Gandhi was born to Rajiv Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi on June 19, 1970, in Delhi. The Delhi Congress has decided to observe the day as "Sewa Diwas" and is distributing face masks, medicine kits and cooked meals free of cost to the poor in the national capital. The National Students' Union of India (NSUI), the Congress’ students’ wing, is organising a free vaccination camp to mark the occasion, while the Youth Congress is distributing free ration to the needy in Delhi. Some state Congress committees are observing the day by distributing ration and other essentials at no cost to the poor and the needy. Wishing their leader, the Congress said on Twitter, "We wish Shri Rahul Gandhi health and happiness on his birthday." "In view of the second Covid wave and the incredible difficulties people are facing, Mr. Gandhi has chosen not to celebrate his birthday. Instead, he has urged Congress workers to continue their relief work around India," the party said. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Twitter wished the Wayanad MP on his birthday and for good health and happiness. Union Minister Nitin Gadkari tweeted, “Birthday greetings to Shri @RahulGandhi ji. May you be blessed with good health and long life.” Chief ministers M K Stalin (Tamil Nadu), Arvind Kejriwal (Delhi), Hemant Soren (Jharkhand), Conrad Sangma (Meghalaya), Amarinder Singh (Punjab), Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan) and Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) and Shivraj Singh Chouhan (Madhya Pradesh) wished Rahul Gandhi on Twitter. "Wishing my beloved brother Rahul Gandhi on his birthday and I join others in praising his selfless, untiring work to establish an egalitarian India in every aspect. His commitment to the ethos of the Congress party has been exemplary," Stalin said on Twitter. The Punjab chief minister said that he was proud of the Congress leader’s hard work and his abiding commitment to serve the people of the country. "Rahul ji is genuinely concerned about the welfare of the poor and downtrodden. I wish he succeeds in his endeavours," said Gehlot Baghel said that it is not easy to stand before the opposing tide and Rahul Gandhi is doing so and setting an example by standing above politics of compromise. Rahul Gandhi responded to some of the wishes on Twitter. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted, "To a true leader, who battles the challenges with truth, honesty, compassion and courage. To a leader for whom righteous means are as important as the goal. Wishing Rahul Gandhi ji more power to keep fighting the good fight." All India Congress Committee general secretary K C Venugopal also wished Gandhi, saying, "It's been a difficult year and you've continued to lead our people with love and sincerity." National Confrence leader Omar Abdullah wished Rahul Gandhi for his birthday, good health and many years ahead in the service of the nation, while former prime minister and JD(S) president H D Devegowda on Twitter said, "I wish him well, and sincerely pray that his view of the world and his compassion defeats the narrowness that surrounds us."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-turns-51-decides-not-to-celebrate-birthday-in-view-of-pandemic-999178.html
19-06-2021||National||No intention to delay fixing minimum wages: Labour Min||The government has no intention to delay fixing minimum wages and national floor wages, the labour ministry said on Saturday. The clarification comes amid reports that forming an expert group on the issue with three-year term is an attempt to delay fixing minimum wages and national floor wages. Earlier this month, the ministry announced that the Centre has constituted an expert group under the chairmanship of renowned economist Ajit Mishra to provide technical inputs and recommendations on fixing these wages. The tenure of the expert group is three years. "It has come to the notice that certain section of the Press and some of the stakeholders have opined this as an attempt to delay the fixation of Minimum Wages and National Floor Wages by the government.  ​"This is clarified that the government does not have any such intention and the Expert Group will submit its recommendations to the government as early as possible," the ministry said. The tenure of the expert group has been kept as three years so that even after fixing minimum wages and national floor wages, the government may seek technical inputs/advice from the group on related subjects, as and when required, it further said. The first meeting of the group was held on June 14, 2021 and the second is scheduled for June 29, it added. Minimum wage is different for different categories of workers. National floor wage refers to the minimum level of wage that is applicable to all categories of workers across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-intention-to-delay-fixing-minimum-wages-labour-min-999191.html
19-06-2021||National||Home Minister Amit Shah condoles death of Milkha Singh||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday condoled the death of legendary sprinter Milkha Singh and said the country will always remember him as one of the brightest stars of Indian sports. The 91-year-old sports icon died at a hospital in Chandigarh on Friday after a month-long battle with Covid-19. "India mourns the sad demise of legendary sprinter Shri Milkha Singh Ji, The Flying Sikh. He has left an indelible mark on world athletics. Nation will always remember him as one of the brightest stars of Indian sports. My deepest condolences to his family and countless followers," Shah tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/home-minister-amit-shah-condoles-death-of-milkha-singh-999196.html
19-06-2021||National||Deve Gowda wishes Rahul Gandhi on his birthday||Former Prime Minister and JD (S) supremo H D Deve Gowda joined many others to wish Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on his birthday on Saturday. "Rahul Gandhi has always come across as a fine person, deeply committed to a humane and inclusive society. It is his birthday today. I wish him well, and sincerely pray that his view of the world and his compassion defeat the narrowness that surrounds us," Gowda tweeted. Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah too greeted Gandhi. "A very happy birthday to former INC president Shri Rahul Gandhi. I wish him good health and a long life. His vision for the people of our Country and commitment to the ideals of our Constitution has always inspired the Congressmen," Siddaramaiah tweeted. Congress State chief D K Shivakumar too wished Gandhi saying may he continue to be the voice of the common people standing with them in times of adversity and fighting for their rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deve-gowda-wishes-rahul-gandhi-on-his-birthday-999199.html
19-06-2021||National||Third wave will strike India in 6-8 weeks if Covid-appropriate behaviour is not followed: AIIMS chief||If Covid-appropriate behaviour is not followed and crowding not prevented, the next wave of the viral infection can strike the country in the next six to eight weeks, AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria warned on Saturday. Until a sizeable number of the population are vaccinated, Covid-appropriate behaviour needs to be followed aggressively, he said and stressed on the need for stricter surveillance and area-specific lockdowns in case of a significant surge. Guleria reiterated that till now, there is no evidence to suggest that children will be affected more in the next wave of the infection. Earlier, India's epidemiologists had indicated that a third wave of Covid-19 is inevitable and is likely to start from September-October. India was hit severely by a brutal second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in April and May, claiming a massive number of lives daily, with shortage in oxygen supply at various hospitals adding to the woes. However, the number of cases have shown a downward trend and the positivity rate too has been shrinking in the last several days. From a daily case count of over 4 lakh, the number of new Covid-19 cases has been hovering around 60,000 in the last couple of days. "If Covid-appropriate behaviour is not followed, the third wave can happen in six to eight weeks. We need to work aggressively to prevent another large wave till vaccination kicks in," Guleria told PTI. There needs to be aggressive surveillance strategy in Covid hotspots and lockdowns in case of any significant surge. The moment a significant surge in cases in noted in a particular area and the positivity rate goes beyond 5 per cent, area-specific lockdown and containment measures should be implemented, he said. "However, a national-level lockdown cannot be a solution (to rein in the pandemic) keeping economic activity in mind." With 60,753 new Covid cases being reported in a day, India's total tally rose to 2,98,23,546, while the number of active cases stand at 7,60,019, the lowest in 74 days, according to Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll climbed to 3,85,137 with 1,647 fresh fatalities and active cases comprise 2.55 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.16 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/third-wave-will-strike-india-in-6-8-weeks-if-covid-appropriate-behaviour-is-not-followed-aiims-chief-999203.html
19-06-2021||National||Explained | What is the anti-defection law?||In a shock to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), national vice-president Mukul Roy left the saffron camp to rejoin Mamata Banerjee in Trinamool Congress. Leader of the Opposition in Bengal Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, submitted a petition to Speaker Biman Banerjee, seeking disqualification of Roy's membership in the House under the anti-defection law as he won the seat on a BJP ticket. What is the anti-defection law? The Tenth Schedule of the Constitution, better known as the anti-defection law, seeks to prevent political defections which may be prompted by reward of office or other similar considerations. It was put into the Constitution in 1985. It consists of the process by which legislators may be disqualified on grounds of defection by the Presiding Officer of a legislature. This will be taken forward when a member of the House moves a petition against a certain defecting member. The law ensures that a member does not violate mandate of the party, and if he does, he may lose his membership of the House. This is applicable to both the Parliament and the state assemblies. What qualifies as 'defection'? A member is said to have 'defected' when he or she either has abandoned a position or association, often to join an opposing group. When can an MLA or MP be disqualified? > If an elected member gives up his membership of the party voluntarily > If the MLA or MP abstains from voting in the house, going against the party's direction > If any independently-elected member joins any political party > If a nominated member joins any political party after six months The decision to disqualify a legislator is referred to the Speaker or the Chairman of the House and their decision is considered final. Exceptions In case two-third legislators of a political party decide to merge with another party, neither the members who decide to join nor the ones who stay with the original party, will face disqualification. How long can the Presiding Officer take to decide upon the disqualification? The law does not mention a specific time limit for the decision. The courts cannot intervene before the decision is made, so the only option is to wait. All the judicial institutions can do is express concern over unnecessary delays, if any. There have been cases where the defecting members continued to be members of the House due to a delay in the officer's decision. How does the anti-defection law impact the legislators' decision-making ability? While the main aim of the law is to maintain a stable House, it also impedes the lawmakers' ability to vote as per their conscience and judgment. Under the law, the members are obliged to vote according to decisions taken by the party leadership and not what their constituents may require.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-what-is-the-anti-defection-law-999205.html
19-06-2021||National||Induction of Rafale aircraft into Indian Air Force by 2022, says IAF Chief||IAF Chief RKS Bhadauria on Saturday said the induction of 36 Rafale aircraft into the Indian Air Force would take place by 2022. The IAF is absolutely on target with respect to the Rafale induction plan, he said while responding to a reporters' query on timeline for receiving all the 36 fighter jets from France. "The target is 2022. It is absolutely on target. I mentioned earlier. Except for one or two aircraft, minor delays because of Covid related issues, but, in fact, some deliveries have been ahead of time. So, broadly, we are absolutely on target on the Rafale induction plan. On the operationalisation plan, you are aware, we are fully operational.. So, in terms of time, we will be absolutely on time," he told reporters after reviewing the Combined Graduation Parade (CGP) at the Air Force Academy in Dundigal here. In 2016, India had signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to procure 36-Rafale jets at a cost Rs 59,000 crore. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had in February said the country would have the entire fleet of the fighter aircraft by April 2022. Asked for his assessment on the situation in eastern Ladakh on the Indo-China border, the IAF Chief said talks are on between the two sides and the first attempt is to continue with the parleys and carry out the disengagement at the "balance friction points." "The first attempt is to continue with the talks and do the disengagement at the balance friction points. And, of course, follow it up with de-escalation," he said. "However, in parallel, the ground realities are being monitored closely. Whatever is the reality across, in terms of current leftover locations, deployments, any changes, that is being monitored closely and whatever actions are required on our part, we are taking, Bhadauria said. On Phasing out MIG 21s from the fleet, Bhadauria said the current squadron of the aging aircraft will take place in the next two to three years depending on their life and they will be replaced by Light Combat Aircraft. "As far as the phase out plan is concerned for this current squadron of MIG 21, there is a plan... In another 2 to 3 years they are being phased out depending on them as soon as they get to their life. There is already an induction plan.. You are aware four Squadrons of LCA have been ordered. They will start inducting in the three and half years from now. So that is the plan in terms of these squadrons phasing out and LCA is replacing them," he said. According to him, these aircraft were upgraded in 2005 to 2010 and a lot of effort was put in to keep the flights fly-worthy. Earlier, addressing the Combined Graduation Parade, he said the IAF is undergoing a monumental transformation with infusion of niche technologies and combat power in every facet due to rapidly evolving security challenges coupled with rising geopolitical uncertainty in the neighbourhood and beyond. Noting that the last few decades have clearly established the critical role of air power in achieving victory in any conflict, he said it is in this backdrop that IAFs ongoing capability enhancement assumes tremendous significance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/induction-of-rafale-aircraft-into-indian-air-force-by-2022-says-iaf-chief-999206.html
19-06-2021||National||DPIIT Secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra dies of Covid-related complications, tributes pour in||Secretary in the Department of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) Guruprasad Mohapatra died of Covid-19 related complications at AIIMS on Saturday. Mohapatra, 59, was admitted to AIIMS in mid-April. He is the first serving secretary to the Government of India to have succumbed to Covid-19. Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief over Mohapatra's demise. "Saddened by the demise of Dr. Guruprasad Mohapatra, DPIIT Secretary. I had worked with him extensively in Gujarat and at the Centre. He had a great understanding of administrative issues and was known for his innovative zeal. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti," Modi said in a tweet. Saddened by the demise of Dr. Guruprasad Mohapatra, DPIIT Secretary. I had worked with him extensively in Gujarat and at the Centre. He had a great understanding of administrative issues and was known for his innovative zeal. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti. Home Minister Amit Shah, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal, Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba too expressed their condolences. "Dr. Guruprasad Mohapatra, DPIIT Secretary was a very able and hardworking officer. His untimely demise is very saddening. My thoughts and prayers are with his bereaved family in this hour of grief," Shah tweeted. Dr. Guruprasad Mohapatra, DPIIT Secretary was a very able and hardworking officer. His untimely demise is very saddening. My thoughts and prayers are with his bereaved family in this hour of grief. Om Shanti Shanti Goyal said Mohapatra's long-standing service and dedication to the nation have left a lasting impact. Pradhan said India has lost an able administrator due the untimely death of the secretary. "Dr. Mohapatra was also at the forefront of COVID management in the country. Though his karmabhoomi was in Gujarat, Odisha today has lost a true warrior. My deepest condolences to his family," he added. RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said Mohapatra was a highly efficient and dedicated civil servant and was always very responsive and constructive. Expressing deep shock at the untimely death, Gauba said as the head of one of the Empowered Groups, the secretary worked with utmost dedication in the ongoing fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. "Even after he had tested positive and was not well, he continued to work for long hours, monitoring the supply of oxygen across the country, under very challenging circumstances," the cabinet secretary said. Wipro Chairman Rishad Premji tweeted, "Saddened and shocked on the passing of Secretary DPIIT Sh. Guruprasad Mohapatra ji. Will remember him as a capable, committed and warm officer. His untimely death is an irreparable loss to the entire fraternity. Condolences to the family & loved ones..." Industry chamber CII too stated that the secretary was a passionate administrator and his innovative ideas and proactive initiatives set new models for the Indian economy. "CII deeply appreciates the contributions he made to manufacturing sectors, FDI, and ease of doing business as Secretary, DPIIT which will continue to positively impact industry," the chamber said in a statement. Prior to taking over as DPIIT secretary in August 2019, Mohapatra served as chairman of the Airports Authority of India (AAI). He was a Gujarat cadre 1986 batch IAS officer. He had earlier served as joint secretary in the Department of Commerce. At the state level, he held the position of Municipal Commissioner in Surat, Gujarat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dpiit-secretary-guruprasad-mohapatra-dies-of-covid-related-complications-tributes-pour-in-999208.html
19-06-2021||National||The admirer who broke Milkha's record: Paramjit pays tribute to his role model||Inspired by Milkha Singh, he broke the very record that the iconic sprinter had against his name for 38 years and as Paramjit Singh mourned his idol's demise, he said he would forever cherish the time spent in awe of and with the "pioneering legend". Singh broke Milkha's 400m national record in 1998, 38 years after Milkha set it in the Rome Olympics for a fourth place finish. The 91-year-old, who died at a Chandigarh hospital on Friday due to post-Covid complications, ran that memorable race in 45.6 seconds. "Milkha Singh Ji was so kind and generous that I was invited for a dinner at his place in Chandigarh after I broke his national record. He told me I should work harder to achieve success at the global level. He himself was a man of self discipline and hard work," Paramjit told PTI on Saturday. "That was the first time I met him in person and I was in awe of him. I was with my coach. Milkha Singh Ji said he wants to see an Indian win an Olympic medal before he dies," said the 49-year-old who broke the national record during the National Championships in Kolkata. Milkha was officially hand-timed at 45.6 seconds during his fourth-place finish in the Olympics, though an unofficial electronic timer at the Games clocked him at 45.73 seconds. Years later, electronic timers were installed at all international events and 0.14 seconds were added to all hand timings to compare with electronic timings. Milkha's hand-timed 45.6 was converted to 45.74 seconds in electronic timing, which Paramjit bettered by running 45.70 seconds in 1998. Milkha had refused to accept his (electronic) timing of 45.74 seconds and had famously declared in 1991 that nobody could break the record set by him. The current 400m national record is in the name of Muhammed Anas Yahiya with a timing of 45.21 seconds. Paramjit, who was a part of the silver medal-winning 4x400m relay quartet in the 1998 Asian Games and also represented the country in the 2000 Sydney Olympics, said Milkha always encouraged him to work hard. "I met him a few times after breaking his national record. He would always ask what I was doing. He would advise me to work harder and maintain self discipline," Singh recalled. "It is a huge loss for the country that Milkha Singh Ji is no more. He was the pioneering legend of Indian athletics." Asked about Milkha's promise to give Rs 2 lakh to the athlete who broke his national record, Paramjit said, "He had said that but I have no grudge that I did not get it." "I am happy that I had broken his record. He was my role model when I started running. I am here because of him. "I was playing volleyball earlier. Then I shifted to 400m race and my coach used to tell me that I have the potential to break Milkha Singh's national record. So, Milkha Singh Ji has been my inspiration."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-admirer-who-broke-milkhas-record-paramjit-pays-tribute-to-his-role-model-999212.html
19-06-2021||National||Steps taken by Birla enriched parliamentary democracy, enhanced productivity: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday lauded the work of Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, who completed two years at the helm, saying he has ushered in a series of steps that have enriched parliamentary democracy and enhanced productivity, leading to the passage of many "historic" as well as pro-people legislations.  It is worth noting that he has placed special emphasis on giving first time MPs, young MPs and woman MPs the opportunity to speak on the floor of the House, Modi said. Birla has also strengthened various committees, whose role in our democracy is vital, he added.  "Over the last two years, Shri @ombirlakota Ji has ushered in a series of steps that have enriched our Parliamentary democracy and enhanced productivity, leading to the passage of many historic as well as pro-people legislations. Congratulations to him," Modi tweeted.  Birla, who was elected as a BJP member for a second term from Kota in 2019, was elected Lok Sabha Speaker unopposed on this day.  He has put emphasis on boosting the House's productivity and made it a point to allow as many members as possible to raise their issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/steps-taken-by-birla-enriched-parliamentary-democracy-enhanced-productivity-pm-999219.html
19-06-2021||National||India Post to issue special cancellation stamp to mark International Yoga Day||India Post will issue a special cancellation stamp on all mail booked on June 21 to capture the essence of the World Yoga Day, the AYUSH ministry said on Saturday. The special pictorial cancellation stamp will be an inked marking or impression with a graphical design with International Day of Yoga (IDY) 2021 written in both Hindi and English languages, the ministry said in a statement. A cancellation is defined as a postal marking used to deface a stamp to prevent its reuse. Such cancellations are valued collectibles and often subjects of philatelic studies. All delivery and non-delivery head post offices will put this special cancellation stamp on all mail booked in the office on June 21, it said. The IDY is celebrated on June 21 every year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-post-to-issue-special-cancellation-stamp-to-mark-international-yoga-day-999223.html
19-06-2021||National||Tharoor dismisses media reports on IT panel quizzing Twitter as 'personal agenda'||A miffed Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Saturday dismissed reports regarding the deposition of Twitter officials before a parliamentary panel as “personal/political agenda” of some individuals. Tharoor, the chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, slammed the “double standards” of “some MPs” to ensure that their version of what transpired in the panel meeting was widely reported. “One cannot prevent politicians from pursuing political goals, even though the double standards involved are reprehensible. But this is a cautionary message to newspaper readers not to take media accounts as the complete truth. They reflect what some MPs want you to believe,” Tharoor said. Tharoor was referring to reports about Twitter officials being told by the Parliamentary Committee on Information Technology to follow Indian laws. The committee wondered why the company should not be fined for failure to do so. Twitter has partially complied with the new Digital Media Guidelines that make it mandatory for social media companies to name Chief Grievance Redressal Officer, compliance officer to deal with issues raised by their users. Tharoor said Parliamentary Committee rules make it clear that proceedings are confidential and not to be shared with the press. “Yet some MPs (who are quick to protest if the Chairman even confirms an agenda item on @Twitter) are quick to ensure their version of events is widely reported,” he said. “Until Parliament amends its rules and permits authorised briefings, or better still emulates other democracies & permits Committee meetings to be televised, you should all assume that what you read/hear about such matters is someone’s personal/political agenda on display,” Tharoor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tharoor-dismisses-media-reports-on-it-panel-quizzing-twitter-as-personal-agenda-999227.html
19-06-2021||National||India to hold off Covid-19 vaccine exports until domestic demand met||India, the world's largest manufacturer of vaccines, wants to resume exports of coronavirus doses but can't do so until its domestic needs are met, the head of the country's Covid-19 task force said Friday. “Once our immediate need of vaccinating a significant proportion of Indian people is achieved and vaccine stockpiles are visible from multiple sources, we would then like to play the role of serving others and providing vaccines to them,” Dr. Vinod K. Paul said in an interview with The Associated Press. Paul defended the Indian government's move to restrict vaccine exports in April as it battled a ferocious surge in infections. He noted that India had given away a “substantial” amount of vaccines at the start of the year as it launched its own immunization drive. “So that has to be respected and has to be recognized, as not many nations have done that,” he said. From January, India began exporting vaccines to more than 90 countries. But the exports stopped when infections soared in India, leaving many developing countries without adequate supplies and affecting millions of people. As critics accused India of mismanaging its sluggish vaccination efforts at home, countries such as Nepal and Bangladesh began looking toward China to fill their vaccine shortfalls. The Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine maker, also abandoned its role as the main supplier to COVAX, the U.N.-backed project to supply vaccines to poor regions of the world. Last month, it said it may not be able to start delivering doses until the end of this year, dealing a significant blow to global efforts to immunize people against the coronavirus. Paul said a resumption of exports is still “very much on the radar.” But when asked when the restrictions would be lifted, he answered, “It is not fair to put any date at this point in time.” Confirmed coronavirus cases in India have surpassed 29 million, while deaths have surged beyond 380,000. Experts believe both numbers are vast undercounts. Media reports have cast doubts on the government's data collection, with crematoriums and statewide tallies of deaths showing different figures. Paul said the government has no reason to hide deaths or cases. New cases are finally tapering off after exceeding 400,000 a day in May, a global record. But authorities are gearing up for another possible wave of infection and are focusing on yanking vaccination rates up. Currently, less than 5 per cent of India's people are fully immunized, with experts cautioning that vaccination rates must go up significantly to protect a sizable chunk of the population by the end of the year. The hope is that India will achieve a rapid increase in inoculations in the coming months. Last month, Paul told reporters that about 2 billion doses could be available by December under a roadmap that depends on India's two main suppliers -- Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech -- ramping up production and five other potential vaccines being made available in the coming months. But experts and critics pointed out that both Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech have struggled to boost manufacturing, and that the other potential vaccines are still undergoing trials with no clear date for when they would be available, raising questions over whether Paul's estimate was realistic. Paul acknowledged Friday that it was an “optimistic” projection. But he said it was based on estimates by the manufacturers themselves and that the figure showed “there is the potential.” “We are also mindful of the fact that there are steps to be met,” he said, conceding that vaccine makers may face regulatory hurdles or trouble obtaining raw materials. He said India can expect to see at least 740 million doses between August and December. But this includes 300 million of a vaccine that is still in late testing and not yet available. More orders will be placed in the future, he added. While much of India's vast rural hinterlands were largely spared from Covid-19 last year, that has not been the case during the recent surge. Access to healthcare is much more limited in the countryside, raising fears that the virus could rip through small towns and villages unabated. Going forward, the focus will have to shift to these small towns and villages, Paul said. “The spread of our preparedness will be much more into the hinterlands, into the rural areas,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-hold-off-covid-19-vaccine-exports-until-domestic-demand-met-999230.html
19-06-2021||National||1,152 students move SC for cancelling private/compartment exams by CBSE||Over 1,000 students approached the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the CBSE to cancel Class XII private/compartment examination in physical mode, questioning the "dual and arbitrary" approach adopted by the education board. In order to ensure parity, 1,152 students sought direction for their performance evaluation by adopting a formula in line with the assessment criteria adopted by CBSE for the regular students and for the time-bound release of results. The decision to conduct private/compartment examination of Class XII CBSE Board candidates would endanger the life of lakhs of students, who would be forced to appear in this physical examination, in violation of their ‘right to life and health’ as guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution, they claimed. The students filed an intervention application in a pending case with regard to the CBSE's board examinations through advocate Abhishek Choudhary. The Supreme Court is likely to take up the plea on Monday, June 21.  The top court had already approved in principle a formula proposed by the CBSE and ICSE for evaluating students following cancellations of Class XII examinations. In their plea, the private and compartment students contended that owing to the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country, it cannot be conclusively said, as to when the environment would be conducive enough for the conduct of physical mode examinations. Further, if their examinations are delayed beyond a reasonable time, they will not only lose the opportunity to apply to universities and colleges but also be denied their fundamental right to education, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1152-students-move-sc-for-cancelling-private/compartment-exams-by-cbse-999244.html
19-06-2021||National||From The Newsroom: AIIMS chief says third wave in 6-8 weeks if Covid-19 appropriate behaviour not followed||In your evening news brief, AIIMS chief says next wave in six to eight weeks if Covid-19 appropriate behaviour not followed; Finance ministry says Indian customer deposits in Swiss banks have fallen since 2019 and ultraconservative cleric Ebrahim Raisi wins Iran presidential race.  If Covid-appropriate behaviour is not followed and crowding not prevented, the next wave of the viral infection can strike the country in the next six to eight weeks, AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria warned on Saturday. Until a sizeable number of the population are vaccinated, Covid-appropriate behaviour needs to be followed aggressively, he said and stressed on the need for stricter surveillance and area-specific lockdowns in case of a significant surge. Guleria reiterated that till now, there is no evidence to suggest that children will be affected more in the next wave of the infection   The finance ministry on Saturday asserted that Indian customer deposits in Swiss banks have fallen since 2019, but said it is seeking details from Swiss authorities on the relevant facts along with their view on possible reasons for changes in the funds parked by individuals and entities in 2020. In a statement, the ministry said the deposits have halved but did not give numbers.   Ultraconservative cleric Ebrahim Raisi was declared the winner Saturday of Iran's presidential election, a widely anticipated result after many political heavyweights were barred from running. Raisi won 62 per cent of the vote with about 90 per cent of ballots counted from Friday's election, poll officials said, without releasing turnout figures, after the three other candidates had conceded defeat. "I congratulate the people on their choice," said outgoing moderate President Hassan Rouhani, who has served the maximum of two consecutive four-year terms and leaves office in August.   Source: PTI/ AFP||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-aiims-chief-says-third-wave-in-6-8-weeks-if-covid-19-appropriate-behaviour-not-followed-999250.html
19-06-2021||National||Ministry of Education releases guidelines for parents to facilitate children's home-based learning||Keep aside electronic gadgets to give full attention to children, organise student meetings, educate children about good and bad touch are some of the suggestions given by the Ministry of Education for parents and caregivers to continue learning from home. As the Covid-19 pandemic keeps schools shut for longer durations, the ‘guidelines for parents participation in home-based learning’ emphasises on art as a therapy for children, parent partnership and supporting parents with low literacy levels and children with special needs. The guidelines also took note of reports of an increase in the cases of sexual abuse and violence against children and have suggested that parents talk to children about “safe and unsafe touch, set boundaries for children, apprise children of the risks of talking to strangers and not going out alone.” I strongly feel that a home is the first school, and parents are the first teachers. In this pandemic, the role of parent's is pivotal in the growth and learning of children.(2/2) “I strongly feel that a home is the first school, and parents are the first teachers. In this pandemic, the role of parents is pivotal in the growth and learning of children,” Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said releasing the guidelines. The guidelines stress on improving children's learning by monitoring and addressing their learning gaps. “Collaboration of parents with teachers in documenting and reflecting on the progress that children are making in their learning is important for both teachers and parents,”’ the guidelines said. The Guidelines also advise schools to involve parents by providing information and ideas on helping students at home with homework and other curriculum-related activities, decisions, and planning, and involving them in school decisions. For schools, the guidelines suggested holding bal sabha (students’ meetings) online to hear children’s contributions in reciting poems, stories and views. “Schools can prepare questionnaires for parents of students in every grade, to get feedback on issues related to children's learning and well-being,” the guidelines said. It said that the information provided would be useful for both stakeholders to understand the unique attributes of each child, its aptitude, attitude, temperament, interests, habits, and hobbies. The guidelines also advise parents to switch off television and phones and spend time with each child and give them full attention to create a safe and engaging environment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ministry-of-education-releases-guidelines-for-parents-to-facilitate-childrens-home-based-learning-999262.html
19-06-2021||National||MHA asks states, UTs to take strict action against those who assault medicos||Strict action should be taken against those who target healthcare professionals, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has told states and union territories on Saturday highlighting that threat or assault dampens their morale and adversely affect the response system during the Covid-19 pandemic. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said any such incident with doctors or other healthcare professionals would "create a sense of insecurity" among them and this would "adversely affect the healthcare response system". This comes as around 3.5 lakh doctors of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) participated in a nationwide protest on Saturday demanding a central law dealing with violence against health professionals. In identical letters to states and union territories, Bhalla stressed the advisories sent earlier, which spoke about remedial measures like deploying adequate security especially at Covid-19 designated hospitals along with controlled and restricted access to premises, facilitation centres at entry points to provide information as well as sharing of authenticated information about medical resources through online as well as other modes. Deployment of Quick Response Teams (QRTs) was also suggested at vulnerable locations with effective communication and security gadgets besides effective local-level medical intervention. "In the present circumstances, it has become imperative that strict action be taken against those who assault healthcare professionals. Institutional FIRs should be registered against assaulters and such cases should be fast tracked," Bhalla said adding states could invoke provisions of the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Act, 2020. He also suggested that a close watch should be kept on "objectionable content in social media which may exacerbate such situations". "Concerted efforts should be made through posters in hospitals, social media etc to emphasise the valuable contribution being made by doctors and other healthcare personnel in the fight against Covid-19," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-asks-states-uts-to-take-strict-action-against-those-who-assault-medicos-999271.html
19-06-2021||National||Government working on a real-time translation tool to bridge language gap in India||The government is working on a technology that can translate in real-time various vernacular Indian languages to enable exchange of communications between two persons not speaking the same language, a top official in the Ministry of Electronics and IT said on Saturday. This ambitious language translation project, with a timeline of 5-7 years, is being developed using artificial intelligence and modern technologies to end the language barrier in the country. "We have started working on a very ambitious national language translation mission. See the magic of new technology. For centuries we have lived with the reality that a person who knows only Bengali cannot communicate with a person who knows only Malayalam. This will change," MeitY Secretary Ajay Prakash Sawhney said while speaking at a NIXI event. The event was held on the occasion of National Internet Exchange of India (NIXI) completing 18 years. Sawhney explained with an example that with this technology people speaking only Bengali will be able to communicate with those who speak only Malayalam. "India is not just a country but has continental proportions. The number of languages is more than what Europe has to deal with," Sawhney said. He said that India has been able to take away check posts with the help of common tax system in a similar way language barrier can be ended with help of new technologies. "It might take us 5-7 years but technologies that are coming in give us an opportunity to aim at this kind of ambitious level. We have to grow content on the internet in each of our languages," Sawhney said. He announced that NIXI will provide a personalised email with 10 GB space to every user of the website with '.in' extension. This email will be available on demand. Sawhney said the Indian economy is slowly moving towards a digital economy with IT and electronics getting deeper in each and every sector. The MeitY secretary said digital services have expanded in every nook and corner of the country with common service centres that provide government services to citizens in 2.51 lakh village panchayats, while active internet user base has grown from 23.3 crore in 2014 to 79.5 crore active internet users. "Digital payments have grown exponentially. There are 25.5 billion real time transactions happening on an annual basis," Sawhney said. He said digital transactions have increased from 593.61 crore in March 2016 to 3,434 crore in March 2020. "With this kind of transactions volume, we are currently at the top spot in the world followed by China with 15.7 billion transactions...," Sawhney said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-working-on-a-real-time-translation-tool-to-bridge-language-gap-in-india-999272.html
19-06-2021||National||India 'misrepresenting' ICJ verdict in Kulbhushan Jadhav case, says Pakistan||Pakistan on Saturday accused India of "misrepresenting" the verdict of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in the Kulbhushan Jadhav case and asserted that it is ready to fulfil all obligations under the international law. India on Thursday asked Pakistan to address the "shortcomings" in a bill brought out to facilitate reviewing the case of Jadhav, saying the proposed law does not create a mechanism to reconsider it as mandated by the ICJ. Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Arindam Bagchi in New Delhi said the Review and Reconsideration Bill 2020 does not create a mechanism to facilitate effective review and reconsideration of Jadhav's case as mandated by the ICJ judgement. He added that municipal courts cannot be the arbiter of whether a state has fulfilled its obligations in international law. Jadhav, a 51-year-old retired Indian Navy officer, was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of espionage and terrorism in April 2017. The Hague-based ICJ ruled in July 2019 that Pakistan must undertake an "effective review and reconsideration" of the conviction and sentence of Jadhav and also to grant consular access to India without further delay. Pakistan's Foreign Office (FO) on Saturday said Islamabad abides by all its international obligations, and this applies to the ICJ judgment in the case of Jadhav. "It is regrettable that the Government of India has chosen to misrepresent the ICJ judgment which clearly states in Paragraph 147 that Pakistan is under an obligation to provide, by means of its own choosing, effective review and reconsideration of the conviction and sentence of Jadhav,” the FO said. In line with paragraph 146 of the ICJ judgment, Pakistan chose to provide Jadhav the right of review and reconsideration by superior courts of Pakistan through the ICJ (Review and Re-consideration) Ordinance, 2020, it said. “Pakistan’s commitment to uphold the ICJ judgment was again reflected by the passage of the ICJ (Review and Reconsideration) Bill for Review from the National Assembly of Pakistan,” it said. The FO said that ICJ judgment in para 118 also requires India to act in good faith, and arrange legal representation for Jadhav. “Regrettably, India has been engaging in a deliberate campaign to obfuscate the issue of appointment of a lawyer,” it alleged, adding that Pakistan had to initiate proceedings before the Islamabad High Court to request the Court to appoint a lawyer for Jadhav. It said the court repeatedly invited India to clarify its position and appoint a lawyer but "it continues to deliberately politicise the issue." After India approached ICJ, it ruled in July 2019 that Pakistan must undertake an "effective review and reconsideration" of the conviction and sentence of Jadhav and also to grant consular access to India without further delay. On Tuesday, the Islamabad High Court (IHC) adjourned the hearing of the government's plea to appoint counsel for Jadhav till October 5 at the request of the Attorney General for Pakistan Khalid Javed Khan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-misrepresenting-icj-verdict-in-kulbhushan-jadhav-case-says-pakistan-999279.html
19-06-2021||National||Don't lecture India on freedom of speech, democracy: Ravi Shankar Prasad to social media firms||Union Information Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Saturday asked social media platforms to not lecture India on "freedom of speech" and "democracy", and asserted that if these "profit-making" firms want to earn money in India, they will have to follow the "Indian Constitution and Indian laws". Addressing a lecture on the topic 'Social Media & Social Security' and 'Criminal Justice System Reforms: An Unfinished Agenda' organised by Symbiosis International University as part of the Symbiosis Golden Jubilee Lecture Series, the minister said the new IT guidelines do not deal with the use of social media, but with the "abuse" and "misuse" of social media platforms. The new IT rules, which were originally announced in February, give users of the platform a forum for redressal for their grievances, Prasad said, adding that they are aimed at regulating content on social media firms and making likes of Facebook, WhatsApp, and Twitter more accountable to legal requests for swift removal of posts and sharing of details on the originators of messages. "The new rules require social media companies to set up an India-based grievance redressal officer, compliance officer, and the nodal officer so that millions of social media users get a forum for grievance redressal," Prasad said, adding that no one was "asking for the moon" by getting firms to appoint three officers based in the country for this purpose. "These are basic requirements. Let me reiterate emphatically that India does not need a lecture on freedom of speech and democracy from a profit-making company that stays in America. India has free and fair elections, an independent judiciary, media, civil society. Here I am talking to students and taking questions, and this is true democracy. So these profit-making companies should not lecture us on democracy," he said. "When Indian companies go to do business in America, do they not follow American laws? You earn good money, good profits as India is a digital market, there is no problem. Criticise the prime minister, criticise me, ask tough questions, but why would you not obey Indian laws? If you want to do business in India, you have to follow India's Constitution and India's laws," the minister, who also holds the law and justice portfolio, emphasised. Prasad said these firms got three months to comply with the new IT rules, the period expiring on May 26. "I said I will give them extra time by a way of goodwill gesture. They did not comply. Therefore, it was exhausted because of the consequences of the law and not because of me. Now, what will happen? They will have to respond to court proceedings, investigative proceedings," Prasad said. The Central government recently withdrew Twitter's 'intermediary platform' status due to non-compliance with new IT rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-lecture-india-on-freedom-of-speech-democracy-ravi-shankar-prasad-to-social-media-firms-999296.html
19-06-2021||National||DH Deciphers | Could Delta Plus variant cause another Covid surge?||The emergence of a more mutated form of the infectious 'Delta' variant of the novel coronavirus has scientists on edge. Just as the Delta variant superseded all other variants, there is concern that 'Delta Plus', too, could take over. But in India, the middling pace of genomic sequencing means that not enough sequences have been processed to suggest the prevalence of this virus in the general population. Here's what you need to know:  How many cases of 'Delta Plus' have been found worldwide?  Since the first global cases were found on March 29, a total of 156 sequences of the 'Delta Plus' (officially designated B.1.617.2.1 or alternatively as AY.1) have been found across 12 countries. It is a new sub-variant of the widespread 'Delta' variant which scientists blame for being behind the second wave of infections in India.   What makes this variant a concern?  For one, the virus has tried to optimise for transmission and immune escape by the stepwise acquisition of new mutations. In its case, it has acquired eight distinct mutations in its spike protein — two more than the vanilla 'Delta' variant, according to scientists at Delhi’s CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB). The spike protein is what the virus uses to gain entry into cells. In many ways, the 'Delta Plus' is a refinement of earlier variants of concern. For one, it has the D614G mutation, which was such a concern during the first wave after scientists found that this mutation allowed the virus to “lock” easily with the ACE-2 receptor of the human host cell. "Understanding this continued evolution is of great importance in mapping the evolutionary landscape of emerging variants,” said Dr Vinod Scaria, a computational biologist at IGIB and an authority on genomics. How is this variant more dangerous?  Its new spike protein mutations are concerning. One, classified as K417N, potentially allows the 'Delta Plus' to evade an immune response. Scientists at IGIB found that the 'Delta Plus' is potentially resistant to the promising monoclonal antibody cocktail drugs, Casirivimab and Imdevimab, which have been found to be highly effective in treating mild and moderate-symptomed patients. Scientists at IGIB told DH this was determined by “independently testing monoclonal antibodies against specific mutations."  What does this mean?  Since it is potentially resistant to treatments, this variant could potentially trigger another wave or a surge of cases in the months to come.  When was this new variant first seen in India?  According to international viral strain consortiums which track Covid-19 sequences, the first 'Delta Plus' sequence was identified in India on April 4. Eight sequences have been found in six states. As per Nextstrain, an open-source project to document genome data of pathogens, the first three sequences were found in Delhi, Gujarat and Odisha a month ago. Since, the virus has popped up in other states, notably Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.   Where have the largest numbers been found? Tamil Nadu has reported the largest number (three sequences found out of 736 genome samples) as of Saturday. In Karnataka, the sole sequence (which originated from Mysuru) was found by Nimhans a week ago, among 1,115 samples. No new 'Delta Plus' sequences have been made public in the last five days. What is the prevalence of this variant?  Fortunately, its numbers appear to be still limited. The eight examples in India were found among a total of 11,700 sequences processed. But the scale of sequencing in India is modest. At the other end of the spectrum, the United Kingdom, which has been at the forefront of genome sequencing in the Covid-19 era, has processed 4.66 lakh samples, finding 45 'Delta Plus' sequences.  Will the 'Delta Plus' take over from other variants? Whether the 'Delta Plus' will proliferate and dwarf all other sequences is not yet known. Dr Vishal Rao, an oncologist who is a member of Karnataka’s State Genomic Surveillance Committee, pointed out, for example, that the B.1.617.3, which was detected in India in October 2020, had largely vanished by May 2021. Its five s-protein mutations and nine other mutations in other genes had not been enough to keep the variant alive in the face of other more concerning variants such as the B.1.617.2 'Delta'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-could-delta-plus-variant-cause-another-covid-surge-999299.html
19-06-2021||National||When Milkha humbled airport staff, passengers with his humility||Milkha Singh and his wife Nirmal Kaur were once stuck at the New Delhi's international airport and the episode turned into a life lesson for airlines staff who were touched by the humility of one of India's biggest sports icon. It was October of 2015 and the legendary athlete was travelling along with his wife, who was on a wheelchair, to their home in Chandigarh, an airport staffer recalled. "They were flying with a private airline that offered free travel to frequent flyers. However, there was an issue due to some extra luggage that they were carrying and were required to make a payment for it," the staffer told PTI requesting anonymity. "There was some confusion initially but Milkha ji appeared cool-headed about it and cooperated with the airport staff for making whatever payment was needed. However, the EDC (electronic data capture) machine was not working and Milkha ji and his wife had to wait for a good 30 minutes," the official recalled. The 28-year-old, whose father was also a state-level sportsman, said he had only heard about the legendary exploits of the 'Flying Sikh' in track and field games and the laurels he brought India but that day the humility of "a man of Milkha ji's stature" served as a lesson for many present there. "Some of the younger staff of the airlines got nervous, while those experienced tried their best to keep him engaged in a conversation to bide time. But he was really calm even though there was no fault on Milkha ji or of his wife," the staffer said. The staffer remembers Singh telling an airline personnel "koi tension nahi hai, lakhon miles (frequent flyer benefits) pade hain beta". "I have worked at multiple airports, including international terminals, and I have seen celebrities throw tantrums at the drop of the hat. A little trouble and anybody worth their salt start pressuring airport or airline staff, and cry foul for even a little delay," he told PTI. During the whole episode, Singh also obliged several passengers, airline and airport officials, who requested him for pictures and selfies. "I remember a team of young sportsmen from Haryana was also travelling from the airport that day. Seeing Milkha ji there, they all jumped at the opportunity, touched his feet and got pictures clicked with him," the official said, adding he also took a selfie with the legendary sprinter. After the elderly couple moved past the security check area for boarding the plane, the airline staffers heaved a sigh of relief and were struck by his humility, he said. Singh, 91, died on late Friday night at Chandigarh's PGIMER hospital after battling Covid-19 for a month. He passed away less than a week after he lost his wife Nirmal Kaur, a former national volleyball captain, to the same ailment. Singh is survived by his son Jeev Milkha Singh, who is a golfer, and three daughters||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/when-milkha-humbled-airport-staff-passengers-with-his-humility-999315.html
19-06-2021||National||Centre to launch 'Jaan Hai To Jahaan Hai' campaign to spread awareness about Covid-19||The Centre will launch a nationwide “Jaan Hai To Jahaan Hai” awareness campaign on June 21 from poll-bound Uttar Pradesh to counter the Opposition's criticism of the government's handling of the pandemic. Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said the campaign aims to create awareness on coronavirus vaccination in rural and remote areas of the country. It will be launched from the minority-concentrated district Rampur in which state Haj Committees, Waqf Boards, their associated organisations, Central Wakf Council, Maulana Azad Education Foundation, various social and educational institutions, NGOs, Women Self Help Groups, working under “Nai Roshni” scheme of the Minority Affairs Ministry, will take part. In a veiled attack on Opposition parties, Naqvi said the campaign will also “Crush and Curb” rumours and apprehensions about the ongoing vaccination drive being spread by those with vested interests. Various religious leaders, prominent people from social, educational, cultural, medical, science and other fields will give effective messages to people to get vaccinated. Street plays will also be organised across the country under the campaign. Naqvi also lauded the Modi government's initiatives on the Covid-19 front.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-launch-jaan-hai-to-jahaan-hai-campaign-to-spread-awareness-about-covid-19-999321.html
19-06-2021||National Politics||Why Mamata Banerjee wants judge in Nandigram poll result case to be changed||Ever since her loss to her former protege and BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram during the Assembly polls, West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee has been decrying and challenging the verdict. Recently, the Calcutta High Court, which had agreed to hear her plea against the result, changed the hearing date to June 24. Now, however, Banerjee wants the bench that will hear the plea changed entirely. The reason? Possible bias. Speaking on Banerjee's behalf, her lawyer wrote a letter to the Secretary of the Acting Chief Justice, saying that the judge assigned to the bench, Justice Kaushik Chanda, was an "active member of the BJP". “My client has filed the Election Petition challenging the election of Suvendu Adhikari, a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The adjudication of the Election Petition shall also have political ramification. My client has been made aware that Hon’ble Justice Kaushik Chanda was an active member of the BJP. Thus in the event the Hon’ble Judge takes up the Election Petition there will be reasonable apprehension in my client’s mind of bias on part of the Hon’ble Judge in favour of the Respondent and/or against my client,” the letter said. Interestingly, Chanda is not even a confirmed judge at the High Court, the letter said. “Further, the Hon’ble Justice Kaushik Chanda is yet to be confirmed as a Permanent Judge of this Hon’ble Court. As stated above my client’s views were sought by the Hon’ble Chief Justice on the confirmation of the Hon’ble Justice Kaushik Chanda as a Permanent Judge of the Hon’ble High Court at Calcutta. My client had conveyed her objections and reservation to such confirmation. My client apprehends that the Hon’ble Judge is aware of her objections and as such my client reasonably apprehends that there is a likelihood of bias on the part of the Hon’ble Judge,” stated the letter. The TMC shared a photo of Chanda sharing a dais with BJP leaders to support Banerjee's apprehension of a possible bias in the bench, saying: "Justice Kaushik Chanda is seen sharing a stage with BJP's Dilip Ghosh. Unsurprisingly, he's also the judge who has been assigned to hear the Nandigram case. As the Indian Judiciary system gets murkier day by day, will there be any justice in this case? Only time will tell." The BJP, however, said the judiciary should be respected. "I share the stage with a lot of people. What is the harm if he had shared the dais with us when he was a lawyer? Now, he is a judge. We should respect the judiciary," Dilip Ghosh said. (With DHNS and agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-mamata-banerjee-wants-judge-in-nandigram-poll-result-case-to-be-changed-999136.html
19-06-2021||National Politics||Centre calls 14 Jammu and Kashmir leaders for talks on June 24||At least 14 political leaders, including three former chief ministers, have been invited by the Center to attend an all party-meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Jammu and Kashmir in New Delhi on June 24. Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla called up top J&K leaders, including National Conference president Farooq Abdullah, his son Omar and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti (all former CMs) for attending a meeting with the Prime at his residence in New Delhi on June 24 at 3 PM. Besides, the Abdullahs and Mufti, veteran Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, CPI (M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami, J&K BJP chief Ravender Raina, J&K Congress chief G A Mir, Peoples Conference chief Sajad Lone, Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari and Panthers Party patron Bhim Singh have been invited by the Center for June 24 meeting. Four former deputy chief ministers of J&K – Muzaffer Hussain Beigh, Tara Chand, Nirmal Singh and Kavinder Gupta – have also been invited for the meeting. The NC and the PDP presidents while confirming the invitations said they will convene party meetings on Sunday to decide whether to participate in the meeting chaired by the PM or not. “There is no clear cut agenda regarding the talks with New Delhi. However, I have called the political affairs committee of my party for a meeting to discuss the same on Sunday,” PDP president and former CM Mehbooba Mufti said. NC chief Farooq Abdullah also said they have convened a meeting on Sunday to discuss the invitation and to “frame an agenda if we decide to participate in the same.” Sources told DH that Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s meeting with National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha and top security and intelligence officers on Friday in New Delhi was the first direction in the process of reviving the frozen political process in J&K. On 5 August 2019, the centre revoked Article 370 that gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir and also bifurcated the state into two union territories - Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. Top politicians - including Mehbooba, Abdullah and his son Omar - were arrested hours just before the Centre announced the mega decisions in the parliament. They were released months later. The meeting - the first such step from the Centre to end the political impasse in J&K after 5 August 2019 - is likely to be attended by Amit Shah and other central leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-calls-14-jammu-and-kashmir-leaders-for-talks-on-june-24-999146.html
19-06-2021||North and Central||SIT to probe fake Covid testing in Uttarakhand during Kumbh Mela||The Uttarakhand Police has set up a special investigation team to probe allegations that fake Covid tests were conducted during the Haridwar Kumbh Mela. One of the world's largest religious gatherings, the Kumbh was held in the state from April 1 to 30, and the notified area for the congregation covered various places in Haridwar, Dehradun and Tehri districts. The special investigation team (SIT) was constituted by Haridwar Senior Superintendent of Police Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S on Friday, a day after a case was registered against Max Corporate Service and private laboratories Dr Lalchandani Lab and Nalwa Laboratories for allegedly conducting the fake Covid tests during the Kumbh. The SIT has been constituted for a speedy probe, Krishna Raj said. Max Corporate Service and the two other labs have been booked under the Epidemic Act , the Disaster Management Act besides sections 120 B (criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sit-to-probe-fake-covid-testing-in-uttarakhand-during-kumbh-mela-999130.html
19-06-2021||North and Central||9 shops gutted in fire in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch||At least nine shops were gutted in a major blaze in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Saturday, while another fire at a J&K Road Transport Corporation (JKRTC) yard here burnt a parked bus and dozens of tyres, officials said. The fire in the Mandi area of Poonch broke out from a shop at the Loaran bus stand around 4.45 am and engulfed nearby shops, they said. Fire tenders rushed to the spot were able to put off the blaze after several hours of hectic efforts, the officials said. Nine shops were damaged, and the cause of the fire is being ascertained, they said. The other incident took place at a JKRTC tyre puncture repair workshop in Transport Nagar in the Narwal area of Jammu around 8.30 am, the officials said. Fire and emergency services personnel doused the flames believed to have been caused by an electrical short-circuit, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/9-shops-gutted-in-fire-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-poonch-999167.html
19-06-2021||North and Central||Ladakh L-G, Centre discuss air connectivity possibilities for Kargil||Ladakh's Lt Governor R K Mathur has discussed with the Centre air connectivity possibilities for Kargil and urged the Airport Authority of India (AAI) to explore possibilities for operation of Q-400 Bombardier turboprop aircraft, an official spokesman said on Saturday. He also requested for necessary efforts to operationalise small fixed-wing aircraft at Kargil and Thoise (Nubra) under the Regional Connectivity (UDAN) scheme at the earliest. The Lt governor raised the issue during a meeting with Union Minister of State for Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri in New Delhi on Friday, the spokesman said, adding that he discussed various matters on operation and improvement of air facilities in Ladakh. Mathur applauded the smooth functioning of Pawan Hans helicopters in the region for essential movement of passengers, especially during the winter months, medical emergencies, including evacuation of Covid patients, and stated that this has resulted in reduced dependency on the Indian Air Force. The lieutenant governor urged the AAI to explore possibilities of Required Navigation Performance (RNP) and relaxation in Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) standards, as accorded to Arunachal Pradesh and countries like Nepal and Bhutan for the operation of Q-400 Bombardier turboprop aircraft at Kargil, the spokesman said. Mathur stated a feasibility report post examining the topography and other factors may be prepared. In the meeting, they also discussed expediting a feasibility study to be carried by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) of Kargil airport for operation of EA320/B737 aircraft, while also studying alternative land for the construction of Kargil airport, the spokesman said. He said discussions were also held on the matter of exorbitant airfare charged by commercial airlines during the winter months. The Lt governor urged the minister to rationalise the issue as, during the winter months, airways remain the only source of transportation for locals, especially students, patients, and pilgrims to travel to other parts of the country, the spokesman said. Concerning the development of Leh and Kargil as smart cities under Housing and Urban Affairs, Mathur urged the minister for expediting the final processes viz formal administrative approvals. He also requested for strengthening the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) in Ladakh for the timely completion of their projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-l-g-centre-discuss-air-connectivity-possibilities-for-kargil-999174.html
19-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi government to give ex-gratia of Rs 1 crore to families of six military, police & civil defence personnel||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday said the families of six air force, Delhi Police and Civil Defence personnel who died in the line of duty will get an ex-gratia of Rs 1 crore. Sisodia said the Arvind Kejriwal government stands shoulder to shoulder with the families of soldiers who attained martyrdom while serving the country. "Although loss of a soldier is irreparable, the Kejriwal government after coming to power launched the scheme to provide ex gratia to families of such personnel so it could become a source for them to live with dignity," he said in an online briefing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-to-give-ex-gratia-of-rs-1-crore-to-families-of-six-military-police-civil-defence-personnel-999183.html
19-06-2021||North and Central||Govt proposes amendments to Cinematograph Act, 1952||The government has proposed amendments to the Cinematograph Act, 1952 to introduce age-wise certification, penalise film piracy with jail term and fine and restore Centre's power to re-examine an already-certified film. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting has put a draft of the Cinematograph (Amendment) Bill 2021 in public domain and has sought opinion from the general public by July 2. One of the amendments proposed is related to the ‘unrestricted public exhibition’ category, where the existing U/A category (parental guidance) is further divided into U/A 7+, U/A 13+ and U/A 16+. At present, U/A category films are those films under the ‘unrestricted public exhibition’ category with a caution as to whether any child below the age of 12 years may be allowed to see a film certified for unrestricted viewing. It should be considered by the parents or guardian of such child. If the new amendment comes into effect, then there will be three sections under U/A. The new amendments also propose a three-month to three-year jail term for those indulging in film piracy. "Film piracy, particularly release of pirated versions of films on the internet, causes huge losses to the film industry and government exchequer. In most cases, illegal duplication in cinema halls is the originating point of piracy. At present, there are no enabling provisions to check film piracy in the Cinematograph Act, 1952,  making it necessary to have a provision in the Act to check film piracy," the Ministry's note said.  According to the proposed new amendment, "notwithstanding any law for the time being in force, no person shall, without the written authorization of the author, be permitted to use any audiovisual recording device in a place to knowingly make or transmit or attempt to make or transmit or abet the making or transmission of a copy of a film or a part thereof." If any person contravenes this provision, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than three months, but which may extend to three years and with a fine which shall not be less than Rs 3 lakh, but may extend to 5% of the audited gross production cost or with both. The proposal also seeks to give statutory backing for an executive order that extended the 10-year validity of censor certificate to perpetuity. "Although this restriction on validity of certificate for only 10 years has been removed through executive orders, the existing provision in the Act requires it to be amended to remove the stipulation such that the certificate is valid in perpetuity," the Ministry said. It also seeks to restore the Centre's powers to re-examine a certified film following complaints. The existing Act had empowered the Centre to call for the record of proceedings in relation to certification of a film, which is pending or has been decided by the Board and pass any order. This would mean the Centre has the power to revise the decisions of the Board. However, the Karnataka High Court had struck down the provision, saying the Centre cannot exercise revisional powers in respect of films that are already certified, which was upheld by the Supreme Court in November 2020. The Supreme Court, however, also opined that the Legislature may, in certain cases, overrule or nullify the judicial or executive decision by enacting an appropriate legislation. "Sometimes complaints are received against a film that allude to violation of Section 5B(1) of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 after a film is certified. Article l9(2) of the Constitution imposes reasonable restrictions upon the freedom of speech and expression in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public order, decency or morality or in relation to contempt of court, defamation or incitement of any offence," it said arguing for the case for amendment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-proposes-amendments-to-cinematograph-act-1952-999207.html
19-06-2021||North and Central||Court takes cognisance of R-Day violence charge sheet against Deep Sidhu, others||A Delhi court on Saturday took cognisance of the supplementary charge sheet filed against actor-activist Deep Sidhu and others in the Republic Day violence case. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gajendra Singh Nagar has summoned all the accused through video conferencing on June 29. Production warrants have been issued against Maninder Singh and Khempreet Singh, who are still in judicial custody. On January 26, protesting farmers clashed with police during the tractor rally against three farm laws and stormed into the Red Fort injuring scores of policemen. The police had filed a supplementary charge sheet on June 17. The investigating officer pointed out names of the witnesses who were severely injured or from whom weapon was snatched, in the final report. The Delhi Police Crime Branch, which is tasked with the investigation, had filed a 3,224 page-long first charge sheet against Sidhu and 15 others on May 17, nearly four months after the violence. Sidhu, who was accused of being the key conspirator of the violence, was arrested on February 9. The police had also accused him of fuelling the chaos at the Red fort.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/court-takes-cognisance-of-r-day-violence-charge-sheet-against-deep-sidhu-others-999209.html
19-06-2021||North and Central||Did mock drill lead to death of 22 patients in Agra hospital? No proof says panel report||A team of doctors investigating an alleged 'mock drill' by a private hospital here has given a clean chit to the facility, saying it found no proof of an exercise during which oxygen supply was cut off and 22 patients reportedly died. The enquiry had been ordered by the Agra administration last week after a video clip surfaced on social media in which the owner of the city's Shri Paras Hospital was purportedly heard saying that he conducted a "mock drill" in which oxygen supply was cut off for Covid-19 patients for five minutes. In the video, the hospitals' owner, Dr Arinjay Jain, was purportedly also heard saying that after the oxygen supply was shut off, bodies of 22 patients started turning blue. The enquiry report submitted by the panel of doctors to the district authorities said there was no proof of a 'mock drill' during which oxygen supply was cut off for five minutes due to which 22 patients allegedly died at the hospital. The panel, however, mentioned that 16 patients died at the facility during April 26-27 due to co-morbidities and other issues. "Out of the 16 patients, who died in that period of 26th and 27th April, 14 had co-morbidities, while two had other issues," the report stated. After the video clip was shared widely on social media, the hospital was sealed and a case was registered against the owner under the Epidemic Diseases Act. Two panels were formed to conduct the enquiry – a four-member death audit committee and a two-member magisterial committee. On Friday night, District Magistrate Prabhu N Singh released a report based on those submitted by the two panels. Giving a clean chit to the hospital, the report said the facility monitored symptoms of hypoxia and oxygen saturation levels of patients so that treatment could be done with limited oxygen availability. A bedside analysis of every patient was done, and it was found that 22 patients were in critical condition, it added. The investigating committee also mentioned that the hospital had adequate oxygen cylinders. It was using 149 oxygen cylinders with 20 in reserve on April 25 and 121 oxygen cylinders with 15 in reserve on April 26, it said. Attendants of the patients had also arranged oxygen cylinders of their own, the committee further said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/did-mock-drill-lead-to-death-of-22-patients-in-agra-hospital-no-proof-says-panel-report-999211.html
19-06-2021||North and Central||Modi's trusted ex-bureaucrat made UP BJP vice-president||Former IAS officer and BJP MLC Arvind Kumar Sharma, considered to be close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, was on Saturday appointed vice-president of the Uttar Pradesh unit of the party. Sharma's inclusion in the party organisation comes barely nine months before the next assembly polls in the state. The polls are scheduled to be held in March next year. There were speculations that Sharma, a Gujarat cadre ex-bureaucrat, could be inducted in the Yogi Adityanath cabinet as deputy chief minister. The speculations gained ground after reports that the BJP central leadership was not 'satisfied' with chief minister Yogi Adityanath's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic in the state. UP, which was among the worst-affected states, had witnessed chaotic scenes at the peak of the pandemic, with videos of attendants of Covid patients wailing before hospitals after being refused admission and the burning of a large number of pyres at the crematoria. Some media reports had claimed that Adityanath was reluctant to include Sharma in his ministry, given the latter's proximity to the PM. Sharma was a secretary in the Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) at the Centre and had taken voluntary retirement before joining the BJP. Although sources in the BJP said the UP cabinet could soon be reshuffled, inducting some new faces and dropping some others, especially those who were found to be 'inactive' during the peak of the pandemic in the state, it was not clear if Sharma would find a place in the ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/modis-trusted-ex-bureaucrat-made-up-bjp-vice-president-999232.html
19-06-2021||North and Central||Sports University, Patiala to have a chair after Milkha Singh's name: Punjab CM||A chair will be established after Milkha Singh's name at the Sports University, Patiala, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh announced here on Saturday. The legendary track and field athlete Milkha Singh died of Covid-19 related complications on Friday night. "We are going to have a Milkha Singh Chair in Sports University, Patiala,” the Chief Minister told reporters outside Milkha’s Sector 8 residence. Singh, accompanied by state Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, had gone to meet Milkha's son Jeev and other family members to offer his condolences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sports-university-patiala-to-have-a-chair-after-milkha-singhs-name-punjab-cm-999238.html
19-06-2021||North and Central||PDP leader Sartaj Madni released from detention||Hours after PDP president Mehbooba Mufti received an invitation from the Centre for talks with Jammu and Kashmir's regional political parties, her uncle and senior leader of the party, Sartaj Madni was on Saturday released from six-month-long detention. Officials said Madni, who was under preventive detention at MLA hostel here, was released on Saturday afternoon. They said a team of Anantnag police is on its way to Srinagar to take him home. "The police team will hand him over to his family in the South Kashmir district," the officials added. The release of Madni comes hours after Mufti received an invitation from the Centre for talks with the Union territory's regional political parties. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to chair a meeting with all political parties from Jammu and Kashmir on June 24 as part of the Centre's initiatives to bolster political processes, including holding assembly elections, in the union territory. Mufti confirmed that she has received the invitation but said the party's political affairs committee (PAC), of which Madni is also a part, will take a call on whether to participate or not in the Centre's meet. Madni was detained on December 21 last year, a day ahead of the counting of votes of the District Development Council elections. Several leaders of the PDP and the National Conference, including Naeem Akhtar, Peer Mansoor and Hilal Ahmad Lone, were detained that day. They were shifted to the MLA hostel here, from where they were gradually released later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pdp-leader-sartaj-madni-released-from-detention-999240.html
19-06-2021||North and Central||Ghaziabad assault case: Samajwadi Party worker nabbed from Delhi||A Samajwadi Party worker was arrested on Saturday for allegedly instigating an elderly Muslim man to claim in a video that he was beaten up by four youths who also chopped his beard and asked him to chant “Jai Shri Ram” in Loni area of Ghaziabad. Ummaid Pehelwan Idrisi, who was absconding since Wednesday when an FIR was lodged against him at the Loni Border police station, was nabbed from Delhi on Saturday, a Ghaziabad police official said. The FIR, filed on the complaint of a policeman, alleged that Idrisi had "unnecessarily" made the video — in which Abdul Shamad Saifi narrated his purported ordeal — with an intention to "create social disharmony" and shared it through his Facebook account. He was booked under IPC sections 153A (promoting enmity between groups on ground of religion, class etc), 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious belief), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 505 (public mischief). A separate FIR was lodged against him on Thursday evening in Bulandshahr district that charged him and around 100 others with violation of the Covid-19 norms by holding a public gathering on June 16, the officials said. Bulandshahr resident Saifi, who had made communal allegations in his video on June 14, had earlier on June 7 alleged in a complaint to the Ghaziabad police that he was assaulted by four youths on June 5 after being abducted by them and confined in a room in a secluded field in Ghaziabad’s Loni area. On being asked about Saifi’s communal allegations, Ghaziabad’s Senior Superintendent of Police Amit Pathak had said earlier that the elderly Muslim man had made no communal allegations in his original complaint. The SSP had also suspected someone behind instigating Saifi to make communal allegations. Ghaziabad’s SP (Rural) had also said the police had already arrested the main accused Parvez Gurjar for being behind the assault on Saifi. Raja had said Gurjar had a dispute with Saifi over the purchase of a magical amulet from the Bulanddshahr man, who also practised occultism. Saifi had sold Gurjar an amulet claiming that it would rid him of all family problems but Gurjar had begun facing a spate of troubles after the purchase of the amulet and suspected that all his “misfortunes” were due to the amulet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ghaziabad-assault-case-samajwadi-party-worker-nabbed-from-delhi-999246.html
19-06-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: UP hospital that conducted 'mock oxygen drill' gets clean chit||The private hospital in Uttar Pradesh's Agra town, which had allegedly conducted a "oxygen mock drill" at the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic in April, resulting in the 'death' of 22 Covid patients, was given a clean chit by the district administration on Saturday. Barely a few days ago, several shocking videos, which had later gone viral on social media, claimed that 22 Covid patients, who were on oxygen support at the hospital, might have died after the hospital snapped oxygen supply as part of a 'mock drill'. Though the probe revealed that 16 Covid patients had died at the hospital, its owner was not found to be responsible for them, district officials said in Agra. The videos showed the owner of the hospital purportedly saying that the 'mock oxygen drill' had been undertaken after attendants refused to agree to the forced discharge of patients owing to shortage of oxygen. ''Start discharging the patients... there is no oxygen... even the chief minister cannot make it available... I asked the attendants to take their patients elsewhere... they kept saying they would not go elsewhere,'' a person, who was sitting next to the owner, was heard saying in one of the videos. The man was further heard saying they snapped the oxygen supply of 96 patients, who were admitted there, at 7 am on April 26 to see who would survive. "Within five minutes, 22 patients turned blue... they were segregated,'' the man can be heard heard saying. Official records showed that the hospital had reported only four deaths on April 26. The district officials had also not reported the deaths. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra slammed the administration for giving a clean chit to the hospital. ''The probe too was a mock drill,'' she said in a post on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-up-hospital-that-conducted-mock-oxygen-drill-gets-clean-chit-999249.html
19-06-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Medha Patkar files PIL in SC for release of septuagenarian prisoners amid pandemic||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court by noted activist Medha Patkar for decongesting jails across the country by adopting a uniform mechanism to release inmates above 70 years of age, in view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. In her plea, she contended that the High Powered Committee (HPC), formed by each state after the top court issued directions suo motu last year, has not taken into account the categorisation of prisoners on the basis of their susceptibility to the infection and their need to be released on an urgent basis. "The most susceptible ones here are the aged or elderly prisoners, who have a higher chance of getting infected, specifically septuagenarian prisoners, i.e., above 70 years," her petition, drafted by advocate S B Talekar and filed by advocate Vipin Nair, said. However, HPCs of some of the states have over-emphasised the law-and-order considerations as against health and thus overlooked the need for release of elderly prisoners. Except the states of Madhya Pradesh, Mizoram, Bihar, Haryana and Maharashtra, none of the others have considered release of elderly prisoners in the wake of Covid-19, her plea claimed. The total number of inmates above the age of 70 years in all prisons, except for Maharashtra, Manipur and Lakshadweep, as on May 16, 2021 as per National Prisons Information Portal is 5,163. In India, 88% of Covid-19 deaths are in the age group of 45 years and above, the petition further stated. Patkar sought a direction to states to take immediate steps for the release of prisoners above 70 years of age, either on interim bail or emergency parole, to safeguard their interest or shift them to uncongested prisons with adequate medical facilities. She pointed out the WHO declared that Covid-19 caused higher mortality among older persons. Further, the Imperial College, London Covid-19 Response Team has reported that symptomatic individuals in their seventies are twenty times more likely to require hospitalisation than those in their twenties. "Elderly prisoners are not only highly susceptible to the infection but also need additional care, support, and different treatment, while the conditions of the prisons are not good enough to cater to their special needs," her plea stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-medha-patkar-files-pil-in-sc-for-release-of-septuagenarian-prisoners-amid-pandemic-999258.html
19-06-2021||North and Central||UP man held for posting objectionable photo of Yogi Adityanath on Facebook||A man was arrested for allegedly posting an objectionable picture of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Facebook, police said on Saturday. The accused has been identified as Adarsh Choubey of Chaubey Chhapra village, Additional Superintendent of Police Sanjay Yadav said. The matter was investigated and a case was registered against Choubey at Revati police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-man-held-for-posting-objectionable-photo-of-yogi-adityanath-on-facebook-999264.html
19-06-2021||North and Central||Regional parties can’t do any good to the country: Jitin Prasada||The country does not happen to be of any priority for regional parties and they cannot do any good to it, former Union Minister Jitin Prasada said here on Saturday. Prasada made the observation while addressing BJP workers and leaders here at the party headquarters on his first visit to Lucknow after quitting Congress and joining the saffron party in a surprise move early this month. "For regional parties, the country and the state are their second priority. These parties do not make leaders, but the leaders make them. They revolve around a particular person,” Prasada told reporters at the BJP headquarters after a rousing reception by the party men. Without taking any name, Prasada hit out at the regional parties in the wake of Akhilesh Yadav, the chief of Uttar Pradesh’s main regional party, of late making consistent attacks on the ruling BJP. Expressing happiness over joining the BJP, Prasada said, "I got the opportunity to join the BJP under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP president JP Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah.” “In my new political journey, I have got an opportunity today to come to all of you in my home state,” he said. Sidelined in the Congress for a long time, former Union Minister and youth leader Jitin Prasada had joined the BJP in New Delhi on June 9. Prasada's move has been taken as a big setback for the Congress ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. Prasada was accorded a grand welcome by the BJP in Lucknow on his arrival here for the first time after joining the BJP. Welcoming him, BJP state unit president Swatantra Dev Singh said wherever he will visit in the state, the BJP's stature will increase. Prasada sought to assure party leaders and workers that he would work hard to ensure that the state government’s all public welfare schemes reach their targeted beneficiaries — the common people. “My work will speak for itself,” he said. On his decision to in the BJP, he said he took this step after proper consideration and following the wishes of the people and his supporters. “The golden future of the country and the state is possible only under Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP," he said. Asked about the contradiction in his consistent attack on the BJP as a Brahmin outfit patron and a BJP leader now, Prasada said, "I was the patron of the Brahmin Chetna Parishad and I participated in a lot of programmes.” “It is a non-political organidation and it had no role in deciding which party the community members would vote or which party Jitin Prasada would join or be a member of,” he said. “Their (Brahmin Chetna Parishad) discussions used to be on how to organise the Brahmin society and secure the future of the community’s youths, how to resolve cases of harassment and complaints and how to deal with them,” he said. “I think after joining the Bharatiya Janata Party, I will be able to work more vigorously in this direction,” he said. Praising the BJP, he said "the BJP is the only party left in the country where decisions are taken according to the workers' sentiments. It is the only party where even an ordinary member can rise to the top." Prasad was among the 23 Congress leaders who had written to party president Sonia Gandhi last year demanding active leadership and organisational elections in the Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/regional-parties-can-t-do-any-good-to-the-country-jitin-prasada-999287.html
19-06-2021||North and Central||Punjab govt cancels Class 12 exams||The Punjab government on Saturday cancelled Class 12 exams because of the Covid-19 pandemic. State Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) will declare the results as per the pattern of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). It was the need of hour to take a decision on examinations as students and parents were worried about admissions to the higher classes, said Singla in a statement here. Singla said 3,08,000 students enrolled in Class 12 in government, aided and private schools under the PSEB in the 2020-21 academic session. He said it was not possible for the education board to conduct the examinations due to the challenges posed by coronavirus. The PSEB will prepare the result according to a 30:30:40 formula based on the student's performance in Classes 10, 11 and 12, respectively. Singla said the PSEB will be drafting the result based on an average 30 per cent theory component of best three performing subjects out of the main five subjects in Class 10 and 30 per cent weightage on the basis of marks obtained by the students in pre-board, practical examination in Class 11 and 40 per cent weightage on the basis marks obtained in pre-board examination, practical examination and internal assessment in Class 12. “In case of those who have changed stream after Class 11, the result of such students would be prepared as per weightage on the basis of the marks obtained in Class 10 and weightage on the basis of the pre-board, practical examination and Internal assessment obtained in Class 12,” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-govt-cancels-class-12-exams-999297.html
19-06-2021||North and Central||Not against live-in-relationships, says Allahabad HC||In an observation, the Allahabad High Court said it is not against live-in-relationship but denied protection to a couple recently as one of the partners was married. A Division Bench of Justices Kaushal Jayendra Thaker and Dinesh Pathak said this hearing a plea seeking protection for a couple, who was into a live-in-relationship but married during the pendency of the petition. The High Court had earlier dismissed a plea filed by a married woman and her live-in partner. The court also imposed a cost of Rs 5,000 on them, observing that the woman is already married and in live-in-relationship with another man, an act against the "mandate" of the Hindu Marriage Act. While granting protection to the couple in the latest case, the court said, “We are not against live-in-relation.” Earlier, we rejected a plea as the protection was sought during subsistence of marriage of one of the petitioners, it said. The court directed police to provide protection to the petitioners, saying they were in a live-in-relationship but subsequently married each other. Hence, in view of the orders given by the apex court in the past, they are entitled to protection, the HC said. The petitioners had approached the HC on an apprehension that they might face harassment from their families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/not-against-live-in-relationships-says-allahabad-hc-999319.html
19-06-2021||Opinion||The Delta variant calls for a strong push on Covid shots||By The Editors, The rise of the dangerous Delta variant of the coronavirus gives new urgency to the effort to get people vaccinated. Delta has been spreading phenomenally fast. It’s already the dominant strain in India, the UK and Singapore, and it has a foothold in more than 80 countries. While it accounts for only about 10% of US cases of Covid-19 so far, that share is expected to balloon. There’s evidence, too, that the variant may cause more severe disease. Data from the UK suggests people who contract this strain are twice as likely to be hospitalised as those who caught a previous form of the coronavirus. The saving grace is that vaccines keep people safe. Those who’ve had two doses of the Pfizer shot, for instance, are 88% protected from the Delta variant. But those who have had just the first dose are only 33% protected, and of course the unvaccinated are utterly vulnerable. No doubt, Delta will flourish in places where most people haven’t gotten their shots. This makes it more urgent than ever to expand vaccination. So far, public-health leaders and many business owners have tried coaxing — patiently explaining the benefits of vaccination, giving away burgers and doughnuts, holding big prize lotteries, and sending mobile vaccination units to underserved neighborhoods. Thanks in part to these efforts, 65% of American adults have now had at least one shot. But that share needs to grow. It’s thought that at least 70% of the population needs to be fully vaccinated to keep infection rates down without other social restrictions. At this point, stronger measures are needed. Major sports leagues are right, for example, to demand proof of vaccination from people who attend games — and to make the unvaccinated be tested and sit in special sections. Universities should also make sure students and professors have their shots. Companies should begin to exercise their authority to require employees to be vaccinated before entering the workplace, as some have already said they’ll do. This stands to reason: Unvaccinated people pose a danger to other unvaccinated people. Rather than put employees at risk, companies should restrict the office to those who are protected. Hospitals and other health-care centers have a special responsibility to make sure their workers are vaccinated. Regrettably, several states have actively hampered such efforts. A new law in Texas goes so far as to deny state contracts to businesses that demand their customers be inoculated and threatens to yank operating permits. In Florida, where state law prohibits schools, businesses and government agencies from demanding proof of Covid vaccination, Governor Ron DeSantis has refused to grant an exemption even to cruise ship operators, who can hardly assure passengers that they’re safe without requiring vaccines. Such stubbornness is foolish and dangerous — all the more so with the Delta variant on the rise. States should move in the opposite direction, by issuing secure vaccine passports and requiring that sports arenas, concert halls and other public venues maintain special rules and restrictions for the unvaccinated. Although Covid infections in the US are falling to the point where they seem nearly under control, the vaccination rate isn’t as high as it needs to be. There’re plenty of shots on hand; now people need greater reason to get them. —Editors: Mary Duenwald, Timothy Lavin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-delta-variant-calls-for-a-strong-push-on-covid-shots-999114.html
19-06-2021||Opinion||It's time to protect our lawyers||The Bar Council of India (BCI) recently nominated a seven-member committee to frame a draft 'Advocates Protection Act' to ensure "protection and safety of lawyers across the country." In its resolution, the BCI's general council noted that frequent and often violent physical attacks on members of the advocates' fraternity are "extremely distressing" and a "severe threat and attack on the independence of the Bar." The council said lawyers would "take the recourse of a countrywide agitation" if the Union and state governments do not heed the issue. The resolution adopted by the BCI is significant as it is a statutory body established under section 4 of the Advocates Act of 1961 and is responsible for regulating legal practice in India. It elects its members from the lawyers' community, and they represent the Indian Bar. This resolution comes amidst an increasingly hostile environment for lawyers in India. Contrary to public perception, lawyers are not exempt from workplace violence. They regularly face dangers from opposing parties, interested parties, their clients, and even the entire system. In a recent incident in Telangana, hired killers followed Advocate Vaman Rao and his wife on their way to Hyderabad, blocked their vehicle and stabbed them to death in the middle of the road. Rao had filed court cases against two local leaders in his village from the ruling party to prevent them from encroaching on public land. The couple's murder is not an isolated incident. Such incidents have taken place in several parts of the country, which is worrisome. Justice delivery dispensation is dependent on three important actors – judiciary, police and lawyers. Judges and police personnel have adequate protection granted to them. However, lawyers, the crucial link between the two, do not get any security. Lawyers are officers of the court who help the justice delivery system to dispense its duties effectively. As a result, they are almost always in the line of fire. Women lawyers, for instance, are at a higher risk than their male counterparts. In addition, a young lawyer with relatively fewer years of experience at the bar will likely face more danger. Similarly, lawyers who deal with violent clients and emotionally charged cases face the risk of being attacked more. Lawyers practising in district courts in small towns and villages, far from media and police attention, fear more for their lives than those practising in cities before the higher courts. These threats are not just physical but also psychological and emotional. These can and do extend to situations of violent confrontations, inappropriate communication, online abuse, and even causing damage to private property. The theoretical explanations behind such threats and violence against lawyers can be many. But three warrant our attention here. First, the stigma and prejudice against the profession persist among the general public. Secondly, the vast expectations that clients today have from their lawyers in a technologically driven world where information on legal processes is freely and abundantly available to them on their screens and their fingertips, and thirdly, the way the media promotes misconceptions against lawyers. This problem of threat to lawyers safety is not unique to India. Several other countries have grappled with this and continue to do so. The US, for instance, has experienced shootings, bombings and arson attacks in and around courthouses. Earlier this year, the European Committee on Legal Co-operation, an intergovernmental body of the Council of Europe, published a feasibility study – a legal instrument to protect lawyers against harassment, threats and attacks in the jurisdiction of the European Union. It examined the problems faced by lawyers and the level of protection offered. It found that the status quo is inadequate in the given circumstances and that new measures are the need of the hour if the Rule of Law has to be protected. Today there are calls for a dedicated European Convention to protect lawyers. The Human Rights Council of the United Nations had passed an important resolution in 2017 on the need to incorporate robust language against reprisals and strengthen the implementation of immunities to ensure the independence of lawyers. It also noted that "States should respect and protect lawyers who promote and defend human rights defenders". Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights also lays down that every person has a "Right to Fair Trial". For the fulfilment of such a provision, a lawyer's independence and safety is a prerequisite. The BCI's resolution is, therefore, a welcome step. However, the draft Advocates Protection Act must incorporate every single issue, such as the nature and forms of violence, an inclusive definition of "workplace", and ways to tackle the negative perception in popular media today. The committee must take the views of all district and state bar associations, do a thorough threat analysis, engage in comparative benchmarking with other foreign jurisdictions, and then draft the proposed legislation. (Anurag is an Impact Fellow at Global Governance Initiative. He is from the National Law University, Visakhapatnam. Priyanka Singh is from the National Law University, Visakhapatnam.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/its-time-to-protect-our-lawyers-999116.html
19-06-2021||Opinion||Free speech and the digital public||Recently, there have been heated discussions on the State's role in the court revoking Twitter's intermediary status due to its alleged non-compliance with the latest IT rules. This ostensibly makes the American microblogging company criminally liable to third party unlawful content shared via the platform. This has a critical unforeseen externality. First, it places further restrictions on society's use of the forum. Second, it could make Twitter more conservative about its content, posing profound political, economic, and social implications. Free speech, in this case on platforms, is inherently democratic. While it is a normative good and enshrined in constitutional rights, it also holds significant social, economic, and political value. It is well documented that citizen-led action played an important role as the deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic began to ravage India in early March. The nation faced an acute lack of necessary capacity and access to essential services, including lifesaving oxygen, compounded by the poor state of the public health infrastructure. Citizens had limitedaccess to information on how to avail of government services and timely help, putting them in a trying predicament. Further, a significant deficit on the supply side in the face of rising demands, for instance, the acute lack of oxygen cylinders, elicited both ire and helplessness from citizens. Facing a breakdown in trust and reliance on existing public measures, citizens mobilised to address the gap in supply by sharing relevant information and resources through digital platforms. The flexibility and features of digital platforms enabled citizens to organise based on unique needs. The modalities in which crisis response groups evolved were diverse and problem-led, and systematised organically, increasing similar requests. WhatsApp, Telegram, Facebook, and Instagram were other digital platforms through which citizens mediated resource sharing and crisis response. For instance, there emerged location-specific Facebook groups requesting plasma and blood. Also, several volunteers groups on WhatsApp emerged across India to mediate with municipal offices in ensuring access to ICU beds for Covid-19-hit citizens. Free speech on digital platforms, a normative good The hyperlocal penetration and in-app features of digital platforms, like Twitter, enabled citizens to reach pockets of people who would have otherwise relied on other undependable options. However, despite the relative success, there were reported retaliatory responses on the ways social media was used amidst the crisis. For instance, there were documented cases of social media companies taking down posts aiding Covid relief on the direction from the State. This may have set a precedent of caution for people's activity on social media platforms.The move to strip platforms of their intermediary status may have further widespread consequences on how citizens express themselves on public platforms, and the high societal cost this poses. When powers to curb such freedoms are further centralised, it also limits how citizens utilise market-based solutions, thus posing economic costs as well. The societal cost of limitations on free speech could result in bottlenecks that cut into dynamic decision-making and serendipitous access to information, which has proven to be lifesaving in the case of the recent second wave of the pandemic. The political value of democratic speech on digital platforms can be seen in the ways platforms have shaped citizens' engagement with the political process at the grassroots. Furthermore, it has also framed how diplomatic relationships are fostered and strengthened at the administrative level. Social media is a private channel that has evolved to be a pathway to address public grievances and make claims not only of the State but also other private entities. For instance, social media is often used for grievance redressal and dispute resolution across sectors, from social commerce companies to municipal offices. This streamlines otherwisecost-intensive processes, thus holding significant economic value. Social media networks also allow those without access to formal channels for marketing and sales, such as women-led small businesses, to engage in commercial activity. When further limitations are imposed on such platforms through regulatory practices, it may curb the diverse and valuable ways citizens participate in the digital economy. Moving further in this direction may seriously undermine social, political, and economic value, and above all, basic democratic rights. The role of the public in helping in bridging access gaps to rights is not a novel phenomenon, as evidenced by citizens' Covid relief efforts. However, the ingenuity lies in the emerging digital modalities through which citizens address these gaps and challenges and the necessity to imbue these digital pathways with democratic values. (Lakshmee Sharma is a Senior Research Associate at Aapti Institute. Sarayu Natarajan is a Founder at Aapti Institute) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/free-speech-and-the-digital-public-999144.html
19-06-2021||South||A year later, memories linger on: Revisiting the family of custodial death victims Jeyaraj & Bennix||Selvarani had lived most of her life in Sathankulam in Thoothukudi district. But the small town has now become a haunting place as it brings back the memories of her son Emmanuel Bennix and husband P Jeyaraj. On this day last year, Bennix and Jeyaraj had left their tiny abode in Sathankulam to man the mobile shop that they owned after lunch and were to return home for dinner. They never came back -- the night of June 19, 2020, changed Selvarani's life forever. The two persons that she loved most in the world returned home as lifeless bodies three days later having succumbed to mindless violence inflicted on them in police custody. Selvarani, who left Sathankulam in August 2020 two months after she lost her husband and son, is now living with her daughter Persis in Puliangudi in the neighbouring Tenkasi district. The mother and her love for the son “My mother has not been able to recover from the loss. I am sure she will never be. She cannot digest the fact that my brother Bennix is no more. He was just 30, full of life, and was looking forward to getting married and beginning a new phase in his life. But everything crashed in just a few days. My mother’s lap still longs for her son and his love,” Persis told DH over the phone. Bennix, 31, and 60-year-old Jeyaraj were taken to the Sathankulam police station on June 19 over an argument that the father had with a policeman. What followed was a nightmare for the family, especially Selvarani. The father-son duo was beaten up mercilessly by scores of policemen who took turns and they succumbed to the grievous injuries suffered a few days later. The police brutality sent shockwaves across the country with the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court taking suo moto cognizance of the case and is monitoring the probe. Ten policemen were arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) that took over the probe and nine are still in jail while one person died due to Covid-19. Sister who stepped-in to take care of the mother Persis, 34, was living with her family in Vijayawada before her father and brother succumbed to injuries inflicted on them by the men in khaki at the Sathankulam police station. She has now relocated to Puliangudi after the Tamil Nadu government gave her a job, with her kids. As the first death anniversary of the father-son duo nears – Bennix took his last breath on June 22 while Jeyaraj died the next day – the biggest worry on the minds of the family members is about Selvarani. It is only after days of convincing by her three daughters and their husbands, Selvarani agreed to accompany them to spend a few days at her home in Sathankulam and participate in ceremonies to mark the first anniversary. “She does not want to go back to Sathankulam. Though I have been visiting our house once in a month or so, she never accompanied me. That is the place where she lived with my father and brother. She does not want to revisit those memories. But she agreed to come because it is the first anniversary,” Persis said, fighting back her tears. The family will hold prayer meetings on June 22 and 23 in memory of Jeyaraj and Bennix in Sathankulam. The ‘mama’ children will never forget Not just Selvarani, Persis said, she has a tough job convincing her children that their mama (uncle) will never come back. She said Bennix was the most pampered child as he was the only brother of the three sisters. “Even the other day when we were talking casually, one of my daughters said mama will get her chocolates when they go to Sathankulam. The kids keep looking at photos on our mobile phones whenever they remember my brother. None of us can forget anything. It is quite tough telling the kids their mama would never come back,” she added. Bennix was a dotting brother for his sisters and made it a habit to talk to their children every day. Persis still repents not picking Bennix’s phone on a fateful night last year – she did not pick the phone as she thought it was a regular call from her brother, not knowing that their father had been picked up by police. “I still regret not attending the phone call. If I had attended, I could have spoken to him one last time. Maybe I would have told him to be cool, and not get tense about our father’s arrest. If only I had attended the call,” she said. The family is pinning its hopes on the judiciary to get justice for Bennix and Jeyaraj and the Supreme Court’s ruling on Friday refusing to stay the trial on a petition filed by one of the accused has raised their expectations. Family pinning hopes on judiciary for justice Persis’ husband Augustine told DH that they had expected the trial to move at a faster pace, but things have slowed down due to the Covid-19 lockdown. “We are not complaining but if the trial moves faster, we will be happy. The Covid-19 pandemic has slowed the process. But what keeps us going is the Supreme Court’s stand on the case and the High Court’s monitoring. That the policemen have not been able to come out on bail as yet has instilled hope in us,” Augustine said, referring to the SC refusing bail for the accused.   Pon Sekar, another brother-in-law of Bennix, also echoed the same sentiments, saying they were hopeful that the accused policemen will be punished sooner than later. “My father-in-law and brother-in-law were killed for no reason. They had never raised their voice against anyone, but they were subjected to brutal violence inside a police station. Only when such persons are punished, will people develop trust with the men in khaki. All we want is justice,” Pon Sekar concluded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/a-year-later-memories-linger-on-revisiting-the-family-of-custodial-death-victims-jeyaraj-bennix-999105.html
19-06-2021||South||Muscle power row between Kerala CM, Congress Kerala president continues||Kerala is witnessing a muscle power row with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Congress state president K Sudhakaran making claims and allegations over past political violence. Sudhakaran on Saturday denied Vijayan's allegations that the former plotted to kidnap Vijayan's children and even challenged the CM to prove the allegations of currency smuggling and goonda nexus against him, saying he would quit politics if the allegations are proved. Sudhakaran, who is a Lok Sabha MP from Kannur in Kerala, also said that Vijayan was talking like a political criminal on Friday by raising baseless allegations. He also recollected past political violence allegedly led by Vijayan. At least 28 Congress workers were murdered by the CPM cadres in Kannur, while the Congress workers were involved only in one murder. Both Vijayan and Sudhakaran hail from Kannur in North Kerala, which had witnessed many political killings. Sudhakaran's fresh statements were a sequel to the ongoing slugfest between the two that kicked off with a reference made by Sudhakaran in an interview to a Malayalam publication that he had once roughed up Vijayan during a political clash during their college days at Government Brennen College in Kannur. Sudhakaran said that he shared that incident off the record with the reporter as he did not want to make it public. But he stuck to his version that Vijayan was roughed up. Vijayan had denied it during his routine press conference on Friday and also maintained that Left student activities carried away Sudhakaran as per his instruction during the violence at the college. Vijayan had alleged that a late Congress leader, who was a close aide of Sudhakaran, had once alerted him that Sudhakaran was plotting to kidnap Vijayan's school-going children. Sudhakaran dismissed them as 'baseless', saying that any father would have confided in his wife about such an incident, which Vijayan did not do. Vijayan is now coming out with cooked-up stories for political gains, he said. Sudhakaran countered the allegations of Vijayan that the Congress leader was involved in currency smuggling and being involved in goonda nexus by referring to the gold and dollar smuggling allegations that had surfaced against the Vijayan government. Sudhakaran turned his ire at reporters who raised unpleasant questions against him. He asked if questions were being fed to them from the AKG Centre (CPM's headquarters).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/muscle-power-row-between-kerala-cm-congress-kerala-president-continues-999187.html
19-06-2021||South||Telangana to completely lift Covid-19 lockdown from June 20||The Telangana cabinet has decided to lift the Covid-19 lockdown in the state completely from June 20. All categories of educational institutions are allowed to reopen from July 1 and the students can attend the classes physically. The related guidelines, providing clarity on the requirement of physical attendance, and continuation of the online mode of teaching etc., are yet to be issued. The K Chandrasekhar Rao cabinet has met on Saturday to review the pandemic situation in Telangana and has declared that Covid-19 is now under control in the state. “The cabinet has examined the reports from the medical and health department officials stating that the positive cases have come down drastically and arrived at the decision. All the departments are instructed to lift the respective restrictions imposed during the lockdown period,” CMO officials said. The Rao government has sought public support and cooperation, as the decision was taken to avoid further impact on the economy and loss of livelihoods. “Lifting of lockdown should not lead to negligent behaviour. People should continue to wear masks, maintain physical distance and use sanitisers and other self-regulatory methods to curtail the spread of the virus.” As per official figures, the new positive cases have remained under the 2,000-mark for several days now, with the state having increased the daily samples tested to about 1.2 lakh. The single-day Covid-19 cases in Hyderabad have been under the 200-mark for the last two weeks. On Saturday evening, 1,362 cases were reported from the 1,23,005 samples tested from across the state. According to the officials, active cases in Telangana now stands at 18,568. The cabinet has noted that the coronavirus cases are declining in neighbouring states too. “The cabinet observed that compared with other states, Covid-19 has come under control quickly in Telangana,” officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-to-completely-lift-covid-19-lockdown-from-june-20-999198.html
19-06-2021||South||Mekedatu: AIADMK flays BSY, asks Tamil Nadu government to safeguard farmers' interest||The opposition AIADMK on Saturday lashed out at the "unilateral" decision of Karnataka government to proceed with the Mekedatu dam project across river Cauvery and urged the Tamil Nadu government not to compromise a wee bit on the state's rights over the issue. Leader of Opposition and AIADMK Co-coordinator K Palaniswami slammed Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa for saying his state will go ahead with the project after obtaining necessary clearance from the Centre. "The unilateral announcement of Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa to go ahead with the construction of Mekedatu dam, especially when a contempt of court case is pending in the Supreme Court, is highly condemnable," he said in a statement. On Friday, Yediyurappa tweeted "the Mekedatu project, which is significant for the state of Karnataka, is aimed at drinking water supply." The NGT (National Green Tribunal), which was hearing a petition seeking a stay on the project, dismissed it and endorsed Karnataka's argument. The project will be started as soon as possible after getting all the clearances," he said. Palaniswami further said the Tamil Nadu government should pay close attention to the developments in the neighbouring state and strive to get the Cauvery water due for the state. "Tamil Nadu government should not allow Karnataka's attempt a wee bit and take steps to safeguard Tamil Nadu farmers' livelihood," he added. During his tenure as chief minister he had ensured the state's rights on the issue by prevailing upon Prime Minister Narendra Modi to halt the construction of the dam and said the delta districts in Tamil Nadu would become a desert if the dam was built. He had also initiated a contempt case in the supreme court on the matter, Palaniswami said. He further said the Cauvery river meets the drinking and agricultural needs of several districts in Tamil Nadu. People are well aware that late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa's government won many legal battles on this front, he said and recalled the then ruling AIADMK's initiative in ensuring the Cauvery Water Management Authority and the Cauvery Water Regulatory Commission were set up. The final order of the Cauvery Tribunal was published in the Central Gazette in 2013, after Jayalalithaa exerted pressure on the union government, Palaniswami said and added that he had requested the PM that environment clearance for Mekedatu dam project should not be granted. The Ministry of Water Resources should direct the union environment and climate change ministry to reject the project outright, he had urged, Palaniswami added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mekedatu-aiadmk-flays-bsy-asks-tamil-nadu-government-to-safeguard-farmers-interest-999210.html
19-06-2021||South||Will continue fight till Lakshadweep gets justice, says Aisha Sultana||Filmmaker Aisha Sultana, who was booked for sedition in Lakshadweep, on Saturday said she has not done anything against the country so far and would continue her fight till the islanders get justice. She was talking to the media at the airport in Kochi before leaving to the archipelago to appear before the Kavaratti police for questioning on Sunday in connection with the case. She said her advocate was also accompanying her and she would cooperate with the police. "I believe that I will get justice as I have not done anything wrong. My words were wrongly interpreted and I have already mentioned everything in detail in my recent Facebook post," Sultana said. On her controversial usage of 'biological weapon' during a television discussion, she said all these controversies had happened based on that particular word. "I have not done anything against the country. All these have happened over a word I uttered. So, it is my responsibility to prove that I have not done anything wrong. I will continue my fight till my land and people get justice," she added. In a relief to Sultana, the Kerala High Court had on Thursday granted her interim anticipatory bail for a week, while reserving orders on her anticipatory bail application. It had directed her to comply with the notice issued by Kavaratti police to appear before it for interrogation on June 20 in connection with the sedition case. The allegation is that the filmmaker, while participating in a debate telecast by a Malayalam news channel on June 7, made an assertion that the Centre used 'biological weapon' against the people of Lakshadweep.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-continue-fight-till-lakshadweep-gets-justice-says-aisha-sultana-999229.html
19-06-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh tops new job creation under IBPS scheme, TN ranks 2nd||The India Business Process Outsourcing Promotion Scheme (IBPS) launched by the Centre has facilitated expansion of several IT and BPO companies in tier-II and III cities across the country and Tamil Nadu has become the second State in new job generation, the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) said on Saturday. Under the IBPS Scheme, Andhra Pradesh is the highest in employment generation by creating 12,234 new jobs followed by Tamil Nadu at 9,401 while remaining was spread across Punjab, Odisha, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Bihar, an official press release said. STPI, an autonomous body under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, is the executing agency for India BPO Promotion Scheme. "In recent years, IBPS has generated direct employment for more than 40,000 people residing in tier-II and III cities, out of which about 38 per cent are women. The units have reported more than 3,000 additional employment generation in the last year," the release said. "The BPO Promotion Schemes have received an overwhelming response from the BPO industry. Currently, 252 BPO/ITeS units are operational on 47,043 seats under the scheme," said STPI, director general, Omkar Rai. Noting that the Indian BPO and ITES sector grew and was centered around a few metropolitan cities, Rai said it forced many youths from other locations to migrate to metro cities for jobs. "The scheme has helped thousands of local youths get employment at their native places and also helped in attracting investments in the regions. It has led to the establishment of BPOs in cities untouched by BPO/ITES sectors such as Baitalpur, Mayiladuthurai, Bhimavaram, Majuli," he said. On the impact of Covid-19 pandemic, he said the Centre introduced new simplified other service provider (OSP) guidelines which was aimed for the BPO and ITES to reduce the compliance burden and facilitate 'work from home' culture. The new guidelines provided the much-needed impetus to the BPO sector and are helping the industry sail through the pandemic. Several timely relaxations were introduced to sustain the operations of BPO companies during the Covid-19 pandemic, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-tops-new-job-creation-under-ibps-scheme-tn-ranks-2nd-999242.html
19-06-2021||South||TN govt extends Covid relief to non-camp Sri Lankan Tamil refugee families||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Saturday launched a scheme to provide monetary assistance of Rs 4,000 each to 13,553 Sri Lankan Tamil refugee families living outside refugee camps to alleviate their difficulties in view of Covid-19. The initiative, being launched for the first time, aims to extend the cash assistance scheme being implemented for rice ration cardholders and the Sri Lankan Tamil refugees living in government refugee camps and will cost the state exchequer Rs 5.42 crore. After the Commissionerate of rehabilitation and welfare of non-resident Tamils, Chennai, informed that non-camp Lankan Tamil refugees do not receive any government assistance, and recommended the monetary assistance scheme for them, the Tamil Nadu government came out with an order and allotted Rs 5.42 crore, an official release said. Following this, the chief minister launched the scheme by providing relief to five families today. Minorities Welfare, Non Resident Tamil Welfare, Refugee and Evacuees minister K S Masthan, chief secretary V Irai Anbu, public (rehabilitation) department secretary D Jagannathan and commissioner of rehabilitation and welfare of Non Resident Tamils, Jacintha Lazarus, were among those present on the occasion. As on June 1, 58,822 Sri Lankan Tamil refugees (18,944 families) have been accommodated in 108 regular refugee camps and in a special camp, which are all run by the government. About 34,122 refugees (13,553 families) opted to reside outside the camps and they are registered with the police, the Government Order said. Many among the non-camp refugees are poor and eke out a living as water can suppliers, photographers, assistants in service apartments and jobs in the informal sector such as painters and tailors. Most non-camp refugees live in urban areas by renting out houses and sending their children, mainly to private schools.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-government-extends-covid-19-relief-to-non-camp-sri-lankan-tamil-refugee-families-999268.html
19-06-2021||South||Kerala Tourism's 'In-Car Dining' to serve food in parked vehicles||In view of the Covid-19 situation in the state, the Kerala Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC) is launching an in-car dining facility that serves food inside parked cars. The facility provides breakfast, lunch, dinner and snacks. It will be introduced at select Aahaar Restaurants of KTDC. This would reduce the risk of Covid-19 spread and still allow eating in public places. Tourism Minister P A Mohamed Riyas said that the scheme was being implemented considering public safety hazards. It would offer a new experience to the customers. A slide in the second wave of the pandemic was expected to help the tourism industry pick up, he said. "We plan to reach out to the people with safe and tasty food.KTDC hotel chains will be renovated under the project 'Mission Facelift' after classifying them on a priority basis," he revealed, announcing major projects under the tourism corporation. Floating restaurants will be set up in select destinations across the state on the lines of the one at Veli in Thiruvananthapuram, the first of which will come up at Kadalundi, he added. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-tourisms-in-car-dining-to-serve-food-in-parked-vehicles-999300.html
19-06-2021||State||Sullia TP president drives garbage truck, collects waste||The new driver of a garbage truck involved in door-to-door collection of trash in Sullia on Friday was none other than Sullia Town Panchayat president Vinaykumar. Vinaykumar is not on any publicity stunts but filling up in place of a pourakarmika, who is in quarantine. Vinaykumar said that due to Covid-19, all three pourakarmikas were in quarantine. Thus the day-to-day collection of waste from houses faced shortage of the pourakarmikas. As the thought of keeping the town clean was utmost on his mind, he decided to get involved in the day-to-day collection of waste, along with Health Inspector Lingaraju. Vinaykumar, along with a pourakarmika, drove the vehicle via APMC Road, PU College Road and surrounding areas to collect the waste from the houses and buildings. Vinaykumar said the opportunity of being a driver of garbage truck came in handy to create awareness about segregating waste at source at many places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sullia-tp-president-drives-garbage-truck-collects-waste-999082.html
19-06-2021||State||Welcome to the virtual world of theatre & its real challenges||This week actor Mallika Prasad Sinha’s solo play ‘Hidden in Plain Sight’ was streamed online for the first time. While she has earlier performed the play on stage, this time it went digital for viewers to stream it on their personal devices. Produced in coordination with Actors Ensemble India Forum, the play is a story of four women dealing with isolation.   The Covid-19 pandemic over the past year has kept theatre spaces shut and theatre groups are increasingly embracing the online space to keep their shows running and their art alive. DH spoke to a few artists to understand this transformation.  Co-existence While for centuries, theatre professionals have marvelled at this medium “being real” compared to television and cinema, they have now begun to acknowledge that the digital space and the traditional stage must coexist, according to theatre doyen Arundhati Nag. A digital play transcends the conventional boundaries of the stage. “It’s not cinema and it’s no longer theatre. It’s probably ‘about’ theatre,”she says.  Ranga Shankara, the theatre institution founded by Arundhati, is regularly streaming plays online. Currently streaming their seventh play - they are free for viewers - they had also earlier streamed six plays that were paid, says Samyukta M, Programme Associate, Ranga Shankara. ‘I am an Actor’ acting studio is another company to have gone online. Theatre professional Prasanna B, who runs this studio, conducts annual acting classes for children. This time though, it’s entirely online. As part of the course, they recorded a play ‘Cinderella’. How does one create a theatrical experience online? Is it just a recorded version of a play performed on stage or does it involve other nuances? “Theatre is a group activity. We are defying this basic idea the moment we go online. While recording a play online, each child has to perform individually and then we edit it later,” Prasanna explains. Since the children took part from home, all household items beginning from a bed sheet to a curtain, served as props. “We sent references for costumes and had to take the help of parents,” he says.   Embracing the digital has been inevitable but challenges are aplenty. For, a digital play often contradicts the tenets of the conventional stage. “When I see a play, I know how to fix any loophole. When it comes to digital material, editing and getting the camera angles right is difficult. Artists have been caught on a weak leg here,” Arundhati says. Actor Mallika Prasad weighs in on her experience. Unlike watching a film, theatre is a shared experience. Recreating this online is a challenge, she says. She has been working on the digitised version of ‘Hidden in Plain Sight’ since the beginning of this year.  During a solo performance on stage, the character transformation is through body movement, costume and movement from one part of the stage to the other. Using the camera to depict these changes is a challenge. “The trick is to engage efficiently with the camera while ensuring that the technology is not hijacking the story itself,” she says.  Technicality of the theatre aside, retaining the audience’s interest online, too, is not an easy task. For, the audience tends to dwindle soon. “With the lockdown, the average screen time at homes has gone up. Perhaps everyone is tired of the screen,” points out Samyukta on why there aren’t many takers for online shows.  Nonetheless, the artists are optimistic. “Artists are quick to adapt,” says Mallika and Arundhati concurs. Both online and offline, theatre will coexist and something good will come out of this churning, she says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/welcome-to-the-virtual-world-of-theatre-its-real-challenges-999305.html
19-06-2021||State||Reservoirs filling up fast amid relentless rainfall||With the catchment areas in Konkan belt of Maharashtra and Malnad receiving bountiful rain most of the major reservoirs in the state continued to see a rapid increase in water level. All major rivers in Krishna basin districts and Malnad region are in spate. A few of them have reached danger levels, triggering a flood threat to the villages and towns on their banks. Inflow into Krishna river at Kallol barrage in Chikkodi taluk, Belagavi district, clocked 1.15 lakh cusecs on Saturday.. Water level in Ghataprabha reservoir has increased by 10 feet in the last 24 hours. As much as 10.18 tmcft of water flowed into Almatti dam, the lifeline of undivided Vijayapura, Yadgir and Raichur districts in the state, on Saturday - the highest in a single day, this year. The water level in the dam touched 512.17 metres on Saturday evening, just seven metres short of its full capacity. With Krishna river and its tributaries flowing at ferocious speed, all nine low-lying bridge-cum-barrages have gone under water. Vast tracts of agriculture land in basin districts have gone under water. 1 rescued, 2 dead The NDRF team, which is camping at Yadur in Chikkodi taluk, rescued a youth who managed to stay afloat in overflowing Vedganga in Nippani taluk. One fisherman each were swept away by strong currents of Markandeya river in Kakati, Belagavi, and in Krishna river near Vadagera, Yadgir district. Kadra dam in Uttara Kannada reached its full reservoir level on Saturday. The authorities released 5,500 cusecs of water downstream Kali by lifting three crest gates. Unrelenting showers have wreaked havoc in Malnad areas of the district. The overflowing streams have cut off the road connectivity to Tibetan camp in Mundgod. Acres of paddy and maize crop in the district have been submerged.   Meanwhile, Tunga, Bhadra and Linganamakki resevoirs in Shivamogga continued to receive good inflows. Water level in Bhadra has gone up by two feet in just 24 hours while 29,000 cusecs of water flowed into Linganamakki. With Wayanad region in Kerala experiencing heavy showers, Kabani reservoir in HD Kote taluk, Mysuru district, is seeing good inflow. On Saturday. 5,000 cusec was let into downstream Kabini. The inflow into the dam is expected to go further up in the next few hours., Suresh Babu, executive engineer, Kabini dam, told DH. More rain forecast The coastal districts and Malnad will likely to receive heavy showers, accompanied by thunder and lightning, till Monday (June 21), according to the India Meteorological Department. The weather department has issued yellow alert to Belagavi, Dharwad and Haveri districts, which are expected to see intermittent spells of moderate to heavy rain till Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/reservoirs-filling-up-fast-amid-relentless-rainfall-999310.html
19-06-2021||State||Monsoon: 20 Karnataka districts on alert to tackle floods||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday directed deputy commissioners of 20 districts to be ready to handle extreme weather events with more rainfall forecast in the coming days.  Yediyurappa held a video conference to review the situation in Ballari, Vijayanagar, Koppal, Raichur, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Bidar, Belagavi, Bagalkot, Vijayapura, Gadag, Haveri, Dharwad, Shivamogga, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Kodagu, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts.  “Monsoon has started early. In all districts, lakes and tanks are going to be filled to the brim. Sowing is also coming to an end. Officials have been asked to take precautions for heavy rains,” Yediyurappa told reporters.  Yediyruappa asked DCs to concentrate on flood-prone villages by taking people into confidence before relocating them. According to a statement from the chief minister’s office, 1,710 villages have been identified as flood prone. Revenue Minister R Ashoka said DCs had nearly Rs 1,000 crore to deal with exigencies. “The government will set up relief centres in flood-affected areas where nutritious food will be served on a daily basis,” he said. “Except Mandya, good rainfall is expected in all districts.”  Multiple teams of state and national disaster relief forces have been deployed in Udupi, Chikkamagaluru, Uttara Kannada, Raichur, Kodagu, Belagavi and Dakshina Kannada districts.  Compensation “During last year’s floods, a compensation of Rs 5 lakh was distributed for those who lost their houses, Rs 1 lakh for those with partially-affected houses and Rs 10,000 for inundation. The same compensation will be provided this year,” Ashoka said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/monsoon-20-karnataka-districts-on-alert-to-tackle-floods-999311.html
19-06-2021||State||Only aggrieved person can challenge caste, income certificates: HC||The High Court has said that only an aggrieved person can file an appeal before the assistant commissioner in matters related to issuance of caste and income certificates. A division bench headed by Justice B V Nagarathna passed this order in the case of a Kannada teacher whose caste certificate was cancelled acting on a complaint by a person not aggrieved by the issuance of the certificate. The authorities had cancelled the caste certificate of B R Gopamma repeatedly, a few years prior to her superannuation from service. The proceedings on the question of the caste certificate began in 2011 when one R S Mahadev filed a complaint. He said Gopamma had obtained the Scheduled Caste certificate by making false averments and was also appointed as a Kannada teacher on that basis.  Gopamma challenged the 2015 order, cancelling her caste certificate. A single judge bench on March 26, 2019 upheld her plea and directed for the release of terminal benefits. However, the single judge held that she is not entitled to claim the benefit of SC status in future. Mahadev moved an appeal against this order. The division bench said that section 4-B of the Karnataka Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes (Reservation of Appointment, etc.) Act, 1990 stipulates that only a person aggrieved by an order issued by the tahsildar under section 4-A can file appeal and not otherwise. The court pointed out Mahadev has not made out a case as to how he was aggrieved by issuance of a caste certificate in favour of Gopamma as he had not applied for the post of Kannada teacher. The bench upheld the single judge's direction and said that Gopamma cannot claim the benefit of scheduled caste in future. Background Gopamma, who is said to be a Vokkaliga, was issued a SC caste certificate after she married one Govindaiah, who belonged to SC category. She was appointed a Kannada teacher at JSS high school in Mysuru in November 1979, on the basis of the caste certificate. The division bench noted that as on the date when the caste certificate was issued to Gopamma, the Supreme Court decision in the N E Horo case was holding the field. It was held in that order that a non-tribal woman would be considered as belonging to the tribe when she marries a tribal man and the same is accepted by elders of the tribal community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/only-aggrieved-person-can-challenge-caste-income-certificates-hc-999313.html
19-06-2021||State||Govt depts to continue working at 50% strength||State government has continued its earlier guidelines on work from home option for its employees. While staff in departments that are crucial to ensure essential services will function at full strength, the rest of the departments will continue to operate at 50% strength.  All staff in crucial departments including Health And Family Welfare, Medical Education Department, Home, Revenue, Labour, Rural Development & Panchayat Raj, Women & Child Development will work from office, according to a circular issued by Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar. As for the rest of the departments, only group 'A' officials will come to work while B, C and D groups will work on a rotational basis on 50% strength, unless otherwise demanded by their superiors, the circular stated. Further, differently-abled employees and pregnant women will be exempted from having to come to office, the circular added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-depts-to-continue-working-at-50-strength-999314.html
19-06-2021||State||Open schools in batches, discourage co-curricular activities, panel tells Karnataka govt||Amid apprehension over the reopening of schools in the backdrop of a possible surge of the third wave of the Covid pandemic, the task force headed by eminent cardiologist Dr Devi Shetty, has suggested a slew of measures to be adopted by the government and educational institutions as and ‘when the government decides to open the schools after consulting the stakeholders.’ However, the committee strongly discouraged holding team sports, cultural activities, NCC, Scouts, science meets at schools keeping in mind the possible infection due to lack of social distancing. In its detailed interim report, the committee recommended measures to address both the situation—the preparatory phase (Before inviting kids to schools) and the implementation phase (with kids on the campus). The experts opined that the reopening of schools ‘should mainly aim for school connectedness, psycho-social well-being and stress-free learning to the children.’ The committee also recommended the appointment of a counsellor and a medical nurse in every school. Before opening the schools, the managements have to thoroughly clean the premises and sanitise the buildings by displaying pictorial signs of hygiene rules in a child-friendly manner. All the rooms including classrooms, staff rooms, libraries shall be properly ventilated. Furniture shall be arranged with adequate spacing. A sick room shall be set up with basic medicine and personal protection equipment. Schools must circulate Covid-19 symptoms related information among all stakeholders through e-mails, telephonic calls, letters and folios. Phased reopening Leaving the decision on the opening of schools to the discretion of the state government, the committee recommended reopening in a staggered manner. “Schools must open in batches with elder students joining first. If there is space constraint, the students shall be divided into batches and called in different batches in different shifts or alternative days or in staggered times,” the committee recommended. Experts also suggested the usage of the outdoor area like school ground for conducting classes. All schools have been recommended to maintain at least 1 meter of distance between two individuals on their premises. All visitors shall be restricted to the schools and communication with the parents shall be carried out only in digital format. Children below the age of 5-years should be assisted and watched carefully for breathing difficulties while using themasks.  Vaccination The panel has recommended that vaccination in the state should be completed in the next three-four months. It has suggested to consider involving the private sector for large scale-free vaccination to prevent crowding outside hospitals. The unused vaccine must be diverted to alternate vaccination centres, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/open-schools-in-batches-discourage-co-curricular-activities-panel-tells-karnataka-govt-999329.html
19-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 5,783 new Covid-19 cases, 168 deaths||Karnataka reported 5,783 new Covid-19 cases and 168 fatalities on Friday, taking the total number of infections to 27.96 lakh and the toll to 33,602. The day also saw 15,290 discharges, continuing to outnumber fresh cases, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 26,25,447. Out of 5,783 new cases reported on Friday, 1,100 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 6,160 discharges and 39 deaths, a health department bulletin said. The total number of active cases stood at 1,37,050. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 4.05 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 2.90 per cent. Out of 168 deaths reported on Friday, 39 were from Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru (15), Dakshina Kannada and Ballari (14), Davangere (10), Dharwad (9), followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 1,100, Dakshina Kannada 1,006, Mysuru 551, Hassan 390, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases with a total of 12,03,063, followed by Mysuru 1,60,944 and Tumakuru 1,13,359. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 11,13,808, followed by Mysuru 1,50,619and Tumakuru 1,08,276. Cumulatively a total of 3,23,93,253 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,42,498 were done on Friday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-5783-new-covid-19-cases-168-deaths-999092.html
19-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||People in flood prone villages in Karnataka will be shifted to other places, says B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday said people living in flood prone villages will be shifted to nearby safer places as monsoon has set in with heavy rains in many parts of the state. According to the state government, there are 1,710 flood prone villages in the state. "We have given instructions to district authorities to take precautionary measures in view of possible floods.We have to ensure that no further damage happens in coming days and people in villages prone to floods are shifted to nearby high altitude places," Yediyurappa told reporters after a meeting with officials of 20 districts, Karnataka Disaster Management Authority and Water Resource Department. He said the monsoon has set in very early. Everywhere all the water bodies are getting filled and sowing is happening on a large-scale in the state, he added. Yediyurappa said district authorities have made adequate arrangements to mitigate floods and arrangements have been made for the deployment of National Disaster Response Force and helicopters, wherever needed. Later, an official press release said that for the first time the State Flood Management Action Plan-2021 has been prepared. According to the release, 1,710 villages have been identified as flood prone and gram panchayat level disaster management action plan has been developed and training imparted regarding its implementation. Further, interstate coordination to facilitate information exchange on the flow of water to reservoirs required in order to manage flood situation has been established and task force, operational teams and WhatsApp groups have been created to manage the flood situation. The government said the flood forecast cell has been established at the Karnataka state Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre and material required for rescue operations has been mobilised and provided. Four NDRF teams have been deployed for rescue operations in Raichur, Kodagu, Belagavi and Dakshina Kannada districts.SDRF teams consisting of more than 200 personnel have been strengthened with necessary equipment for the rescue operations, the government said. It added that around Rs.1,000 crore fund is available with the Deputy Commissioners in various districts for disaster management.Apart from protecting people and livestock, precautions should also be taken about Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/people-in-flood-prone-villages-in-karnataka-will-be-shifted-to-other-places-says-b-s-yediyurappa-999243.html
19-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM announces Unlock 2.0: More relaxations announced in 16 districts||Karnataka has further relaxed the Covid-19 restrictions in 16 districts, including Bengaluru, starting from June 21, allowing all shops to function and public transport to resume operations.   These 16 districts are those where the Covid-19 positivity rate is below 5 per cent, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said.  In these 16 districts, shops will be open from 6 am to 5 pm beginning Monday. The government has also decided to operate public transport including bus and metro with 50 per cent capacity. The new rules will be applicable in Bengaluru Urban, Uttara Kannada, Belagavi, Mandya, Koppala, Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru, Kolar, Gadag, Raichur, Bagalkot , Kalaburagi, Haveri, Ramanagara, Yadgir and Bidar. Hotels, clubs and restaurants will be open for service until 5 pm with 50 per cent seating, but liquor will not be permitted. Lodges and resorts will be permitted to take bookings up to 50 per cent, while gyms will also be allowed to function at half capacity. All these places will have to ensure that they do not run the air conditioning, he said. Outdoor sports activities will be allowed without spectators, while outdoor film shooting has also been given permission. Private offices can function up to half their capacity, Yediyurappa said. However, there will be a curfew in place between 7 pm and 5 am on weekdays and a weekend curfew will be in place from 7 pm on Friday evening to 5 am on Monday morning throughout the state. Swimming pools, places of worship, political events, educational institutions, shopping malls, pubs and amusement parks will continue to remain shut. As for the rest of the districts that have a positivity rate of more than 5 per cent, the existing relaxation which was in place from June 11, will apply. Mysuru, where the positivity rate is more than 10 per cent, will continue to remain under a strict lockdown until July 5. Yediyurappa said the relaxation of the lockdown was done in the interest of businesses and to protect the livelihoods of small enterprises. "The Covid pandemic threat still looms large upon us. I request the public to cooperate and wear masks in public places," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-announces-unlock-20-more-relaxations-announced-in-16-districts-999267.html
19-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 5,815 Covid-19 new cases, 161 deaths||Karnataka on Saturday recorded 5,815 fresh coronavirus cases and 161 deaths, taking the infection count to 28,01,936 and toll to 33,763, the health department said. The state has 1,30,872 active cases whereas the total discharges stood at 26,37,279 with the recovery of 11,832 people. Bengaluru Urban district reported 1,263 fresh infections and 23 fatalities today. The city has so far recorded 12,04,326 infections and 15,433 deaths. There were 72,263 active cases. The positivity rate for the day was 3.38 per cent and Case Fatality Rate was 2.76 per cent. Dakshina Kannada district was the second major Covid hotspot of the day with 832 fresh cases and 16 deaths. According to the health bulletin, there were 594 new cases in Mysuru, 391 in Hassan, 223 in Shivamogga, 222 in Belagavi, 208 in Mandya, 194 in Davangere, 182 in Tumakuru, 177 in Chikkamagaluru, 174 in Udupi and 161 in Bengaluru Rural. Fresh cases above 100 were reported in Ballari, Chamarajanagar, Chikkaballapura, Chitradurga, Kodagu, Kolar and Uttara Kannada. Bidar, Yadgir and Bagalkote, reported zero fatalities and lowest infections of three, five and 16, respectively. The department said there were 17 deaths in Mysuru, 11 in Davangere, 10 in Ballari, eight each in Belagavi, Dharwad and Mandya, seven each in Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga, six each in Kolar and Haveri and five deaths in Uttara Kannada. Fatalities were reported in 13 other districts as well whereas there were zero fatalities in four districts. The state conducted 1,71,765 Covid tests including 1,24,952 using the RT-PCR method on Saturday. So far 3.18 crore tests were done cumulatively, the department added. As many as 1.83 crore inoculations have been done in the state, comprising first and second dose of vaccine including 2,06,539 on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-5815-covid-19-new-cases-161-deaths-999298.html
19-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Make Lingayat leader from north Karnataka as CM: Seer demands from BJP||Kudalasangama-based Panchamasali Mutt Seer Jagadguru Basava Jaya Mrityunjaya Swami demanded from the BJP to accord chief minister post to a leader from Lingayat community belonging to North Karnataka if B S Yediyurappa has to be replaced. Speaking to media persons after distributing food packets to corona-warriors and caretakers of Covid patients in the premises of the general hospital in Harihar town on Saturday, he said talks regarding a change in Karnataka CM are doing the rounds. If a change of leadership is inevitable, BJP high command must make Lingayat leader from north Karnataka as next chief minister, he said.  He said north Karnataka is deprived of development over the last several decades. Leaders of north Karnataka need political power to implement projects related to irrigation and agriculture as part of social justice, he added.  He said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had sought time till September 15 to provide 2A reservation benefits to Panchamasali community. He exuded confidence that the chief minister would announce reservation to Panchamasali community before the deadline.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/make-lingayat-leader-from-north-karnataka-as-cm-seer-demands-from-bjp-999326.html
19-06-2021||West||Maharashtra govt to launch Covid-19 vaccination drive for 30-44 age group from June 19||The Maharashtra government will be starting a special Covid-19 inoculation drive for 30-44 years age group from Saturday, an official said here. Until now, the inoculation of 18-44 age group is taking place largely at private hospitals. The state had demanded permission from the Union government to start special drive for 30-44 age group as it largely covers the working sections of population which would enable further relaxation of restrictions on shops, businesses and commercial activities, said a senior health department official. Co-WIN app will have a new category of 30-44 age group, but people in this category can also register themselves directly at the state-run vaccination centers. "People can register themselves on Co-WIN or carry necessary documents and get registered at the state-run vaccination centers directly," said the official. The Maharashtra government has been allocated 72 lakh vials of vaccines this month of which 25 lakh have been received and distributed. "With increased supply, we want to prioritise the working class," the official said. "Private hospitals will continue vaccination of 18-44 age group as per their schedule," he added. The vaccination of above 45 age group will also continue as vials for this category are supplied by the Union government separately, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-to-launch-covid-19-vaccination-drive-for-30-44-age-group-from-june-19-999095.html
19-06-2021||West||CRPF deployed outside NIA office in Mumbai||A day after the National Investigation Agency arrested former police officer Pradeep Sharma in the case of explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house and the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran, teams of CRPF were deployed outside its office in South Mumbai on Friday. Sharma, famous as `encounter specialist' when he was in the Mumbai police force, was the fifth serving or former police official to be arrested in the case. In view of the latest developments in the probe, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) teams were deployed outside the NIA's Cumballa Hill office where the accused are lodged, a police official said. CRPF teams besides local police had also accompanied NIA sleuths on Thursday when they searched Sharma's house in J B Nagar in suburban Andheri East, he said. Some more persons are likely to be arrested in the next few days and the NIA is taking utmost precautions for security of the arrested persons, he added. The view of the main entrance of the building where the NIA office is located has also been blocked, the official added. The NIA has got custody of Sharma and two others from a court here till June 28 after their arrests. The agency told the court that Hiran, who had claimed that the SUV found near Ambani's house had been stolen from his possession, was killed at the behest of Sharma and co-accused and dismissed police officer Sachin Waze.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/crpf-deployed-outside-nia-office-in-mumbai-999098.html
19-06-2021||West||Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani condoles death of DPIIT Secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday condoled the death of Department of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) Secretary and Gujarat IAS officer Guruprasad Mohapatra, who died of Covid-19-related complications. Mohapatra succumbed to Covid-19-related complications at AIIMS, New Delhi earlier in the day. Rupani in a statement said the death of Mohapatra, a Gujarat cadre IAS officer of 1986 batch, will be deeply felt. The Chief Minister prayed for peace of the departed soul and prayed for strength to Mohapatra's family to bear the grief, the statement said. While serving as the Ahmedabad municipal commissioner, Mohapatra was appointed as the joint secretary in the Union commerce ministry on central deputation in September, 2014. He also served as chairman of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) before taking over as the DPIIT secretary in August 2019. In Gujarat, he served as the municipal commissioner of both Surat and Ahmedabad, and had been the managing director of state PSUs such as Gujarat Alkalies and Chemicals Ltd (GACL) and Gujarat Narmada Valley Fertilizers Company Ltd (GNFC). As the AMC commissioner, Mohapatra was instrumental in developing the Sabarmati Riverfront, BRTS, Kankaria lakefront, among other projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-condoles-death-of-dpiit-secretary-guruprasad-mohapatra-999186.html
19-06-2021||West||Four Western Railway players in India's Olympics hockey team||Four players of Western Railway have been selected to represent India in the Tokyo Olympics 2021. WR General Manager Alok Kansal congratulated the players and encouraged them to give their best. Deep Grace Ekka and Navneet Kaur are part of the Indian women’s hockey team, while Amit Rohidas and Nilakanta Sharma are part of the men’s hockey team. Out of the four players, three belong to the Ticket Checking cadre of WR’s Mumbai Division, while Ekka works as an Office Superintendent at Mumbai Central. Deep Grace Ekka and Navneet Kaur had earlier represented India in the 2016 Rio Olympic Games. They were also members of the Indian women's hockey team which won the Silver medal in the 2018 Asian Games held at Jakarta. Amit Rohidas was a member of the Indian hockey team which won the Bronze medal in the 2018 Asian Games. Rohidas and Sharma were also members of the Indian hockey team which won the Silver medal in IHF Hockey World Cup held at Bhubaneswar in 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/four-western-railway-players-in-indias-olympics-hockey-team-999239.html
19-06-2021||West||Sunil Deshmukh quits BJP, returns to Congress||In a ghar-wapsi of sorts, veteran politician from Vidarbha, Dr Sunil Deshmukh, on Saturday left the BJP to return to the Congress. Dr Deshmukh (63), a radiologist, was a minister in the erstwhile Congress-NCP Democratic Front government, serving under the late Vilasrao Deshmukh and Ashok Chavan. Dr Deshmukh joined the Congress in presence of party’s Maharashtra unit president Nana Patole and former chief minister, ex-Union Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde, AICC secretary HK Patil and Minister for Women and Child Development Yashomati Thakur, the Guardian Minister of Amravati. He is a three-time MLA from Amravati - he was elected in 1999, 2004 and 2014. Dr Deshmukh had quit the Congress after the party high command in 2009 denied a ticket to him and fielded former President Pratibha Patil’s son Raosaheb Shekawat instead. His return to the Congress gains significance as he is an important senior leader from Vidarbha, the bastion of Leader of Opposition and former CM Devendra Fadnavis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sunil-deshmukh-quits-bjp-returns-to-congress-999245.html
19-06-2021||West||Goa government most corrupt in country: Dinesh Gundu Rao||The government in Goa is the most corrupt in the whole country and the state is also mostly badly administered, All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Goa Dinesh Gundu Rao said on Saturday. Rao, a former state president of the Congress unit in Karnataka, is on a four-day visit to Goa to strengthen the organisation and prepare the Opposition party for the 2022 state assembly polls. "The Goa government is the most corrupt government in the country and the most badly administered state," Rao said, pointing to the chaos which played out in Goa last month, after more than 80 patients died of Covid-19 and the state led the country in the infection positivity charts. "It is a very sad state of affairs, whatever they have promised, they have not fulfilled. Economy of the state has gone down... Goa has suffered. People of Goa have suffered, youth of Goa have suffered. There have been no jobs," Rao said. Rao, who is also tasked with shortlisting of candidates for the polls, also said that the party would be "doubly careful" with the selection process, especially not ruling out the possibility of victorious candidates being poached by the BJP post polls. The AICC official said that the Congress was committed not to allow re-entry of the 10 MLAs who split the party in 2019 to join the BJP, but was non-committal about the status (of re-entry) of three other MLAs, who resigned from the party earlier and re-contested elections on a BJP symbol. Rao also said that when the party comes to power in Goa, it would scrap all projects sanctioned by the incumbent government, which were detrimental to the interests of the state and opposed by the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-government-most-corrupt-in-country-dinesh-gundu-rao-999274.html
19-06-2021||West||Federalism is the foundation of India: Uddhav Thackeray||Federalism is one of the pillars of India, Shiv Sena president and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said, adding that his party would continue to pursue Hindutva and work for the cause of Marathi-manoos. “We say Jai Hind first and then Jai Maharashtra,” Thackeray said addressing an online gathering on the occasion of 55th foundation day of Shiv Sena on Saturday. “The regional identity is important but at the same time we together are a nation…we believe in Hindutva, nationalism and patriotism,” Thackeray said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/federalism-is-the-foundation-of-india-uddhav-thackeray-999284.html
