20-06-2021||First Edit||Milkha Singh: A sporting icon par excellence||With the passing away of Milkha Singh, an eventful era in Indian athletics has come to an end. The outpouring of emotion from sportspersons to Bollywood celebrities, and from politicians to entrepreneurs, in the wake of the demise of the 91-year-old, is a reflection of what the legendary sprinter meant to our country. For generations, Milkha Singh, who succumbed to Covid-19 after a month-long battle on Friday night, wasn't just a one-of-a-kind Indian athlete— he was an emotion. His is not just the proverbial rags-to-riches tale of a young man from a refugee camp in Delhi going on to become arguably the biggest sporting superstar of his time. He was a symbol of India's bloodied past, which still evokes pain and anguish in equal measure. He ran for his life from Pakistan after watching his parents and siblings being killed in post-partition riots. Once in India, he ran to live. In between, he had a roller-coaster ride. At the refugee camp, he indulged in petty crimes and was put behind bars. It was only after three unsuccessful attempts that he finally made it to the Indian Army. It was in the army that Milkha's dreams of running competitively grew wings. That said, he was largely a self-made man. He not only made light of the obvious obstacles strewn in the path of an Indian athlete of that era, but also overcame great personal tragedy to inspire many Indians to take up the sport. For an Indian, Milkha's feats were unthinkable at the time. While his exploits in Europe, and at the Asian and the Commonwealth Games— where he breezed to golds— were exceptional, his fourth-place finish at the 1960 Rome Olympics in the 400m race has at once been an enduring romance and a never-ending melancholy. Having entered the race as a strong favourite to finish in the top-three, he missed out on independent India's first athletic medal by one-hundredth of a second. Barring PT Usha at the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics, who too lost out on a bronze by a whisker in the 400m hurdles, no other Indian athlete has come close to Milkha's Olympic exploits. While that does underline the greatness of an individual who excelled despite the system, it is also a sad commentary on the dismal state of Indian athletics even after so many years. Only six quarter-milers have bettered Milkha's Olympic mark of 45.73 seconds, but not one has been able to replicate his performance at the grandest sporting meet. Missing out on an Olympic medal tormented Milkha throughout his life, as it still does for all Indians. By way of tribute, India owes it to the Flying Sikh to break its medal duck in Tokyo next month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/milkha-singh-a-sporting-icon-par-excellence-999646.html
20-06-2021||In Perspective||Cooperative model is key in health crisis||A few years ago, while inaugurating a cooperative hospital in Kerala, the chief minister said that like cooperative hospitals, private hospitals should treat patients with a human face as they were giving priority to commercial considerations. This proved true to some extent in the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic at a time when the hospitals in many parts of the country were reeling under oxygen and bed shortage. Amidst excessive commercialisation with the exploitation of people as a stark reality, it was felt that if India had a successful cooperative health model, like Amul milk model, then a big crisis in the health sector could have been averted to a large extent. Can such a model emerge as a strong alternative to public and private health model in the times to come? Despite the government pumping in huge money and resources to promote private healthcare, the profit motive of the hospitals remains supreme. A healthcare system committed to provide ethical, reliable, high quality and cost-effective services based on care and compassion has failed to evolve, and the current wave of the Covid pandemic proved this point well. The cooperative health model in Kerala with a strong service objective has emerged as a key alternative to the woes of privatisation in healthcare. The cooperative hospitals in the state last year during the time of lockdown were working non-stop to serve the poor and needy. Endowed with most modern facilities, they implemented systematic steps in combating the crisis by tracing the victims at the primary stage and providing them all facilities. During the current crisis too, the cooperative health workers in Kerala were active in making sure that the slightest symptoms such as fever are tested for Covid-19. The cooperative hospitals were well-prepared to have an adequate supply of oxygen. If there were well-equipped cooperative hospitals in all parts of the country, then they would have definitely provided affordable healthcare and taken off the burden from the public and private sector hospitals which were grossly ill-equipped and badly managed to respond to the Covid crisis. The present crisis has badly exposed the lack of sustainability of our healthcare system in the wake of challenges posed by an increase in demand for health services. The resultant rise in health expenditure as a result of this, placed much pressure on public and private health systems, affecting their sustainability. Rather than solely basing on profit, the cooperatives are sustainable organisations which are owned and run by their members. They come as a response to inefficiencies in serving the interests of people, such as where services and products are unavailable, or not accessible. While milk cooperatives emerged successfully in the villages due to inefficient and exploitative milk supply chain dominated by private players and proved their sustainability during the lockdown last year when supply was badly disrupted. The government recently sought the help of the National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) to provide crucial medical supplies to the health sector. NCDC showed its commitment to lend Rs 10,000 crore to cooperatives to set up new healthcare facilities, or to upgrade the existing ones under Ayushman Sahkar scheme announced last year. The Centre also asked states to cooperate with NCDC for creation of Covid facilities A little shift in the government policy favouring cooperative healthcare is noticeable here, but it appears this has come late, as it will take time to show results. According to a cooperative health study, health cooperatives all over the world have grown in importance over the years as a reaction to the increase in demand for health services and growing difficulties faced by public authorities to manage rising public health expenditure. But, it is very strange that India has only 52 cooperative hospitals, and most of them are located in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. As cooperatives have proved their sustainability time and again as compared to other enterprises, they can provide long-term, fairer health facilities to people as compared to commercial hospitals. The National Policy on Cooperatives, formulated in 2002, has outlived its utility. It must now be re-formulated to promote setting up cooperative hospitals and the policy must focus on creating youth entrepreneurs in cooperative healthcare. If Kerala’s recent Cooperative Policy talks of encouraging cooperative hospitals, then why not have such a similar approach in the National Cooperative Policy? The National Health Policy talks only about promoting public-private partnerships, but it is silent on promoting cooperatives, even based on partnership model. The current crisis is a wake-up call for the government to give due priority to cooperatives in their health policies to evolve a sustainable healthcare system. If a cooperative healthcare structure in smaller countries like Italy, Spain, Japan etc was at the forefront in tackling Covid, then why can’t this happen in India, which boasts of the largest cooperative movement in the world? The cooperatives must not be discriminated instead they should be given a level playing field to prove themselves. (The writer is Deputy Director, National Cooperative Union of India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/cooperative-model-is-key-in-health-crisis-999644.html
20-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bus services to all districts except Mysuru to resume on Monday||Bus services to facilitate inter-district travel will resume from Monday across Karnataka, except for Mysuru, which continues to be under lockdown. Inter-state buses will remain off the road for some time. The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) said 3,000 buses will be deployed on the first day of operations. "KSRTC will commence local and inter-district long route bus operations based on traffic density and need," the chief traffic manager said in a statement. A decision on inter-state bus operations will be taken in the coming days based on the guidelines issued by the respective states, he added. All four road transport corporations (RTCs) have directed their employees to report to work after testing negative in the RTPCR test within the last 72 hours. Besides making masks mandatory, some depot managers have also advised the staffers on long routes to bring food from home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bus-services-to-all-districts-except-mysuru-to-resume-on-monday-999533.html
20-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Father dies hours after daughter dies by suicide in Mandya||Shocked over the suicide of his teenage daughter, a man died of cardiac arrest within a few hours, at Talagavadi village, Malavalli taluk, Mandya district, on Sunday. Her father K Raju (65), who was shocked to find his daughter T R Bhandavya (17) hanging on the wee hours of Sunday, died of cardiac arrest a few hours later. The death of the Father-daughter duo has been reported on 'Father's Day'. It is said that Bhandavya was upset that she was not admitted to a private college, and had taken the extreme step. Raju was a farmer and had five children - four daughters and a son. Bhandavya was the youngest daughter and was very close to her father. She had scored 93% in the SSLC exam and had done her first PU at Bannur Government PU college, in Mysuru district. Raju had admitted all his children to private schools and colleges. Bhandavya, who was very good at studies, wanted to join a reputed private college for a PU course and had an ambition of becoming a doctor. But, Raju told her to complete her studies in the government college. Upset over this, she had taken the extreme step, it is said. Raju was making arrangements for her final rites when he collapsed. He was brought to the taluk hospital in Malavalli when he breathed his last en route.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/father-dies-hours-after-daughter-dies-by-suicide-in-mandya-999549.html
20-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Lockdown relaxed till 2 pm in Chamarajanagar district||Lockdown norms have been relaxed till 2 pm in Chamarajanagar district. Partial unlock will come into force from 6 am on June 21. This will be in place till July 5. The number of positive cases are coming under control in the district with 98 cases reported on June 19. The positivity rate at 6.49%. The state government has announced the relaxations for several districts based on the positivity rate. With the relaxation, the stalls selling fruits, vegetables, meat, and grocery items can be kept open till 2 pm. The fair price and liquor shops too are allowed to function between 6 am and 2 pm. The roadside vendors have been given permission to resume their business. However, hotels and liquor shops have been limited only to parcel service. People are allowed to visit parks between 5 am and 10 am. While 50% of the employees can resume duties at factories, it will be 30% for garment factories. The autorickshaws and cabs are allowed to ply with only two passengers. The KSRTC buses will start services from Monday. Except Mysuru, the buses are allowed to ply to other districts with 50% occupancy. Speaking to DH, divisional controller B Srinivas said that the employees who had been vaccinated would be called for duty. They should compulsorily produce negative RT-PCR reports. "There will be no movement of private buses. No decision has been taken in this regard," said district private bus owners association secretary Tyagaraju.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lockdown-relaxed-till-2-pm-in-chamarajanagar-district-999555.html
20-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Warning issued as Kabini dam's water level rises||With copious rains in the Kabini catchment areas, the inflow into the dam was 13,052 cusec as on June 20. The outflow was 4,104 cusec. The inflow was 2,212 cusec and outflow 2,500 cusec on the corresponding day last year. In a press release, Kabini dam's executive engineer C B Suresh Babu stated that more than 4,000 cusec is being let into the river. The forecast predicts heavy rain in the Kabini catchment area. "There is a possibility of releasing more water into the river if the inflow increases in the coming days. The people living on the banks of the river downstream should take precautionary measures to protect their livestock and move to safer places," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/warning-issued-as-kabini-dams-water-level-rises-999559.html
20-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru gears up for PM Modi's Covid vaccination drive||Mysuru district has geared up for the state-wide mega vaccination drive against Covid 19 Lasika Mela to be held as part of the Prime Minister's Covid Vaccination drive for those above 18 years. The event will coincide with the International Yoga Day on Monday.  The district administration has made all arrangements with a target of 45,000 doses in a single day in the district. The vaccination for those in the age group of 18 and 44 years will begin. Those who have registered with the Cowin app will get their jabs. According to the Health and Family Welfare department, along with those above the age of 18 years, the Lasika Mela will also cover those above 45 years, health workers, frontline workers and others. Each vaccination centre will get a minimum of 150 vials. Vaccination will be held at government primary health centres, community health centres, urban health centres and other places. Beneficiaries are requested to bring their Aadhaar cards to the venue. The Mysuru City Corporation is also conducting a special vaccination drive for the government employees. Teams have been formed to administer vaccines for the employees belonging to various departments on the day. As part of 'Arogyada Kadege Namma Hejje' programme, a free vaccination initiative is organised for the residents of Krishnaraja Assembly constituency at JSS Public School at Vinayamarga at Siddhartha Layout in Mysuru between 9 am and 5 pm.  In a press release, MLA S A Ramadass stated that those who had registered their names for vaccination during the two-day drive at 19 wards under Krishnaraja Assembly constituency should get vaccinated on June 21 and 22. The residents of the remaining 18 wards of the constituency would be covered in phases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-gears-up-for-pm-modis-covid-vaccination-drive-999563.html
20-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Lockdown continues in Mysuru district till July 5||With the positivity rate still above 5%, the state government has announced continuation of lockdown in Mysuru district till July 5. The government has listed Mysuru district alone under category III as the positivity rate of Covid-19 is high. The government has directed to continue the lockdown for another two weeks. The districts with a positivity rate of less than 5% come under category I. The districts having over 5% positivity rate are classified as category II.  While 16 districts fall under category I, 14 districts come under category II. Mysuru is the only district falling under category III.  The people are requested to come out only if necessary. The shops selling essential items will be kept open between 6 am and 10 am. The district administration and the police urged the people not to move out unnecessarily.  Essential services like pharmacies, petrol bunks, ATM, fair price shops, milk parlour will be available. Pushcart vendors, milk booths and Hopcoms outlets are allowed to operate between 6 am to 6 pm and home delivery of items will be available 24/7. The government has not allowed operation of public or private bus services, taxi, auto rickshaws and cabs except while hired for emergencies. The movement of private vehicles has been banned unless there is an emergency.   No KSRTC buses  Though the state government has allowed operation of Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) buses with 50% of the seating capacity, strictly adhering to Covid appropriate behaviour in other districts, the buses can only pass through Mysuru district. They are not allowed either to pick up or drop the passengers in the district. Section 144 clamped With the restrictions continued, City Police Commissioner Chandragupta has clamped prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code between 6 am on June 21 and 5 am on July 5. The Commissioner has ordered to maintain social distance and warned against gathering more than five people. 'Abide by norms' MLA L Nagendra said that the people should abide by the guidelines and follow the norms. "There will be no relaxation in the lockdown norms till the positivity rate declines. The patients are consulting the doctors only after their health condition worsens. This has resulted in the high positivity rate. While normal and oxygenated beds are available, beds with ventilator facility are not available in Mysuru city," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lockdown-continues-in-mysuru-district-till-july-5-999567.html
20-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Rohini Sindhuri's non-cooperation caused deaths in district hospital'||Mallesh, a BJP leader of Chamarajanagar district, on Sunday termed 36 deaths due to oxygen shortage in district hospital as murders. "Official apathy led to the deaths," he said. The deaths occurred due to dereliction of duty, arrogance and non-cooperation of the then deputy commissioner of Mysuru Rohini Sindhuri. He visited Mysuru to lodge a complaint against her and submit a few documents at the office of the one man commission headed by Justice B A Patil who was probing the oxygen tragedy. As the office was closed, he would submit the documents on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rohini-sindhuris-non-cooperation-caused-deaths-in-district-hospital-999583.html
20-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hassan woman kills daughter, ends life||A woman allegedly killed her toddler and ended her life at Anemahal village in the taluk recently. Prajwala (26), wife of Mohan, is the deceased. She had allegedly strangled her two-year-old daughter Sadhwi to death and later hanged herself from the ceiling fan, according to the police. It is said that Mohan was Prajwala's second husband. The town police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-woman-kills-daughter-ends-life-999587.html
20-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rain recedes, but reservoirs continue to swell||After battering Malnad, coast and parts of northern plains for the last four to five days, the intensity of rain has come down significantly in the regions on Sunday. However, most of the reservoirs in Krishna basin and Malnad have continued to clock good inflow. On Sunday, 1.19,718 cusec of water flowed into Krishna river at Kallol barrage in Chikkodi taluk. Malaprabha and Ghatabrabha reservoirs received 36,073 and 33,799 cusec of water respectively. As much as 13 tmcft water flowed into Almatti reservoir on Sunday-the highest this year. With rains subsiding, the threat of floods in Krishna basin seems to have receded. All nine low-lying bridge-cum-barrages in Belagavi district are still under flood water. However, vehicular movement has resumed on Kallol-Yadur (Krishna), Malikwad-Dattwad (Doodhganga) and Sadalga-Borgaon and Yaxamba-Danwad bridges. The platform 1 of Londa railway station was closed for rail traffic on Sunday after the overflowing Pandari river and the overnight rain submerged the rail tracks. Tungabhadra reservoir in Vijayanagara district received 4 tmcft of water in the last 24 hours. Inflow into the dam on Sunday stood at 42,784 cusec. Reservoirs in Shivamogga- Tunga, Bhadra and Linganamakki and Kabini dam in Mysuru district continued to see good inflow on Monday following good rainfall in their catchments. Parts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga districts received intermittent spells of showers throughout the day. More wet weather The coastal and Malnad districts are likely to witness heavy rain for next two days. A yellow alert has been sounded in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Kodagu and Shivamogga districts till Tuesday, according to the IMD bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rain-recedes-but-reservoirs-continue-to-swell-999627.html
20-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Dhruvanarayan opposes Zameer's statement on Karnataka CM candidate||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president R Dhruvanarayan on Sunday said that it was not right on the part of Congress leader B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan to project leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah as the next Chief Minister repeatedly.  Speaking to reporters here Dhruvanarayan said, "The high command will decide the CM's candidate. It is not the time to discuss the matter. There is no faction in the Congress party and all are working together." "The people of the state are in favour of the Congress party. Zameer should not issue such statements which will lead to confusion," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dhruvanarayan-opposes-zameers-statement-on-karnataka-cm-candidate-999561.html
20-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Centre delaying nod to Mekedatu project: HDK||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy said on Sunday that the central government would be betraying the interests of the state, if it delays permission for the implementation of the Mekedatu project, under pressure from Tamil Nadu. Reacting to a statement by former chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, he sought a clarification from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on whether the Centre was delaying approval to the project, bowing to Tamil Nadu’s pressure. Palaniswami, according to reports, said that he had exerted pressure on the Centre against approval to the project. BJP MPs of the state should go to Delhi and seek an answer from the prime minister, he said. Recalling that the previous government under him had implemented the project, Kumaraswamy said it was still not accorded permission by the Centre. “Petitions were filed against the project. Considering all this, one is prone to suspect that Tamil Nadu and Centre are conspiring to block the project.” He also attacked the Centre for not including Kannada in a training programme starting June 22 on 12 languages - six Indian and six foreign - organised by the Lok Sabha secretariat. “Kannada should be included. Or else, we all should boycott the programme. The Centre ignores Kannada all the time,” he said. Despite the anti-Kannada stance of the Centre, the 25 BJP MPs from the state have not raised their voice, he said. “From this, people have to understand that BJP is fundamentally anti-Kannada. If this is not true, then I dare the BJP to correct the mistake (of not including Kannada in the training programme),” Kumaraswamy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/centre-delaying-nod-to-mekedatu-project-hdk-999632.html
20-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Not right to project Karnataka Congress CM face: Dhruvanarayan||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president R Dhruvanarayan on Sunday opined that it was not right on the part of Congress leader B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan to repeatedly project Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah as the next Chief Minister. Speaking to reporters, here, Dhruvanarayan said, the party high command will decide over the CM's candidate and is was not the time to discuss it. There is no faction in the Congress party and all are working together, he said. The people of the state are in favour of Congress party and Zameer must not issue such statements which would result in confusion, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/not-right-to-project-karnataka-congress-cm-face-dhruvanarayan-999649.html
20-06-2021||Main Article||For Congress: A roadmap for resurrection||The electoral outcomes of recent Assembly elections in the Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal besides Puducherry necessitates the organisational reforms in the Indian National Congress (INC, now on Congress) for its resurrection in the national politics. This has become imperative in the wake of dissenting voices by some of the senior leaders advocating similar changes in the party. The increasing political defections within the Congress is raising many questions on the party’s revival and its role in the governance of the country. No doubt, the party is suffering from twin problems— (i) crisis of leadership, and (ii) dilution of ideological commitment. Set in this backdrop, it is essential to analyse the contributing factors of the Congress’ declining role in the country’s politics and its implications on the party’s credibility. A closer analysis of the poll results in the four states and in one Union Territory (Puducherry) reveals some interesting insights for the Congress and to its internal democracy. The party failed in all the states except in Tamil Nadu where it shares power with DMK as a junior ally. The biggest setback is in West Bengal where the party could not able to open its account at all. Even in Kerala, where the party has 15 MPs, it failed to gauge the advantage of the anti-incumbency factor. In this scenario, there are certain lessons to be drawn to revive the Congress in terms of ideology, internal democracy, and institutional and leadership aspects. The party contested in 317 constituencies in all the four states and in Puducherry. It won 70 seats – that is, 22.08% of the total seats - the highest being in Tamil Nadu. Here, the party contested in 25 and won in 18 seats. Apart from Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, in Assam it could not be able to mobilise the voters’ support in spite of the strong anti-incumbency factor in the wake of anti-CAA and NRC protests in the state. Given these numbers, the Congress has to introspect deeply how it did fall from a strength of 145, 206 seats in 2004 and 2009, to 44 in 2014 and 52 in 2019 Lok Sabha elections. This is a big variation for any political party, especially the party with 134 years of existence with the role in the national freedom movement. The loss of 154 seats just in the span of 10 years for a party with 136 years of political history indicates that there must be some missing link with and within the party. The party has to widen the social base by increasing the diversity in terms of ticket distribution to walk the talk of its secular nature. It must make sincere efforts to regain the trust and confidence of Dalit voters. The dilution of SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) law is the single biggest factor for the Congress gain in 2019 assembly elections. The rising attacks on Dalits, adivasis, women and religious minorities by the right-wing groups give prospects for the Congress’ commitment to the secularism. Among 181 seats reserved for SC/ST candidates, the Congress has increased its number to 108 from 42 in 2013-14 assembly elections in these three states. Similar is the case with giving tickets to the women candidates. Second aspect is the practice of internal democracy within the party. Late party leader Arjun Singh once made a comment, “Earlier, there were many opportunities to contribute to the decisions, and even major decisions of the Congress were taken after going through the process of consultations and people used to accept it. But now this has fallen into a bit of disarray...” The lack of internal democracy is the cause of concern which emerged in the recent turf in choosing the chief ministerial candidate in Rajasthan. In 1999, the A K Antony panel report suggested recommendations for reforming the party’s internal decision-making process. Unchanged nature This has asked the need to devolve the powers of decision-making authority from the clutches of high command. However, the way the decisions have been taken in the recent assembly elections informs the unchanged nature of centralised decision-making process within the party. This connects to the factor of the nature of leadership of the party. The decline of the party’s structure was severe when Indira Gandhi suspended the internal democratic process. Later on, Rajiv Gandhi tried best with his leadership abilities to revive it. Since then, Sonia Gandhi has taken over the charge. However, it must be noted that the “party’s membership dropped from nearly 40 million in the mid-1990s to under 20 million at the beginning of the 21st century”. The party does not have the confidence or capability to build consensus over building alternative leadership with the people having grassroots connections as suggested by the Antony panel. Political parties are the institutional mechanisms which connects people to democracy. The expansion of party from capital cities to smaller towns, districts with a strong cadre through organisational restructuring is the need of the hour. A party basing upon a single man leadership does not augur well for the organisation as well as for the democracy. The electoral outcomes in Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan in 2019 indicated populist schemes played a role in attracting the voters, especially the farming community. The challenge with the populist schemes is that in case the party fails to deliver on these election promises, then it may cost hugely not only in terms of electoral outcomes but also to the credibility of the party. The heavy reliance on the populist schemes is counterproductive especially when it comes to regional aspirations. The party would do well by focusing on the necessary institutional reforms to build and develop an alternative leadership through decentralisation rather than emphasising on populist schemes to attain power in the states. These are critical for the party to resurrect in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections and in the national politics and governance. (The writer is PhD Fellow, Centre for Political Institutions, Governance and Development of Institute for Social and Economic Change, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/for-congress-a-roadmap-for-resurrection-999641.html
20-06-2021||National||DH Toon | Countrymen, learn to survive on water alone||India and its citizens are now cornered on various fronts -- the fear of the coronavirus, the struggle to get the vaccine, the rising petrol and diesel prices, and many more. Critics have rested the blame for the failures largely on PM Narendra Modi and the ruling BJP. As for the country's citizens, they seem to have been left to fend for themselves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-countrymen-learn-to-survive-on-water-alone-999399.html
20-06-2021||National||Petrol crosses Rs 97 in Delhi, diesel nears Rs 88 after another price hike||Petrol price in the national capital crossed Rs 97 a litre and diesel neared Rs 88 after fuel prices were raised yet again. Petrol price was hiked by 29 paise per litre and diesel by 28 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The hike -- 27th in seven weeks -- pushed fuel prices across the country to new historic highs. In Delhi, petrol hit an all-time high of Rs 97.22 a litre, while diesel is now priced at Rs 87.97 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. And because of this, petrol retails at over Rs 100 per litre mark in eight states and union territories -- Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. Among the metros, petrol is already above Rs 100 in Mumbai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru. In Mumbai, petrol now costs Rs 103.36 a litre and diesel comes for Rs 95.44. Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan near the India-Pakistan border was the first place in the country to see petrol hitting Rs 100 a litre mark in mid-February and earlier this month it also earned the distinction of diesel crossing that psychological mark. Petrol in the city is sold at Rs 108.37 a litre - the highest rate in the country, and diesel comes for Rs 101.12. Rajasthan levies the highest VAT on petrol and diesel in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The hike on Sunday was the 27th increase in prices since May 4, when state-owned oil firms ended a 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during assembly elections in states like West Bengal. In 27 hikes, petrol price has risen by Rs 6.82 per litre and diesel by Rs 7.24 a litre. Oil companies revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on the average price of benchmark fuel in the international market in the preceding 15 days, and foreign exchange rates. International oil prices have firmed up in recent weeks in anticipation of demand recovery following the rollout of vaccination programme by various countries. Also, the rupee has weakened against the US dollar, making imports costlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-crosses-rs-97-in-delhi-diesel-nears-rs-88-after-another-price-hike-999407.html
20-06-2021||National||India sees less than 60K daily Covid-19 infections after 81 days; 1,576 fatalities||India recorded less than 60,000  new coronavirus infections after 81 days taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,98,81,965, while the active cases further reduced to 7,29,243, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. A total of 58,419 fresh infections were reported in a day. The death toll climbed to 3,86,713 with 1,576 fresh fatalities, the lowest in 63 days.  The active cases further declined to7,29,243 comprising 2.44 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate improved to 96.27 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed.  A net decline of 30,776 cases has been recorded in the Covid-19 caseload in a span of  24 hours. As many as 18,11,446  tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 39,10,19,083. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 3.22 per cent. It has been less than 5 per cent for 13 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to   3.43 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 38th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,87,66,009, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.29 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 27,66,93,572 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-less-than-60k-daily-covid-19-infections-after-81-days-1576-fatalities-999415.html
20-06-2021||National||Woman goes to old age home as lockdown-hit son refuses to look after her||An elderly woman has been forced to stay at an old age home in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district after her son expressed his inability to take care of her because of his financial constraints due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Kiran Pardikar, aged around 60, lost her husband many years back and brought up her son by taking up a tailoring job. Her son later set up a bookstall near a court in Pune to earn a livelihood, but his business came to a halt last year amid the lockdown, Pundaliknagar police station's assistant police inspector Ghanshyam Sonawane told PTI. Due to differences with her daughter-in-law, Pardikar started staying separately for some time and her son arranged a room on rent and food tiffins for her. "The woman approached us recently seeking help to be sent to an old age home after realising her son's financial condition. We got new clothes for her and gave a letter to the 'Matoshri Vriddhashram' here to accommodate her," Sonawane said. When contacted, the old age home's manager, Sagar Pagore, said Pardikar came to their facility on June 11 with a letter from the police. "She is with us now. Her son also gave a letter saying he can't keep his mother due to his bad financial condition and requested us to accommodate her at the old age home," Pagore said. On Saturday, Pardikar told reporters that her son's financial condition is not good. "He is in a dilemma whether to look after his wife and children or to help me. He got a private job a couple of months back, but doesn't earn much. When my son was not able to support me, my room owner helped me with food grains," she said. The Covid-19 pandemic has severely affected many people's lives, the woman said. "People are losing jobs and the government is not doing anything. I pray to God to keep my son happy," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-goes-to-old-age-home-as-lockdown-hit-son-refuses-to-look-after-her-999445.html
20-06-2021||National||Cow vigilante killed by cattle traffickers in Gujarat, 10 held||Police have arrested 10 people for allegedly killing a cow vigilante after he was crushed to death by a tempo illegally transporting cattle in Gujarat's Valsad district, officials said. According to police, the accused persons were part of an inter-state network wherein cattle from villages in Valsad were purchased and transported illegally to neighbouring Maharashtra, specially in places like Bhiwandi, Ahmednagar and Nashik. The incident took place on Dharampur-Valsad road early Friday morning when the victim, Hardik Kansara (29), a self-styled cow vigilante and local VHP volunteer, tried to stop the cattle-laden vehicle, the Valsad police said in a release issued on Saturday. After receiving a tip-off that a tempo carrying cattle was on its way from Barsol village in Valsad's Dharampur taluka towards Bhiwandi in Maharashtra, Kansar along with two associates and a police team followed the vehicle. The victim and his associates tried to stop the vehicle by blocking a road. In the process, the tempo ran over Kansara, who died on the spot, the police said. The tempo driver fled leaving behind his vehicle, from which 11 animals were rescued, the police said. An FIR was subsequently lodged at Dungri police station and 10 people, including the tempo owner, driver, and others involved in the illegal transportation of cattle, were arrested from different places. They were booked under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code, and provisions of the Gujarat Essential Commodities and Cattle (Control) Act and the Motor Vehicles Act, the police said. Out of the 10 accused, five people were arrested in the past also in cases of illegal transportation of cattle in Gujarat and Maharashtra, the release said. The accused have been identified as Asgar Ansari, Javed Sheikh, Jamil Sheikh, Khalil Sheikh (all from Bhiwandi in Maharashtra), and Ansar Sheikh, Hasan Ali, Ali Murad Jamal, Dharmesh Ahir, Kamlesh Ahir, and Jayesh Ahir (from Valsad district), it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cow-vigilante-killed-by-cattle-traffickers-in-gujarat-10-held-999446.html
20-06-2021||National||Reform is not achieved by questioning something one has 'taken advantage of': Khurshid slams G-23||Taking a dig at some of the G-23 leaders who have renewed their call for reforms in the Congress, senior leader Salman Khurshid on Sunday asked whether those calling for organisational polls have got to where they are in the party in the same manner, and asserted that reform is achieved by sacrificing, not by suddenly questioning something that one has "taken advantage of" over the years. Days after G-23 leader M Veerappa Moily stressed the need for a "major surgery" on the party to make it electorally more competitive, Khurshid said these "wonderful phrases" are not the answer as party leaders need to sit down and come up with solutions to the challenges that have arisen in the last 10 years. In an interview with PTI, Khurshid also said that it was for Rahul Gandhi to decide whether he wants to contest the party's presidential polls or not, but asserted that with or without being party president he remains "our leader". Asked about Kapil Sibal's call for widespread reforms across all levels of the organisation and Moily calling for a "major surgery" on the party, the former Union minister took a dig saying, "I am quite happy for the major surgery but what do you want to remove -- my liver, kidney, just somebody tell me what surgery you want to do." Khurshid, who is among the leaders considered close to the Gandhi family, said the "surgery" should be done on the party but it must be made clear what one will lose and what one will achieve by it. "These wonderful phrases are not the answer, we need to get to the bottom (of the problem), we need to get to the inside, before surgery, we need to do X-rays, ultrasounds," the 68-year-old said using medical analogies. The senior Congress leader said he doesn't understand when people say "let us do surgery, reform, bring about a fundamental change" and wishes that they would clearly explain what they mean by it. "If they mean that there should be a reshuffle and they should be given the top positions, then that is not reform or surgery. That is just saying 'I want the job'. So, I think there should be a conversation," he said. Khurshid asserted that the leaders calling for reform should have had a discussion with other leaders as well. "Why hasn't somebody talked to me and said let us do this for the party?...(it is as) if only they exist and want reform," he said referring to the 'Group of 23' leaders who had written to party chief Sonia Gandhi and sought extensive organisational revamp last year. But since then, out of that group, Jitin Prasada has switched over to the BJP while many have apparently distanced themselves from the group. Pointing out that the 'Group of 23' leaders, which included the likes of Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Moily and Sibal, had sought major organisational revamp, he said they only said there should be elections in the party. "Nobody is against the election, there should be an election. It would have been very nice if they had reminded us of which election they won to get where they are. If they reminded us of that it would be easy for us to understand," he said, taking a swipe at the G-23 leaders. "But someone who talks about elections who has never got anywhere with elections in the past I think is being a little unfair to us," Khurshid said. Talking further about the G-23 leaders' demand for organisational polls, he said they want elections at all levels and "I just want to know -- is that the way they have got to where they are". "Which party has elections at all levels in India? Elections at all levels in India, how useful, difficult and hurtful they have been, panchayat elections...We will have to have a separate election commission of the power that the Election Commission of India has because the Congress party is a huge party," he argued. There are many questions and leaders need to sit and talk about it, he said, adding that they certainly need not go to the press seeking reforms. On criticism that the Congress is in decline as it is not taking the path of reforms, he said many people who expressed dissatisfaction have done very well out of the system that the party has. Noting that every party has to reform from time to time, Khurshid said every reform doesn't come by suddenly questioning something that "you have taken advantage of". "Reform comes when you give up what you have received...say that I need to make a sacrifice because I want some change to happen. Therefore, the first thing that I will do is to give up what I have received to make an example to people, otherwise people think you are being hypocritical," he said in an apparent dig at the G-23 leaders. "You have got something, enjoyed it, and now you want more and therefore you are talking about reform. Reform means when everybody has to sit down" and think about what is required, he said. Asserting that there is no shying away from that election, Khurshid said it would happen but this is not the time to collect 5,000 people and get them to come and vote. On whether polls should be conducted for the Congress Working Committee (CWC), Khurshid said the Constitution of the party will dictate what is to be done and "we will abide by it". "I want to know how many people who want elections for the CWC were in the CWC by an election in the past," he said. "I am waiting for my leaders to take a call, they know what is good for the party, what is good for the country. I am not in a hurry," he asserted. Khurshid also pointed to the impact of coronavirus on the party for not going ahead with organizational polls and cited the loss of senior leaders such as Ahmed Patel and Motilal Vora to Covid as reasons for slowing down the process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reform-is-not-achieved-by-questioning-something-one-has-taken-advantage-of-khurshid-slams-g-23-999463.html
20-06-2021||National||Deaths due to co-morbidities also classified as Covid deaths: Centre tells SC||All Covid-19 deaths, irrespective of co-morbidities, are to be classified as deaths due to the virus, according to guidelines issued on October 9, 2020, the Centre has told the Supreme Court. The only exception, however, could be where there is a clear alternative cause of death, that cannot be attributed to Covid-19, for example, accidental trauma, poisoning, acute myocardial infarction, etc, where Covid-19 is an incidental finding, the Ministry of Home Affairs said in an affidavit. The Centre said any breach of the guidelines, prepared by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), would be a criminal offence as stipulated under Section 188 of the IPC.  “The guidelines clearly state that positive deaths, implicate deaths related to Covid-19. Further, these guidelines are in sync with the WHO Mortality Coding," it added. "It is mandated that any death resulting from Covid-19 has to be so certified that is, as Covid death, failing which everyone responsible, including the certifying doctor, will be responsible for penal consequences," it added. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had released guidelines on October 9, 2020, on the distinction between ‘death audit’ and ‘death certification’.  The Centre said the primary goal of certification of cause of death (death certificate) is to identify and correctly classify all deaths due to a medical condition (e.g. Covid-19) and to eliminate any discrepancy in coding so as to obtain true estimates of the burden of Covid-19 deaths.  On the other hand, ‘death audit’ is an administrative exercise to identify gaps that contribute to the deaths of patients. The aim is to improve the quality of healthcare services by suitable corrective measures to prevent/minimize future deaths.  However, States/UTs may continue using their own specific death audit proforma, provided it broadly captured the parameters as the indicative proforma, the affidavit said. The MHA said, in May 2021, the Office of the Registrar General of India (ORGI) has also issued guidelines regarding registration and recording of the cause of death, wherein it was advised that the death of the person should be registered within the stipulated time of 21 days.  The government's response came to the top court's suggestion made on May 24 that there must be a uniform policy and also some guidelines for issuance of death certificates for those affected with Covid-19 during the hearing of PILs by advocates Gaurav Kumar Bansal and Reepak Kansal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deaths-due-to-co-morbidities-also-classified-as-covid-deaths-centre-tells-sc-999464.html
20-06-2021||National||PM Modi congratulates Iran's newly elected President Ebrahim Raisi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday congratulated Iran's newly elected President Ebrahim Raisi, and said he looked forward to working with him to further strengthen the warm ties between India and Iran.   Iran's hard-line judiciary chief won a landslide victory on Saturday in the country's Presidential election, a vote that both propelled the supreme leader's protege into Tehran's highest civilian position and saw the lowest turnout in the Islamic Republic's history.   In a tweet, Modi said,"Congratulations to His Excellency Ebrahim Raisi on his election as President of the Islamic Republic of Iran. I look forward to working with him to further strengthen the warm ties between India and Iran." Congratulations to His Excellency Ebrahim Raisi on his election as President of the Islamic Republic of Iran. I look forward to working with him to further strengthen the warm ties between India and Iran.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-congratulates-irans-newly-elected-president-ebrahim-raisi-999471.html
20-06-2021||National||Lakshadweep admin moots proposal for shifting HC jurisdiction from Kerala to Karnataka||The Lakshadweep administration, which has been facing widespread protests from the islands' people over some of its policies, has mooted a proposal to shift its legal jurisdiction from the Kerala High Court to the Karnataka High Court, officials said. The proposal was initiated by the administration after several litigations were moved before the Kerala High Court against the decisions taken by the islands' new administrator Praful Khoda Patel. These decisions included revising standard operating procedures for Covid appropriate behaviour, introduction of the "goonda act" and demolishing hutments of fishermen for widening of roads. Patel, who is the administrator of Daman and Diu, was given the additional charge of the Union Territory of Lakshadweep in the first week of December last year, when the former administrator Dineshwar Sharma died after a brief illness. This year, as many as 23 applications, including 11 writ petitions, have been filed against the administrator of Lakshadweep and also against the alleged high-handedness of either the police or the local government of the islands. However, for reasons best known to the island's administration, which is under the spotlight over its handling of these issues, it has made a proposal for shifting its legal jurisdiction from the high court of Kerala to Karnataka. Efforts to seek comments from the advisor of the administrator, A Anbarasu, and Collector of Lakshadweep S Asker Ali did not fructify. Mails to their official e-mails and WhatsApp messages did not elicit any response to a question asking the rationale behind the mooting of the proposal for shifting of legal jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of a high court can be shifted only through an act of Parliament, according to the law. "Parliament may by law constitute a high court for a Union Territory or declare any court in any such territory to be a high court for all or any of the purposes of this Constitution," according to Article 241 of the Constitution. Section 4 of the same article mentions that "nothing in this article derogates from the power of Parliament to extend or exclude the jurisdiction of a high court for a state to, or from, any Union Territory or part thereof". Talking to PTI over phone, Lok Sabha member Mohammed Faizal P P said, "This was his (Patel) first attempt to shift the judicial jurisdiction from Kerala to Karnataka." "Why was he so particular to transfer it... it's totally a misappropriation of the post. The mother tongue of the people on these islands is Malayalam," he said. "One should not forget the name of the high court is Kerala and Lakshadweep High Court. This proposal was conceived during his first visit to the islands," Faizal said and asked was there a need for this and how could he justify the proposal. Faizal said there have been 36 administrators before Patel and no one had this kind of an idea. "However, if this proposal will see any light of the day, we will oppose it tooth and nail on the floor of Parliament as well as with the judiciary," the Lok Sabha member from Nationalist Congress Party said. He said the Save Lakshadweep Front (SLF) has been making appeals to the Centre for changing the administrator at the earliest. "The SLF is a non-violent people's movement which has been requesting the central leadership to change Patel with someone who can be people's administrator," he added. Legal experts from Lakshadweep said that Malayalam is the spoken as well as the written language both in Kerala and Lakshadweep and, therefore, the process could be streamlined. Shifting of the jurisdiction of the high court will change the entire judicial system of the islands as all the judicial officers are sent from the Kerala High Court because of the common language and script. Prominent lawyer from Lakshadweep, C N Noorul Hidya, said that she had heard about the issue of changing jurisdiction. "But that is not the right move. How can they change the jurisdiction when we share the bond of language and the court documents are accepted in Malayalam language only," Hidya told PTI over phone from Lakshadweep. She said that most of the people will be opposing any such move as that would virtually lead them to denial of justice. "One has to understand that the high court in Kerala is just 400 kms away whereas that of Karnataka is over 1,000 kms with no direct connectivity as well," Hidya said. Legal experts also opined that changing of high court would also mean extra-burden on the exchequer as all the cases, at present under trial, would have to be heard again afresh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lakshadweep-admin-moots-proposal-for-shifting-hc-jurisdiction-from-kerala-to-karnataka-999493.html
20-06-2021||National||Government to train 1 lakh rural youths on BharatNet maintenance||The Common Services Centers (CSC) and Telecom Sector Skill Council (TSSC) have joined hands to train 1 lakh CSC Village Level Entrepreneurs (VLEs) and rural youths on the maintenance of optical fibre under BharatNet across the country. The training will be conducted through CSC Academy, the education and CSR wing of CSC, and will focus on acquiring knowledge about optical fibre applications, splicing of optical fibre, installation of Optical Fibre Cables (OFCs), and entrepreneurship and soft skills, CSC, a special purpose vehicle under Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, said in a statement. Training will be imparted through an online mode with both self-paced modules as well as live classes. TSSC will provide certification to the trainees after an online assessment, said the statement. In July 2019, CSC was entrusted with the responsibility of Operation & Maintenance (O&M) of BharatNet Optical Fibre Cable, First Line Maintenance (FLM) of equipment and providing last mile connectivity through Wi-Fi. Since then, Fibre Restoration Teams (FRT) comprising more than 10,000 rural youths have been trained and mobilized for the BharatNet maintenance through CSC. “Through this partnership, we plan to raise a pool of skilled VLEs and rural youth who will provide last-mile optical fibre connectivity across the country under the BharatNet programme," CEO, CSC SPV,  Sanjay Kumar Rakesh said. It is our endeavour to support the government’s vision for a digitally connected nation and an ‘Atma Nirbhar’ India. Fiberisation is the backbone of digital infrastructure that is needed to drive this vision, particularly in the rural areas," Arvind Bali, CEO, TSSC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-to-train-1-lakh-rural-youths-on-bharatnet-maintenance-999497.html
20-06-2021||National||Bihar recorded 74,808 deaths due to 'unexplained causes' amid second wave; is state underreporting Covid-19 toll?||From January to May 2021, 74,808 people died due to unexplained reasons in Bihar, while the official Covid-19 death toll in the state for the same period was 7,717, according to the report. Recently, the Bihar government had put out a revised Covid-19 death figure as 7,717 for January-May 2021 after adding 3,951 more to the earlier announced figure. Since then, questions were raised if the state is undercounting the Covid-19 death numbers. The argument is backed by the huge difference in deaths recorded in the state for the first five months in 2019 and 2021. While around 1.3 lakh people had died in the state in January-May 2019, the number rose to about 2.2 lakh in the first five months of 2021, according to data from the state's Civil Registration System as reported by the publication. Majority of this excess fatalities were reported in May this year, the publication added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-recorded-74808-deaths-due-to-unexplained-causes-amid-second-wave-is-state-underreporting-covid-19-toll-999498.html
20-06-2021||National||Active Covid-19 cases wane in major cities as second wave recedes in June||India’s larger-than-expected second wave is firmly on the decline as fresh daily cases dipped below 60,000 on Sunday for the first time in more than 80 days. The figure is a far cry from the peak of more than 4 lakh single-day cases that India had witnessed in early May. June has brought some relief to citizens as the caseload has declined sharply and positivity rates have plummeted in most large cities, prompting several states to ease lockdown measures in a phased manner. Overall, the country’s active caseload has dropped about 62 per cent since the end of May, while the daily positivity rate has slipped to 3.2 per cent—a massive reduction from the high rates seen at the end of April, when about one in four people tested were found to be infected with the disease. However, the country’s cumulative case fatality rate—the ratio of total deaths to cases—has remained elevated despite the fall in the number of active cases, and stood at 1.3 per cent by Sunday. Of the major cities, Delhi’s active case load has fallen nearly 80 per cent in June in tandem with its positivity rate, which has dropped to a low of 0.2 per cent. The city had been one of the worst affected during the second wave of the pandemic as cases spiked uncontrollably and overwhelmed the city’s medical infrastructure. Active cases in Kolkata have also fallen 80 per cent since the start of the month, according to data from Covid19org. Kolkata currently has 2,118 active cases. Chennai has seen a its active Covid-19 cases plummet by 90 per cent this month from 33,922 at the end of May to 2,262 as on Sunday. The city has also been one of the fastest among major cities in second-dose vaccinations, fully inoculating more than 13 per cent its populace. The active caseload in Mumbai has seen a 22 per cent decline so far this month, but this is because the city had already seen a substantial 60 per cent drop-off in active cases in May. Ahmedabad has seen a fall of about 70 per cent in active cases in June, after registering a substantial reduction in May as well. Bengaluru still tops the charts in terms of active cases in the country with more than 70,000 still infected or under treatment, though the figure has halved since the end of last month. Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram has only clocked a 13 per cent drop in active cases so far this month, though the number is down more than 70 per cent since the highest active caseload the city had seen in the middle of May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/active-covid-19-cases-wane-in-major-cities-as-second-wave-recedes-in-june-999501.html
20-06-2021||National||India spent approximately Rs 2,386 crore on oral cancer treatment in 2020, study shows||India spent approximately Rs 2,386 crore in 2020 on oral cancer treatment, according to a study conducted by the Mumbai-based Tata Memorial Centre (TMC). This is a significant portion of the healthcare budget allocation the government made in 2019-20, towards a single disease. Without any inflation in costs, this will result in an economic burden on the country of 23,724 crores over the next ten years. Quoting Global Cancer Observatory (GLOBOCAN) statistics, TMC Director Dr RA Badwe said that the rate of new cases being diagnosed has increased by a staggering 68 per cent in the past two decades alone, making it a real public health crisis. “To add to this, accessibility to health services is low, which coupled with poor health literacy results in a majority of cases presenting with advanced-stage disease that is often difficult to treat,” he said. Approximately 10 per cent of the patients have progressive disease that makes them untreatable and can only be offered supportive care for their symptoms. Most of those who do receive some form of treatment are left unemployed and become an economic burden on their friends and family. Even patients with health insurance and/or government aid typically seen as immune to the cost of healthcare, face serious challenges as most schemes do not provide the actual amount needed for the treatment. This eventually increases their out-of-pocket expenses, pushing a significant proportion of the patients themselves and their families into a never-ending cycle of debt. A TMC team headed by Dr Pankaj Chaturvedi set out to conduct a cost of illness analysis that would provide invaluable information for policymakers that make appropriate allocation of resources towards cancer. Dr Arjun Singh, Research Fellow, Tata Memorial Hospital and the lead author of the study said that the unit cost of treating advanced stages (Rs. 2,02,892 ) was found to be 42 per cent greater than early stages (Rs. 1,17,135). At the same time, there was an average reduction of 11 per cent in the unit costs, as socioeconomic status increased. Medical equipment accounted for 97.8 per cent of capital costs, with the highest contributor being the radiology services that included CT, MRI and PET scan. Variable costs that included consumables for surgery in advanced stages were 1.4 times higher than early stages. With the addition of additional chemo and radiotherapy to surgery, the average cost of treatment increased by 44.6 per cent. “About 60-80 per cent of the cases of oral cancer visit their specialist oncologists at advanced stages. Multiplying the cost per unit of early and advanced cancer as per the study’s results, India spent approximately Rs. 2,386 crores in 2020 on oral cancer treatment, paid for by insurance schemes, government and private sector spending, out of pocket payments and charitable donations or a combination of these,” he said in the report. This straining economic impact of oral cancer treatment, strongly suggests that prevention must be one of the key mitigation strategies for addressing affordability.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-spent-approximately-rs-2386-crore-on-oral-cancer-treatment-in-2020-study-shows-999520.html
20-06-2021||National||Purusottampur block in Odisha's Ganjam district is now Covid-19 free||Purusottampur is the first block in Ganjam district to become coronavirus-free as the migrant-prone block did not have any active case as of now, an official said. During the second wave, 183 people in Purushottampur block have been infected with the virus since March 1, Block Development Officer (BDO) Bijay Behera said. The block has 96 villages in 26 panchayats and a notified area council. The highest active case in the block was recorded on May 11 with 21 cases. The numbers of infections have started to decline since then, Behera said. Of the 22 blocks in the district, Purushottampur is the first block in the second wave of the pandemic that became coronavirus-free as there was no active case in the entire block on Saturday, Ganjam District Collector Vijay Kulange said. Around 35,000 out of the 1.40 lakh population in the block had undergone coronavirus tests in the first and second wave, sources said. The BDO said the administration was now focussing on the vaccination drive in the block, which has achieved an inoculation rate of 62 per cent. A total of 6.92 lakh eligible people have taken the first dose in the district, while 1.16 lakh people have received the second dose so far. "We have launched 'mission zero', targeting villages as a unit to make the entire district as free from Covid," the collector said, adding that "Block staff have been working to achieve the goal." Over the next week, at least seven more blocks in the district are expected to be Covid-free as they have less than 10 active cases at present, another officer said. As many as 367 out of 503 panchayats and 3,030 out of 3,155 villages in the district have become Covid-free till now as the panchayats and villages have not a single active case, sources said. Similarly, seven out of 18 urban local bodies in the district have also become COVID-19 free. These are Aska, Belaguntha, Digapahandi, Gopalpur, Purushottampur, Rambha and Sorada. At least five more urban bodies are likely to be Covid-free in the next week as they have only one or two active cases at present, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/purusottampur-block-in-odishas-ganjam-district-is-now-covid-19-free-999522.html
20-06-2021||National||Vaccinate vulnerable tribals: NHRC to government||With the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdowns adding to the misery of 'Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups' (PVTGs), the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has asked the government to ensure vaccination of such groups with a population below 50,000 within two months besides conducting frequent RT-PCR tests among the vulnerable population. Issuing an 'Advisory on Protection of Human Rights of PVTGs amid Covid-19', the NHRC said the first and second waves of Covid-19 have affected various PVTGs across the country. "Many of the PVTGs have already been struggling against extinction and if Covid-19 infects some of the PVTGs, they will not be able to survive and it will be a great loss for the humanity and diversity of the human race," the NHRC warned. India has a tribal population of 10.4 crore spread in 705 tribes in 177 tribal districts. Out of this, 75 groups are further marginalised and are identified as PVTGs based on the existence of a pre-agriculture level of technology, relative physical isolation, stagnant population, extremely low literacy, and a subsistence level of the economy. The 2011 Census put the PVTG population at 17,02,545 spread across 18 States and the Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar. The rights body has urged the central and state governments to ensure vaccination of all the PVTGs having a population of less than 50,000 within 60 days by sending mobile medical teams. The rest of the groups should be vaccinated in due course. Community Resource Persons or ASHA workers should also be involved while carrying out special vaccination drives for PVTGs and they can assist in the registration of the PVTGs on the Co-WIN application. It also emphasised the need for frequent RT-PCR testing drives to be conducted at the doorstep while ensuring prompt delivery of reports with priority to be given to the PVTGs less than one lakh population. Medical kits also should be delivered to them. There should be strict guidelines for entry and exit of outsiders feasible in the core areas as well as in adjacent areas inhabited by the PVTGs to ensure zero contact. The provision of e-passes could be introduced for limited entry of outsiders on a needs basis. A dedicated medical team should be deployed in the nearby vicinities to render timely treatment of Covid-19 infected PVTGs patients followed by ensuring availability and outreach to hospitals fully equipped with equipment like ICU beds, oxygen cylinders/concentrators, life-saving drugs and injections, dedicated ambulance service, and proper isolation and quarantine centres. The NHRC also suggested doorstep delivery of free dry rations or food baskets or an equivalent amount of money transfer (cash in hand) in case free delivery is not possible. It also suggested a monthly cash entitlement and pension through Direct Benefit Transfer equivalent to payments made under the MGNREGA as an income guarantee assistance for loss of income during the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccinate-vulnerable-tribals-nhrc-to-government-999527.html
20-06-2021||National||UN body says new IT rules not in sync with India's international obligations, Modi govt says it empowers users||India’s new Information Technology rules are not in sync with global standards of rights to privacy and to freedom of opinion and expression protected by the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, three Special Rapporteurs of the United Nations recently wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government. New Delhi, however, countered the criticism by the UN Special Rapporteurs and highlighted in its response the well-recognised democratic credentials of India. The Permanent Mission of India to the UN Offices in Geneva in its response underlined that the right to freedom of speech and expression was guaranteed under the constitution and the independent judiciary and a robust media were part of democratic structure of the country. The UN Special Rapporteurs expressed serious concern over India’s Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, which was introduced on February 25 last. They wrote in a joint letter to the Government of India, arguing that the new IT rules might compromise the right to privacy of every user of the Internet. “We are notably concerned by the ability of executive authorities (under the new IT rules) to issue orders to access to user data and restrict content, which seems to take place outside of any judicial oversight mechanism that would hold authorities accountable.” The UN Special Rapporteur on Promotion and Protection of Right to Freedom of Opinion and Expression, Irene Khan, joined and Joseph Cannataci, Special Rapporteurs on Right to Privacy, and, Clément Nyaletsossi, Special Rapporteur on Rights to Freedom of Peaceful Assembly and of Association, to write the letter to the Government of India. They argued that a number of provisions of the new IT rules did not appear to meet the requirements of international law and standards related to the rights to privacy and to freedom of opinion and expression, as protected by Articles 17 and 19 of the ICCPR, which the Government of India acceded to on April 10, 1979.  The Modi Government in New Delhi, however, maintained that the new IT rules were designed to empower ordinary users of social media. “The enactment of new IT Rules had become necessary due to widespread concerns about issues relating to increased instances of abuse of social media and digital platforms, including inducement for recruitment of terrorists, circulation of obscene content, spread of disharmony, financial frauds, incitement of violence, public order,” the government wrote back to the UN Special Rapporteurs. The new IT rules came into effect on May 26. Several social media platforms and civil society organisations raised concerns over the new rules. On the traceability of the first originator of the information, the government said the new IT Rules seeks only limited information. Only when a message already in public circulation is giving rise to violence, impinging on the unity and integrity of India, depicting a woman in a bad light, or sexual abuse of a child and when no other intrusive options are working, only then the significant social media intermediary will be required to disclose as to who started the message. On the concerns that the rules may be misused deliberately to make a large number of complaints, the government said it was exaggerated and disingenuous and shows lack of willingness to address the grievances of the users of these media platforms while using their data to earn revenues, the government said.  "The Government of India fully recognises and respects the right of privacy, as pronounced by the Supreme Court of India in K S Puttusamy case. Privacy is the core element of an individual's existence and, in light of this, the new IT Rules seeks information only on a message that is already in circulation that resulted in an offence. The Rules have framed in exercise of the statutory powers of the IT Act, fully taking into account the principles of reasonableness and proportionality," the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/un-body-says-new-it-rules-not-in-sync-with-indias-international-obligations-modi-govt-says-it-empowers-users-999538.html
20-06-2021||National||Yoga can help people in post-Covid recovery: Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal||Practising yoga and meditation can not only improve immunity but also help in post-Covid recovery, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday. Speaking at the inauguration of the Centre for Meditation and Yoga Sciences here on the eve of International Day of Yoga, Kejriwal said in these difficult times, people are feeling the need for yoga more than ever. "In these difficult times, people are feeling the need for yoga more than ever. Yoga can not only help improve immunity in the body but it also helps in recovery post-covid. "Those who have survived a strong case of Covid-19, need to rebuild their physical and mental health. Yoga and meditation can do that," the chief minister said. The Delhi Pharmaceutical Sciences Research University (DPSRU) will offer a diploma course in Meditation and Yoga Sciences at the centre, he said. The one year (three trimester) program currently has 450 yoga instructors under training. "We keep hearing people talking about taking yoga to people, making yoga a 'jan andolan', a people's movement. India has taught yoga to the world, but how many people in India practise yoga," the chief minister said. He added that by October 2, the yoga instructors will be ready to teach the people of Delhi after three months of aggressive training. "After that if a group of 20-30 people from a locality want to learn yoga, we will provide them with instructors," he said. While the main centre for this diploma course will be housed at DPSRU, several satellite centres will also be set up across Delhi schools which will host two-hour evening sessions three days a week. Any student who has taken any stream in Class 12 can opt for this diploma course after graduating from school, the Delhi government had earlier said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-can-help-people-in-post-covid-recovery-delhi-chief-minister-arvind-kejriwal-999542.html
20-06-2021||National||Former Afghan president says US failed in war-torn country||Afghanistan's former president said Sunday the US came to his country to fight extremism and bring stability to his war-tortured nation and is leaving nearly 20 years later having failed at both. In an interview with The Associated Press just weeks before the last US and NATO troops leave Afghanistan, ending their forever war, Hamid Karzai said extremism is at its “highest point” and the departing troops are leaving behind a disaster. “The international community came here 20 years ago with this clear objective of fighting extremism and bringing stability...but extremism is at the highest point today. So they have failed,” he said. Their legacy is a war-ravaged nation in “total disgrace and disaster." “We recognise as Afghans all our failures, but what about the bigger forces and powers who came here for exactly that purpose? Where are they leaving us now?" he asked and answered: "In total disgrace and disaster.” Still, Karzai, who had a conflicted relationship with the US during his 13-year rule, wanted the troops to leave, saying Afghans were united behind an overwhelming desire for peace and needed now to take responsibility for their future. “We will be better off without their military presence,” he said. “I think we should defend our own country and look after our own lives...Their presence (has given us) what we have now...We don't want to continue with this misery and indignity that we are facing. It is better for Afghanistan that they leave.” Karzai's rule followed the overthrow of the Taliban in 2001 by a US-led coalition that launched its invasion to hunt down and destroy the al-Qaida network and its leader, Osama bin Laden, blamed for the 9/11 attacks on America. During Karzai's rule, women re-emerged, girls again attended school, a vibrant, young civil society emerged, new high-rises went up in the capital Kabul and roads and infrastructure were built. But his rule was also characterised by allegations of widespread corruption, a flourishing drug trade and in the final years relentless quarrels with Washington that continue even until today. “The (US/NATO military) campaign was not against extremism or terrorism, the campaign was more against Afghan villages and hopes; putting Afghan people in prisons, creating prisons in our own country...and bombing all villages. That was very wrong.” In April, when President Joe Biden announced the final withdrawal of the remaining 2,500-3,500 troops, he said America was leaving having achieved its goals. Al-Qaida had been greatly diminished and bin Laden was dead. America no longer needed boots on the ground to fight the terrorist threats that might emanate from Afghanistan, he said. Still, the US' attempts to bring about a political end to the decades of war have been elusive. It signed a deal with the Taliban in February 2020 to withdraw its troops in exchange for a Taliban promise to denounce terrorist groups and keep Afghanistan from again being a staging arena for attacks on America. There is little evidence the Taliban are fulfilling their part of the bargain. The United Nations claims the Taliban and al-Qaida are still linked. The architect of the US deal and current US peace envoy Zalmay Khalilzad says some progress has been made but without offering any details. Karzai has had harsh words and uncompromising criticism of US war tactics over the past two decades in Afghanistan. Yet he has become a linchpin of sorts in a joint effort being launched by the United States and Britain to get a quarrelsome Afghan leadership in Kabul united enough to talk peace with the Taliban. The insurgent group has shown little interest in negotiating and instead has stepped up its assaults on government positions. The Taliban have made considerable strides since the May 1 start of the US and NATO withdrawal. They have overrun dozens of districts, often negotiating their surrender from Afghan national security forces. But in many instances the fighting has been intense. Just last week a brutal assault by the Taliban in northern Faryab province killed 22 of Afghanistan's elite commandos, led by a local hero Colonel Sohrab Azimi, who was also killed and widely mourned. “The desire of the Afghan people, overwhelmingly, all over the country is for peace,” said Karzai, who despite being out of power since 2014 has lost little of his political influence and is most often at the center of the country's political machinations. Diplomats, Western officials, generals, tribal elders and politicians on all ends of Afghanistan's political spectrum regularly beat a path to Karzai's door in the heart of the Afghan capital. As the final military withdrawal is already more than 50% complete, the need for a political settlement or even a visible path to an eventual settlement would seem to be taking on greater urgency even as Afghans by the thousands are seeking an exit. They say they are frustrated by relentless corruption, marauding criminal gangs — some linked to the powerful warlords in Kabul —and worsening insecurity and few see a future that is not violent. Karzai had a message for both sides in the conflict: “The two Afghan sides, none of them should be fighting." While accusing both Pakistan, where the Taliban leadership is headquartered, and the US of stoking the fighting, Karzai said it is up to Afghans to end decades of war. "The only answer is Afghans getting together...We must recognise that this is our country and we must stop killing each other.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-afghan-president-says-us-failed-in-war-torn-country-999543.html
20-06-2021||National||PM Modi to address Yoga Day programme on Monday morning||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Monday morning address a programme to mark International Yoga Day whose theme this year is 'Yoga For Wellness'. "Tomorrow, June 21, we will mark the seventh Yoga Day. The theme this year is 'Yoga For Wellness', which focuses on practising Yoga for physical and mental wellbeing," Modi tweeted. "Around 6:30 am tomorrow, will be addressing the Yoga Day programme," he said. The Ayush Ministry, which is the nodal ministry for International Day of Yoga (IDY), in a statement has said that in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent restrictions on congregational activities, the lead event of the day will be a televised programme with Prime Minister Modi's address being the highlight. Scheduled to start at 6.30 am on all Doordarshan channels on Monday, the event will also include an address by Minister of State for Ayush Kiren Rijiju and a live yoga demonstration by the Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga, the Ministry said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-address-yoga-day-programme-on-monday-morning-999546.html
20-06-2021||National||Centre lost all sense of responsibility towards Covid victims: Congress slams Modi govt's ex-gratia decision||Hitting out at the Union government for telling the Supreme Court that it cannot pay Rs 4 lakh ex gratia to Covid-19 victims, the Congress on Sunday alleged the Centre has lost all sense of balance and responsibility towards people. The Centre has told the apex court that a compensation of Rs 4 lakh cannot be paid to the families of those who have died of Covid-19 as it is beyond fiscal affordability and the finances of central and state governments are under severe strain. In a tweet on Saturday, the Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "Power-drunk Modi government has lost all sense of balance and responsibility towards people. In an affidavit to the Supreme Court, the BJP government claims it doesn't have money to pay even ₹4 lakh as ex gratia compensation to families of Covid victims." Power-drunk Modi Govt has lost all sense of balance & responsibility towards people. "Does Modi Govt even feel the pain and suffering? No money for compensation to Covid-19 victim families but Rs 20,000 crore are being spent on Central Vista and a palace for prime minister. And where are the Rs 3,89,662 crore collected in the year 2020-21 from the loot in prices of petrol and diesel?" he asked in another tweet. 2/2Does Modi Govt even feel the pain & suffering? In an affidavit filed before the top court, the Ministry of Home Affairs said the Centre submitted that it has by ways of "Minimum Standard Relief", under section 12 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, taken several steps providing for substantial and speedy measures by way of increase in health, infrastructure, ensuring food safety to every citizen. On June 11 , the Centre had told the top court that issues raised in the pleas, seeking directions for ex gratia of Rs 4,00,000 to the families of those who have died of COVID-19, are "genuine" and are under consideration of the government. On May 24, the top court had sought the Centre's reply on two petitions seeking compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the families of those who have died of COVID-19 and had said that there should be a uniform policy for issuing death certificates to those succumbing to the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-lost-all-sense-of-responsibility-towards-covid-victims-congress-slams-modi-govts-ex-gratia-decision-999580.html
20-06-2021||National||Private tax body says many teething problems in new income tax portal||The Direct Taxes Professionals Associations (DTPA) claimed that many tax professionals are facing numerous problems or teething issues in the revamped Income Tax portal which was launched recently. The DTPA in a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman claimed about 40 problems in the new income tax portal for filing of returns. The DTPA has also urged the Finance Minister to extend by two months date for payment of tax under Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme as also date for furnishing TDS/ TCS statements and for other compliance which are due by June 30 as offices are non-functional in most states due to Covid-19 pandemic. DTPA Representation Committee chairman Narayan Jain said, "No option for Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme (VSV) altogether despite the scheme is still on for payments, unable to file TDS /TCS statements, form 10A for making application for fresh registration of societies and trusts etc, under Sec 12AB and 80G not also available in this portal while its last date is June 30." He told PTI that "IT acknowledgements and Intimation under Sec 143(1) cannot be downloaded, DIN Number is not getting auto-populated, IT payment challan numbers not getting validated, digital signature certificate not getting registered or updated, new incorporated companies or firms are not able to get registered, e-proceedings tab not working". DTPA president NK Goyal said that many taxpayers have got notices from National Faceless Assessment Officers and Faceless CIT (Appeal) but taxpayers are unable to comply in the absence of e-proceeding tab in the portal. Taxpayers are also unable to file Income Tax Returns for AY 2020-21 and of earlier years as there is no facility or options even for furnishing income tax return under Sec 148 or making application against issuance of notices u/s 148, Goyal claimed. Professional urged the government to resolve these issues immediately as the date for compliance is approaching. The income tax department on June 7 launched a new portal e-filing 2.0, which will make online filing of returns and tax payment easier. The new portal — www.incometax.gov.in — replaces the 'http://incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in' site, and can be accessed by taxpayers in various regional languages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/private-tax-body-says-many-teething-problems-in-new-income-tax-portal-999588.html
20-06-2021||National||RSS body holds global campaign for patent-free Covid-19 vaccines, medicines||The Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM) on Sunday said it held a global campaign to press for patent-free vaccines and medicines for Covid-19, joining hands with organisations of workers, farmers, small traders and more. While people in small groups held demonstrations in various parts of India and 20 other countries, holding placards and raising slogans that demanded patent-free vaccines and medicines for all, others joined them online, it said. "On the occasion of 'World Awakening Day', the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, along with several organisations of workers, farmers, small traders, industry, academic institutions and the civil society, organised more than 3,000 programmes in India and 20 other countries to support the 'patent-free vaccine' campaign," SJM co-convenor Ashwani Mahajan said. The US, the UK, Italy, Indonesia, the UAE, Malaysia, Sweden, Afghanistan, Nepal and Bhutan are among the 20 countries where people participated in SJM’s campaign and held demonstrations for patent-free vaccines and medicines for Covid-19, he added. “The programme was aimed at creating awareness on the issue and expose those individuals, companies and governments of some developed countries, and exert pressure on them to accept India’s proposal for TRIPS waiver to make vaccines and medicines free from patents,” Mahajan said. The impediment to the mass production of the Covid-19 vaccines is the patent law and intellectual property rights under the provisions of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) which do not allow other pharma companies to manufacture these vaccines, he said. Patent laws need to be relaxed, even if it is for a limited period of time, to increase the production of vaccines and medicines to save the world's 7.87 billion population from the clutches of the coronavirus, Mahajan added. “While people along with their representatives around the world are one on this issue and are supporting the proposal of India and South Africa for TRIPS waiver for vaccines and medicines, greedy companies and their supporter governments in some countries are creating hurdles in the smooth passage of this resolution at the WTO,” he said. While the world needs about 14 billion vaccine doses (1,400 crore) to protect people from Covid-19, only 200 crore were produced by pharma companies in the last six months, the SJM said. One billion is equal to 100 crores. “At the current rate, it may take another two to three years for the world's eligible population to be vaccinated,” it said. Though countries like Israel, the US, the UK and Norway have almost controlled fresh infections and deaths from Covid by vaccinating the majority of their adult population, most of the countries are still reeling under the pandemic, the RSS-affiliate said. “It is imperative to vaccinate all the people all over the globe at a much faster pace because no one will be safe until everyone is safe,” it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-body-holds-global-campaign-for-patent-free-covid-19-vaccines-medicines-999609.html
20-06-2021||National||Decision over flex-fuel engines in 8-10 days, says Gadkari||The government will take a decision over flex-fuel engines in the next 8-10 days as it is considering making these engines mandatory for the automobile industry, Union minister Nitin Gadkari said on Sunday while asserting that the move will help farmers and boost the Indian economy. Addressing Rotary District Conference 2020-21 virtually, Gadkari said that the price of alternative fuel ethanol is Rs 60-62 per litre while petrol costs more than Rs 100 per litre in many parts of the country, so by using ethanol, Indians will save Rs 30-35 per litre. "I am transport minister, I am going to issue an order to the industry, that only petrol engines will not be there, there will be flex-fuel engines, where there will be choice for the people that they can use 100 per cent crude oil or 100 per ethanol," he said. "I am going to take a decision within 8-10 days and we will make it (flex-fuel engine) mandatory for the automobile industry," he further said. The Road Transport and Highways Minister mentioned that automobile makers are producing flex-fuel engines in Brazil, Canada and the US providing an alternative to customers to use 100 per cent petrol or 100 per cent bio-ethanol. Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the target date for achieving 20 per cent ethanol-blending with petrol has been advanced by five years to 2025 to cut pollution and reduce import dependence. The government last year had set a target of reaching 10 per cent ethanol blending in petrol by 2022 and 20 per cent doping by 2030. Currently, about 8.5 per cent ethanol is mixed with petrol as against 1-1.5 per cent in 2014, Gadkari said adding ethanol procurement has risen from 38 crore litres to 320 crore litres. Gadkari said that ethanol is a better fuel than petrol, and it is import substitute, cost effective, pollution-free and indigenous. "It (making flex-fuel engines mandatory) is going to boost the Indian economy because we are a corn surplus, we are a sugar surplus, and a wheat surplus country. We don't have places to stock all these foodgrains," he noted. Noting that the surplus of foodgrains is creating problems, he said, "Our minimum support prices (MSP) of crops is higher than international prices and domestic market prices, so the government has taken the decision that you can make ethanol by using foodgrain and sugarcane juice." Petrol price in the national capital crossed Rs 97 a litre and diesel neared Rs 88 after fuel prices were raised yet again. The hike on Sunday was the 27th increase in prices since May 4, when state-owned oil firms ended a 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during assembly elections in states like West Bengal. In 27 hikes, petrol price has risen by Rs 6.82 per litre and diesel by Rs 7.24 a litre International oil prices have firmed up in recent weeks in anticipation of demand recovery following the rollout of vaccination programme by various countries. Also, the rupee has weakened against the US dollar, making imports costlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/decision-over-flex-fuel-engines-in-8-10-days-says-gadkari-999610.html
20-06-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Ban aerial photography first'||If Covid-appropriate behaviour is not followed and crowding not prevented, the next wave of the viral infection can strike the country in the next six to eight weeks, AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria warned on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-ban-aerial-photography-first-999637.html
20-06-2021||National Politics||PDP meeting underway to discuss Centre's invitation for talks||A crucial meet of the PDP's political affairs committee (PAC) – the highest decision-making body of the party – is underway here on Sunday to discuss the invitation of the Centre to regional political parties of Jammu and Kashmir for talks. The meet began at 11 am at PDP president Mehbooba Mufti's 'Fairview' residence at Gupkar. The PAC, headed by Mehbooba, includes party leaders Abdul Rehman Veeri, Mohammad Sartaj Madni, Ghulam Nabi Lone Hanjura, Mehboob Beg, Naeem Akhtar, Surinder Choudhary, Yashpal Sharma, Master Tassaduq Hussain, Sofi Abdul Gaffar, Nizam-ud-Din Bhat, Aasiya Naqash, Firdous Ahmad Tak, Mohammad Khursheed Alam and Muhammad Yusuf Bhat. Madni was released from six-month-long preventive detention on Saturday, hours after Mehbooba received the invitation, over the phone, for the meeting.  While Veeri and PDP chief spokesperson Syed Suhail Bukhari were present physically in the meeting at Gupkar, other leaders joined the deliberations virtually, a party leader said. He said the PAC meeting will take a final call on the party's participation in the meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on June 24. The prime minister's meeting with all political parties from Jammu and Kashmir is part of the Centre's initiatives to bolster political processes, including holding assembly elections, in the Union Territory. Invitations were sent out to 14 political leaders from Jammu and Kashmir, including four former chief ministers, for participation in a high-level meeting to be chaired by the prime minister, which is expected to set the road map for holding assembly elections in the Union Territory. These leaders of eight political parties -- the National Conference (NC), PDP, BJP, Congress, Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party, CPI(M), People's Conference, and the Jammu & Kashmir National Panthers Party -- were telephonically invited by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla for participation in the meeting to be held at the prime minister's residence at 3 pm on Thursday. This will be the prime minister's first interaction with all the political parties of Jammu and Kashmir since August 5, 2019, when the Centre abrogated the state's special status and bifurcated it into Union Territories. The erstwhile state has been under the Centre's rule since November 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pdp-meeting-underway-to-discuss-centres-invitation-for-talks-999476.html
20-06-2021||National Politics||MVA alliance for 5 years, not permanent fixture: Congress||The three-party MVA alliance, comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, was formed in Maharashtra for five years and is not a permanent fixture, state Congress president Nana Patole has said. His remarks came after Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said people would "beat with footwear" those who only talk about contesting polls alone without offering solutions to people's problems. Talking to reporters here, Patole said there was no clarity in Thackeray's speech about who he was referring to. Even the BJP has spoken of contesting elections independently, Patole said, noting that previously all the four parties - Congress, NCP, BJP and Shiv Sena - had contested local bodies and Assembly polls independently. "We formed the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA-in 2019) for five years to stop the BJP. This is a not a permanent fixture. Every party has the right to strengthen its organisation and the Congress has always given priority to providing relief to COVID-19 affected people by making available blood, oxygen and plasma at various places," Patole said. The Sena and Congress, adversaries for decades, formed government in Maharashtra along with the NCP after the Uddhav Thackeray-led party fell out with the BJP in 2019. In a veiled swipe at local Congress leaders, Thackeray on Saturday said people would "beat with footwear" those who only talk about contesting elections alone without offering solutions to people''s problems. All political parties should keep ambitions aside and focus on economy and health, the CM had said. Patole said Thackeray made the comments on the occasion of the Shiv Sena's 55th foundation day as the party president and not as chief minister. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said his party has always fought all battles of self-respect and pride of Maharashtra and the party on its own strength. "The Shiv Sena's path ahead is clear. Let others come out of their chaos as one leader of another party speaks of going alone, and another leader from the same party says it was not the party line," the Rajya Sabha member told reporters. He was referring to All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge H K Patil's comments made during a function on Saturday, wherein the latter asked the state Congress to focus on strengthening the party while the high command would take a decision on going solo in elections. Raut said the Shiv Sena, whether part of an alliance or not, has always fought on its own strength.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mva-alliance-for-5-years-not-permanent-fixture-congress-999496.html
20-06-2021||National Politics||BSP accepts Ambika Chaudhary's resignation; he hints at rejoining SP||The BSP on Sunday accepted the resignation of former Uttar Pradesh minister Ambika Chaudhary, who has hinted that he might rejoin the Samajwadi Party. Accepting his resignation from its primary membership, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) accused the former minister of "betrayal". Meanwhile, when asked if he would rejoin the Samajwadi Party (SP), which he had quit in 2016, Chaudhary said, "Ghar wapsi (homecoming) is always pleasant." The former state minister, however, added that he will convey his decision at an appropriate time after consulting his supporters. Ambika Chaudhary was a cabinet minister in the Samajwadi Party governments led by Mulayam Singh Yadav and Akhilesh Yadav but had joined the BSP in 2016. On Saturday, the Samajwadi Party (SP) had declared his son Anand Chaudhary as its candidate for the post of Ballia zila panchayat chairman and the minister too had resigned from the BSP. Accusing Ambika Chaudhary of "betrayal", BSP's zone coordinator Madan Ram said, "Chaudhary's resignation from the primary membership of the party has been accepted. Directions have been issued not to invite Chaudhary to party programmes." "If he has any morality left in him, then he would, first of all, make his son resign from the post of the Zila panchayat member and contest the bypolls," the BSP leader said, adding that his party will prepare a fresh strategy for the Zila panchayat chairman elections. Anand Chaudhary is a Zila panchayat member from Ward No. 45 of Ballia and was elected with the support of the BSP. The Samajwadi Party move had triggered a sharp reaction from the BSP legislative party's deputy leader Uma Shankar Singh, who accused Ambika Chaudhary of betraying the party. Accusing Chaudhary of "backstabbing" the BSP, Singh had said he has "indulged in deceit, showing his true nature". "When the SP had expelled Ambika Chaudhary, the BSP had honoured him and given him a party ticket from the Phephana Assembly constituency," he said. Ambika Chaudhary had said he was feeling ignored in the BSP. Polling for the election of Zila panchayat chairpersons will be held on July 3. The counting of votes will be taken up on the same day, the Uttar Pradesh State Election Commission had said in its poll notification earlier. Zila panchayat chairpersons are elected from among the elected members of Zila panchayats of various districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bsp-accepts-ambika-chaudharys-resignation-he-hints-at-rejoining-sp-999535.html
20-06-2021||National Politics||Former Punjab police officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap likely to join AAP||Former IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who was part of the SIT probing the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident in Punjab, is likely to join the Aam Aadmi Party on Monday, said sources. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will travel to Amritsar where he is likely to induct the former Punjab inspector general of police in the AAP. “Punjab wants change. The only hope is the Aam Aadmi Party. See you tomorrow at Amritsar,” Kejriwal said in a tweet in Punjabi on Sunday without making any reference to the possible induction. ਪੰਜਾਬ ਬਦਲਾਓ ਚਾਹੁੰਦਾ ਹੈ। ਸਿਰਫ਼ ਆਮ ਆਦਮੀ ਪਾਰਟੀ ਹੀ ਉਮੀਦ ਹੈ। ਕੱਲ੍ਹ ਅੰਮ੍ਰਿਤਸਰ ਵਿਖੇ ਮਿਲਦੇ ਹਾਂ Punjab AAP leaders also remained tightlipped about the likely induction of Singh to the party at Amritsar. Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh took premature retirement in April after the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashed a report by the earlier Punjab Police SIT into the firing at people protesting in Kotkapura in 2015 over the alleged desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib in Faridkot district. Singh was part of the SIT which was probing the 2015 Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan policing firing incidents. The court had then directed the state government to set up a new SIT without Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had initially refused to accept the resignation of Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who otherwise was to retire in 2029. But when the former IG-rank officer remained firm on his stand, the CM accepted his premature retirement request. The former police officer had assured the government of full help and support even outside his service in connection with the probe led by him in two cases of police firing. While quashing the report of the earlier SIT, the high court in its detailed judgement had ruled that the investigation into the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident, conducted by Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, was not free from “blemish” and his “personal malice and malafide functioning was demonstrated on record”. The court had also said the investigation conducted by Singh suffered from “malice, irrationality and absurdity”. The court had also ruled that Singh was a person who indulged in the misuse of his official position to further his designs. The single bench had also found that the IPS officer had investigated the matter in a “perfunctory manner”. “The report under Section 173 CrPC filed by him is more in the nature of a hypothesis proposed by the respondent No 3 (Kunwar Vijay) based on his assumptions and fantasies than being based on material or evidence,” it had said. It was the SAD-BJP government in 2015 when the incidents of sacrilege of the religious text and subsequent police firing took place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/former-punjab-police-officer-kunwar-vijay-pratap-likely-to-join-aap-999547.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||With Covid-19 curbs eased, India letting its guard down?||A few weeks ago, Delhi's crematoriums were operating around the clock dealing with Covid-19 victims. Now the Indian capital's shopping malls and markets are buzzing again. But doctors are worried that India is letting its guard down again, just like in January and February before a devastating coronavirus surge that led to a near-collapse of the healthcare system. Clutching a bag of clothes as she shopped with her new husband at the busy Select City Walk mall, Surili Gupta said she was "fed up being cooped up inside". "I needed this break, for how long you can remain locked up?" the 26-year-old sales executive told AFP as she waited for a table at the mall's packed food hall. "The coronavirus is not going any time soon, so one has to learn to live with it. I am sure with the vaccinations and all, we will be fine." Behind her, a big weekend crowd chatted and laughed over dosas and noodles, paying scant regard to public announcements reminding them about social distancing and wearing masks. A couple queueing at a popular burger joint squabbled, masks hanging from their faces. Mall staff performed perfunctory temperature checks and reminded people to sanitise their hands. Not far away, shoppers thronged the open-air warren of shops and stalls at Lajpat Nagar market, bargaining for scarves, bangles and cheap cosmetics. There was lively trade for food vendors, who sold kulchey-chholey -- and other favourites to punters, masks dangling as they ate. "I would not have come today but it was very urgent," Prerna Jain, 21, a college student who had come with her mother, told AFP. "My cousin is getting married and I needed to buy some stuff. I know it's not yet safe but what can I do? This (event) is equally important." Delhi saw horrendous scenes in April and May when coronavirus cases went through the roof, as they did across the country. Crematoriums ran out of space, burning bodies day and night, as gasping patients died outside hospitals, unable to get beds, oxygen and drugs. India's death toll more than doubled to more than 330,000, according to official figures. Many experts suspect the true toll is over 10 lakhs. The surge was blamed on new virus variants but also on the government having allowed massive religious festivals, state elections and crowds at cricket matches. Now, the surge is over and Indian authorities are loosening lockdowns, letting people work and shop again. On some days in Delhi now, there are no funerals for Covid-19 victims, down from 700 a day during the recent peak. Sandeep Budhiraja, medical director at Max Healthcare in the capital, said he was surprised at people's short memories. "People are just behaving as if nothing happened just about two, three weeks back. And this is... amazing," Budhiraja told AFP. But while this will likely lead to a sharp rise in cases, for a new "explosion" a new virus variant would have to take hold, he said. A new variant, Delta Plus, has been identified, which appears more transmissible and more resistant to treatment, he added. One reason for hope, however, is that unlike in January and February, the authorities are preparing the healthcare system for another wave, Budhiraja said. But vaccinations remain slow. Barely five percent of Indians have had two shots. "Until the country is vaccinated, with over a billion people getting vaccinated, there is no way we can ever think of the pandemic coming to an end," Budhiraja said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-covid-19-curbs-eased-india-letting-its-guard-down-999422.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||Can’t pay Rs 4L compensation to kin of all Covid-19 victims, Centre tells SC||The Union government told the Supreme Court that it cannot pay a sum of Rs four lakh as ex-gratia to families of all those who died due to Covid-19 as it would exhaust the disaster relief funds and also impact the Centre and States preparation to address future waves of the pandemic. It also submitted that the finances of States and Centre were already under severe strain, due to the reduction in tax revenues and increase in health expenses on account of the pandemic. In an affidavit, the Ministry of Home Affairs submitted that ex-gratia relief under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, to 12 notified disasters is provided through the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF), and the annual allocation for the year 2021-22 for SDRF, for all states combined is Rs 22,184 crores. “Therefore, if ex-gratia of Rs four lakhs is given for every person, who loses life due to Covid-19, the entire amount of SDRF may possibly be spent on this item alone, and indeed the total expenditure may go up further," it said. It further contended that utilisation of scarce resources for giving ex-gratia, may have unfortunate consequences of affecting the pandemic response and health expenditure in other aspects and hence cause more damage than good. “It is an unfortunate but important fact that the resources of the Governments have limits and any additional burden through ex-gratia will reduce the funds available for other health and welfare schemes," it said. Unlike floods, earthquake, cyclone, etc, during the ongoing pandemic, thousands of crores of rupees have been spent by Centre and states on prevention, testing, treatment, quarantine, hospitalisation, medicines and vaccination etc. “It is not known that how much more is required. Thus, Central and State Governments are taking all possible measures to prevent and prepare for future waves of COVID-19," the affidavit said. The affidavit was filed in response to PILs by advocates Gaurav Kumar Bansal and Reepak Kansal, who contended ex-gratia relief should be paid to kin of Covid-19 deceased as the Centre has declared it as a national disaster. The Centre maintained that due to its scale and impact, it would not be appropriate to apply the scheme of assistance, eligible for natural disasters, to the epidemic. The MHA said under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana Package announced in March, 2020, the government has provided insurance cover of Rs 50 lakhs per person. The MHA contended this insurance cover has been made available from the inception of the pandemic and it provides a sum more than 12 times larger than the sum being sought in the writ petition. Instead of Rs four lakh ex-gratia, the Centre said that a broader approach, which involved health interventions, social protection, and economic recovery for the affected communities, would be a more prudent, responsible, and sustainable approach. It also pointed out there was no precedent of giving ex-gratia for an ongoing disease or for any disaster event of long duration, extending for several months or years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/can-t-pay-rs-4l-compensation-to-kin-of-all-covid-19-victims-centre-tells-sc-999439.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi unlock: Bars, public parks, gardens to open from Monday||Bars with 50% capacity as well as public parks, gardens, golf clubs and outdoor yoga activities will be open in the national capital from Monday as the Delhi government announced further relaxation to the Covid-19 restrictions imposed in the capital two months ago following a surge in cases in the second wave. The relaxations came even as a large-scale violation of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour was witnessed across the capital in the past week while experts warned that such actions could speed up the arrival of the third wave. While dining in restaurants with 50% capacity was allowed earlier, the new Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) order issued on Sunday allowed bars, which were closed on April 19 night following the imposition of lockdown, to reopen from Monday. It can reopen with 50% seating capacity from 12 noon to 10 PM from Monday.  The owners of the restaurants and bars will be responsible for the strict adherence to the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), including ensuring wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing and would face strict penal action in case of violation as well as the closure of the facility.   The order made it clear that bars, markets, malls and restaurants may face closure "without loss of time" in case the positivity rate or the number of cases are increasing so as to "completely avoid and prevent any upsurge and likelihood of next wave" in the national capital. Public parks, gardens and golf clubs will be reopened while outdoor yoga activities will also be allowed, the DDMA order said. Besides the individual, the owners of the facilities, concerned Resident Welfare Associations, directors of Golf Clubs and yoga instructors will be held responsible for violations. Schools, colleges and other educational institutions, cinemas, gyms and spas will continue to remain closed while all kinds of political, social, cultural, religious gatherings will not be allowed. The prohibited and restricted activities will continue with effect from 5 AM on Monday till 5 AM on June 28 or further orders, whichever is earlier, the order said. "All district magistrates, district Deputy Commissioners of Police (DCPs) and other authorities concerned will take strict action against the defaulting persons, as per the applicable laws and rules, including the closure of such establishments, business premises, weekly markets, public parks and gardens," it said. Already, the Delhi government had allowed the opening of markets, malls and shopping complexes besides permitting private enterprises to open its offices from 9 AM to 5 PM. Delhi Metro services also started two weeks ago with 50% capacity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-unlock-bars-public-parks-gardens-to-open-from-monday-999454.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi relaxes more Covid-19 curbs: What's allowed, what's not from June 21||As the national capital continues to register a steady decline in new coronavirus cases, the Delhi government on Sunday eased Covid-19 restrictions till 5 am of June 28. With the close gathering of shoppers in markets and restaurants resuming business amid phased unlock in the national capital, doctors on Tuesday had cautioned that Delhi could face a "worse than second wave situation" of Covid-19 if people do not adhere to safety norms or lower their guards. Here is what is allowed and not allowed from today till June 28: * Restaurants and bars have been allowed up to 50 per cent of the seating capacity from 8 am to 10 pm and 12 pm to 10 pm respectively. * Public parks, gardens, golf clubs and outdoor yoga activities will be allowed. All markets, market complexes, and malls permitted to open from 10 am to 8 pm. * All schools, colleges, education/training/coaching institutions will remain closed. Online/distance learning shall continue to be permitted. * All social/political/sports/entertainment/academic/cultural/religious/festival related and other gatherings are prohibited. * All swimming pools will remain closed, except those being used for training sports persons for participation in National/International sports events or for organising events. * Sports complexes, cinemas, theatres, banquet halls, spas, gymnasiums, yoga institutes will remain closed.  Delhi recorded seven deaths due to Covid-19, the lowest since April 1, and 135 fresh cases of coronavirus infection on Saturday, as the positivity rate dipped to 0.18 per cent, according to data shared by the health department.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-relaxes-more-covid-19-curbs-whats-allowed-whats-not-from-june-21-999457.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||Roll-out of Sputnik V Covid vaccine delayed in Delhi||The roll out of Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V at Indraprastha Apollo and Madhukar Rainbow Children's Hospital in Delhi has been delayed for some days, officials said on Sunday. A spokesperson of Apollo Hospitals said the facility in Delhi will tentatively start administering the two-dose vaccine by June 25. An official had earlier said the hospital would start giving Sputnik V jabs by June 20. According to an official of Madhukar Rainbow Children's Hospital, there is a delay on the part of the suppliers. "We are expecting (roll out) next week," he said. Fortis Healthcare, which had said it would make Sputnik V available at its Gurgaon and Mohali hospitals from Saturday, also has not started administering the Russian vaccine so far. "The roll out did not happen on Saturday. We expect there will be some clarity on Monday," an official said. The Centre has fixed the price of the vaccine at Rs 1,145 per dose. The maximum price of Covishield for private Covid-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) has been fixed at Rs 780 per dose, while that of Covaxin is Rs 1,410 per dose. Russia's Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology has developed Sputnik V and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) is marketing it globally. Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy's Laboratories, the marketing partner for the vaccine in the country, has been importing the shots from Russia.  Over a period of time, the vaccine is also going to be manufactured in India.  Sputnik V uses two different viruses that cause the common cold (adenovirus) in humans. It employs a different vector for each of the two shots, given 21 days apart. According to Gamaleya and the RDIF, Sputnik V has demonstrated an efficacy rate of 92 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/roll-out-of-sputnik-v-covid-vaccine-delayed-in-delhi-999460.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||Low intensity earthquake hits Delhi||A low intensity earthquake of magnitude 2.1 struck the national capital on Sunday. The quake had its epicentre in Punjabi Bagh area at a depth of 7 km. It struck at 12.02 pm, according to the National Centre for Seismology. No loss of life or damage to property has been reported so far. The NCS has deployed additional earthquake recording instruments for close monitoring of seismic activity in and around Delhi after the NCR region witnessed a series of tremors from April to August last year. Based on the analysis of satellite imageries, the signatures of active faults have been observed at various locations like Wazirabad, Timarpur and Kamla Nehru Ridge in Delhi; Jhunjhunu and Alwar district of Rajasthan; Sonipat, Sohna, Gurgaon, Rohtak, Rewari and Nuh districts in Haryana; and Baghpat district in Uttar Pradesh. The National Capital Region of Delhi and its surroundings had experienced minor and small magnitude earthquakes during April to August 2020. The epicentre of these earthquakes were located in areas of northeast Delhi, Rohtak, Sonipat, Baghpat, Faridabad and Alwar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/low-intensity-earthquake-hits-delhi-999472.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir Police registers FIR against the Army for ‘manhandling’ SHO||Jammu and Kashmir police have registered an FIR against the army for allegedly manhandling a station house officer (SHO) on Mughal Road in the hilly Rajouri district on Saturday. FIR No 234/ 2021 under sections 341/342/323 IPC was registered at Police Station Surankote, in Poonch against Major Santosh Pandey, junior commissioned officer (JCO) Naresh and few other jawans of 16-Rashtriya Rifles (RR) for manhandling SHO Rajouri, inspector Sameer Jeelani at Poshana Army post on Mughal Road. Reports said the incident took place when the SHO was travelling in his Scorpio from Rajouri to Srinagar on Mughal Road on Saturday along with his personal security officer (PSO). The army stopped his vehicle at Poshana along the Mughal Road and didn’t allow him to move towards Kashmir. A local English daily reported the SHO introduced himself to the army personnel and told them he was to Srinagar hospital where his ailing mother was admitted. “There were some heated arguments before the Army personnel dragged the SHO to a nearby unit where Major Pandey and his team beat up him,” it reported. Reports said after the incident, senior police officers, including SSP Poonch, brigadier and Commanding Officer of the 16-RR reached the spot and tried to settle the issue. The SHO was shifted to a hospital for medical examination and later an FIR was registered against Major Pandey and other soldiers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-police-registers-fir-against-the-army-for-manhandling-sho-999474.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||Not just punching data: JNU computer operator holds nine Guinness records for typing skills||Vinod Kumar Chaudhary spends his days punching numbers at Jawaharlal Nehru University but not many know that this unassuming, albeit talented, man has nine Guinness World Records to his credit. Punching numbers or data at Jawaharlal Nehru University is not what defines the talent of computer operator Vinod Kumar Chaudhary, but the nine Guinness World Records to his credit. Chaudhary, 41, who works as a computer operator at JNU's School of Environmental Sciences (SES), set his latest record during the lockdown last year that was imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. From a record for fastest typing with his nose in 2014 to fastest typing blindfolded and fastest typing with a mouth stick, the records made by Chaudhary adore the walls of a computer centre which he runs at home for poor and disabled children. "I was always fascinated by speed. As a child I was verye enthusiastic about sports but as I grew up I could not pursue sports due to some health issues. I, then, developed a similar passion for speed on computer. I made my first record in 2014 when I typed 103 characters in 46.30 seconds with my nose. This is the shortest time taken so far to do this kind of typing," Chaudhary told PTI. "Once, I got my certificate for the record, it gave me a different kind of motivation and I started practising for more such records. I spent next one year practising and in 2016 I made two records," he said. His second record was for fastest typing of all alphabets blindfolded in 6.71 seconds in 2016 followed by a record for fastest typing in 6.09 seconds. Chaudhary, who has a masters degree in Sociology, in 2017 made a record of typing all alphabets within 18.65 seconds holding a stick in his mouth. He broke his own record in 2018 by achieving the same feat in 17.69 seconds and then in 2019 in 17.01 seconds. In 2019, Chaudhary made another entry in the Guinness book for fastest typing with one finger where he punched all alphabets in 29.53 seconds. "My aim is to make over 19 entries in the Guinness book, a record held by veteran cricketer Sachin Tendulkar. I keep looking for new ideas and practising for them," he added. The Nangloi resident says he wants want to run a full-fledged computer institute which does not have any infrastructure limitations and can provide free training to the needy. "Right now I run it at home. I have few computers where students can practice but I have my own limitations financially. I plan to expand the centre some day," he said. Chaudhary said his latest record was not for typing as he wanted to try something new. "My last record is for maximum touching of hand by a tennis ball within one minute. I could do it 205 times. This is the first such record in the Guinness book. When I proposed, they gave me a target of 180," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/not-just-punching-data-jnu-computer-operator-holds-nine-guinness-records-for-typing-skills-999475.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||J&K leaders stick to statehood, but may attend PM Modi's meet||A day after the Centre invited 14 leaders from Jammu and Kashmir, including four former chief ministers, for talks in New Delhi on June 24, political activities gained momentum from Srinagar to New Delhi on Sunday. While two main regional parties in J&K – National Conference (NC) and People’s Democratic Party (PDP) – held deliberations to decide about their future course of action, various reports emerged throughout the day as to what New Delhi wants to discuss with political leaders of the Union Territory (UT). From restoring the statehood to J&K and delimitation exercise, there were speculations throughout the day about the agenda of the meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his New Delhi residence on June 24. In New Delhi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh reportedly held separate meetings with the lieutenant governors of Ladakh and J&K. In Srinagar, regional parties went into huddle to decide about their future course of action. The Political Affairs Committee (PAC), the highest decision-making body of the PDP, held a virtual meeting, where they authorised party president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti to take a decision on attending the meeting called by the PM.  After the meeting, Mehbooba told reporters that the agenda of the PM's meeting in New Delhi seems to be delimitation of constituencies and holding elections, “which is not our agenda.” “Before any dialogue, the government of India should have taken some confidence building measures. (But) a final decision whether to participate in June 24 meeting in Delhi would be taken only after it is decided in the PAGD meeting,” she said. The NC held a similar meeting presided over by the party chief Farooq Abdullah. “We have started a consultation process and by Monday afternoon, we will make a decision (about attending PM’s meet),” NC’s provincial president, Nasir Wani, told reporters. On Saturday the Centre invited 14-leaders including four former chief ministers, Farooq Abdullah, his son Omar, Mehbooba and senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, to attend a meeting on J&K chaired by the Prime Minister on June 24. Sources told DH that two main regional parties – the NC and the PDP – will take a joint decision only after the meeting of the PAGD. The PAGD - an alliance of NC, PDP, CPM, Peoples Movement and Awami National Conference- was formed in October last by Kashmir-centric leaders with the pledge of perseverance and steadfastness towards restoration of the special status of J&K revoked by the Centre in August 2019. “As of now, it is likely that the PAGD may authorise Farooq Abdullah, who is also president of the alliance, to participate in June 24 meeting on behalf of the PAGD. By doing so, they can send a message that the alliance is united in their demand for restoration of J&K’s special status and statehood,” they said. However, sources added, there may be changes in the next two or three days in this plan. “Both the NC and the PDP have their own compulsions and they don’t trust each other. The show of unity is just for public consumption. The well-wishers of both the parties in Delhi are pleading the case of their respective parties before the Centre,” they revealed. The PM’s meeting with all political parties from J&K is part of the Centre’s initiative to bolster political processes, including holding assembly elections, in the UT. This will be the PM’s first interaction with all the political parties of the UT since August 5, 2019 when the Centre abrogated the state’s special status and bifurcated it into UTs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-leaders-stick-to-statehood-but-may-attend-pm-modis-meet-999477.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal to visit Punjab on Monday||AAP national convenor and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said he will be visiting Punjab on Monday. The visit comes ahead of the Assembly polls in Punjab next year. "Punjab wants change. The only hope is the Aam Aadmi Party. See you tomorrow at Amritsar," Kejriwal tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-to-visit-punjab-on-monday-999500.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||Restore statehood, hold elections in J&K, says Congress ahead of PM's meet||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi prepares to meet regional leaders in Jammu and Kashmir, Congress demanded on Sunday to restore statehood to the union territory and hold elections. Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said doing this is the "only way forward to guarantee full restoration of democratic rights" in Jammu and Kashmir, where PM Modi plans to visit nearly two years after it was bifurcated into union territories of J&K and Ladakh. His remarks came as the Centre extended an invitation to political parties in J&K for a meeting on June 24 to restart political engagement with the UT and discuss the future course for the region. Besides the National Conference, People's Democratic Party, Congress, BJP and CPI(M), the Centre has also extended invitations for the meeting to regional outfits. Surjewala said the Congress Working Committee, at its meeting on August 6, 2019, had clearly demanded the restoration of full statehood for the state of Jammu and Kashmir. “We believe that undoing it is a direct attack on democracy and the constitutional principles,” he told reporters. He said the people of J&K should be able to elect their representatives and have an assembly of their own to carry on the affairs of the state instead of a rule by Delhi. “It is now for the prime minister and the BJP to decide whether to hold a meeting or to accept the demand of the Indian National Congress in the interest of constitution, democracy and the people to restore full statehood to the state of Jammu and Kashmir,” Surjewala said. Several leaders invited for the June 24 meeting were placed under house arrest after the Centre scrapped the special status to Jammu and Kashmir granted under Article 370 and bifurcated the state into two UTs on August 5, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/restore-statehood-hold-elections-in-jk-says-congress-ahead-of-pms-meet-999508.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||Monkey takes 'ride' in Delhi Metro train, video goes viral||A video of a monkey cavorting and roaming around in coaches of a Delhi Metro train before settling on a seat, is going viral on the social media, drawing mirth from the netizens. The incident took place on Saturday evening when the simian entered the compartment on a train on the Blue Line of the network and ambled around in the coach and did playful antics, much to the surprise of the commuters. A video surfaced on the social media on Saturday purportedly showing the monkey roaming around and then climbing onto the handrail bar before traipsing to the neighbouring coach. "The monkey was spotted around 4:45 PM as the train moved from Yamuna Bank station to IP station on Blue Line yesterday, and moved away on its own by the time it was brought to the notice of DMRC officials by passengers. "No harm was caused to anyone and the monkey wasn't spotted thereafter in the metro premises," a senior DMRC official said on Sunday.  The clip has been widely shared on social media platforms, and has gone viral now. In the video, shared by a user on Twitter, this unexpected visitor can be seen roaming around in the carriage and eventually settling on a seat next to a commuter. The monkey sits quietly for some time and even rests his limb on the thigh of the commuter, and later begins to curiously look outside as the train gathers speed, passing through vegetation of the areas near river Yamuna. His acts left the commuters amazed and intrigued as animals and pets are strictly prohibited on trains. One commuter in the video can be heard saying, "give a mask to him too". The monkey's 'metro ride' has drawn north on the social media too. "A monkey entered the Delhi Metro going from Anand Vihar to Dwarka. A wonderful journey of the monkey. Monkey in a #Metro – but reasonably well behaved!” tweeted a user and shared the viral video. Another user said: "WHY IS THIS MONKEY RIDING THE METRO THE CUTEST THING he's just found a pal and is fascinated by the outside world AW (sic)". But, few netizens jocularly asked the monkey to "put a mask on". While one user made a reference to a Hollywood film and captioned his post "Ek Bander, metro ke andar", another one wrote, "A monkey found enjoying the free metro ride....But following the all metro etiquette!!". Delhi Metro services are operating since June 7 after the lockdown, but with strict Covid safety norms, and just 50 per cent of seating capacity, with standing not allowed for commuters. In response to a tagged video post on Twitter by a user, the DMRC had on Saturday had said, "Hi, thank you for reaching out. Kindly mention the coach number and current station for further assistance". The DMRC official said in the past too, there have been a couple of similar incidences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/monkey-takes-ride-in-delhi-metro-train-video-goes-viral-999524.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi records 124 new Covid-19 cases, 7 deaths; positivity rate at 0.17%||The national capital reported 124 fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest since February 16, and seven deaths in a day as the positivity rate dipped to 0.17 per cent, according to data shared by the health department here on Sunday. This is the second day in a row that the number of deaths has remained below 10. On Saturday, Delhi had recorded seven deaths due to the deadly disease, the lowest since April 1, and 135 fresh cases with a positivity rate of 0.18 per cent. These new fatalities have pushed the death toll in the city to 24,914. On April 1, the city had recorded nine deaths and 2,790 cases, the data stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-124-new-covid-19-cases-7-deaths-positivity-rate-at-017-999530.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||Malda killings: Accused lured family into tunnel on pretext of clicking photos||In a plot straight out of a crime thriller, Malda killings accused Asif Mohammad had allegedly lured his family members into a tunnel in the house on the pretext of clicking their photos and then drowned them inside a wooden structure, police said on Sunday. The West Bengal Police suspects that a property- related dispute might be one of the reasons behind the killings in Gurutola village in Kaliachak but says it is not conclusive yet as further investigation is underway. Asif's friends Sabir Ali (19) and Mohammad Maruf (21) were arrested for possessing five 7mm pistols, 80 cartridges and 10 magazines allegedly given to them by the murder accused a week ago, Additional Superintendent of Police, Malda Rural, Aneesh Sarkar said. "However, 19-year-old Asif is the only accused person in the killings. No links have been found between the firearms and the murders. We are trying to find out from where he had procured the pistols and cartridges," Sarkar told reporters. Based on a complaint lodged by the murder accused's elder brother Arif Mohammad, police arrested Asif after exhuming four bodies from a room in their house in Gurutola village on Saturday. Preliminary investigation suggests that on February 28, Asif had spiked the cold drinks of his father Jawad Ali (50), mother Ira Bibi (45), sister Arifa Khatun (17) and grandmother Alekjan Bibi (75) with some stupor-causing drugs or sleeping pills and made them drowsy, he said.  "On the pretext of clicking their photographs, Asif then led them into a tunnel that he had dug in the house and made them lie inside a wooden structure he had constructed. He then gagged their mouths and tied their hands with duct-tapes and finally filled the structure with water and drowned them, before burying their bodies," the officer said. "The accused had taken a lot of money from his father and was demanding that the entire property be written to his name. Prima facie, it seems that a property-related dispute might be one of the reasons behind the murders but that is not conclusive yet as further investigation is underway. A cash amount of over Rs 2 lakh has also been seized," he said. The accused's elder brother had managed to escape from the spot as the effect of the drug was less on him. He had changed locations for four months, before informing the police about the incident on Friday night. "We have examined Arif but did not find anything suspicious. Asif had attempted to kill his brother too but he somehow managed to escape. The accused used to continuously threaten his elder brother as a result of which, he did not speak about it for four months. He finally mustered courage and approached the police," Sarkar said. Several electronic gadgets have been seized from the house and police are investigating all angles to ascertain the motive behind the murders. Asif has been booked under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC and Arms Act. His two friends have been booked under Arms Act. The trio will be produced before the court during the day and their police custody will be sought, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/malda-killings-accused-lured-family-into-tunnel-on-pretext-of-clicking-photos-999534.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||UP CM Yogi Adityanath prevails in BJP's internal tussle||Notwithstanding the open expression of dissent by several party MPs, MLAs and other leaders over his style of functioning and 'mishandling' of the Covid-19 pandemic in the state, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, BJP's hardcore Hindutva poster boy, appears to have prevailed in the internal tussle in the saffron party. The appointment of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's trusted former bureaucrat A K Sharma as state party unit's vice-president was indicative of Adityanath's growing indispensability within the BJP as far as UP politics was concerned. According to sources, Adityanath was against the induction of Sharma in his cabinet as he apprehended that the latter could be a parallel center of power given his proximity to Modi. ''Adityanath has succeeded in keeping Sharma away from his cabinet despite the pressure from the central party leadership...it shows his growing clout in the state,'' remarked a senior UP BJP leader on Sunday. According to sources, not only Adityanath but Keshav Prasad Maurya, one of his deputies and his rival within the BJP, was opposed to Sharma's inclusion in the ministry for the same reason. The old-timers in the state BJP recall how a not-so-well-known leader Ram Prakash Gupta had been made UP chief minister after Kalyan Singh was removed in 1999 to avoid factional fighting in the saffron party. ''Sharma too could have emerged as a dark horse in the event of a change of guard in UP,'' the leader said. Sources in the BJP said that the party high command did not want to 'experiment' in the poll-bound state. ''Adityanath's removal so close to the assembly poll could have sent a wrong message to the people...it would have been akin to admitting that he had indeed mishandled the pandemic in UP,'' the leader added. Another factor that seemed to have gone in favour of Adityanath was his 'unpredictable' nature. In the 2002 assembly polls in UP, Adityanath had put up own candidates in three constituencies after the party leadership rejected his recommendations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-prevails-in-bjps-internal-tussle-999536.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||50,000 youth in J&K to get financial help to become entrepreneurs: Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Sunday said his administration would provide financial support to at least 50,000 youth this year to help them become entrepreneurs. The administration has also decided to establish a youth club in every panchayat through which they would be connected with creative work, Sinha said in his 'Awaam Ki Awaaz' programme, aired on all local and primary channels of All India Radio stations. Congratulating the farmers for the meaningful changes that have been made in the infrastructure of agriculture and horticulture, the Lt Governor said a new era is being ushered in this sector. Sinha directed the agriculture department to promote naturally degradable packaging under a policy and impart training to all the farmers of Jammu and Kashmir in using biodegradable packaging. “Despite corona, the administration has been working diligently in the field of agriculture and horticulture. Investments are being made in a systematic manner in Jammu and Kashmir for high-density plantation, food processing, cold storage and many schemes are being launched for the farmers,” he said. In this month alone, he said Nano Urea Liquid has been started by IFFCO for the farmers of the Union Territory, so that there is more produce and the land also remains fertile. “The government will provide financial help to at least 50,000 aspiring boys and girls this year so that they can become entrepreneurs. The administration has also decided to establish a youth club in every panchayat through which they would be connected with creative works,” he said. He said the Jammu and Kashmir administration has completely transitioned to e-Office putting an end to the practice of hundreds of years old 'Durbar Move', under which the civil secretariat and other 'move offices' function six months each in Srinagar and Jammu. “Now, both the Jammu and Srinagar secretariats can function normally for 12 months. This will save the government Rs 200 crore per year, which will be used for the welfare of the deprived sections,” he said. Recalling last month's 'Awaam ki Awaaz' episode, when he spoke about families who lost their loved ones due to Covid-19, the Lt Governor said the Saksham scheme has been launched by the UT administration for them and such families will be looked after with full responsibility. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also started a separate scheme named 'PM Cares for Children' for the help and empowerment of the children affected by corona, which will benefit the families of our UT,” he said. He also informed that the system of providing ration to the poor and orphans in Jammu and Kashmir is going on, so that no family remains hungry. “The neglected poor and deprived sections are the focal point of our priority. When the benefits of all the schemes reach the last person standing in the last queue, only then we will be satisfied that the administration is working properly”, he added. He also remembered four-year old girl Adha Shakeel who became an unfortunate victim of man-animal conflict in the Ompora area of Budgam district earlier this month. “While paying tributes to her, the Lt Governor said that by destroying forests for development, we are creating difficulties for the coming generation. Along with the wildlife department, it is our collective responsibility to handle man-animal Conflict effectively. Feeling the pain, anguish of Adha's family, I urge you all to strike a balance between nature and progress,” the Lt Governor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/50000-youth-in-jk-to-get-financial-help-to-become-entrepreneurs-lieutenant-governor-manoj-sinha-999537.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||Haryana extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 28, announces more relaxations||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the Covid-19 lockdown in the state by another week till June 28, but eased restrictions imposed on weddings and funerals, and allowed corporate offices to operate with full attendance. According to an order issued by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan, up to 50 guests can now attend weddings and funerals or cremations, up from 21 earlier, subject to strict observance of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and social distancing. Corporate offices can now open with full attendance but there has to be strict observance of social distancing, Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and regular sanitisation, it said. Weddings can now take place in courts but processions are not allowed, the order said. It, however, said swimming pools and spas in the state would continue to remain closed. Club houses, restaurants and bars of golf courses are allowed to open with 50 per cent seating capacity from 10 am to 10 pm, it added. "Now after duly considering the fact that although Covid positivity rate and the number of new Covid positive cases have declined, so as to continue the preventive and precautionary measures to contain the Covid pandemic … the 'Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana' is extended for another week from June 21 (5 am onwards) to June 28 (till 5 am) in the state," the order issued by Chief Secretary Vardhan said. All shops can continue to operate from 9 am to 8 pm, and restaurants and bars, including those in hotels and malls, are allowed to open from 10 am to 10 pm with 50 per cent seating capacity. The timings for shopping malls will continue to be from 10 am to 8 pm, the order stated. The state government has termed the lockdown "Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana (Epidemic Alert-Safe Haryana)". The number of daily Covid-19 cases, which had crossed the 15,000-mark last month, has now come down to under 300, while the count of fatalities has also registered a sharp fall. The Haryana government-imposed lockdown in the state has now been extended for the seventh time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-june-28-announces-more-relaxations-999539.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand extends Covid lockdown by a week to June 29; to open chardham yatra for locals from July 1||The Uttarakhand government on Sunday decided to extend the Covid lockdown in the state for another week from June 22 but allowed hotels, restaurants and bars to open at half their capacities. It also decided to open the chardham yatra for locals from July 1 and for people from the rest of the state from July 11, Cabinet minister and state government's official spokesperson Subodh Uniyal said. Bringing a negative RT-PCR or Rapid Antigen test report, however, will be compulsory for the pilgrims, he said. "People of Chamoli district can visit Badrinath temple for a darshan from July 1 if they have a negative RT-PCR or Rapid Antigen test report,” he said. “Similarly, people of Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi districts can also visit Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri temples respectively from that date with a negative RT-PCR or Rapid Antigen test report," the minister said. The yatra will be opened for people from the rest of the state from July 11 on the same condition, he said. The state government had decided to open the chardham yatra partially for locals last week too but had to withdraw the decision in view of the Covid situation. The decision to extend the curfew from June 22 to 29 with some important relaxations was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat, Uniyal said. The period of current lockdown in the state was to come to an end at 6 am on June 22. The famous four Himalayan temples in Uttarakhand though open since May for daily prayers are still not open for pilgrims. Bringing a negative RT-PCR or Rapid Antigen test report will be compulsory also for people coming to the state from outside or those going to hill areas from the plains, Uniyal said. General stores and groceries will now be open for five days in a week closing only on Saturdays and Sundays, he said. Hotels, restaurants and bars can open with 50 per cent of their capacity till 10 pm, he added. All government, semi-government and private offices can also open with 50 per cent of their capacity. However, offices connected with essential services will open with full capacity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-extends-covid-lockdown-by-a-week-to-june-29-to-open-chardham-yatra-for-locals-from-july-1-999551.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||Loni assault case: Court sends Ummaid Pehelwan to judicial custody||A court here on Sunday remanded Ummaid Pehelwan Idrisi in judicial custody for two weeks following his arrest on charges of spreading communal strife after he shared a video related to an assault on an elderly Muslim man. Idrisi, who is a local Samajwadi Party worker, was produced by Loni border police before Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Shubham Verma this evening. He was booked under IPC sections 153A (promoting enmity between groups on the ground of religion, class, etc), 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious belief), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 505 (public mischief). The police have now also booked him under IPC sections 467/468/469/471 related to forgery. Defence lawyer Anees Chaudhary, in his arguments before the court, stated that the sections which have been added by police are not applicable, therefore judicial custody cannot be granted. The court, however, sent him to judicial custody for 14 days. "Tomorrow we will move to the session's court for bail as prima facie there is no such evidence against him to slap more sections of IPC," he later said. However, Senior Superintendent of Police Amit Pathak told the media that Idrisis had "misguided" the police on Saturday after his arrest. He claimed that he gave a statement on social media based on wrong information furnished to him by the victim, Abdul Samad. The Ghaziabad Police had Tuesday booked Twitter, news website The Wire, besides some journalists and Congress leaders over circulation of a video in which Samad claimed that he was thrashed and asked to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' on June 5. The police maintained the incident had no communal angle and that the accused were unhappy over the 'tabeez' (amulets) sold to them by Samad. After detailed interrogation, Idrisi named ten persons who were allegedly involved in beating Samad and chopping his bear, Pathak said. "He concocted the entirely false episode to take political advantage after disrupting communal harmony and peace.  He confessed that he had doctored the facts in clippings and documents. A member of the civic body member has also been named by him.  Police will initiate action against the errant persons," the SSP said Idrisi was held yesterday near the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) hospital in Delhi by a team of Ghaziabad police. Nine persons have been arrested so far in the case. SSP Pathak said that no case has been registered against Samad and his son in Ghaziabad district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/loni-assault-case-court-sends-ummaid-pehelwan-to-judicial-custody-999589.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||Congress accuses BJP of 'Ram Droh' in Ayodhya temple land deal||Congress on Sunday accused the BJP of committing ‘Ram Droh’ (betrayal of Ram), alleging that the ruling party was “looting” funds raised to build Ram Temple at Ayodhya. AICC General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala claimed that a BJP leader had bought 890 sq metres of land in Ayodhya for Rs 20 lakh in February and sold it to the Shri Ramjanmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust for Rs 2.5 crore within 79 days. “The land that was purchased for a price of Rs 2,247 per square metre has been sold to the Trust at Rs 28,090 per square metre within a period of 79 days,” Surjewala said. The allegation came a week after the Samajwadi Party and AAP had accused the Trust of paying higher prices for purchase of land, the sale deed of which was registered with the previous owners for a pittance. Earlier, SP and AAP had alleged that land parcels near Ayodhya railway station were bought for Rs 2 crore and sold to the Trust for Rs 18.5 crore within minutes on March 18 this year. “BJP leaders are clearly complicit in this ‘loot’ of donations collected for construction of Ram Mandir. The everyday revelations reflect brazen plunder of crores of rupees of donations with active abetment of the BJP Government,” Surjewala said. Congress renewed the demand for a Supreme Court-monitored audit of purchase of land by the Ram temple trust. Surjewala said it was incumbent on the Supreme Court to order an inquiry into the land deals of the Trust, which was set up after the apex Court ruling cleared the way for construction of a Ram Temple in Ayodhya. He said Congress was in favour of a grand Ram temple in Ayodhya but sought to know whether donations made by the faithful can be allowed to be plundered. “The Supreme Court should perform its duty and take cognisance of the matter and order an audit of the donations made to the Trust and ensure that the same is not looted by a handful,” Surjewala said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-accuses-bjp-of-ram-droh-in-ayodhya-temple-land-deal-999595.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||UP government announces formula to evaluate class 10, 12 students||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday announced the new formula to evaluate students of classes 10 and 12, under the state board, amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Explaining the formula, Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma said to calculate the results of class 12 students studying under the Uttar Pradesh Secondary Education Board (UPMSP), 50 per cent of marks obtained in class 10, 40 per cent of marks obtained in class 11's annual examination or half-yearly examination and 10 per cent of the marks obtained in pre-board of class 12 will be considered. For class 10, 50 per cent of marks obtained in class 9 and 50 per cent of marks obtained in pre-board of class 10 will be considered, he said. The minister also said that as many as 56,04,628 students have registered themselves for the board examinations in 2021. A total of 29,94,312 students have registered for the board examination for class 10, he said, adding that this includes 29,74,487 institutional examinees and 19,825 private examinees. “For class 12, a total of 26,10,316 students have registered for the board examination. This includes 25,17,658 institutional examinees and 92,658 private examinees,” Sharma said. He said an 11-member committee was constituted to make the formula. The committee received as many as 3,910 suggestions this regard. The deputy CM also informed that there will be no merit list for the 2021 examination. Students (registered for 2021), who want to appear in the improvement examination, can appear in the next board examination without paying any examination fee, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-government-announces-formula-to-evaluate-class-10-12-students-999599.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||With current pace, govt won't be able to vaccinate all by Diwali: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday attacked the Uttar Pradesh government over the coronavirus vaccination drive, saying at the current pace it won’t be able to achieve the target of vaccinating everyone by Diwali. The former state chief minister blamed "narrow politics" of the BJP for it, according to a statement. "There are complaints emanating from different parts of the state regarding laxity in vaccination. Due to the narrow politics of the BJP, the speed of the Covid-19 vaccination has become slow. The BJP government has declared that it has set a target to vaccinate everyone by Diwali. But it seems that this will not be achieved," he said. The policy of the BJP government is not clear, due to which the vaccination drive seems to be marred by controversies, which may put the life of people at risk, Yadav said. The former UP CM also claimed that the condition of vaccination centres in the state is bad. "The online slot booking system is neither practical nor convenient. This should be ended and in the larger public interest, more counters should be opened in government hospitals. The BJP should also pay attention to poor people and villagers," the SP chief demanded. Reacting to Yadav’s comments, Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma in a statement said, "The Samajwadi Party has done nothing for the welfare of the youth during its tenure but the Yogi Adityanath's government has given jobs to four lakh people in four years." "The UP government has also made a record in giving jobs to lakhs of migrant labourers during the Covid-19 pandemic," he claimed. Sharma said due to the policies of the state government, UP has become the top choice for the investors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-current-pace-govt-wont-be-able-to-vaccinate-all-by-diwali-akhilesh-999603.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||PSU DGM, two others arrested in graft cases, says Anti-Corruption Bureau||Three persons, including a deputy general manager of a PSU, were arrested on Sunday while taking bribe in two separate cases, an Anti-Corruption Bureau official said. The ACB said Deputy General Manager Rajesh Kumar Singh of Hindustan Petrochemical Limited and his middleman Kishan Vijay were arrested while taking a bribe of Rs 2 lakh in Jaipur, ACB said in an official statement. The PSU DGM, posted in Kota, had demanded a bribe for not taking action against a petrol pump owner in Niwai town, it said. A few other suspects are also being interrogated in this case, an ACB official said, adding searches are on at various places, it added. In another case in Sikar, Head Constable Puran Ram posted at Neem Ka Thana was arrested while taking a bribe of Rs 9,000 for removing the name of a person from an FIR lodged against him, besides others. Two separate cases have been registered in the two cases under various sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and further investigation is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/psu-dgm-two-others-arrested-in-graft-cases-says-anti-corruption-bureau-999648.html
20-06-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand allows staggered start of Char Dham yatra from July 1||Uttarakhand on Sunday announced a staggered opening of the Char Dham yatra with people of the districts where the shrines are located being allowed to undertake the pilgrimage from July 1. The Char Dham Yatra, which begins in May, has been suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The government had allowed the re-opening of temples but barred visitors except for the priests. The Badrinath shrine is located in the Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, while the Kedarnath temple is in Rudraprayag district. The shrines of Gangotri and Yamunotri are located in Uttarkashi district. Uttarakhand government spokesman and minister Subodh Uniyal said the four shrines will be open for pilgrims from across Uttarakhand from July 11 onwards. Pilgrims will have to undergo RT-PCR or antigen tests before visiting the shrines. These tests would also be mandatory for people visiting the state or those travelling from the plains to the hill areas. The state government had decided to open the Char Dham yatra partially for locals last week, too but had to withdraw the decision in view of the Covid situation. The state government also announced easing of Covid-19 restrictions in the state by allowing hotels, restaurants and bars to re-open at 50 per cent of their seating capacity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-allows-staggered-start-of-char-dham-yatra-from-july-1-999650.html
20-06-2021||Oasis||Count not what is lost but what is left||Harold Russell, a veteran of World War II, had both his hands amputated three inches above the wrists when a defective fuse detonated the TNT which he was holding. He was utterly devastated, thinking he was crippled and his life was over. Charley Mcgonegal, a veteran of World War I, who had also lost his hands visited the hospital and met him. Charley’s first advice to Harold was to ensure that the greatest obstacle to overcome and conquer was his bitterness and fear, reconcile with his loss and adjust himself to it. Secondly, he said, always bear in mind that “you are not crippled; you are merely handicapped”. Harold thought, being crippled or handicapped is all but the same until he saw the meaning in the dictionary. Crippled meant “disabled, incapable of proper or effective action.” and Handicapped meant “any disadvantage or hindrance making success in an undertaking more difficult.” He thought of the vast difference in the meanings and changed his mental attitude; stopped thinking about what he had lost and concentrated on what he was left with. Russell fought his way back from despair to triumph and achievement by playing the lead role in the movie The Best Years of Our Lives, won two Academy Awards, wrote his autobiography and used his fame and influence to help others who were handicapped.      Today, when we face one of the greatest challenges in history, where millions of people are disturbed, uncertain and straying, the story of Harold Russell should be a great inspiration for those who are desperately in need of hope and courage. Life does not offer us perfect conditions or circumstances. Problems can defeat us only when we let them, especially when we see them as more powerful than they actually are. We can surpass them by accepting that every problem has a solution. If it doesn’t have one, then it is not a problem anymore. Therefore, the present situation should be handled with the right perspective along with unconditional faith, hope and optimism. Hope does not tell us the meaning of life, yet it suggests that life has a meaning. Helen Keller, who became deaf and blind when she was just nineteen months old and who later went on to become an author and lecturer, said: “Optimism is the faith that leads to achievement. Nothing can be done without hope and confidence.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/count-not-what-is-lost-but-what-is-left-999628.html
20-06-2021||Opinion||How do we get out of this Jekyll-and-Hyde economy?||Covid-19 broke into the national consciousness in the third week of March 2020. Since then, the pandemic and the periodic lockdowns have ravaged lives and livelihoods across India. Initially, the stock markets were also hit. The Sensex fell almost 25 per cent i.e., over 9,000 points when the sudden lockdown was announced, after continuously rising 20,000 points since 2015, but it recovered as Covid severity started to ebb. In December, the Sensex crossed previous peaks, to fluctuate above 40,000, even as it was forecast that GDP would contract by around 9 per cent in FY21, compared to the 8 per cent nominal growth in FY20. March/April 2021 witnessed a brutal second wave. This came as a shock and overwhelmed the State. The panic and the grievous loss of lives that resulted are best not discussed in this column. As a result, a host of agencies, including the World Bank and RBI, have revised FY22 growth estimates downward. Several experts are talking about widespread social distress and calling for additional fiscal stimulus, including printing more money, to nurse the economy back to health. The stock market, however, seems to have either missed all this or begs to differ with these agencies and has instead wished to compete with the US stock markets. The Sensex has moved up, roaring in a bull charge all through the second wave, concurrent with and in exact opposition to the publicised economic pains of the country. It has crossed 52,000 and optimism reigns. The combined market capitalisation of India’s 7000+ listed companies now hovers around the $3 trillion range, exceeding our GDP. Stock market experts say that the boom is reflecting revival of growth, improved performances and future potential of companies. They point to the Covid-induced cost-cutting and efficiency drives resulting in increased profitability of the top 1,000+ listed companies that have so far published results. These have, despite a combined 4 per cent decline in sales, reported a sharp 19 per cent growth in gross profit (EBIDTA) and a much higher net profit growth (some even above 30 per cent). While it is true that several individual companies have done well in terms of increasing their profitability, it is not true for all listed companies as corporate tax collection, meanwhile, has fallen by 18 per cent. But share price increases are happening across the board. Shares of the top 100 rated companies in total cash market turnover has fallen from 87 per cent in May 2020 to around 50 per cent now. The market capitalisation of even sectors like hospitality, aviation, textiles, gems and jewellery, etc., are all attaining historical peaks, even as policy experts discuss relief measures to ‘rescue’ and ‘revive’ these sectors. Future growth prospects depend upon capacity expansion/new projects. National Gross Capital Formation has been falling as the private sector has continuously been deleveraging after the NPA crisis. Private sector project announcements (reported by CMIE/Projects Today) have been on a downslide right from FY17, with each succeeding year being more subdued, right up to FY21. Corporate loan growth is tepid. Thus, the rate of capacity creation to support future growth has been slowing. Why then, it will be asked, is the stock market booming? What is more real -- GDP or the stock market? It is difficult to say, but it may simply be a monetary illusion – a case of too much money chasing too few stocks, like in the heady times of Harshad Mehta in the early days of liberalisation. But unlike in the past, the fuel this time is being provided by overactive central banks. Huge stimulus/monetary bail-out packages keep getting announced in the US and EU. Interest rates are near-zero there. This excessive liquidity that is sloshing around is spilling into Emerging Markets. Huge FPI/FDI inflows have taken place. Our Foreign Exchange reserve stood at $469.9 billion on March 20, 2020. It now exceeds $600 billion, and the rupee is continuously appreciating, reducing export competitiveness. Additionally, RBI has been taking a variety of liquidity enhancing policy measures, including note-printing, in trying to stimulate the economy, resulting in a continuous growth in money supply, unrelated to economic growth. A sustained effort to reduce interest rates, even using unorthodox measures, has also been made. Newbies are getting lured towards the stock market as bank/post office saving schemes now often earn negative real rates of interest. Last year saw a 38 per cent increase in assets managed by the mutual fund industry, topping Rs 32 lakh crore now. Demat accounts managed by CDSL have jumped from 19 million in March 2020 to over 30 million accounts now. Concurrently, there is a worrying increase in inflation. Edible oils, pulses, etc., are shooting up at high double-digit rates. What of the future? Sooner or later, the stock market and GDP (real economy) will need to agree to inhabit the same universe. But which will go where? Self-righteous intolerance to entrepreneurial failure and regulatory activism are deterring risk-taking, capital formation and rapid economic growth whatever be the interest rate/liquidity position. On the other hand, worried discussions regarding global inflationary pressures and the need to have sensible interest rates have already begun in the US. Liquidity tapering there may create problems here. A stumble may well lead to a fall, yet it is difficult to stop dancing when the music is still playing. Authorities must consider this reality and take steps to moderate the excitement before it is too late.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-do-we-get-out-of-this-jekyll-and-hyde-economy-999365.html
20-06-2021||Opinion||There’s hope for rural North India||A little more than a month ago, an unassuming but exceptional man of our times succumbed to Covid. His imprisoned daughter (who got bail this week) had then been released temporarily so she could pay homage to him. In large part, he had brought her and her brother up as a single parent after losing his wife when the children were still young. The daughter, along with a couple of others, had been charged with inciting violence during the north-east Delhi riots in early 2020. Her photos, saluting her father during his last rites -- mask, gloves, face-shield and all -- circulated widely, and they will endure as stirring artifacts of recent memory. In my view, this daughter-father duo perhaps epitomise a small transition, a minute shift, in the way mainline India perceives gender norms in North India today. Haryana and Haryanvi men have had a poor reputation on this count for eons. Belonging to a society long infamous for its maltreatment of women, Natasha Narwal’s father Mahavir Narwal disposed of many stereotypes and cliches about his ethos through his life and actions. Narwal grew up in a rural environment that sent people to the Army (his father was an officer) and stressed on education. His extended family became one of the most educated in then semi-rural Hisar. For years, he worked and taught as an agricultural scientist, participated in the anti-Emergency movement, and was part of many social struggles in interior Haryana. He questioned and helped give a jolt to casteist attitudes in this region. Some readers may choose to part ways with him for his Left affiliation, but his words and demeanour, as captured in videos and interviews over the last year, will echo loud and long. In conversations conducted by the civil rights campaign organisation Karwan-E-Mohabbat and others, he showed a stoicism that had become his signature since his daughter’s incarceration. In his measured tone, he spoke of how proud his daughter had made him and how she could not afford to lose hope in jail, for that would be a rather uncharacteristic thing for a child of his to do. His children were so strong, he said, that even the catastrophe of her mother’s passing away had not caused Natasha to deviate from the path she was on as a child. Given the skewed, unequal women-men power equation in India, Narwal emphasised how women were at the centre of our democracy, and how their dissent was key to it. When asked what he felt about what his daughter and others had created through Pinjra Tod, he took a dispassionate but committed view of his daughter’s struggle, his quiet voice choking to still the pain, his eyes straining to halt the tears. His daughter had become who she is through her life experience, through being a committed student at Delhi University and later on at JNU, he said. It’s academics that motivated her, but wherever there is injustice, she would confront it, it’s her right, he asserted. As I saw those videos, I often thought what his life as a widower in that society may have been like – the number of roles he’d have played to raise his children, while coping with loss. I felt, here was a man who was a parent, a friend, a listener, an ally, and a fortress of emotional support for his children, that has made – from the evidence we have – his daughter an intrepid person of social and political courage. Mahavir Narwal is a role-model for contemporary Indians. That such an individual arose from the region he did heralds change and hope for rural North India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/there-s-hope-for-rural-north-india-999366.html
20-06-2021||Opinion||When data flows smoothly through the info pipe||Last week, at the G-7 Summit, India signed a Joint Statement reaffirming the norms and values that sustain democracies. Emphasis was placed on people’s fundamental rights and transparent and accountable governance. The Prime Minister even had a slogan for the occasion – ‘One Earth, One Health’ -- calling for global unity, leadership and solidarity, and emphasising the special responsibility of democratic and open societies to prevent future pandemics. The right to health for all cannot be achieved without universal access to safe and sufficient water supply. The Centre launched the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) in 2019, aiming to spend an estimated Rs 3.6 lakh crore to provide a functional tap water connection to every household. By 2024, JJM seeks to create systems for ensuring piped water supply in all rural and urban areas. Among the Centre’s schemes, JJM has received the biggest boost this year with an allocation of Rs 50,011 crore -- up from Rs 11,000 crore last year. On the Budget website, the government has published macro-level data of the total number of districts, blocks, gram panchayats, villages and settlements where 100 per cent coverage was accomplished under JJM last year. Soon after the Budget was presented this year, I filed an online RTI application seeking granular information, such as the state-wise names and numbers of districts, blocks, gram panchayats, villages and settlements that were covered by the programme. Such information was not available either in the Budget documents or on the JJM website. The Ministry of Jal Shakti was requested to disclose this detailed information proactively, as per the mandate of Section 4(1) of the RTI Act. Two weeks later, the CPIO of the Ministry put up a four-line response on the RTI Online Facility, suggesting that the information be sought from the states individually. He claimed that water, being a state subject, the Centre was only supplementing their efforts by providing technical and financial assistance. Not willing to take this vague and evasive reply, I filed an appeal with the Ministry pointing out the absurdity of the CPIO’s claim. Without granular data, the Finance Ministry would not have been able to put out the macro-level information about JJM’s achievements. Surely, the Finance Ministry would have sourced the data from the Jal Shakti Ministry without having to ask each state separately. It was also pointed out that providing such vague replies amounted to causing obstruction in the flow of information -- a valid ground for imposing penalty on the CPIO. The Ministry remained silent throughout the period of the second Covid lockdown. Three months later, I sent the appellate authority a reminder. Within 24 hours, the CPIO sent an email saying that the granular information was now available on the dashboard of the JJM website. He not only supplied the web link, but also furnished the state-wise numbers of districts that are 100 per cent covered and updated figures about the number of har ghar jal blocks, panchayats, villages and settlements. He even offered an apology for the “inconvenience caused.” What was once a sarkari secret has now become information accessible at the click of a button. No need for formal RTI applications on this point, at least. You can visit the Ejalshakti website to ascertain for yourself the latest JJM implementation data from the village to the state level. All of Telangana is said to be 100 per cent covered. Former Central Information Commissioner Prof Sridhar Acharyulu describes RTI interventions as “10-Rupee PILs,” which can help resolve grievances and make the government more transparent and accountable than it likes to be, without citizens having to move the courts. Transparency is the first step towards accountability. Anybody may download data from the JJM dashboard and conduct a social audit in each village, block or district -- Are the number of piped water connections verifiable at the ground level? Are the households getting adequate water supply, i.e., at least 55 litres per person, per day, the target of JJM? and so on. Empowering citizens in this manner is the end goal of the RTI Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/when-data-flows-smoothly-through-the-info-pipe-999367.html
20-06-2021||Opinion||Dangerous escalation in the Taiwan Straits||China’s brazen and unprecedented despatch of dozens of fighter aircraft and bombers beyond the median line in the Taiwan Straits for two consecutive days this week has escalated tensions in the region. This is in addition to nearly 3,000 sorties the Chinese air force has flown since last year as signals to Taiwan and the US. Not only the lives of Taiwan’s 27 million residents but also regional trade, investments, the computer hardware industry, shipping and insurance sectors are threatened by such moves, with global consequences. China has adopted military and coercive diplomatic, political, economic and other measures to subjugate Taiwan over the last seven decades in vain. “Liberating Taiwan” is its avowed goal, though Taiwan dropped its “march on the Mainland” strategy in 1986 and began democratising in the 1990s. China launched missiles into Taiwan to silence the island’s quest for democracy and independence in 1995, but the move boomeranged. China then tried selling the idea of “one country, two systems,” but with Beijing’s betrayal of Hong Kong over this promise, the Taiwanese are unlikely to be convinced. At the 19th Communist Party Congress in 2017, China began to firm up the so-called “six nos” on Taiwan – to not allow “anyone, any organisation, any political party, at any time or in any form, to separate any part of Chinese territory from China.” Beijing also vowed to “maintain sufficient ability to defeat any form of Taiwan independence.” As China raises nationalist rhetoric at home in the run-up to the 100th anniversary of the Communist Party in July, calls for military subjugation of Taiwan have grown. In the event of a military conflict, China has several options – an overall invasion of the island, amphibious operations across the 180 nautical-miles divide, a submarine blockade, aerial bombings, and saturation missile strikes on airfields and key command and control centres in Taiwan. China’s analysts draw parallels to the Russian annexation of the Crimea to advance the idea of capturing Taiwan-controlled offshore islands like Pratas or Jinmen (or, against India, the occupation of Pangong Tso or Depsang Plains). However, they do so ignoring the huge human, financial, diplomatic and military costs that Taiwan can impose on China in such an eventuality, with severe consequences for China’s rise. For today, though Taiwan is no match for China in conventional and nuclear strength, Taipei nonetheless has highly modernised and professional armed forces. While China consolidated its nationalist flock together on the Taiwan question, the islanders intensified their democratic experiment and built up opposition to China’s military forays. Last month, Taiwan’s Foreign Minister Joseph Wu admitted that the island is bracing for a conflict across the straits. Gauging that the cross-straits strategic balance had shifted in favour of China, the Trump administration initiated a $5.1 billion arms sale to Taiwan, US naval forces sailed through the straits and conducted coast guard working group meetings with Taiwan, and despatched two top officials to Taipei – the first official contacts between the US and Taiwan since the 1970s when the US acquiesced to Beijing’s demand that it follow a ‘One China’ policy. The US also despatched vaccines to Taiwan by its air force C-17 transports, in addition to sending a congressional delegation earlier this month. Taiwan has also taunted Beijing by welcoming Japan’s timely and critical assistance in supplying Covid-19 vaccines to Taipei after China had managed to bar Taiwan from the global health supply chain and the WHO. Each of these US and Taiwanese actions have been met by increasingly forceful reactions from Beijing. Given the grave situation across the Taiwan Straits, the G-7 and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) have also voiced concerns, albeit mildly, about maintaining peace across the straits. The global chorus is expected to rise in the coming months and years, given the negative consequences of any conflict on the global markets. While India has not made any comment or move on the emerging conflict in the Taiwan Straits, New Delhi is aghast at China’s encroachments across the disputed territories in the Ladakh sector of the India-China Line of Actual Control and Beijing’s recent penchant for interfering on the Kashmir issue. Beijing has invested in Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir and had also sought to raise the Kashmir issue in the UN Security Council. Thus, if China does not care to follow a ‘One India’ policy, should New Delhi continue to follow the ‘One China’ policy?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/dangerous-escalation-in-the-taiwan-straits-999368.html
20-06-2021||Opinion||Locked down, we took a huge step – from ‘Fast Food’ to ‘Past Food’||It was a bread slice. Ordinary white bread. Over which I could see butter and grainy sugar sprinkled. Below the picture were 3,900 ‘likes’, with long responses written to the question the post had asked: ‘Malai bread — kya aapko apni bachpan yaad aai?’ What other food of your childhood are you reminded of, it further asked. And the massive number of dishes named and described in response would be enough to launch a new ‘Tiffinbox TV’ channel. Barring the period of the second wave since this April to June, when the Covid scenario turned grim, it seems like all that India, and much of the world, has been doing since March 2020 is – Cook. Post. Eat. Repeat. You open your phone to food posts, stories and reels, and to homemakers whose YouTube following can give star chefs a complex. Raksha ki Rasoi, Nilu’s Kitchen, husband-wife cooks who call themselves Vahchef, village cooking where a granny cooks with a big pan on a big fire under a big tree, Seema’vin samayal, Bhat n Bhat – where a young man called Bhat, sitting under the Mangalore tiles of his simple coastal home, tells you in endearing Dakshina Kannada accent how to make jackfruit-seed sambhar while he grates fresh coconut, adds coriander seeds and red chilli, and you can almost smell the aroma of that boiling broth waft into your flat. Are we really eating so much or are we only seeing food so much around us? Restaurants are still hobbling back, but food aggregator apps are seeing roaring business. The last time food occupied so much of mankind’s mind space was probably when food could be got only by hunting, foraging in the forests or fishing. But then ‘progress’ happened, agriculture came, then came Culture; lands became countries, cities and towns, and people became ‘cultured’. Among pursuits of art, music and politics, food stayed important but became only one of the pursuits. Indian food culture is ancient, rich, and incredibly diverse. We, the people, have also had our priorities that we follow, well, religiously. Best described by the Marathi proverb, “Aadhi Potoba, Mag Vitoba” that roughly translates to “First the tummy god, then the god in the temple.” It may seem ironic that a nation that loves its food to bits, also loves to fast. But then, we are also the nation that has a separate food category of ‘fasting food,’ which is so rich in appearance and taste that we would want to reach the table faster to get to it. ‘Fast food’ is the guest that came from the West, stayed through 2-3 decades until the host country decided it had overstayed and stopped paying it attention, turning slowly to ‘Slow Food’ once again. The millennials had little exposure to the original food culture that their parents had, though; grandparents aren’t generally around anymore or have had to take a backseat and watch their grandkids chomp down pasta instead of puliyogre (tamarind rice, tangy and rich with groundnuts and spice), the unpronounceable lasagna in lieu of lasun parantha. My friend Deepa’s daughter, when asked to pour sambhar on top of her little mound of rice, said, “Wait ma, how can I eat this without plating this?” Plating, if you haven’t watched Masterchef Australia for the past 4-5 years, means “arranging food to enhance its dining experience,” in posh plates. Anyone for whom food is functional may say “Just eat and go ya!”, but you got to hand it to a teeny virus to put a pause to the food fuss. Suddenly, people stopped chucking the rinds after polishing off a watermelon – you can make melon rind dosa, no? The Brits were asked to keep even banana peel as cookery show queen Nigella Lawson slided a board of those “mashed, softened peel” into an Asian cauliflower curry! Buttermilk that would have been discarded as terribly sour now ‘masks’ itself in fluffy rava idli, leftover rice jumps in to become crisp tikkis. The humble pumpkin and cutlets made of forgotten lowly tuber cousins such as genasu are now cool. Even the vessels to cook food are going from non-stick to traditional ones – brass and bronze. The idea is clear: What your ancestor did is what’s best for you. We have taken a huge step during this pandemic, moving from ‘Fast Food’ to ‘Past Food.’||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/locked-down-we-took-a-huge-step-from-fast-food-to-past-food-999369.html
20-06-2021||Panorama||Shoring up tax revenue from Covid-related items||On the eve of the fourth anniversary of GST in India, there are clear signs that the issues between the Central and state governments have only increased. However, what is perhaps more worrying is that cracks are beginning to show in the GST Council and dissent amongst its constituents is growing louder. After the latest Council meeting, the West Bengal finance minister expressed his dissent at being silenced when he wanted to express his views. His equivalent in Punjab also expressed his objection to a few decisions of the Council. The Tamil Nadu finance minister had a few things to say to the representative of Goa after the previous meeting of the Council. The former finance minister of Kerala who had an active role to play when he was in the Council has called for reforms in it. The reforms he called for included establishing a dispute resolution where there are differences of opinion and establishment of an independent secretariat that could meet more frequently and recommend decisions on routine matters. These suggestions appear to be practical since on some occasions, the GST Council appears to be traversing a path on its own without considering others. For instance, the Group of Ministers formed to suggest GST rates for Covid-related items for individuals was comprised only of members from the ruling party. It is critical for the GST Council to step in now, listen to what the dissenters have to say and take a balanced decision. They should ensure that a mechanism is in place which ensures that the decisions taken on GST are not made only by elected representatives— the secretariat mentioned above can be staffed with non-political members too. The Council has been touted as a shining example of the spirit of cooperative federalism. If the schism between the Centre and the states widens, it could well be a case of uncooperative feudalism. The issue of compensation to the state governments is going to take some solving and lots of negotiations. On hindsight, the forecast of revenue growth rate of 14% when GST was introduced, was over-optimistic. Covid-19 has ensured that 14% would remain a forecast that is not going to be achieved. State governments should ensure that they consider the revised proposal that the Centre would eventually propose without rejecting it only because they want to reject it. They should also resist the temptation to levy some sort of local taxes to balance their cash flows. The need to exempt Covid-related equipment and medicines from GST should have been a no-brainer considering the impact that the pandemic has had on normal life. It should also be borne in mind that the GST Council did not cut GST rates due to the impact of Covid - the concessions were largely limited to filing of returns. The Council had to meet twice to decide on the issue of the rate of tax on Covid-related items. In the first meeting, it was decided to constitute a Group of Ministers (GoM) to deliberate on the issue and give their recommendations. The GoM turned out to be ministers from the same party. Cherry-picking In the second meeting, the GST Council announced that 18 Covid-related items would get GST concessions and not exemptions. The pattern of the recommendations is what we have come to see for about four years now when it comes to GST rates— an elaborate exercise in cherry-picking. Tocilizumab has managed to get an exemption but Remdesivir misses out— it is taxed at 5%. Oxygen, oxygen generation equipment, related medical devices and testing kits and machines will now be taxed at 5% instead of 12%. It would appear that 5% was fixed only because it was the next lowest slab. One wonders what would have been the recommendation of the Council if the 5% slab was not there and the next lowest slab was Nil. If we were to hazard a guess, they would have probably created a new rate (as was done for diamond). Exempt and Nil-rated never showed up as options. Pulse oximeters, hand sanitisers, temperature check equipment and furnaces for crematorium have all been bracketed in the 5% slab. The rate of tax on ambulances comes down from 28% to 12%. As has been the trend with all Covid-related concessions, a sunset date is fixed for the reduced rates - the above rates would be applicable till September 30, 2021. The previous notification had fixed the sunset date as August 31, 2021. The only explanation one can have for the new date is that the first meeting took place in May and the second meeting took place in June (though there was only a gap of about 10 days between the two meetings). Considering the fact that Covid and its variants will be with us for some time to come, the GST Council would have done well to provide an omnibus exemption for all goods and services procured to neutralise the impact of Covid without a sunset date. Revenue may have been lost but the last thing on anyone’s mind during a pandemic should be shoring up tax revenues. Had the Council taken this stance, they would not have opted to tax installation of crematoriums at 5%. The last four years have been a roller-coaster journey for everyone involved with GST. There is much that can still be done to simplify the rules and regulations - all that is needed is political will and administrative efficiency. There is a disconnect between what the GST Council proposes and how Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs disposes the proposal. This disconnect needs to be bridged at the earliest. However, going by what we have seen till date, it would appear that status quo ante would prevail— laws would be amended in bits and pieces with needless complications. GST taxpayers and consultants would continue to recall the opening line of a famous Tamil song “Why this kolaveri di?” (The writer is a Bengaluru-based tax expert)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/shoring-up-tax-revenue-from-covid-related-items-999633.html
20-06-2021||Panorama||Biden’s bet: Iranian hard-liner may be best path to restoring nuclear deal||By David E Sanger and Farnaz Fassihi, Iran’s announcement on Saturday that an ultraconservative former head of the judiciary, Ebrahim Raisi, has been elected president now touches off an unpredictable diplomatic drama: The ascension of a hard-line government in Iran may actually present the Biden administration with a brief opportunity to restore the 2015 nuclear deal with the country. President Joe Biden’s top aides, who have been negotiating with Iranian officials behind closed doors in Vienna — passing messages from hotel rooms through European intermediaries because the Iranians will not meet them directly — believe the moment may have come. And, they say, the next six weeks before Raisi is inaugurated present a unique window to strike a final deal with Iran’s leadership on a painful decision it has been delaying. Officials in both Washington and Iran contend that Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, wants to restore a nuclear agreement with the West — which former president Donald Trump ripped up more than three years ago — in order to lift the crushing sanctions that have kept Iranian oil largely off the market. In fact, the detailed wording of the resurrected agreement was worked out weeks ago in Vienna, the same city where the original accord was finalized six summers ago, senior officials say. Since then, the resurrected agreement has sat, largely untouched, awaiting an election whose outcome had seemed engineered by the ayatollah. Raisi is one of his protégés, and many believe he is the leading candidate to become the nation’s next supreme leader when Ayatollah Khamenei, now 82, dies. The theory in Washington and Iran is that Ayatollah Khamenei has been stage-managing not only the election but the nuclear negotiations — and does not want to give up his best hope of ridding Iran of the penalties that have kept its oil out of a resurging market. So the indications inside the negotiations are that the final decision to go ahead with the deal could come in the next few weeks before Raisi is inaugurated and while Iran’s older — and by some measures more moderate — government is still in office. That means Iran’s moderates would be set up to take the blame for capitulating to the West and bear the brunt of popular anger inside Iran if sanctions relief does not rescue the nation’s stricken economy. But if the deal comes together, the new conservative government under Raisi can take the credit for an economic upswing, bolstering his case that it took a hard-line, nationalist government to stand up to Washington and bring the country back. “For Iran, this is a real Nixon-goes-to-China moment,” said Vali Nasr, a professor of political science at Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International Studies, who is close to the negotiations. “If anyone other than the conservatives made this deal with Biden, they would be torn up,” he said of Iran’s new leadership. “The bet is that they can get away with it. No one else could.” If Biden’s bet works and a hard-line government is the pathway to fulfilling his campaign promise to restore a deal that was largely working until Trump scrapped it, it would be only the latest strange twist in an accord that has left no one happy — not the Iranians and not the Americans. Trump was the agreement’s greatest critic, but a primary objection seemed to be that it was negotiated by the Obama administration. In an interview during the 2016 campaign, he struggled to articulate its flaws. But he later suggested that restrictions on Iran ended too early and that the deal did nothing to curb Iran’s missile program or its aid to terrorist groups around the Middle East. The day he pulled out of the accord, he called it “a horrible one-sided deal that should have never, ever been made.” Trump and his secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, had predicted that once sanctions began to crush Iran, its leaders would come begging for a deal and agree to terms more favourable to the United States and its Western partners. They did not — and after European powers, who desperately tried to keep the deal alive, failed to deliver on its promises to make up for some of Iran’s lost revenue, the Iranians resumed their production of nuclear fuel. By US intelligence estimates, Iran is now months from having enough fuel to produce a few nuclear weapons — but that does not mean it is technologically ready to make that leap. A publicly released U.S. intelligence estimate in April concluded that “Iran is not currently undertaking the key nuclear weapons-development activities that we judge would be necessary to produce a nuclear device.” The Israelis disagree. So for weeks now, a team led by Robert Malley, the State Department’s special envoy for Iran, whose ties to Secretary of State Antony Blinken go back to high school, has been shuttling to Vienna to try to resurrect the agreement that he, Blinken and others negotiated in 2015. “We’ve seen the result of the maximum pressure campaign,” Malley said in April. “It has failed.” People inside the negotiations say there have been two major obstacles that could still derail Biden’s effort to restore the deal. And both prove the adage that in diplomacy, as in life, there is no real going home. The Iranians have demanded a written commitment that no future US government could scrap the deal as Trump did. They want something permanent — “a reasonable-sounding demand,” in the words of one senior US official, “that no real democracy can make.” The accord, after all, is not a treaty, because Biden, like President Barack Obama before him, could never have gotten the consent of two-thirds of the US Senate. So it is termed an “executive agreement” that any future president could reverse, just as Trump did. But the Biden administration, fully aware of the shortcomings of the original 2015 deal, has a demand as well. It wants Iran to agree, in writing, to return to the negotiating table as soon as the old deal is restored and begin hammering out the terms of a bigger agreement that is, in the words of Blinken, “longer and stronger.” Blinken’s phrase acknowledges that critics of the six-year-old agreement have a point when they attack the accord for essentially expiring in nine years. Under the current terms, in 2030 Iran will be free to make as much nuclear fuel as it wants — meaning that even if it does not build a bomb, it will have the stockpile of fuel around to produce one fairly quickly. “The administration there hopes it can have it both ways,” scholar and historian Michael Mandelbaum wrote in March, suggesting the United States will use the old deal as a steppingstone to negotiating a newer, much stronger one. “This is an unlikely scenario,” he said about the prospects that a stronger deal could be reached because once the United States lifts the sanctions that have hit Iran hardest, it “would severely reduce the leverage needed to improve upon it.” Some senior administration officials disagree. They say that during negotiations in recent months, the Iranians have made clear they believe the sanctions relief obtained in 2015 did not go far enough. It did not permit Iran to conduct a range of international financial transactions, including through the SWIFT system, a complex, secure messaging system used by financial institutions to settle international debts. So Biden’s bet is that he will have some leverage left — and that may be enough to extend the length of the limitations on Iran’s production of nuclear fuel beyond 2030 and put limits on its research and development of new nuclear centrifuges. The Israelis say they are not willing to take the risk — and they are widely believed to be behind two explosions at Iran’s nuclear facilities at Natanz, both aimed at the centrifuges, the giant machines that spin at supersonic speeds, enriching uranium. For their part, the Iranians have said they have no intention of changing the terms of the accord in ways that would limit its production even further. Nor, as Raisi and other candidates insisted during the campaign, would they agree to any limits on their missile capabilities, or their support of President Bashar Assad of Syria, the Shiite militias in Iraq, or Hamas, a militant group that depends heavily on the support of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard. And that is Biden’s vulnerability: If he can only restore the old deal but fails to get more concessions, he will open himself up to criticism that he has put back in place an accord that did not solve the prickly issues with Iran. Raisi’s new government has its own talking points: If Trump could walk away from the deal in 2018, what is to stop a new president from doing the same in, say, 2025? “They know that this is the weak point in the American argument,” said Nasr. “Because a Nikki Haley or a Pompeo could come back and scrap it all,” he said of the potential 2024 Republican presidential contenders. Iran’s foreign ministry spokesperson, Saeed Khatibzadeh, said in a Clubhouse chat group recently that Friday’s presidential election in Iran would not derail the negotiations. “In general, our foreign policy is based on continuity rather than change — even with a change of administration,” he said. But he also made clear in response to a question from The New York Times that Iran “will do nothing” beyond the existing agreement. “We have no new commitments. New negotiation is not part of our mandate. We are concentrating on continuing” the 2015 deal, “not more and not less.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/biden-s-bet-iranian-hard-liner-may-be-best-path-to-restoring-nuclear-deal-999639.html
20-06-2021||Right in the Middle||Remembering the Emergency||L K Advani had famously chastised Indian media during the Emergency, saying: “You were asked only to bend, but you crawled.” It should have ideally covered some spineless politicians too. During the Emergency, thousands were put in jail and no one knew when the dark era would end. My political activist father K R Sundar Rajan, who was also a journalist working for a national English daily in Mumbai and would write articles for the foreign press too, was picked up at night and taken to Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai. His prison mates under MISA were smugglers Haji Mastan and Sukhar Narayan Bakhia. My father said Haji Mastan was having a grand time in the jail with home food and choicest liquor. He offered this fare to my father who said thanks but as "I am a state guest, I have to refuse, though I am highly tempted." Others in the prison of irreproachable character were Mrinal Gore and P W Khandekar, an HR Manager at an MNC. They were held in the Baroda Dynamite Case. One of the charges against my father too was participating in this case— although he didn't know the difference between dynamite and cigarette sticks. One night when my dad was in prison, his dear friend and professional colleague Abdul Hameed, press secretary to the then President, visited us. He said that he was on an official tour and used the opportunity to give us a morale booster. I must say the government official had some guts. My father’s media house stopped his salary but some of his colleagues passed the hat around. They would call me to meet them at a different restaurant and without much ado, I would be clandestinely handed an envelope containing the salary. The tangible provocation to jail my father was his final signed article in the foreign press after many in assumed names. He was followed and his colleagues in Mumbai handed over his mail to the authorities. My mother was grilled Gestapo style till she broke down but would not and could not help the investigators as she was not familiar with the names of foreign editors and their publications which the questioners reeled off at her. How does this sordid tale of the loss of freedoms end? The Emergency was lifted by Mrs Gandhi whose coterie of advisors felt it was a grand success. Trains were on time, people were not complaining. Elections were announced. This overconfidence was misplaced. The Congress was trounced. The Indian voters had proved their maturity despite all odds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/remembering-the-emergency-999631.html
20-06-2021||Second Edit||Attack on freedom of speech; withdraw FIRs||The filing of FIRs by the Uttar Pradesh police against news portal The Wire, three journalists and three politicians for circulation in social media of a video clip of the attack on an elderly Muslim man, Abdul Samad Saifi, by a mob in Ghaziabad is true to its recent tradition of harassing journalists to muzzle the media. An FIR has also been filed against Twitter on whose platform the video was shared. The incident happened on June 5, and the Muslim man has said that he was thrashed and made to chant "Jai Shriram". His beard was chopped. The police filed the FIRs, saying the videos were shared "to disrupt the peace and bring differences between the religious communities." The police have claimed that the dispute was personal and there was no communal angle to it. The case against Twitter is for not stopping the circulation of the video.  There are serious doubts about the police claims. The victim’s family has said the FIR filed by the police has ignored some key details in the complaint made by him. A Muslim man who went to help Saifi was also made an accused. The police are known to ignore or suppress inconvenient facts and angles in cases. The police was also selective in its FIRs against the news portal and others. A number of other news organisations reported the attack in much the same manner, and many people took it to social media. But the police filed FIRs selectively against The Wire and six others. This raises questions about the bona fides of the police action and its credibility. It shows reporting or tweeting on events can be risky and invite police action, especially if they vary from the police version.  The police action can only be taken as intended for intimidation and harassment of the journalists and the activists and to send a warning to others. This is part of the now entrenched policy of suppressing dissent and punishing critics. Journalists report events as they develop, and to act against them for a part of the report or on the basis of what they report at a particular stage is wrong. To harass them for their reporting is an attack on freedom of speech, and so the FIRs should be withdrawn immediately. Twitter has also been implicated in the case after it lost its legal indemnity in India for non-compliance with the new IT rules. IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has issued a warning to it, and it is clear that what the government wants is not legal, but political, compliance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/attack-on-freedom-of-speech-withdraw-firs-999624.html
20-06-2021||South||Former AIADMK minister M Manikandan arrested in Bengaluru for allegedly raping Malaysian woman||Former AIADMK minister M Manikandan was arrested in Bengaluru by Chennai City Police on Sunday for allegedly raping a Malaysian woman, causing miscarriage as well as for criminal intimidation. He was evading arrest after Madras High Court had refused him anticipatory bail, Tamil Nadu Police told news agency ANI. Former AIADMK minister M Manikandan arrested in Bengaluru by Chennai City Police for allegedly raping a Malaysian woman, causing miscarriage as well as for criminal intimidation. He was evading arrest after Madras High Court had refused him anticipatory bail: Tamil Nadu Police More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-aiadmk-minister-m-manikandan-arrested-in-bengaluru-for-allegedly-raping-malaysian-woman-999410.html
20-06-2021||South||Telangana cabinet takes exception to Andhra Pradesh's 'illegal' projects||The Telangana Cabinet took strong exception to the irrigation schemes, including Rayalaseema lift irrigation, allegedly taken up illegally by neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and decided to undertake different projects to get its fair share of the Krishna river water. The Cabinet condemned the neighbouring state not heeding to the orders of NGT and the Centre with regard to the projects, an official release on the Cabinet meeting said late on Saturday night. Telangana has gone to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and the Supreme Court against AP's "illegal" projects, according to the release. Explaining that Telangana has withdrawn its cases in the apex court following an assurance from the Centre to take an expeditious decision on constitution of a tribunal with regard to sharing Krishna river waters, the release said the Cabinet expressed anguish over the Centre's "indifferent" attitude vis--vis river waters. The Cabinet has decided to takeup construction of various irrigation schemes, including a barrage on Krishna river at Alampur to transfer 60-70 TMC of flood waters through a pipeline, a canal at Pulichintala project and another reservoir at Sunkesula reservoir to secure the state's due share in Krishna waters. An opinion was expressed in the Cabinet meeting that efforts like submitting a memorandum to Union Jal Shakti Minister and PM should be made to stop AP's "illegal" projects and to protect the state's share in Krishna river waters, according to the release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cabinet-takes-exception-to-andhra-pradeshs-illegal-projects-999449.html
20-06-2021||South||Kerala government seeks moratorium on repayment of loans||The Kerala government has approached the Centre to put in place a moratorium on repayment of loans till December 31 in order to provide relief to individuals in the unorganised sector, MSMEs, agriculture and others adversely affected by Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. Kerala has sought a moratorium of loans without accrual of interest and penal interest during the moratorium period. Kerala Finance Minister K N Balagopal, in a letter to Union Finance Minister Niramala Sitharaman, said the impact of the second wave induced lockdown has adversely affected the economic and social well-being of all sectors of the society. "...it is felt that the burden of repayment of the loans taken by individuals, especially those in the unorganised sector, MSMEs and agriculturalists is particularly onerous at this time, and these sections need some relief by way of moratorium on the repayment of loans at least till December 31, 2021," Balagopal said in a letter dated June 16. He said the state government has taken all steps to ameliorate the hardships faced by the people, especially the vulnerablesections. "I request your kind intervention to put in place a moratorium on repayment of loans at least till December 31, 2021 without accrual of interest and penal interest during the moratorium period," he said in the letter. The Finance Minister pointed out that the economy of Kerala has been under considerable stress since 2018 due to successive natural disasters including the massive floods which lashed the state wreaking havoc in most of the districts. The outbreak of Covid-19 in early 2020 further exacerbated the stress on the economy, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-seeks-moratorium-on-repayment-of-loans-999465.html
20-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu lockdown extended till June 28; curbs eased||The Tamil Nadu government on Sunday announced more relaxations in lockdown norms for 27 districts and bus services are all set to resume in four districts including Chennai from Monday, after a gap of 42 days. Dispensing with the e-registration requirement in Chennai and three other nearby districts, the government said people could travel in autorickshaws and taxis without such prior approval. Metro Rail services would resume with 50 per cent occupancy and similarly intra and inter district bus (non- airconditioned) services also shall become operational in four districts including Chennai with 50 per cent seat occupancy, the government said in an official release. Categorising 38 districts into three separate groups for the purpose of easing curbs, the government allowed more relaxations for 23 districts in the second category and four districts in the third slot got the most of relaxations that includes resumption of bus services. The first group of 11 districts, seven in western region including Coimbatore and four in Cauvery delta areas including Thanjavur have not been given additional relaxations, but would continue to have the current easing like nod for shops selling essential commodities. Chennai, and its nearby Tiruvallur, Kanchipuram and Chengelpet districts in northern region falls under the third category. Southern districts including Tuticorin, Ariyalur and Tiruchirappalli in central delta region are among the 23 districts in the second group. The government extended by one more week, other restrictions as part of the lockdown norms till 6 AM on June 28 and this includes a bar on public entry to places of worship. Cinemas would continue to be closed down across the state though film shoots are permitted with a maximum of 100 personnel. Schools, colleges and universities, though could carry on admissions related administrative work, these institutions would in effect remain closed for regular classes for students. For a visit to hill stations including Kodaikanal and the Nilgiris district, e-pass from district collectors is necessary. Relaxations common to 27 districts include extension of time for a variety of retail shops including standalone provision and vegetable stores besides salons till 7 pm from 6 AM and previously such shops were allowed to be open from 6 AM to 5 PM. All kinds of construction activities are allowed in these 27 districts. Nod to travel without e-registration are among the additional relaxations for Chennai and three other districts. In the second group of districts, essential government departments would function with 100 per cent workforce, other wings with 50 per cent and private firms with 33 per cent. As regards third category areas, all government offices would work with 100 per cent employees and private companies with 50 per cent staffers. In the second category regions, for travel in autos and taxis, e-registration is necessary. Effective June 14, the government allowed more relaxations for 27 districts and it includes re-opening of government run retail liquor outlets and salons. With a spike in coronavirus cases, the state government clamped a lockdown from May 10 and most services including public transportation came to a halt. The Southern Railway has been operating 'workmen special' suburban train services for those in essential services alone. Tamil Nadu recorded its highest single day spike (36,184 cases) on May 21 and since then the cases began to gradually decrease and government in a phased manner has been easing restrictions. On Saturday, the state recorded 8,183 new Covid-19 cases and 180 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-lockdown-extended-till-june-28-curbs-eased-999466.html
20-06-2021||South||Second wave: Telangana nearly doubled its Covid-19 cases in the last 80 days||Telangana was one of the hardest-hit states in the ravaging second wave of Covid-19, with total cases nearly doubling between April 1 to June 19 this year and more than half the state's total deaths occurring during the same period. In just 80 days from April 1 and June 19, Telangana recorded over 3.05 lakh cases, which is close to the total number of cases recorded in the state from the start of the pandemic (March 2, 2020) till the second wave hit (March 31, 2021) which 3.07 lakh.  April and May were the deadliest months for the state as the second wave burdened its public health infrastructure and claimed 1,855 lives between April 1 and June 19. This accounts for nearly 52 per cent of the state's toll, which is 3,556 as on June 19. In the past two and a half months 2,88,508 Covid-19 recoveries were recorded in Telangana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/second-wave-telangana-nearly-doubled-its-covid-19-cases-in-the-last-80-days-999468.html
20-06-2021||South||Former Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja bags prestigious European award||Kerala former Health Minister K K Shailaja has been awarded the Open Society Prize by the Central European University (CEU) in recognition of her committed public health service. The annual award is given to persons of exceptional distinction and was announced by the CEU president and rector Michael Ignatieff. He said that during the Covid-19 pandemic, Shailaja Teacher (as she is popularly known) and the staff of Kerala public health service demonstrated to the world that determined leadership, community-based public health and effective communication can save lives. United Nations former Secretary-General Kofi Annan and American economist and nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz are among previous recipients of the award. Shailaja has received many national and international honours for leading Kerala's fight against Covid and NIPAH virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-kerala-health-minister-k-k-shailaja-bags-prestigious-european-award-999489.html
20-06-2021||South||Andhra sets new record, administers 1.3 mn doses on Sunday, half of the day's national figure||The Jaganmohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh vaccinated a record number of people against Covid-19 by administering over 13 lakh doses in a single day. This figure of 13.4 lakh doses doses at 9:00 pm is claimed to be “almost 50 per cent of the total Covid-19 doses administered across the country on Sunday”. According to state health department, 13,45,004 people across the 13 districts were given the jabs under the special drive. The highest of over 1.6 lakh doses was in West Godavari district, closely followed by East Godavari district. The drive was carried out at 4,589 centres across AP, involving the services of 28,917 medical staff, about 40,000 Asha workers and others.  A similar record was also held by Andhra Pradesh from April 14, during the four day Tika Utsav as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi when the state had administered 6.29 lakh doses. It was hailed by CM Reddy as “the highest single-day Covid-19 vaccination number by any state in the country”.  AP could achieve the feat by leveraging the services of the village and ward-level volunteers the Reddy government had recruited earlier to act as delivery agents of all the government services like ration and old-age pensions at the ground level. However, Andhra Pradesh could not continue with the momentum as vaccine supply from the government of India dwindled due to low availability of Covishield and Covaxin. “Leveraging the village and ward volunteers system, we have not only established our capability of vaccinating over six lakh people per day but also set up a model for all the states to emulate. However, we could not continue the same drive as the vaccine stocks have completely run out,” Reddy had said in a letter in April to Modi while appealing for vaccine stocks. Now, as the vaccine supply has gradually improved, the state government went for a special vaccination drive on Sunday. “This is a remarkable achievement showing that our medical teams and other staff can take up over one million vaccinations a day if the central government can maintain the supply,” a senior health official remarked. Over one lakh doses were given in Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West Godavari, Krishna, Guntur and Chittoor districts. Meanwhile, AP has recorded 5,646 new cases on Sunday when 1,00,001 samples were tested. The active Covid-19 cases at present are 63,068.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-sets-new-record-administers-13-mn-doses-on-sunday-half-of-the-days-national-figure-999495.html
20-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu government allows carmakers in Chennai to operate at full capacity||Global carmakers such as Renault-Nissan, Hyundai Motor Co and Ford Motor Co may operate with their full workforces in India's automaking hub from Sunday, despite worker protests over safety in the pandemic. The Tamil Nadu government allowed industrial units with export commitments to operate at 100 per cent capacity, boosting its flourishing automobile industry. New cases in the state have fallen from more than 30,000 a day in May to about 8,000 but still account for one-seventh of all cases in India, which is second only to the United States in total infections. "Any company which exports or supplies to export-oriented industries will be allowed to operate at full capacity as cases have come down," a senior state government official said. The Madras High Court tasked industrial safety officials this month with visiting carmakers in the state to draw up uniform safety guidelines. It was responding to a case filed last month by workers at the Indian unit of the French-Japanese alliance of Renault SA Nissan Motor Co. They asked for operations to be halted, saying social distancing norms were being flouted and the risk to their lives outweighed the health benefits provided by the company. Labour unions for global carmakers have written letters of protest, arguing that hundreds of workers in the automaking hub of Chennai have fallen ill with Covid-19 and dozens have died. Ford and Hyundai also halted work at their plants last month after workers protested and some went on strike.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-government-allows-carmakers-in-chennai-to-operate-at-full-capacity-999503.html
20-06-2021||South||Virudhunagar cracker unit blast: NGT directs Tamil Nadu to conduct carrying capacity study||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Tamil Nadu government to conduct a carrying capacity assessment of an area in the state's Virudhunagar district where a blast at a firecracker factory in February killed 19 workers. The concept of 'carrying capacity' addresses the question of how much natural resources can be drawn from an area without the risk of degrading the environment there. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel ordered the director of Industrial Safety to conduct the study in three months in coordination with the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The report was submitted to the Tamil Nadu chief secretary for further action. "There is a need for a study of the carrying capacity of the area to sustain the extent of such activities having regard to the potential for accidental, occupational and environmental hazards.  "The study may include the number of units to be allowed, size of operation of such units, the quantity of material to be used, siting criteria for the location of the units, arrangement for fire management and health services," the bench said. Stressing on the need for reviewing such incidents at the highest level in the state, the NGT the chief secretary of Tamil Nadu to hold a meeting with all stakeholders in a month.  "After necessary deliberations, appropriate remedial measures be identified to avoid recurrence of such incidents in the future. The same may be implemented through the district magistrate or any other appropriate authority as per law which may be overseen by the chief secretary.  "The state pollution control board may incorporate appropriate conditions in consents, including prohibiting the use of banned chemicals, and compliance of 1989 and 1996 rules. Further, a mechanism (be put in place) to ensure taking of insurance policies covering risk to life and health of all workers and others likely to be affected by fire or other accidents," the bench said. Such mechanism may provide monitoring of compliance and stopping activities of units not following laid down standard operating procedures and regulations, it said. "Substance of this order and regulatory measures may be published in the local area in vernacular language for information of local inhabitants," the NGT said. The green panel directed the Tamil Nadu chief secretary to submit compliance status of directions after four months by e-mail. It had earlier formed a panel headed by a former high court judge to secure credible facts and directed it to submit a report on the blast at the firecracker in Virudhunagar district.  The explosion occurred on February 12 when some chemicals were being mixed to produce fireworks at the unit in Acchankulam village. The eight-member committee included former high court judge K Kannan, representatives of Union Environment Ministry, CPCB, state Disaster Management Authority, head of the chemical engineering department of IIT-Madras, chief controller of explosives in Nagpur, a nominee of petroleum and explosives safety organization and Chief Inspector of Factories, Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/virudhunagar-cracker-unit-blast-ngt-directs-tamil-nadu-to-conduct-carrying-capacity-study-999518.html
20-06-2021||South||Kerala Congress chief continues attack against CM; May invite trouble over murder claim||As Congress's new Kerala chief K Sudhakaran continues his attack against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan by digging the past, a remark of Sudhakaran's is likely to land him in a legal tangle. Sudhakaran, a Lok Sabha MP, said on Saturday that while 28 Congress workers were killed by Left Front workers over the years in Kannur, Congress workers were involved only in the murder of Nanu, a hotel worker. This statement is now being highlighted by Nanu's family as well as CPM leaders as a confession of Sudhakaran in the case in which all accused were acquitted. Nanu's wife Bhargavi told local media that she would move a court seeking a reinvestigation as all the accused were acquitted. Nanu, a hotel worker, was murdered in a bomb attack aimed at the hotel owner allegedly by Congress activists in 1992. Meanwhile, Sudhakaran said in a social media post on Sunday that he would continue his 'personal attack' on Vijayan as those who act as dictators need to be dealt with personally. Sudhakaran also recollected remarks of former justice K Sukumaran that Vijayan had mafia connections. Sudhakaran's personal attack on Vijayan was also getting backing from senior Congress leaders. Former opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said that it was Vijayan who initiated a personal attack against Sudhakaran ever since the latter became the Kerala PCC president. Congress senior leader K Muraleedharan said that Vijayan's statements against Sudhakaran were unbecoming of a Chief Minister. Congress leaders also alleged that Vijayan was trying to divert attention from the allegations against the government over illegal tree felling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-congress-chief-continues-attack-against-cm-may-invite-trouble-over-murder-claim-999594.html
20-06-2021||South||Aisha Sultana appears before Lakshadweep Police in relation to sedition case||Lakshadweep film personality Aisha Sultana appeared before the Kavaratti police on Sunday in connection with a sedition case registered against her by the union territory's police. According to sources, Sultana's statement was recorded by the police. She was also accompanied by her lawyer. Sultana was earlier served a notice to appear on Sunday in connection with the case. The Kerala High Court had directed that in case she was arrested, she should be given interim bail. BJP Lakshadweep president Abdulkhader Haji had petitioned the police citing a remark of Sultana in a TV channel discussion that the Covid-19 surge in Lakshadweep was due to decisions of administrator Praful Khoda Patel and was a 'bio weapon' of the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aisha-sultana-appears-before-lakshadweep-police-in-relation-to-sedition-case-999601.html
20-06-2021||South||Ex-AIADMK Minister Manikandan held in Bengaluru in sexual abuse case||Former Minister in the AIADMK government, M Manikandan was arrested on Sunday in Bengaluru in a case of sexual abuse of an actress, who also holds Malaysian citizenship. Manikandan, who was Information Technology Minister in the AIADMK regime was arrested in the Karnataka capital by special teams tasked to arrest him in the case, police said. The police brought him to Chennai following his arrest and after questioning, produced him before a court which remanded him to judicial custody till July 2. He was later lodged in a prison in Chennai. Days ago the Madras High Court had rejected his plea for anticipatory bail. In her complaint to police on May 28 against Manikandan, the woman had alleged that he promised to marry him after divorcing his wife and based on that, she was in a live-in relationship with him for the past about five years. The former Minister forcibly had sexual intercourse with her several times and compelled her to carry out abortions thrice and when she requested him to marry her, he assaulted her, she had alleged. Also, he continued to threaten her, saying he would post her nude photographs in social media and sought action against him, a police release said. Subsequently, police registered a case against him while he moved the High Court seeking advance bail. On June 16, the Madras High Court had refused to grant him the relief he sought. Dismissing the plea, it pointed to the gravity of the alleged offences and the personality involved and said while the probe is in a preliminary stage, there is no merit in the petition seeking anticipatory bail. The alleged offences (sections 376-rape and 313 IPC causing miscarriage) are serious in nature and when the accused wields a wide influence, the custodial and effective interrogation of the accused is of tremendous advantage in getting information and also materials which would have been concealed, the court had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ex-aiadmk-minister-manikandan-held-in-bengaluru-in-sexual-abuse-case-999651.html
20-06-2021||State||Karnataka plans to amend rules for transgender job quota||The state government has informed the Karnataka High Court that it has proposed an amendment to Karnataka Civil Services (General Recruitment) Rules, 1977 to reserve vacancy for transgenders. The submission was made in response to a PIL filed by Sangama, an organisation working for the betterment of sexual minorities. The petition contended that a notification calling upon only “men” and “women” for filling up 2,467 vacancies for the posts of Special Reserve Constable Force and Bandsmen of the Police Department violated the order of the Supreme Court. The state government submitted that the proposed amendment provides for one percent vacancies to be filled in any post or service of the state government from among transgender candidates in each category of general merit, SC, ST and in each of the categories among OBCs. In a memo, the state government said that a draft notification was published on May 13, 2021 wherein sub rule (1) (d) was inserted to rule 9. The memo further stated that no objections have been received in the stipulated time. The government also said the amendment will be notified along with amendment to rule 16, against which some objections have been received and are under consideration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-plans-to-amend-rules-for-transgender-job-quota-999379.html
20-06-2021||State||Covid third wave may hit 3.4 lakh kids in Karnataka: Devi Shetty panel||The 16-member expert committee headed by cardiologist Dr Devi Shetty recommended a slew of measures to combat the possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, which is expected to largely affect children. In its interim report submitted to the state government on Saturday, the panel outlined that as many as 3.4 lakh children in Karnataka are likely to be infected by the peak of the third wave, keeping in mind “conservative estimates”.  Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar acknowledged the receipt of the report and said the state will be fully prepared for the third wave “within 45 days of receiving the final report from the committee”. The 91-page interim report, a copy of which was accessed by DH, said Bengaluru, with an estimated 32.21 lakh population in the 0-18 years category, will witness infections among 45,958 children during the peak of the third wave. It also estimated that 2.2 per cent of the total population in the state will be infected at the same time. The Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) said the state may witness the possible surge of third wave either in October or November. The experts estimated a peak requirement of 3,677 hospital beds in Bengaluru for children, out of which 1,838 beds will be ICU and HDU (high dependency unit). Additionally, it estimated that 7,353 beds will be required in Covid Care Centres for children during the third wave’s peak. Hospital beds Statewide, it estimates that out of the 2.38 crore population aged 0-18 years, as many as 3.4 lakh children will be infected, requiring 27,205 hospital beds with 13,602 ICU/HDU beds and 54,409 beds in Covid Care Centres. These numbers vary with a ‘moderate’ and ‘least conservative’ estimate, according to experts. “Among the total Covid-19 infections, children aged 0-18 constituted around 8 per cent to 10 per cent during the first and second wave. Most of the national and international data indicated that a maximum of 5 per cent-7 per cent of such children required hospitalisation. However, recent data from the US suggests that children in the age group of 12-17 years require almost around 31 per cent ICU admissions and among them, 5 per cent require invasive ventilation, but no deaths were reported,” the committee’s interim report said. “To meet the surge in Karnataka, we need to be ready for a little higher number requiring hospitalisation,” it suggested. Among other recommendations, the committee suggested setting up of an exclusive children’s hospital of 250 beds with provision for 20-bed paediatric ICU/HDU/Neonatal ICU in facilities like the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health and in backward districts such as Chamarajanagar, Yadgir, Chikkaballapur, Kolar, Chitradurga, Koppal and Haveri on the premises of district hospitals/medical colleges. The committee recommended earmarking 10 per cent-20 per cent of existing medical ICU beds/ward beds for children in case of a surge in paediatric cases. It also suggested roping in doctors who have committed themselves for rural duty as an obligation, who have completed internship (around 3,000 of them), to be posted in government hospitals for short-term Covid care duty. A Multi-system Inflammatory Syndrome in Children (MIS-C) Registry to enable long-term follow-up of complications has also been recommended. Another suggestion is a Covid registry, where data is collected in four categories: neonatal (0-28 days), paediatric (29 days to 18 years), adult (18 years+), and MIS-C (Children 0-18 years). Setting up of Bala Araike Suraksha Kendras, where both Covid-positive children and female caregivers are allowed to stay, has also been recommended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-third-wave-may-hit-34-lakh-kids-in-karnataka-devi-shetty-panel-999382.html
20-06-2021||State||Set up expert committee at Bengaluru's govt children's hospital: Devi Shetty panel||The Karnataka government-appointed task force headed by eminent cardiologist Dr Devi Shetty to prepare for the possible third wave on Saturday recommended setting up of Centre of Excellence and an Expert Committee for Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome--Children (MIS-C) at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health (IGICH), Bengaluru.  The task force, largely consisting of paediatricians, made the recommendation in the backdrop of an increasing number of children suffering from MIS-C as a post-covid complication. The trend has also been reported among the newborns delivered by Covid positive mothers. IGICH is the largest children's health facility available in the public set up in the city and the State. The committee also recommended setting up of Paediatric Covid-19 Regional Centre of Excellence with 50 beds in Paediatric ICU, 100 beds in High Dependency Unit, 20 beds in Neonatal ICU, 20 beds in Sick Neonatal Care Unit has also been recommended to be set up at KIMS-Hubballi, Vajpayee Institute of Medical Sciences (Bowring), Bengaluru, Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences, Kalaburagi, Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences, Hassan and Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences, Shivamogga. The panel has also recommended recruiting assistant professors in various autonomous institutes under various departments like Paediatric Medicine, Neonatology and in sub-specialities like General Medicine, Anaesthesia, Radiology, Microbiology, Pathology, Otorhinolaryngology, and Ophthalmology, with a single-window administrative clearance in all autonomous institutes under the medical education department. All the beds in the hospital should be equipped with oxygen delivery facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/set-up-expert-committee-at-bengalurus-govt-childrens-hospital-devi-shetty-panel-999432.html
20-06-2021||State||Complete vaccination in 3 to 4 months by involving whole of community: Panel to Karnataka govt||As the threat of the third wave of the Covid pandemic is looming large over the state either in October or November, Dr Devi Shetty headed task force on preparation for the third-wave recommended the Karnataka government on Saturday to complete the vaccination in the next three to four months by involving the whole of the community. It also advised the government to consider the private sector for large-scale free vaccination to prevent mass congregations outside hospitals that may become super spreader events. The experts recommended the government not restrict the vaccine administration for a fixed duration in large hospitals with adequate human resources. "They (hospitals) may be permitted to carry out vaccination drives nearly round-the-clock," the panel recommended. It also advised the companies and factories to vaccinate employees and their families. Preventing piling up of vaccination stock at some of the hospitals, the committee recommended that no hospital should stock unused vaccines beyond 10 days. "The unused vaccine must be diverted to alternate vaccination centres by government or non-governmental medical bodies," the committee said in its report. The committee recommended the following Vaccination sites for the government to consider to enhance number and reach of vaccination: -- All medical facilities including doctors’ clinics, especially paediatricians', having cold chain, to be vaccination sites -- Schools, anganwadis, wedding halls, gram panchayat offices etc especially to be included in rural areas -- Mobile vaccination buses -- Jumbo vaccination centres in cities -- Consider special strategies (eg near-to-home) for difficult-to-reach populations -- Encourage NGOs to provide refreshment at the vaccination sites -- Prioritisation of vaccination in poor health infrastructure districts like Chamarajanagar, Yadagiri , Koppala, Haveri, Chitradurga, Chikballapur, Kolar, Bengaluru Rural||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/complete-vaccination-in-3-to-4-months-by-involving-whole-of-community-panel-to-karnataka-govt-999434.html
20-06-2021||State||To reduce Covid-19 morbidity in children, restart mid-day hot meal programme: Panel||Emphasising that prevention and correction of malnutrition in children is essential to reduce morbidity and mortality in children from Covid-19, the 16-member committee (with majority of paediatricians) headed by eminent cardiologist Dr Devi Shetty, set up by the State government to advise it on the third Covid wave, said the midday meal programme in schools needs to be restarted and if school opening is delayed then home delivery of ready-to-eat nutrition bars, ladoos or fortified food needs to be considered. "Adding a micronutrient powder to milk to children attending Anganwadis will help children in the 6 month-to-6 year age group get additional calories and supplement up to 50% of their vitamin and mineral requirements. The Anganwadi-based supplementary nutrition program is an existing program that should be restarted at the earliest. If children cannot come to the Anganwadi then the process of home delivery of ready eat – nutrition bars, nutrition kits or ladoos may be considered," said the committee's interim report to the State. Peripheral nutrition rehabilitation programs need to be started at taluk levels where children with severe malnutrition are treated with nutritional rehabilitation under the supervision of Zilla panchayat, existing NRC and Indian Academy of Paediatrics members.  "It is recommended that the government explore food fortification of rice, atta, edible oil, salt and milk. Wheat flour and rice can be fortified with Folic acid, iron and vitamin B12. Salt can be fortified with iron along with iodine. Edible oil and milk can be fortified with vitamin A & vitamin D," the committee said. On the distribution of milk through the Ksheera Bhagya programme, the committee said, "Milk powder needs to be procured from Karnataka Milk Federation and distributed through existing channels to schools and ALSO to Anganwadis through the Integrated Child Development Scheme run by the department of Women and Child development." Ksheera Bhagya program which distributes free milk to school children should be extended to include Anganwadi children and should be reactivated with the provision of adding micronutrient fortifiers to the milk before distribution. The committee recommended ring immunisation of all adults around children on war footing i.e. parents and family members, school staff, transport vehicle staff, boarding staff etc. "It is advised to provide Covid-19 health insurance up to Rs.2,00,000/- to all children attending school physically," the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/to-reduce-covid-19-morbidity-in-children-restart-mid-day-hot-meal-programme-panel-999438.html
20-06-2021||State||Chikkaballapur blast: NGT asks Karnataka govt to pay compensation to victims if owners don't||The National Green Tribunal has asked the Karnataka government to pay compensation to victims of the stone quarry blast in Hirenagavalli, Chikkaballapur district, if the quarry owners failed to give it. The NGT Principal Bench headed by its chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel also said that the district administration subsequently could collect the compensation amount for quarry owners. “If the compensation assessed is not paid by the violators within one month, the same has to be paid by the State of Karnataka through the District Magistrate with right to recover the same from the violators,” the NGT said in the order.  The NGT also said that the Chief Secretary of Karnataka should comply with the order and payment should be ensured within one month. “We will request the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority to provide legal aid to ensure that payment is made to genuine heirs of the deceased,” the Green Bench said. In the blast, 6 persons died and one was injured in Hirenagavalli, Chikkaballapur on February 22. The tribunal, which took suo motu cognisance of the incident, had set up an expert committee. The committee in its report held quarry owners responsible for the incident and blamed unscientific handling of the explosive that caused the accident. The committee also assessed monetary compensation to be paid by owners of quarries or partners of the company to victims' families and the same was accepted by the NGT.   The tribunal also noted the expert committee report, which stated that the blast was caused due to illegal possession and inappropriate handling of the explosive material in connection with the activities of M/s Shirdi Sai Aggregates (Stone Quarry) and Shree Bhramaravasini M-Sanders LLP in Hirenagavalli village, Karnataka.  The committee recommended avoiding such occurrences in the future mainly by strict enforcement of the explosive rules. The tribunal directed that necessary steps be taken by the Chief Controller of Explosives, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Nagpur and Director Mines, Karnataka to take further follow-up action.  The NGT also sought a 'status of compliance' report from the Chief Secretary within three months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/chikkaballapur-blast-ngt-asks-karnataka-govt-to-pay-compensation-to-victims-if-owners-dont-999575.html
20-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Some Bengaluru 'black fungus' patients await extensive facial reconstruction post recovery||Alongside 49 heartening cases of cure and recovery from the dreaded 'black fungus' infection among 959 patients in Bengaluru (out of whom 72 died), there are nearly 30 patients awaiting extensive reconstruction and rehabilitation post vision loss, in government hospitals alone, say treating doctors. State-run Victoria Hospital where 190 Covid positive mucormycosis ('black fungus') patients have been treated so far, 17 have undergone 'exenteration' where not just the complete surgical removal of the eyeball and contents of the eye socket was done, the tip of the nose and jaw(s) also had to be removed. With half of their face surgically removed, the patients will need plastic surgery where some areas of their face can be reconstructed with skin tissue and the patients can get a semblance of their previous look. But that is one of the last stages of recovery, three to six months after recovering from the fungal infection, said Dr Manoj Kumar, Dean, Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital, told DH. "We have done exenteration in 11 patients where some had nasal sinuses and jaw(s) removed. One of our first challenges is feeding them without a jaw. They have been put on a feeding tube, which is inserted with the help of major surgeries. This tube cannot be put in for long so we opt for Jejunostomy. We have done 108 surgeries as of now in which major surgeries were done in 15-20 patients," he said. Jejunostomy is the surgical creation of an opening through the skin at the front of the abdomen to help with feeding. "Jaw reconstructions are also being planned. We use prostheses for them so that they can consume food and talk again. Their speech will be 80% to 95% like it was previously based on tongue involvement," he added. Dr Sujatha Rathod, Director, Minto Eye Hospital, said, "Among 37 cases of vision loss that we have seen due to mucormycosis, 11 died, seven had intracranial spread of the infection, two were discharged against medical advice and 17 underwent exenteration." Five of them are women and 12 of them are men. Three of them are aged just 27, 29 and 31 years old. "The fungus is so fulminant (severe and sudden in onset) that it rapidly spreads. If patients don't notice the early signs when it reaches their nasal cavity, then the infection spreads to the eye. Exenteration is one of the most destructive procedures which we do not opt for unless it is the last resort. In some of these 11 patients, the entire one half of the face was shaved off right to the bone," Rathod said. Mucormycosis: Number of cases Bangalore Urban district cases Victoria Hospital: 195Bowring Hospital: 212Total cases: 407 Total Bengaluru cases: 959Total Bengaluru deaths: 72 Total Karnataka cases: 2,856Total Karnataka deaths: 225||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/some-bengaluru-black-fungus-patients-await-extensive-facial-reconstruction-post-recovery-999437.html
20-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Home Minister rejects Opposition's demand for probe into Upper Bhadra project||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has rejected demands by Opposition parties to probe the alleged irregularities in tenders floated for the Upper Bhadra project by the Water Resources Department. Speaking to reporters, Bommai said that Department officials have clarified on the allegations made by BJP MLC A H Vishwanath. “When the issue is clarified, there is no need for a probe,” he said. The demand for a probe into the tenders was following allegations made by Vishwanath of massive corruption in the works taken up under the Rs 20,000 crore project. He had blamed BJP vice president and Yediyurappa’s son B Y Vijayendra for the irregularities, putting the state saffron party unit on the spot during BJP national general secretary Arun Singh’s visit to the state. “We have followed the same method of floating tenders as was practised by previous governments. The tender was floated as per Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurement Act. Everything (about the tender) is transparent. It is natural for the opposition parties to make allegations,” he said. On phone tapping allegations by Hubli-Dharwad West MLA Arvind Bellad, Bommai said that the matter was currently under investigation. “Investigating officer has met him and got all the relevant details,” he said. Bellad, among the disgruntled BJP MLAs, had caused another embarrassment for Yediyurappa administration during Singh’s visit, alleging that he was being surveilled and his phone was tapped by unknown individuals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-home-minister-rejects-oppositions-demand-for-probe-into-upper-bhadra-project-999483.html
20-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to vaccinate students going abroad, Tokyo-bound athletes on June 22: Deputy CM||A special vaccination drive is due to start for students and employees who are slated to travel overseas for education, work or athletic events such as the Tokyo Olympics.  Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said on Saturday that the special vaccination drive would start on June 22 at the Bengaluru City University.  The BBMP East Zone’s health officer had been identified as the competent authority within the BBMP limits and the second dose for the above groups will be given for those who have completed 28 days after receiving the first dose of vaccine, Dr Narayan said. The health officer is entrusted with verifying documents of those who turn up for inoculation. He will also examine the information received from the beneficiaries in the Self Declaration Certificate Form, Annexure-4, and issue the validation letters. This validation certificate needs to be uploaded to the CoWin portal in order for beneficiaries to get vaccinated.  The beneficiaries who had not provided their passport number while receiving the first dose of vaccination should submit vaccination declaration through Annexure-5 to get inoculated with the second dose.  This is the second such drive being arranged. An initial drive was conducted in the first week of June, during which 1,500 people were vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-vaccinate-students-going-abroad-tokyo-bound-athletes-on-june-22-deputy-cm-999510.html
20-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Only 3 legislators demanded removal of Yediyurappa: Arun Singh||Except for three legislators, none of the Karnataka leaders questioned Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's leadership in the state, BJP National General Secretary (incharge Karnataka), Arun Singh reportedly informed BJP national president J P Nadda. Singh, who submitted a report to Nadda about the developments in Karnataka on Sunday, also said that only three leaders, namely Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar, Hubballi -Dharwad (West MLA) Arvind Bellad and MLC H Vishwanath, had demanded the removal of the Chief Minister. Singh had a meeting with over 55 legislators including individual meetings with some ministers during his visit to Bengaluru last week. Bellad met Singh in Delhi on June 14, two days before his Bengaluru visit. Amid growing disgruntlement in the party, Singh was in Bengaluru for three days from June 16 to hear the grievances of legislators and other leaders. Taking note of mudslinging by party leaders on various issues, Singh told BJP top brass that there was a need to bring discipline among leaders, especially those who spoke publicly about party affairs. Singh reportedly told Nadda that the public comments of several leaders on internal party matters led to unnecessary speculation in the media and damaged the party reputation. Appreciating the work done by the state government in handling Covid-19 pandemic, Singh was learnt to have said that frequent jibes by party leaders at the leadership have damaged the image of the government. The government has been doing a lot of work and announced a number of relief measures for the poor hit by Covid-19, Singh told party top brass, sources said. Singh also flagged complaints of Yediyurappa loyalists and frequent remarks by some state BJP leaders, including National General Secretary C T Ravi, indirectly attacking the chief minister. The state BJP unit asked Singh to get individual explanations from leaders who made remarks and demanded action against them. He is learnt to have advised Karkala MLA Sunil Kumar not to make any remarks against leadership publicly. Singh advised him to raise internal issues at the party forum and told him that he has a bright future in the organisation. Sunil Kumar, the government’s chief whip, recently tweeted asking the party leadership to “provide us a platform” to air grievances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/only-3-legislators-demanded-removal-of-yediyurappa-arun-singh-999552.html
20-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka records lowest Covid numbers since April 4||The state recorded its lowest Covid-19 numbers in nearly 77 days on Sunday. Some 4,517 new cases were disclosed on Sunday across the state, which is the lowest such figure since April 4 while only 933 cases were disclosed from Bengaluru Urban, representing a 95-day low, and following 925 cases which were reported on March 18, when the second wave was on its ascendancy phase. The low numbers, coupled with 8,456 discharges on Sunday, saw the state’s active caseload decline to 1,26,813 cases. The next highest numbers were 545 cases found in Mysuru district, 525 in Dakshina Kannada and 346 in Hassan district.  Unlock 2.0 discrepancies While the data shows that the second wave has definitely declined since four weeks, a study by data analysts found that not all districts are in the clear, in terms of preventing additional deaths. According to an analysis by the Project: Jeevan Raksha, which has been studying Covid-19 data since the start of the pandemic, several districts which were recently included in Unlock 2.0 should still continue restrictions. These include Gadag, Raichur, Bagalkot, Haveri, Ramanagar and Yadgir. "Need to be observed for performance sustenance over the next two to three weeks," the report stated. As per the report, all these districts had a 28-day moving growth rate ranging between 14 and 32%. "Efforts need to be made to reduce the moving growth rate below 2% at the earliest possible in order to reduce the average death toll in these districts," the report added. The report further states that a further five districts in Unlock 2.0, such as Uttara Kannada, Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru, Kolar and Mandya showed only "marginal improvement in the last one week," and that the outbreak needs to be observed for the next two weeks to ensure “sustenance of improvement.” Meanwhile, the state also disclosed 120 new deaths, the largest number of which (17) had happened in Mysuru. The oldest fatality among Sunday’s disclosure was a 95-year-old woman who died at a private hospital on June 19 within 24 hours of being diagnosed with the disease. The youngest fatality was a 20-year-old man, who also died in Mysuru, but on June 16, 24 hours after being diagnosed with the illness. He did not have any recorded comorbidities but did have symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). Vaccinations As per data from the department of Health and Family Welfare, the state administered a relatively low 120,529 doses on Sunday. Figures were especially low in Bengaluru Urban, with only 4,616 doses being administered in non-BBMP areas of the city and 37,400 doses administered in BBMP areas. BBMP situation According to the War Room run by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), the state’s test positivity rate over seven days from June 12 to 19 was 1.9%. In comparison, the previous week was witness to a positivity rate of 3.11%. On Sunday, the BBMP also disclosed that 3.1% of the 933 new cases found in the city were children. These comprised 29 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-records-lowest-covid-numbers-since-april-4-999579.html
20-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bus services set to resume across Karnataka except in Mysuru, Dakshina Kannada||Except for Mysuru and Dakshina Kannada, city and inter-district buses will resume operations across the state on Monday. Inter-state buses will remain off the roads for some time. While Mysuru continues to be under lockdown, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) added Dakshina Kannada to the list following an order by the deputy commissioner. To a question over Chitradurga deputy commissioner banning bus operations, KSRTC chief traffic manager Prabhakar Reddy said the corporation officials have been able to get the permission.  "A decision on inter-state bus operations will be taken in the coming days based on the guidelines issued by the respective states," Reddy said a statement. The bus operations will begin at 6 am. The evening services are likely to be skeletal. Officials said while there was no restriction on public transport, the services will be provided based on demand. KSRTC said both local and inter-district long route bus operations will resume. The four road transport corporations (RTCs) will start with limited services initially. The KSRTC will deploy 3,000 buses while the BMTC will ply 2000. Officials said they will scale up services based on traffic density and need. Drivers and conductors of KSRTC have been advised not to pick up passengers from any bus stations and stops situated within the jurisdiction of Mysuru. Similar orders were expected for buses plying around Dakshina Kannada. The RTCs have directed their employees to report to work after testing negative in the RT-PCR test within the last 72 hours. Besides making masks mandatory, some depot managers have also advised the staffers on long routes to bring food from home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bus-services-set-to-resume-across-karnataka-except-in-mysuru-dakshina-kannada-999629.html
20-06-2021||West||Goa Congress restructuring call to be taken at right time, says Dinesh Gundu Rao||Senior Congress leader Dinesh Gundu Rao on Sunday said the decision on restructuring the Goa unit of the party as well as leadership change here would be taken at the right time after discussions with the high command. Rao said he had held meetings with several leaders here over the past four days and would be relaying the feedback to the Central leadership. Goa Congress chief Girish Chodankar had quit his post in December last year after the party was drubbed by the ruling BJP in the Zilla Panchayat polls, but his resignation is yet to be accepted. Goa is scheduled to have Assembly polls in early 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-congress-restructuring-call-to-be-taken-at-right-time-says-dinesh-gundu-rao-999478.html
20-06-2021||West||Gujarat man held from MP under new anti-conversion law||Police have arrested a 23-year-old resident of Gujarat's Valsad district from Madhya Pradesh under the newly-notified Gujarat law which penalises forcible or fraudulent religious conversion through marriage, an official said on Sunday. The accused, Imran Ansari, allegedly kidnapped a 19-year-old woman from his neighbourhood in Vapi city of Valsad with the intention of marrying her after forcing her to convert her religion, he said. He was held on Sunday under the Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act-2021, which came into force on June 15 lays down stringent punishment for forcible conversion through marriage. The accused was also booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her for marriage), 376 (2) (rape), and 506 (2) (criminal intimidation), Vapi town police station's inspector B J Sarvaiya said. The woman's mother filed a missing person's complaint on June 10, following which police teams launched a probe and zeroed-in on the accused, he said. Through technical surveillance and checking of CCTV footage, it was found the victim was with the man at Indore in Madhya Pradesh. A team from here, with the help of MP police, managed to bring the woman back to Vapi, the official said. "The victim, in her statement to police, said the accused lured her into a relationship and started forcing her for marriage. The accused also threatened to kill her brother if she failed to comply. The accused is already married, but was still pressuring the victim for marriage and religious conversion," Sarvaiya said. He first took the woman to Ajmer in Rajasthan and then to Indore, where he tried to forcibly get married to her. He also allegedly had physical relations with the victim against her wishes, the official said. Earlier, the Gujarat police on Friday said they had registered the first FIR in the state under the newly-notified law and arrested a 26-year-old man in Vadodara.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-man-held-from-mp-under-new-anti-conversion-law-999511.html
20-06-2021||West||Better to join hands with PM Modi, patch up with BJP, Shiv Sena leader says in letter to Uddhav||Amid bickering within the Maha Vikas Aghadi, senior Shiv Sena leader Pratap Sarnaik has shot off a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray saying that the party must patch up with BJP before it is too late. It may be mentioned, Sarnaik, a three-time MLA from Thane district, is being probed by the Enforcement Directorate on alleged charges of money laundering. The Shiv Sena was the oldest ally of BJP – for nearly three decades – before it broke away in 2019 and joined hands with the Congress-NCP combine to form the MVA government. In the letter dated 10 June, Sarnaik pointed out that the political alliance may have broken but the leaders of Shiv Sena and BJP enjoy good “personal relations”. "It is better to join hands with Prime Minister Narendra Modi again as Shiv Sainiks feel that would save leaders like myself, Anil Parab and Ravindra Waikar from problems,” said Sarnaik. “We believe in you and your leadership but Congress and NCP are trying to weaken our party. I believe that it will be better if you get closer to Modi...if we come together once again, it will be beneficial to Shiv Sena and Sainiks,” he said in the letter. “I believe in fighting a war like Arjun instead of sacrificing oneself like Abhimanyu or Karna. This is the reason that I have been fighting my legal battle for the last 7 months alone without getting any help from our leaders or our government,” he said. According to him, Congress wants to contest alone while NCP is trying to break away leaders from Shiv Sena. The BJP, however, offered guarded comments. “This is what we said 18 months ago,” said state BJP President Chandrakant Patil. “….Sarnaik has written a letter to Thackeray…he would decide… then our parties would decide accordingly,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/better-to-join-hands-with-pm-modi-patch-up-with-bjp-shiv-sena-leader-says-in-letter-to-uddhav-999513.html
20-06-2021||West||All is not well as war of words rocks Maha Vikas Aghadi||A major war-of-words have broken out involving the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi partners – Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress  - on the issue of going alone in future elections to local bodies, Vidhan Sabha and Lok Sabha. Both, Uddhav Thackery-spearheaded Shiv Sena and Sharad Pawar-led NCP maintained that if Congress takes the demand of contesting alone till the end, the two parties will have no other option but to work in fighting elections together. Over the weekend, the war of words seems to have escalated, however, informal parleys are underway to defuse the situation. On Saturday, Thackeray chose the 55th foundation of the saffron party on Saturday to answer Maharashtra Congress President Nana Patole and his Mumbai counterpart Bhai Jagtap, both of whom are saying that they would go alone in future polls.  In a sharp reaction, Thackeray said: "People would beat with footwear (those) who only talk about contesting elections alone without really resolving people's woes…which party does not want to win as many seats as possible fight elections on its own, but this is not the time for such announcements”. It needs to be mentioned that next year, the majority of the municipal corporations including Mumbai would go for polls – which would be a sort of mini-Assembly elections – and all the political parties have launched preparations. Thackeray’s statement came hours after a state Congress gathering – coinciding with the birthday of Rahul Gandhi – leaders after leaders including Patole and Jagtap felt the need of going alone.  The top brass of the Congress including three former Chief Ministers – Sushilkumar Shinde, Prithviraj Chavan and Ashok Chavan, who is now a minister in the MVA government, were present. AICC Secretary HK Patil, however, asked the partymen to work towards strengthening the unit and left the decision on alliances to the high command. However, on Sunday, reacting to Thackeray’s statement, Patole said: “Even BJP has spoken of contesting elections independently. In the past, all four parties Congress, NCP, Shiv Sena and BJP have contested local bodies and Assembly polls independently.” He said that the MVA was formed to keep BJP out of power. “This is not a permanent arrangement. Every party has the right to strengthen its organization and the congress has always given priority to providing relief to covid affected people by providing blood, oxygen, plasma at various places,” Patole said. State NCP President and Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil said: “If Congress takes the call of going solo till the end, we both – Shiv Sena and NCP – would work together.” Meanwhile, Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said that his party fights all battles on its own strength and works for the pride of Maharashtra. “What Uddhav Ji said as Shiv Sena President was very clear…he has given direction to his party workers,” he said.  “Shiv Sena's path ahead is clear.  Let others come out of their chaos as one leader of other parties speaks of going alone and another leader from the same party says it was not the party line," Raut added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/all-is-not-well-as-war-of-words-rocks-maha-vikas-aghadi-999521.html
