21-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Missing gold case: CID issues notice to former IGP||The Crime Investigation Department (CID), investigating the case of missing gold worth Rs 2.50 crore weighing 4.9 kilograms from a car that had been seized by Yamakanamaradi police in Hukkeri taluk, has issued notice to the then Inspector General Police Northern Range (IGP NR) Raghavendra Suhas to appear before it for probe, sources said. Based on a tip-off that gold was being smuggled to Maharashtra in a specific car, Yamakanamaradi police, during the intervening night of January 9 and 10, had seized a car near the checkpost on Pune-Bengaluru national highway. They did not find gold, but the car was seized for modifications made without permission of the Transport Department.' Car owner Tilak Pujari from Mangaluru had come in contact with Kiran Veerangoudar from Hubballi (now arrested as a suspect) and had made futile attempts to get the car released. The car was released on April 16 through court. Pujari had submitted a petition to then IGP NR Raghavendra Suhas on April 17, regarding the missing gold and the rear glass of the vehicle being replaced between it being seized and released. IGP NR had transferred the petition to the District Police for inquiry. Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbargi, fearing involvement of senior officials, had referred the case to CID for investigation. CID arrested suspect Kiran Veerangoudar on June 7, and have been interrogating him after getting custody from the Third Additional District and Sessions Court here recently. Cases have been booked against him at Sankeshwar and Hirebagewadi police stations under provisions of Prevention of Corruption Act and impersonation and forgery respectively. CID issued notice to Raghavendra Suhas, posted as Inspector General of Police, Internal Security Division, Bengaluru, to join the probe. Notices were also issued to then Gokak Deputy Superintendent of Police Javed Inamdar, then Hukkeri Circle Police Inspector Gururaj Kalyanshetti and then Yamakanamaradi Police Sub-Inspector Ramesh Patil, sources said. Raghvendra Suhas was not available for comment when called to get confirmation about the notice being issued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/missing-gold-case-cid-issues-notice-to-former-igp-999796.html
21-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 positivity rate in Mysuru still above 10%: MP||MP Pratap Simha on Monday said that the positivity rate of Covid-19 cases is still above 10 per cent in the district. Speaking to reporters, the MP said despite several efforts, the cases are rising due to the lack of a plan. The cases in the rural region are slightly high and now the officials, led by Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham, have streamlined measures and cases will come down soon. The MP said that the lockdown will be eased according to the decline in positivity rate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-positivity-rate-in-mysuru-still-above-10-mp-999802.html
21-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru celebrates International Day of Yoga meaningfully||Hundreds of people in Mysuru participated in the 7th International Day of Yoga on Monday virtually. MLAs and officials, including deputy commissioner Dr Bagadi Gautham and Zilla Panchayat (ZP) Chief Executive Officer A M Yogeesh performed yoga at their respective residences. The district administration, ZP, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) and Ayush department had organised the event online. Yoga Federation of Mysuru, Patanjali Yoga Shikshana Samiti, GSS Yoga Foundation, Yoga Sports Foundation and Bharat Swabhiman Trust held the programme. People who participated will receive e-certificates. The Union Ministry of Ayush had declared the motto ‘Be With Yoga, Be At Home’ in the wake of the pandemic to bring the people together globally from their homes and to spread the message of traditional yoga for the betterment of both physical and mental health. Workshop, sessions Government Ayurvedic College had organised a workshop and other programmes to promote Yoga. While a workshop was organised for KSRTC staff and police personnel, an online lecture was held for the public and students. MLA L Nagendra, University of Mysore Vice-Chancellor G Hemantha Kumar and Karnataka State Open University VC S Vidyashankar gave online messages. Yoga trainers A S Chandrashekar and T R Dattatri and Swami Vivekananda Yoga Anusandhana Samsthana (S-VYASA) vice-chancellor B R Ramakrishna delivered online lectures. Education institutions and other organisations celebrated the day online. Yoga at CCCs Yoga sessions were organised for Covid-19 patients at Covid Care Centres at Mandakalli, Varkodu, Yalachagalli, Maleyuru in T Narasipur taluk, Mahadeva Nagar in Nanjangud taluk and across the district. The infected persons were guided by Yoga trainers. BJP session BJP Yuva Morcha celebrated the day and party workers, including state Yuva Morcha vice- president Jayshankar, general secretary Santosh Kumar, Mahesh, Bharat, Sachin, Harshit and Arun, participated in a session under the guidance of Yoga teacher Nanjundaraje Urs. Later, Urs was felicitated. JD(S) MLA G T Devegowda performed yoga at his residence. NCC Cadets perform yoga Cadets and their families of 14 Karnataka Karnataka Battalion NCC, Mysuru Group, carried out yoga as per the protocol. More than 3,000 cadets and their family members were part of the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-celebrates-international-day-of-yoga-meaningfully-999882.html
21-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two children injured as gelatin stick explodes||Two children sustained serious injuries as a gelatin stick exploded at Channahalli near Vatehole dam in Alur taluk in Hassan district on Monday. Abhishek, 12, son of Raghu and Krithika, daughter of Rangaswamy of the village were playing when they found a piece of gelatin stick. They started powdering it with a stone when it exploded. Both sustained injuries on their faces. They were rushed to a private hospital in Hassan. They are said to be out of danger. According to police inspector B G Kumar, around two years ago labourers working for Yettinahole project had camped temporarily at Channahalli. There was a possibility that they might have left behind pieces of gelatin sticks used for blasting rocks. The children might have found them while playing, resulting in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-children-injured-as-gelatin-stick-explodes-999886.html
21-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Violation of norms in rehabilitation centre?||A Right to Information (RTI) activist has complained that Covid-19 norms have been violated in a children’s rehabilitation centre during the celebration of the birthday of a former president of Mysuru taluk panchayat Manjula Manjunath on June 20. Ravindra, the activist, said that the photos and video of the celebrations were circulated on social media. The same could not be carried in traditional media as some of the children were orphans, some destitutes and others were rescued from human trafficking at Odanadi Seva Trust at Hootagalli. The participants were not wearing masks and there was no social distance. He has demanded action against those who violated the guidelines. He has complained to the deputy director for public instruction and also district child protection officer in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/violation-of-norms-in-rehabilitation-centre-999888.html
21-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Release of water to TN protested||Mandya Rakshana Vedike members staged a protest in Srirangapatna town in Mandya district on Monday alleging that water was being released to Tamil Nadu from the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) reservoir. They said that the authorities were releasing water to the neighbouring state even before the dam had reached its maximum level. They gathered near the Ambedkar Bhavan on the banks of River Cauvery and raised slogans against the State government, Chief Minister, Water Resources department and Cauvery Neeravari Nigama officials. The protesters alleged that the agriculture department had not distributed seeds as the dam was not filled. Besides, the water level was below 100 feet. Lakes and other water sources in and around KRS were not filled. The government had been releasing 10,000 cusec to Tamil Nadu every day meting out injustice to the farmers here. If the authorities did not stop water to Tamil Nadu, protests would be intensified. The water level at the reservoir was 94.14 ft against the maximum level of 124.80 ft on June 20. The inflow was 15,885 cusec and outflow 5,117 cusec.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/release-of-water-to-tn-protested-999890.html
21-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||90 KSRTC buses resume services in Hassan||Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) resumed bus services in Hassan from Monday. The services were temporarily halted due to lockdown. Buses started operating to Bengaluru, Chikkamagaluru, Madikeri, Mandya, Tiptur, Tumakuru, Sakleshpur, Alur, Belur, Arkalgud, Holenarasipur, Channarayapatna, and Arsikere. However, there was no service to Mysuru. The number of passengers was more on buses bound for Bengaluru and Holenarasipur. The buses were operated based on the number of passengers. Migrants and labourers, who had returned to their native places, left for the cities. KSRTC employees, who have availed two doses of Covid vaccination, were asked to produce RT-PCR negative reports while reporting to work. Around 250 buses were kept ready and around 200 employees reported for duty. It was mandatory for the passengers to wear masks during their travel and only two people were allowed to sit on three-seaters. The bus depots too were sanitised. No directions have been received to resume services to rural areas, according to officials. The KSRTC operated 45 buses in Chamarajanagar. While 14 buses plied to Bengaluru, the remaining bus services were to the taluks in the district. "More buses will be operated if there is an increase in passenger traffic," said divisional controller B Srinivas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/90-ksrtc-buses-resume-services-in-hassan-999894.html
21-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||D B Natesh to continue as MUDA Commissioner as govt cancels his transfer||KAS officer D B Natesh will continue as Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) Commissioner as the state government has cancelled his transfer order. The government had transferred Natesh, appointing KAS officer Sheelavantha M Shivakumara in his place. Natesh was posted in the place of Shivakumar as Joint Director (Administration), Office of the Commissioner, Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services, Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/d-b-natesh-to-continue-as-muda-commissioner-as-govt-cancels-his-transfer-999898.html
21-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Potholes pose threat to road users on Bengaluru-Mangaluru national highway||The stretch between Sakleshpur and Heggadde on Bengaluru-Mangaluru National Highway 75 has been badly damaged posing a threat to road users. The stretch is full of deep potholes and has turned dangerous for vehicle users, especially two-wheeler riders. As it is raining heavily in the region, potholes are filled with rainwater. The loose gravel and soil have been washed away in the rains. Hundreds of vehicles, including trucks and fuel tankers, ply on the route every day. The dilapidated road is causing problems to drivers. Frequent mishaps on the stretch are reported. Several vehicles have been damaged. Vijayashankar, owner of Bheemeshwara Estate in Sakleshpur, claimed that vehicles get stuck in potholes. Not only do the passengers face problems, but vehicle owners have to spend heavily for repairs. The four-lane work is under progress on the highway from Hassan to BC Road. A private company bagged the contract in 2017. As per the agreement, the works should have been completed by March 31, 2019. But, the company has given a sub contract to another company and only 50% of the work has been completed so far. Citing construction of the new road, the existing roads have been neglected. There are no repairs, filling of potholes or asphaltation, said lorry owner Susheel Mani. National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) Engineer Janardhan said that potholes could not be filled immediately due to rains. However, the works would be taken up in phases once the rain receded. Karnataka Rakshana Vedike president Balu Dinesh has warned of staging a protest if the potholes are not filled immediately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/potholes-pose-threat-to-road-users-on-bengaluru-mangaluru-national-highway-999901.html
21-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka cabinet approves construction of Hassan airport, to cost Rs 193.65 crore||The Karnataka cabinet on Monday gave its approval for the construction of a greenfield domestic passenger airport at Hassan, at an estimated cost of Rs 193.65 crore. "It will be for construction of a runway, passenger terminal, technical buildings, electrical substations, aviation equipment, among others," Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai said after the cabinet meeting. Considered as the dream project of former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda, who hails from Hassan district, the government had acquired 536 acres of land for the airport. The foundation stone for the airport was laid by Gowda in 2007 at Boovanahalli on the outskirts of Hassan, when the JD(S)-BJP coalition was in power, but had not progressed. Once operational, the airport is expected to boost tourism activities in the Hassan district. The cabinet gave its administrative approval for construction of new buildings for 100 police stations at an estimated cost of Rs 200 crore, Bommai, who is also the Home Minister, said. A time limit of two years has been given for its completion. The cabinet has also given its approval for The Karnataka Contingency Fund (Amendment) Ordinance 2021 which will enable enhancing the contingency fund from Rs 500 crore to Rs 2,500 crore for Covid and other related spendings. Approval has also been given to bring in an amendment to the Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act, 1961, to do away with multi-agency surveys to grant Transferable Development Rights (TDR) for those who lose land for various government projects. "This is to prevent delays in granting TDR," Bommai said. The cabinet has approved the Karnataka Municipalities (Recruitment of loaders and cleaners in City Municipal Councils, Town Municipal Councils and Town Panchayats) (Special) Rules 2021, to regularise loaders, cleaners, drivers, among others, as pourakarmikas (civic workers) were regularised in the past. Approval has also been given for implementation of World Bank assisted Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project phase 2 and 3 in respect of 58 dams (world bank loan 70 per cent and state share 30 per cent) at an estimated cost of Rs 1,500 crore, the Minister said. The cabinet has decided to constitute a sub-committee to draft the 'Karnataka State Water Policy'. Other cabinet decisions include enhancing reservation for children of farmers and agriculture labourers in admission to Diploma in Agriculture, BSc agriculture and equivalent degree from existing 40 to 50 per cent and administrative approval for construction of building for Rani Chennamma University at Hirebagewadi village in Belagavi at an estimated cost of Rs 110 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-cabinet-approves-construction-of-hassan-airport-to-cost-rs-19365-crore-999920.html
21-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Missing gold: CID issues notice to former IGP north range||The CID, which is probing the case of missing gold worth Rs 2.5 crore (weighing 4.9 kg) from a car that had been seized by the Yamakanamaradi police in Hukkeri taluk, has issued notice to then Inspector General of Police (Northern Range) Raghavendra Suhas to appear before it, sources said. Based on a tip-off that gold was being smuggled to Maharashtra in a car, the Yamakanamaradi police, on the intervening night of January 9 and 10, seized the vehicle near the checkpost on the Pune-Bengaluru national highway. They did not find gold, but the car was seized as modifications were made without permission of the Transport department. Car owner Tilak Pujari from Mangaluru had contacted Kiran Veerangoudar from Hubballi (now arrested as a suspect) and had made futile attempts to get the car released. The car was released on April 16, through court. Pujari had given a complaint to Suhas on April 17, regarding the missing gold and the rear glass of the vehicle being replaced, in the interregnum between its seizure and release. The IGP had transferred the complaint to the district police. Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbargi had referred the case to the CID. The CID arrested Kiran on June 7 and is interrogating him. Cases have been booked against him. The CID has now issued notice to Suhas, posted as Inspector General of Police, Internal Security Division, Bengaluru, to join the probe. The officer was not available for comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/missing-gold-cid-issues-notice-to-former-igp-north-range-999953.html
21-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Win polls first, CM candidate later: Surjewala tells Karnataka Congress factions||Cracking the whip, the AICC on Monday warned Karnataka unit leaders against projecting chief ministerial faces of a future Congress government and work unitedly to earn the trust of the people of the state. “I have noted with concern that certain individuals in the Congress Party have recently become prone to issuing statements about leadership in the State or leadership post Congress Government formation,” AICC General Secretary in-charge of Karnataka Randeep Singh Surjewala said in a statement here. The statement came after a section of the Congress leaders such as B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan and Raghavendra Hitnal projected Siddaramaiah as the next chief minister, while another group of leaders chanted the mantra of “collective leadership”. “I take this opportunity to forewarn them to avoid such comments completely. Central Congress leadership & MLAs will decide the issue at an appropriate time,” Surjewala said. He said the sole objective of Congress leaders should be the progress of the state and welfare of the people and the BJP government “crumbles under its own weight”. “All Congress leaders will continue to fight the battle unitedly in people’s interest. Like ‘Arjuna’ in Mahabharata, this should be our only goal,” Surjewala said. He said the people of state were again looking towards the Congress Party as the only credible alternative with a proven track record of governance and public welfare schemes reaching across the spectrum. “The responsibility of Congress Party is, thus, even more to put the State back as the driver of India’s agriculture, economy and as a hub of technology and innovation. The entire Congress leadership in the State will leave no stone unturned in putting Karnataka as a frontline State in these areas and as an example to be emulated by the rest of the country,” Surjewala said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/win-polls-first-cm-candidate-later-surjewala-tells-karnataka-congress-factions-999824.html
21-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||High command will decide on Karnataka CM candidate: Parameshwara||Senior legislator and former KPCC president G Parameshwara on Monday said that the Congress leadership would decide on the chief minister candidate if the party comes to power. He was replying to a query on party legislator Zameer Ahmed Khan's repeated statements projecting Siddaramaiah as next CM, Parameshwara said, "It Zameer Ahmed's personal views. The party legislators will elect the CM." "Assembly elections are still a long way off. How can we decide on the chief ministerial candidate so early? It is an irrelevant issue now," Parameshwara, also seen as one of the aspirants for the CM post, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/high-command-will-decide-on-karnataka-cm-candidate-parameshwara-999954.html
21-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah plays down ‘next Karnataka CM’ issue||Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah on Monday played down repeated statements by his aides projecting him as the next CM, saying it's their personal views. "There's is a system in the party. First, the party should win elections. The high command will then take a call on the CM candidate after eliciting views of the legislators. There's no need to discuss it any further..," Siddaramaiah told reporters. Replying to a specific query, Siddaramaiah said, "There are no factions within the party. D K Shivakumar is visiting Delhi to discuss with AICC general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala about the issues pertaining to party organisation."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-plays-down-next-karnataka-cm-issue-999956.html
21-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Ramesh Jarkiholi meets Devendra Fadnavis in Mumbai||Former minister and Gokak MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi, who has been sulking due to non-cooperation from BJP leaders to bail him out of the alleged CD case, met former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis in Mumbai on Monday. He is still camping in Mumbai, sources said. The former minister will hold talks with Fadnavis regarding the conduct of state BJP leaders, sources said. There were reports that Jarkiholi was planning to resign as MLA due to the conduct of the BJP leaders. Meanwhile, MLA Mahesh Kumatalli refuted reports that he had accompanied Jarkiholi to Mumbai. He was speaking to reporters at Athani in the district. KPCC working president and MLA Satish Jarkiholi said he had no information on his brother Ramesh planning to resign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ramesh-jarkiholi-meets-devendra-fadnavis-in-mumbai-999961.html
21-06-2021||Mysuru||Oxygen production unit to be ready by July 20 in Mysuru: Pratap Simha||Mysuru will get an oxygen production unit with a capacity of 1,000 litre per minute. It is planned on the District Hospital premises, to be functional by July 20. MP Pratap Simha, who conducted a spot inspection, said, "The Union government has decided to establish 1,200 oxygen units across India the unit at Mysuru will cost Rs 1 crore." The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has taken up the project. The MP said that a similar unit is coming up on KR Hospital premises and the civil works have been completed."The equipment will be installed by the end of this month," he informed. Simha said that a similar unit will be established in Kodagu and a spot inspection will be conducted on June 22. He added that the authorities concerned are preparing to face the third wave of Covid. "As many as 300 beds are ready at Princess Krishnajammanni Super-Specialty Hospital. We will utilise the service of private doctors, if necessary," he said. District Health Officer Dr K H Prasad, District Surgeon Dr Rajeshwari, Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute Dean Dr Nanjaraj and NHAI Director Sridhar were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/oxygen-production-unit-to-be-ready-by-july-20-in-mysuru-pratap-simha-999856.html
21-06-2021||National||In the wake of India’s Covid crisis, a 'black fungus’ epidemic follows||In the stifling, tightly packed medical ward at Civil Hospital, the ear, nose and throat specialist moved briskly from one bed to the next, shining a flashlight into one patient’s mouth, examining another’s X-rays. The specialist, Dr Bela Prajapati, oversees treatment for nearly 400 patients with mucormycosis, a rare and often deadly fungal disease that has exploded across India on the coattails of the coronavirus pandemic. Unprepared for this spring’s devastating Covid-19 second wave, many of India’s hospitals took desperate steps to save lives — steps that may have opened the door to yet another deadly disease. “The pandemic has precipitated an epidemic,” Prajapati said. In three weeks, the number of cases of the disease — known by the misnomer “black fungus,” because it is found on dead tissue — shot up to more than 30,000 from negligible levels. States have recorded more than 2,100 deaths, according to news reports. The federal health ministry in New Delhi, which is tracking nationwide cases to allot scarce and expensive antifungal medicine, has not released a fatalities figure. The coronavirus pandemic has drawn stark lines between rich nations and poor, and the mucormycosis epidemic in India stands as the latest manifestation. During the second wave, which struck India in April, its creaky, underfunded medical system lacked beds, oxygen and other necessities as infections and deaths soared. The mucormycosis epidemic adds even more urgency to the difficult task of protecting India’s 1.4 billion people. Only a small fraction have been vaccinated against the coronavirus, and they remain vulnerable to a third wave and the consequences that could follow. “Mucormycosis will tail off and go back to baseline as the Covid cases subside,” said Dr Dileep Mavalankar, an epidemiologist. “But it may come back in the third wave unless we find out why it is happening.” Many doctors in India think they know why. The bone-and-tissue-eating fungus can attack the gastrointestinal tract, the lungs, the skin and the sinuses, where it often spreads to the eye socket and the brain if left untreated. Treatment for the disease involves complex, often disfiguring surgery and an uncommon and expensive drug, contributing to a mortality rate above 50%. Mucormycosis is not passed from person to person. It develops from commonplace spores that sometimes build up in homes and hospitals. Doctors believe India’s crowded hospitals, and their dire lack of medical oxygen, left the fungus an opening. Without enough oxygen to go around, doctors in many places injected patients with steroids, a standard treatment for doctors battling Covid globally. They can reduce inflammation in the lungs and help Covid patients breathe more easily. Many doctors prescribed steroids in quantities and for durations that far exceed World Health Organization recommendations, said Arunaloke Chakrabarti, a microbiologist and co-author of a study examining the causes of India’s mucormycosis outbreak. Those steroids may have compromised patient immune systems and made Covid-19 patients more susceptible to fungal spores. The steroids may have also dangerously increased blood sugar levels, leaving people with diabetes vulnerable to mucormycosis. It could also increase the chance of blood clots, leading to malnourished tissue, which the “fungus attacks,” Prajapati said. Desperate doctors may not have had the chance to ask patients about whether they had diabetes or other conditions before resorting to steroids. “Doctors hardly had any time to do patient management,” Chakrabarti said. “They were all looking at how to take care of the respiratory tract.” According to the health ministry, about four out of five mucormycosis patients have had Covid-19. More than half have diabetes. Alok Kumar Chaudry, a 30-year-old engineer with surgical tape over his left eye and hooked up to an IV drip at Civil Hospital, is one of those with mucormycosis who first came down with Covid. He was studying for India’s civil service exam in April in New Delhi when the second wave hit. After testing positive for the coronavirus, and with hospital beds, drugs and oxygen scarce, he jumped onto a train to his older brother’s home in rural Gujarat. There, his oxygen levels plummeted to a potentially lethal 54%. After two weeks on oxygen support and steroids at a local hospital, he recovered from Covid-19 but developed an acute headache on the left side of his brain. Doctors thought that steroids may have caused it and that it would go away. “Suddenly vision in my left eye went blank,” Chaudry said. An MRI exam showed mucormycosis. The doctors said they would have to remove his eye. He went to Ahmedabad’s Civil Hospital for a second opinion. Five specialists oversaw a surgery that involved scraping away the dead tissue in his sinus tract. To clear out remaining infection, he received a 15-day course of amphotericin B, an antifungal medication. Chakrabarti said that if Chaudry kept his eye, he could still lose his life, since surgeons couldn’t remove the thin layer of infection behind his eye without removing the eye itself. “I’ve lost vision in my left eye, my studies have suffered,” Chaudry said. “Definitely I want to know why mucor has formed. If it’s faulty treatment, then someone is responsible. If it’s the wrath of God, what can I do?” The study that Chakrabarti co-wrote, published this month by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said that heavy use of steroids, the correlation with diabetes and the unsanitary conditions at some hospitals had played a role. Even before the pandemic, India recorded about 50 mucormycosis cases a year, compared with, on average, a single case every two years in the United States and Western Europe. Environmental conditions play a part, as does the incidence of diabetes — India has more than twice as many people with the condition as the United States does. Usually in India, mucormycosis afflicts people with diabetes who are either unaware of their condition or who are not taking insulin properly. But in the current outbreak, many patients had no history of diabetes. The common denominator was a Covid-19 infection treated with steroids, clinicians and researchers say. The government in Ahmedabad, in Gujarat, declared mucormycosis an epidemic in May. Other states have followed. Whether patients live or die often depends on how quickly they undergo debridement surgery that removes the fungus and then start a two-week course of amphotericin B. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is from Gujarat, described the fungal disease as a new “challenge” and said it was “important to create systems to tackle it.” India makes small supplies of amphotericin B, which can be obtained free of charge at some public hospitals. But because supplies are limited, India is importing it from the United States, where it costs about $300 per vial. Each patient needs 60 to 100 vials. Gilead Sciences, the American manufacturer, has donated about 200,000 vials. Doctors are using cheaper drugs that are as effective but more toxic, posing a risk of kidney damage. “That’s a very painful choice,” said Dr Atul Patel, an infectious diseases specialist at the private Sterling Hospital in Ahmedabad who has treated dozens of mucormycosis patients in the outbreak. Patel, another of the study’s authors, said that steroids, which in India are commonly prescribed for routine ailments such as diarrhea or fever, had been prescribed to Covid-19 patients with mild infections who didn’t need them. That was the case for one of Patel’s patients, Ambaben Heerabhai Patel, 60, the matriarch of a farming family in rural Gujarat, who is paying about $700 a day for antifungal treatment and other services at Sterling. It’s a steep cost, but Ambaben Patel had seen Dr Patel — no relation — for previous health issues related to her diabetes. After back-to-back infections of Covid-19 and then mucormycosis, she did not want to take any chances. Arriving at the hospital May 17 with an intense headache and facial numbness, Ambaben Patel said in early June from her private room at Sterling Hospital that she felt healthy for the first time in more than a month. Of Dr Patel, she said, “he’s like my god.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-the-wake-of-india-s-covid-crisis-a-black-fungus-epidemic-follows-999682.html
21-06-2021||National||Yoga a ray of hope as the world fight Covid pandemic: PM Modi||On the seventh International Yoga Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the ancient Indian discipline remains a "ray of hope" and a source of strength for the people in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. The prime minister said frontline warriors and doctors have told him that they made yoga their "protective shield" while fighting the pandemic. Addressing a Yoga Day programme, Modi also announced that in collaboration with the World Health Organization (WHO), India has taken another important step as the world is going to get the power of 'M-Yoga' application, which will have many videos of yoga training based on Common Yoga Protocol available in different languages. Terming this as a great example of fusion of modern technology and ancient science, the prime minister expressed hope that the M-yoga app will help in spreading yoga world over and contribute to the efforts of 'One World, One Health'. Talking about yoga's role during the pandemic, Modi said there were several instances of yoga sessions conducted by doctors and nurses in hospitals and experts were stressing the importance of breathing exercises like 'pranayama' and 'anulom-vilom' in strengthening the respiratory system. "At a time when the whole world is fighting the coronavirus pandemic, yoga remains a ray of hope," Modi said. The prime minister noted that there may not have been any major public events in countries across the globe and in India for around a year and a half, but the enthusiasm for Yoga Day has not diminished. For most of the countries of the world, Yoga Day is not intrinsic to their culture and in this difficult time, people could have forgotten about it and ignored it, but on the contrary, their enthusiasm and love for yoga has increased, he said. In the last one-and-a-half years, lakhs of new yoga practitioners have been added in every corner of the world, Modi said. "When the unseen coronavirus knocked on the doors of the world, no country was prepared for it in terms of resources, capability and mental toughness. We all have seen that in such difficult times, yoga has become a great source of inner strength," he said. The prime minister said yoga helped people muster confidence and strength to fight the pandemic world over. "Yoga tells us that so many problems might be out there, but we have infinite solutions within ourselves. We are the biggest source of energy in our universe. We do not realise this energy because of the many divisions that exist," he said.  "At times, the lives of people exist in silos. These divisions reflect in the overall personality as well. The shift from silos to union is yoga. A proven way to experience a realisation of oneness is yoga," he asserted. Modi said the mantra of 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam' which India has followed since ages, is now finding global acceptance, noting that "we all are praying for each other's well being". "If there are threats to humanity, yoga often gives us a way of holistic health. Yoga also gives us a happier way of life. I am sure, yoga will continue playing its preventive, as well as positive role in healthcare of masses," Modi said. The prime minister said despite the pandemic, this year's theme for the International Yoga Day "Yoga for wellness" has raised the morale of people. He wished for the health of every country, society and individual, and hoped that "we will be united and will strengthen each other". Yoga shows us the way from stress to strength and from negativity to creativity, he asserted. Modi noted that medical science focuses as much on "healing" as on treatment, and said yoga plays a role in healing. Many schools now begin their online classes with yogic exercises like 'pranayama', he said, adding that this prepares children physically to deal with Covid. Quoting the great Tamil saint Thiruvalluvar, the prime minister said Yoga goes into the root cause of a disease and is instrumental in healing.  He expressed satisfaction that globally, research is being conducted in the healing properties of yoga. In his address, the prime minister also emphasised the holistic nature of yoga and said that it takes care of physical health as well as mental health. Quoting from Gita, Modi said, "We need to continue moving on the collective journey of Yoga as Yoga has a solution for everyone. It is important that Yoga reaches every person while keeping intact its foundation and core." "Yoga acharyas and all of us should contribute in this task of taking yoga to everyone," the prime minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-a-ray-of-hope-as-the-world-fight-covid-pandemic-pm-modi-999718.html
21-06-2021||National||India reports 53,256 new Covid-19 cases, 1,422 deaths||India reported 53,256 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 88 days, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 2,99,35,221, while the active cases further reduced to 7,02,887, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 3,88,135 with 1,422 fresh fatalities, the lowest in 65 days. The active cases now comprise 2.35 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.36 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed A net decline of 26,356 cases has been recorded in the Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 13,88,699 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 39,24,07,782. The daily positivity rate  was recorded at  3.83 per cent . It has been less than 5 per cent for 14 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 3.32 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 39th consecutive day.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,88,44,199, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.30 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 28,0036,898 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh  on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-53256-new-covid-19-cases-1422-deaths-999730.html
21-06-2021||National||Yoga Day 2021: Prez Kovind touts Yoga's benefits during Covid-19||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday greeted citizens on the International Yoga Day and said it can be extremely helpful during Covid. He said yoga is one of India's greatest gifts to the world. The International Yoga Day is celebrated with much fervour every year on June 21. "#InternationalDayOfYoga greetings! Our ancient seers' vision of bringing mind-body together to achieve holistic health and happiness has benefited millions over millennia. One of India's great gifts to the world, it can be especially helpful during Covid-19. #BeWithYogaBeAtHome," the Rashtrapati Bhavan tweeted, along with a picture of Kovind performing yoga. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu also appealed to the people to make yoga a part of their daily lives. He said yoga not only helps us physically and mentally but also improves the health of society. “It is good both for the people and the country”, he said according to an official statement. Earlier, Naidu performed yoga with his wife Ushamma on the lawns of the Upa-Rashtrapati Niwas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-day-2021-prez-kovind-touts-yogas-benefits-during-covid-19-999741.html
21-06-2021||National||Bihar woman gets both Covishield and Covaxin shots in 5-mins interval||A 63-year-old woman in Bihar was administered with two Covid-19 vaccine shots - Covaxin and Covishield - in a span of five minutes on June 16. The woman has been identified as Sunila Devi from Awadhpur village. The incident took place at the Beldarichak middle school vaccination camp in rural Patna. Devi is said to have received two shots of two different vaccines “by mistake”. Currently, her condition is stable and she is under medical observation. “I was sitting in the observation room when another nurse came and said she will give me a jab. I told her that I had already got one jab, but she said another jab will be given in the same hand,” Devi said. She is also demanding strict action for negligence. A medical experts' team was sent to the camp to investigate and the two nurses, Chanchala Devi and Sunita Kumari, who gave the shot to Devi, were asked for an explanation. “The two nurses have been issued show-cause notices and an explanation has been sought from them for their irresponsible behaviour,” Punpun Block Development Officer Shailesh Kumar Kesari told India Today. While Devi is under medical care, a senior health official at AIIMS Patna said if Devi continues to show no serious symptoms, they will test her for antibodies after 14 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-woman-gets-both-covishield-and-covaxin-shots-in-5-mins-interval-999745.html
21-06-2021||National||Free vaccines for all from June 21: Here’s all you need to know||The central government has made the big switch to take on the responsibility of vaccinating the country’s adults starting Monday, relieving states of the financial burden of procuring the jabs. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the change in vaccine policy in his June 7 address to the nation, a little over a month after the Centre had split the onus of vaccination equally between the Centre and states. The move also came after several states voiced concerns over the previous vaccine policy and pushed for a centralised drive. The centralised strategy of vaccination could also provide a much-needed boost for the country’s rate of vaccination, which has so far lagged behind most other major countries despite administering the greatest number of first doses in absolute terms. Here is everything to know about the centralized vaccination drive starting June 21: > All citizens of the country will receive free jabs at any government vaccination centre Monday onwards. > The Centre will procure three-quarters of all vaccines for those aged 18 and above, including the one-fourth that states were required to buy so far, and hand them over to states free of cost. States will continue to facilitate the vaccination drive by gauging demand, while setting up common service centres and call centres to assist citizens in booking slots for vaccination. > It will no longer be compulsory for people to register on the Co-WIN or Aarogya Setu app, and can register on-site at both government and private facilities at the time of vaccination. > Private players will continue buying the remaining 25 per cent of doses from manufacturers for administration at a price. The service charge they are allowed to charge per dose has been capped at Rs 150 over the fixed price of the vaccines. > The fixed prices of the three vaccines currently available in India have also been capped at Rs 780 for Covishield, Rs 1,410 for Covaxin and Rs 1,145 for Sputnik V.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/free-vaccines-for-all-from-june-21-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-999752.html
21-06-2021||National||Yoga helped many in tackling Covid-19 crisis: Goa CM||Yoga is India's invaluable gift to the world and it has helped several people deal with the Covid-19 crisis, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said while greeting people on the occasion of the International Yoga Day on Monday. The CM participated in a programme at the Aguada Fort in North Goa district in the morning and performed yoga exercises along with others as part of the event. In a Twitter post, he said yoga is the "key for a healthy life". "Yoga is India's invaluable gift to the world. It has helped millions of us to deal with covid crises.Wishes to all on the occasion of International Day of Yoga. Let us all make Yoga an integral part of our daily lives," Sawant said in another tweet. Goa BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade also participated in an event to mark the International Day of Yoga. “To keep ourselves healthy and fit, we need to make yoga a part of our daily lives,” he told reporters in North Goa. Tanavade also said that the Narendra Modi-led central government has spread the knowledge about yoga across the world, due to which several countries have adopted it as part of their lifestyle. The United Nations recognised June 21 as the International Yoga Day in 2014.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-helped-many-in-tackling-covid-19-crisis-goa-cm-999756.html
21-06-2021||National||Dad was my best friend, guide, mentor: Jeev remembers Milkha Singh||Ace golfer and late Milkha Singh's son Jeev Milkha Singh on Monday paid tribute to the sprint legend, who died of Covid-19 complications last week, saying he would need a lifetime of resilience to deal with the loss of his best friend, guide, and mentor. Milkha, one of independent India's biggest sporting icons, died on Friday after battling the infection for a month. The 49-year-old Jeev said Father's Day on Sunday was "another sad reminder of what I've lost". "Dad was much more than my father - he was my best friend, my guide, my mentor," Jeev, who was in Dubai when Milkha tested positive for Covid-19 and reached here in a couple of days to be with him, said in a tweet. "I hope I've the same resilience & inner strength to overcome all odds. I really need it now. And I will need it for the rest of my life," he added. Milkha was cremated here on Saturday evening with full state honours with Jeev lighting the pyre. Milkha also had three daughters. Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju, Punjab Governor and Chandigarh Administrator VP Singh Badnore, Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Haryana's Sports Minister Sandeep Singh were among the dignitaries who attended the last rites. The family's tragedy was compounded by the loss of Milkha's wife and former national volleyball captain Nirmal Kaur just five days before the legendary sprinter's death. Nirmal had also been battling Covid-19. "Somehow, I don't remember much of Dad's funeral procession, but one sight I will never forget. A military van coming to a stop and these soldiers getting out and giving dad the salute. "The Milkha family has always been grateful of the Indian Army, and I want to thank them again," said Jeev. Jeev had had earlier described his mother's death as the "loss of family's backbone." The seasoned golfer thanked people for the outpouring of support. "I lost my mom and dad. But what has been even more emotional is the thousands of messages we have been getting from people as if they have lost someone of their own," he said. "Thank you to all dad's fans and well wishers for supporting us at this time.” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dad-was-my-best-friend-guide-mentor-jeev-remembers-milkha-singh-999760.html
21-06-2021||National||Some 10,000 refugees fled to India, Thailand from Myanmar: Secretary-General's Special Envoy on Myanmar tells UN||About 10,000 refugees have fled from Myanmar to India and Thailand as nationwide clashes in the country led to "acute" new displacements of hundreds of thousands of civilians, Special Envoy of the UN Secretary-General on Myanmar has said, warning that the regional threat of the crisis is real. “In my daily contacts with stakeholders in Myanmar, I hear first-hand accounts about the dire situation. People suffer from deprivation, have no hope and live in fear,” Christine Schraner Burgener, Special Envoy of Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on Myanmar, told the UN General Assembly on Friday. In the absence of international action, civilians are forming people’s defence forces, she said. They use self-made weapons and receive military training from ethnic armed organisations in their resistance grounded on democratic solidarity. Multiple regions of the country which have not seen armed clashes in decades become zones of significant unrest. “Nationwide clashes, including in central Myanmar and regions bordering China, India and Thailand, have led to acute new displacements of around 175,000 civilians, and some 10,000 refugees have fled to India and Thailand. The regional threat of the crisis is real,” she said, adding that “we must continue to call for maximum restraint and condemn all forms of violence. The risk of a large-scale civil war is real.” Burgener emphasised that as the region faces a multi-dimensional crisis in the heart of Asia, “our timely support and action is paramount”. She also stressed that the international community must not forget the Rohingya people as the situation of the Rohingya remains dire and the General Assembly must continue to be seized on the issue as an integral part of its engagement on Myanmar. “Highlighting persistent challenges, Rohingya continue undertaking risky journeys across the Bay of Bengal and Andaman Sea,” Burgener said. The UN General Assembly adopted the draft resolution ‘The situation in Myanmar’ on Friday with 119 member states, including Myanmar, voting in favour. Belarus was the sole country voting against the resolution, while 36 nations abstained. The nations which abstained from voting include Myanmar’s neighbours — India, Bangladesh, Bhutan, China, Lao, Nepal and Thailand. Russia also abstained. India abstained on the General Assembly resolution, saying its views have not been reflected in the draft, which did not get support even from Myanmar's neighboring countries and New Delhi does not believe the resolution, tabled hastily, is conducive to "aiding our joint efforts towards strengthening democratic process” in Myanmar. In the Explanation of Vote in the General Assembly hall, India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti had said as Myanmar’s immediate neighbour and close friend of its people, India is cognisant of the “serious impact of political instability” and the potential of its spillover beyond Myanmar’s borders. India has been calling for greater engagement with the objective of peacefully resolving all issues. “We already have such an ongoing initiative under the aegis of ASEAN. It is important that we extend support to the ASEAN efforts. During the discussions on this resolution, we had engaged in a spirit of finding a constructive and pragmatic way forward and had accordingly shared our suggestions to those who piloted this resolution,” Tirumurti said. “However, we find that our views have not been reflected in the draft being considered for adoption today. We would like to reiterate that a consultative and constructive approach involving the neighbouring countries and the region, remains important as the international community strives for the peaceful resolution of the issue,” he said. Tirumurti had emphasised that the fact that there is lack of support from all neighbouring countries as well as several countries in the region itself “should, hopefully, serve as an eye-opener to those who chose to pursue a hasty course of action". “We, therefore, do not believe that the tabling of this resolution for adoption at this juncture, is conducive to aiding our joint efforts towards strengthening democratic process in Myanmar. We are therefore constrained to abstain,” he said. The resolution expressed “grave concern” at the February 1 coup and called upon Myanmar’s military junta to immediately and unconditionally release President Win Myint, State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and other government officials, politicians and those arbitrarily detained or arrested. It also called “upon all member states to prevent the flow of arms into Myanmar”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/some-10000-refugees-fled-to-india-thailand-from-myanmar-secretary-generals-special-envoy-on-myanmar-tells-un-999765.html
21-06-2021||National||'Not a showpiece to win elections': Navjot Singh Sidhu fires barbs at Punjab govt||Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu has launched a verbal onslaught against Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, in the latest display of infighting within the ruling party of the state, headed for Assembly polls in early 2022. The Amritsar East MLA, believed to be nursing ambitions to be the party chief in the state, has said he was “not a showpiece” to be used only for winning elections, but called instead for an agenda-driven roadmap for the welfare of Punjab in interviews to multiple media outlets. Sidhu had resigned from the state government’s cabinet in July 2019 after key portfolios were wrested from his control, with the chief minister accusing him of “inept handling” that led to the loss of the Congress in urban areas in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The all-out implosion within the party prompted the Congress high command to step in and constitute a three-member committee, led by senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge, which advised a reshuffle in the government to accommodate Sidhu, against the wishes of the chief minister. The split in the Punjab Congress widened as some party members found fault with the government after it lost the delicate firing cases related to the Guru Granth Sahib desecration incident in 2015 in the high court, which rejected the Special Investigation Team’s report and directed the government to set up another SIT. Singh has also come under fire from some quarters for not taking strict action against former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal’s family. Sidhu also leveled charges of nepotism against the current administration of handing jobs to the wards of MLAs without any proof of merit. He also accused the state government of stalling development projects in Amritsar that he takes credit for. However, Sidhu insisted that he was not chasing any high posts in the state government and had complete faith in the Congress high command.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-a-showpiece-to-win-elections-navjot-singh-sidhu-fires-barbs-at-punjab-govt-999766.html
21-06-2021||National||SC seeks details of compensation paid to Covid-19 victims; reserves judgement on ex-gratia||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre to submit details of compensation provided to people who died of Covid-19, as per policy framed by each state. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, submitted before a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M R Shah that it was not the case that government did not have funds to pay ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh to kin of Covid victims, but the focus of expenditure was holistic, to make funds available for rehabilitation, mitigation and preparedness.   “So you say you don't have the money for ex-gratia but for other measures. It will have a wide ramification if government says it has no funds," the bench said, seeking clarification from the Centre on this aspect.  The bench asked Mehta to give details of compensation paid by each state government to the families of Covid-19 victims, and from which fund the payment was made.  The Centre said that most of the states were paying from funds other than State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF). A counsel, appearing for an intervenor, contended that there was no uniform scheme on compensation to Covid victims.  He said that in Delhi, Rs 50,000 was being paid, while in Bihar, Rs 4 lakh was given for Covid deaths, and it was Rs one lakh in Karnataka, pointing towards the disparity. The bench sought to know if there was any decision by the national authority to not give ex-gratia. Mehta replied he is not aware if the national authority has taken a decision or not, but added that the finance commission has disbursed the fund to state disaster response and tried to help the people affected by the Covid pandemic.  The bench, however, asked if the commission can override statutory obligations. The court also stressed at uniform policy and guidelines for issuance of death certificates for those succumbed to Covid-19, saying that prima facie it found the process very complicated.  The court reserved the judgement on PILs filed by advocates Gaurav Kumar Bansal and Reepak Kansal seeking ex-gratia relief of Rs 4 lakh to kin of Covid-19 victims as the Centre has declared it as a national disaster. It asked the parties to file their written submissions within three days. The Union government had earlier told the court that ex-gratia cannot be paid to all those who died due to Covid-19 as it would exhaust the disaster relief funds, and also impact the Centre and States' preparation to address future waves of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-details-of-compensation-paid-to-covid-19-victims-reserves-judgement-on-ex-gratia-999769.html
21-06-2021||National||Optional exams for class 12 to be held between August 15-September 15, CBSE tells SC||The Central Board for Secondary Education on Monday told the Supreme Court that optional examinations for class 12 students, who are not satisfied with the assessment criteria, would be held between August 15 to September 15, 2021, subject to a conducive environment amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The examinations for private, patrachar and compartment would be organised on the same dates, it said. With regard to the top court's suggestion for a dispute resolution mechanism, the CBSE said, all such matters regarding computation of results will be referred to a Committee constituted by the board. "After the declaration of result by July 31, if the candidates are not satisfied, CBSE will provide an online facility for registration for the examination. The examination will be conducted by the board only in the main subjects as and when conditions are conducive for holding the examinations. However, the marks obtained by a candidate in this examination will be treated as final," it said, in an additional affidavit. The CBSE also made provisions for the moderation of marks at the school level to account for variations to ensure standardisation. "This is necessary in the interest of fairness and to ensure that the marks allocated are comparable and there is no adverse impact or undue gain for any student because of the methodology/process of evaluation used by the individual school," it said.  Meanwhile, a bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar decided to consider on Tuesday a plea for holding physical examinations for class 12. After the cancellation of the board examinations, the CBSE has devised an assessment process with theory and practical components. According to the scheme, the theory component would be assessed by first giving 30 per cent weightage to average scores obtained by students in class 10 in their three best performing subjects out of a total five. Another 30 per cent weightage would be given to marks based on the theory component of the final exam taken in class 11. And finally, 40 per cent weightage would be given for marks obtained in one or more unit tests, mid-term exams and pre-board exams in class 12. The marks of practical/internal assessment etc of class 12 will be on an actual basis as uploaded by the school on the CBSE portal. The total marks awarded should be in consonance with the past performance of the school in class 12 board examinations. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/optional-exams-for-class-12-to-be-held-between-august-15-september-15-cbse-tells-sc-999774.html
21-06-2021||National||Yoga included in govt school curriculum from Classes 1 to 10 in Haryana: Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday said that yoga has been included in school curriculum for classes 1 to 10 from the current academic session. He was addressing an event on the occasion of International Yoga Day. "...We have included yoga in school curriculum from this year for Classes 1 to 10 so that children make it a part of their daily lives," Khattar said. "Like we need oxygen, food and water, likewise, to keep the body healthy yoga has its own importance. To inculcate the habit of practising yoga and to make it a part of students' lives since childhood, we have decided to include it in school curriculum from this year," he added. In December, the Haryana government had announced that yoga would be included as a separate subject in all government schools from the next academic session. An official statement had earlier said the curriculum for yoga would be designed in such a way that it would have both theoretical and practical content on the pattern of physical education. Khattar said the state government's aim was to take yoga to the grassroot level and encourage people to make it a part of their lifestyle. For this, 'vyayamshalas' (gyms) and other adequate infrastructure was being made available at the village level. "We have decided to set up yoga and 'vyamshalas' in 1,000 villages. So far, these have been set up in 550 villages and work is going on in the rest. One thousand yoga trainers and 22 yoga coaches will also be appointed," he said. On the events being held across the state on the occasion of International Yoga Day, he said programmes were being conducted at 1,100 places in all 22 districts, with 50 participants taking part at each venue by following Covid protocols. Meanwhile, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij took part in an event organized at Ambala. Speaking at an event in Panchkula, Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said, "We should perform yoga daily to stay fit and healthy."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-included-in-govt-school-curriculum-from-classes-1-to-10-in-haryana-khattar-999794.html
21-06-2021||National||India to have 257 crore Covid vaccines by December: Nadda||India will have 257 crore Covid vaccine doses by December to take up double dose vaccination of people in full swing, BJP national president J P Nadda said on Monday. He said this while visiting a vaccination centre at the RML hospital in the national capital. Nadda said 130 crore people of the country have come forward to take vaccines on the call of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, despite the opposition trying to mislead them and create obstructions. "Some leaders opposed vaccines saying they were not guinea pigs or mice. Those who doubted vaccines are now getting them. I want to ask such leaders if it was due to change in their mind, heart or soul," the BJP national president said. He lauded BJP workers for helping people during the pandemic, saying that while other parties went into quarantine or the ICU, party workers risked their lives to provide relief to the people on the ground. Nadda said BJP workers in all booths of the country were reaching out to people to ensure implementation of the prime minister's call for vaccination. He said that in India, the world's "largest and fastest" vaccination programme is going on and within 9 months the country produced two indigenous vaccines against Covid under the leadership of Modi. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-have-257-crore-covid-vaccines-by-december-nadda-999812.html
21-06-2021||National||Facebook, WhatsApp urge HC to stay CCI notice on new privacy policy||Facebook and WhatsApp on Monday urged the Delhi High Court to stay the Competition Commission of India (CCI) notice asking them to furnish certain information in relation to a probe ordered by it into the instant messaging app’s new privacy policy. A vacation bench of Justices Anup Jairam Bhambhani and Jasmeet Singh said it will pass an order on the application. During the hearing the bench said since it was sitting on a vacation bench, it did not want to delve into the merits of the matter even as the main petitions are pending before a bench headed by the Chief Justice. “We will pass an order. The matter will be listed on July 9 (the date already fixed for the main petitions),” the bench said. The case relates to the appeals of Facebook and WhatsApp against a single judge order dismissing their pleas against the probe CCI ordered into the instant messaging app's new privacy policy. The high court had earlier issued notices on the appeals and asked the Centre to respond to it. In their fresh applications filed in the pending appeals, Facebook and WhatsApp sought stay on the CCI’s June 4 notice asking them to furnish certain information for the purpose of inquiry conducted by it. Senior advocate Harish Salve, representing WhatsApp, said the problem is that they have received a fresh notice on June 4 and the last date to respond is today, that is June 21. He said the privacy policy is already under challenge in the Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court by way of a batch of petitions and even the government is looking into it. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Facebook, said the question here is of propriety and it is not correct as the highest court of the country, that is, the Supreme Court is looking into the matter. “Why did they wait for June 4 evening to issue the notice? They could have done it earlier,” he said. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aman Lekhi, representing CCI, opposed the pleas saying at the stage of inquiry furnishing of information will not lead to any order by the CCI and the notice is in pursuance to the inquiry which was not stayed by the high court and that this not the first notice issued to them. ASG Balbir Singh, also appearing for CCI, said since there is a statutory order against Facebook and WhatsApp, they should not use the high court’s order and say that they will not furnish the information sought by CCI and the information should not be stalled at this stage. When the court asked what was the hurry of issuing notice by CCI, Lekhi said the question was not of hurry but the matter itself requires a lengthy process. He said till a report is submitted by the Director General to the CCI, there will be no precipitate action against them. The high court had on May 6 issued notice and sought reply of CCI on the appeals filed by Facebook and WhatsApp. The single judge on April 22 had said though it would have been "prudent" for the CCI to await the outcome of petitions in the Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court against WhatsApp's new privacy policy, not doing so would not make the regulator's order "perverse" or "wanting of jurisdiction". The court had said it saw no merit in the petitions of Facebook and WhatsApp to interdict the investigation directed by the CCI. The CCI had contended before the single judge that it was not examining the alleged violation of individuals' privacy which was being looked into by the Supreme Court. It had argued before the court that the new privacy policy of WhatsApp would lead to excessive data collection and "stalking" of consumers for targeted advertising to bring in more users and is therefore an alleged abuse of dominant position. "There is no question of jurisdictional error," it had contended saying that WhatsApp and Facebook's pleas challenging its decision were "incompetent and misconceived". WhatsApp and Facebook had challenged the CCI's March 24 order directing a probe into the new privacy policy. CCI had also told the court that only after the investigation can it be determined whether the data collection by WhatsApp and sharing it with Facebook would amount to an anti-competitive practice or abuse of dominant position. It had also contended that the data collected, which would include an individual's location, the kind of device used, their internet service provider and whom they are conversing with, would lead to creation of a customer profile and preference which would be monetised by way of targeted advertising and all this amounts to "stalking". The two social media platforms had contended that when the top court and the Delhi High Court were looking into the privacy policy, CCI ought not to have "jumped the gun" and intervened in the issue. They had also said that CCI's decision was an abuse of the commission's suo motu jurisdiction. They had claimed that the CCI in the instant case had "drifted far away" from the competition aspect and was looking into privacy issues which were already being looked into by the apex court and the Delhi High Court. In January, the CCI on its own decided to look into WhatsApp's new privacy policy on the basis of news reports regarding the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facebook-whatsapp-urge-hc-to-stay-cci-notice-on-new-privacy-policy-999813.html
21-06-2021||National||Parents, students flag concerns over CBSE, CISCE evaluation formulas for class 12 results||The Supreme Court Monday asked CBSE and ICSE to respond by tomorrow to the concerns raised by some students and parents on the schemes of both the boards formulated to evaluate Class XII students, whose examination was cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. A parents’ association and students flagged several concerns with regard to the CBSE and ICSE schemes for evaluation for Class 12 results and said that many clauses are arbitrary and would be detrimental to future prospects of the students. A special bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari said that it will hear the response of counsels for CBSE and ICSE on Tuesday on the concerns raised by interveners. The bench also directed registry to list all pending petitions in the matter on Tuesday, June 22, in which they have challenged the decision of CBSE to cancel class 12 examination and raised concerns on the evaluation schemes of both the boards. At the outset, senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for intervener UP Parents Association, Lucknow, said that option to students for external examination as given in the CBSE’s scheme will be "a premium" for those students who could not do well in internal assessment. Singh said, “This option should be given at the very initial stage to both student and school to opt for either external examination or internal assessment. If any school or student does not want to opt for this internal assessment then a date may be fixed for external examination in mid of July or any date found conducive for holding of examination”. The bench said that there should be some ray of hope for the students and there should not be any confusion. “The decision for cancellation of examination has been taken at highest level and we have in-principle accepted it,” the bench said. Singh said there are several concerns with regard to the evaluation scheme of the students which are increasing uncertainty and no one knows what exactly would happen. He said that it has been provided in the CBSE scheme that marks obtained by a student in any subject in internal assessment (based upon marks obtained in class X (30 per cent), class XI (30 per cent) and class XII pre-board examination (40 per cent)) shall not exceed the best marks obtained by ex-students in the said schools in the specific reference year (best year subject- wise amongst past three class 12 board exams) by more than 2 marks. Singh said that there may be a case where due to past poor performance of students in a particular subject, the school hires a good teacher and the students performed well in their internal examination but they are likely to suffer due to poor performance by the ex-students. “The present batch of students (or for that reason any student) may suffer because the marks obtained by ex-students in the reference year is lower than what present batch of students have obtained in any subject,” he said, adding that maximum the student would be given is the grace of two marks. Singh said, “Such irrational policy of linking the present batch of students with that of past performance of ex-students cannot be legally sustained under any circumstances. The present batch of students cannot be penalised for the past performances of ex-students”. He said that there should be uniformity in evaluation scheme as English has been made mandatory for calculating average marks in CISCE scheme, while in CBSE there is no such requirement and best of three marks are taken. “The policy of internal assessment should be uniform for both central boards. There is practically no scheme of internal assessment envisaged by ICSE. There are only few letters to that effect. There are various variables which are not defined namely weightage for board exams is nor defined anywhere. There is no clarification and teachers are in utter confusions” he said. The senior lawyer said that he had discussion with a maths teacher about the evaluation formula suggested by the board to which he had said that it is very complicated. The bench said that what kind of maths teacher he is if he don’t understand the formula and added that court is not going by the perception of individuals and looking at the institutional response. Advocate Abhishek Choudhury, appearing for private students and those with second compartment, said that CBSE has said that they will be facing difficulties in admission to higher institutes as CBSE class exam 12 will be held when the situation is conducive, may be in July or August. The bench said it might direct that admissions will be subject to the outcome of the board exam results but asked him to argue the points on Tuesday. The bench listed the matter for further hearing on Tuesday at 2PM. On June 17, the top court had said that there is no question of reversing earlier decision to cancel class 12 board exams, and had approved the assessment schemes of the CISCE and the CBSE, which has adopted 30:30:40 formulas for evaluation of marks for students based on results of class 10, 11 and 12 respectively. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) said however that it would consider the performance of students for last six years, unlike CBSE which is taking note of performance in class 10, 11 and 12 exams, in finalising the final board results. Both the boards had said they would declare the class 12 results on or before July 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parents-students-flag-concerns-over-cbse-cisce-evaluation-formulas-for-class-12-results-999818.html
21-06-2021||National||Shed fiscal fundamentalism and pay compensation to Covid-19 victims: CPI(M)||The CPI(M) on Monday criticised the Narendra Modi government on its stand that Rs 4 lakh ex-gratia payment to families of Covid-19 victims will strain its finances, saying its "fiscal fundamentalism in this catastrophe makes no sense". The party argued that the government can very well raise the required resources "if it abandons its preoccupation" with maintaining the levels of fiscal deficit in a crisis of this dimension. The argument that the distribution of ex-gratia payments will strain the finances of the government is specious, the CPI(M) Polit Bureau said in a statement. "Such fiscal fundamentalism in this catastrophe makes no sense," it added. In its affidavit submitted in the Supreme Court on Saturday, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said that paying ex-gratia compensation was beyond the fiscal affordability and the finances of central and state governments as they were under severe strain. Due to its scale and impact, the MHA argued, it would not be appropriate to apply the scheme of assistance, eligible for natural disasters, to the epidemic. The CPI(M) said the Disaster Management Act stipulates compensation to the victims of a disaster and Covid-19 has been declared as a disaster. "Crores of people have lost their means of livelihood during the last one year and are struggling to survive. They are receiving very little help even in the struggle against the pandemic with grossly inadequate health facilities, shortages of life saving medicines, etc. The informal sector that is the basis for sustenance for crores of daily wage labourers has been virtually destroyed. This Covid pandemic came on top of such ruination that began earlier with the Demonetisation and GST," it said. Under these circumstances, the party said ex-gratia payment to families who lost their members to the pandemic is a basic humanitarian need.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shed-fiscal-fundamentalism-and-pay-compensation-to-covid-19-victims-cpim-999822.html
21-06-2021||National||Covid-19: People in Tiruchy avoid getting vaccinated after fake messages on meat consumption||An unverified message, spreading misconceptions regarding meat consumption after Covid-19 jabs, has hit vaccination efforts in the city of Tiruchy in Tamil Nadu. A WhatsApp forward, claiming one shouldn’t consume meat until the completion of two doses of Covid-19 vaccine, has stopped many people in Tiruchy from getting vaccinated against this deadly virus. “Only today, a doctor informed me that such messages are fake and meat can be consumed like always. If I had known this before, I would have volunteered for my vaccine long ago. I just kept delaying it because it is difficult for me to avoid consuming meat for such a long time,” he added. According to officials in charge of vaccination camps on the weekends, people are enquiring about future dates so that they can consume meat over the weekend before taking the jab. Dr Aleem, former vice-principal of KAPV Medical College, told the publication, "I have received several calls in the last few weeks, asking whether we can consume non-veg food after taking vaccination. There are no such official guidelines till date, and all this misinformation is spread through social media. No vaccine used in regular usage currently requires any form of dietary restrictions. Only thing that people should ensure is to always follow a good, balanced diet." The supervisor of a vaccination camp of the city told the publication that they are clearing the misconceptions of people while “requesting them to spread the same information to their relatives, so more people would come forward for vaccination.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-people-in-tiruchy-avoid-getting-vaccinated-after-fake-messages-on-meat-consumption-999833.html
21-06-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Chaos & fear of third wave looms as states 'unlock'||With the number of new Covid-19 cases on the decline in most of the states, the nation is currently heaving a little sigh of relief. However, the fear of a possible third wave hitting the country still lurks in everyone's minds. Nonetheless, economic and public activities have started on a limited scale in many of the states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-chaos-fear-of-third-wave-looms-as-states-unlock-999852.html
21-06-2021||National||How the Centre’s backflip led to Ramdev-led Vedic school board||The process of handing over the reins of the new national board was expedited and approved within two months, just hours before the Model Code of Conduct for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections came into force, the publication found through an investigation of official records. The driving idea behind the BSB is to incorporate the country’s first national school board that would standardise and regulate a blend of traditional Indian teachings and modern education by drafting curriculum, affiliating schools, conducting examinations and issuing certificates. Ramdev had floated a similar idea through his Haridwar-based Vedic Education Research Institute (VERI) to the government in 2015, proposing a system wherein a VERI-controlled board would oversee the teaching of a mixed syllabus that would include Indian thinkers and modern curriculum. However, the proposal was eventually dropped after the Education Ministry flagged concerns that a state sanction for a private education board would open a can of worms and encourage similar requests from other unrecognised school boards. Meanwhile, the Ministry reportedly began making preparations to set up its own school board for Vedic education under the Ujjain-based Maharshi Sandipani Rashtriya Veda Vidya Pratishthan (MSRVVP). However, the script changed in January 2019 at a meeting to discuss the creation of the Ministry’s own board. The MSRVVP’s Governing Council, chaired by then HRD Minister Prakash Javedkar, decided to invite bids to appoint a private sponsoring body for setting up the BSB instead, backtracking on the ministry’s earlier decision. Despite reservations from MSRVVP Secretary V Jaddipal, the released an expression of interest and received three bids in one week’s time from Maharashtra Academic of Engineering and Educational Research Pune (MAEER) that runs MIT Group of Institutions, Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust, and the Ritanand Balved Education Foundation that runs the Amity Group of Institutions. An expert panel appointed by MSRVVP recommended Patanjali’s bid to the body on account of its Rs 21-crore development plan, which dwarfed the other two institution’s proposals of up to Rs 2 crore, the daily reported. The recommendation was accepted in-principle by the Javedkar-chaired Governing Council. However, Jaddipal wrote to the Education Ministry three times expressing asking for an “unequivocal” order from the Centre before he could issue the final letter of approval to Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust to establish BSB, as per the rules. The final approval letter was emailed to Jaddipal on March 9 for his sign-off but the publication reports that Jaddipal did not respond to the instructions on email and his phone was switched off. After a few hours, Javadekar authorised the then vice-chairman Ravindra Ambadas Muley to issue the letter on Jaddipal’s behalf, hours before the Model Code of Conduct came into effect. The Patanjali Trust has reportedly informed the panel that it would want Ramdev to be appointed as the chairperson of the board. Apart from traditional gurukul-based teaching centres, the BSB is likely to affiliate Ramdev’s Acharyakulam, RSS-run Vidya Bharati schools, and gurukuls run by the Arya Samaj and put their certifications on level footing with those from the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-the-centre-s-backflip-led-to-ramdev-led-vedic-school-board-999861.html
21-06-2021||National||Poll strategist Prashant Kishor meets Sharad Pawar||Poll strategist Prashant Kishor on Monday met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar, their second meeting this month amid heightened speculation about the possible formation of a Third Front to take on the BJP. NCP chief Sharad Pawar is working to unite all opposition leaders, party spokesperson Nawab Malik said while commenting on a meeting of Pawar with political strategist Prashant Kishor in New Delhi on Monday. The closed-door discussions between Kishor and Pawar at the latter’s residence lasted for about one-and-a-half hours, sources said. The meeting comes a day before the NCP’s general body meeting scheduled to be held at Pawar’s residence. When asked about it, Malik said, "Pawar is working to unite all opposition leaders. Maybe, the meeting was to discuss it. The party's national executive meeting is also taking place in the national capital tomorrow." Kishor, who was instrumental in the Trinamool Congress' victory in the recent West Bengal Assembly elections, had also met Pawar on June 11, fuelling the talk of opposition parties coming together against the BJP. According to sources, former finance minister and now a TMC leader Yashwant Sinha, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Manoj Jha and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Sanjay Singh are also expected to call on Pawar on Tuesday. discuss the current scenario in our country.Yashwant Sinha, Pawan Verma, Sanjay Singh, D Raja, Farooq Abdullah, Justice A P Singh, Javed Akhtar, K T S Tulsi, Karan Thapar, Ashutosh, Adv. Majeed Memon, Vandana Chavan MP, S Y Qureshi former CEC, K C Singh, Sanjay Jha, (2/3) Kishor, who had been part of the BJP's 2014 Lok Sabha campaign, later became a poll strategist for several non-NDA parties. He had handled the poll strategy of the TMC in the West Bengal Assembly polls and for the DMK in the Tamil Nadu assembly elections this year. He had also been a poll strategist for the Janata Dal-United (JD-U) and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) alliance in the 2015 Bihar assembly polls.  The NCP currently shares power with the Shiv Sena and Congress in Maharashtra. Kishor had helped craft the election strategy for the DMK and the TMC in the Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, respectively. After these two parties emerged victorious in the polls held earlier this year, the election strategist had said he was "quitting this space".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/poll-strategist-prashant-kishor-meets-sharad-pawar-999867.html
21-06-2021||National||Is second Covid wave over? Positivity rate below 5% for 14 days but experts say end still far||India has crossed the important milestone of a Covid positivity rate of less than 5 per cent for 15 consecutive days, conforming to the WHO’s recommended requirement for a region to reopen, but experts are wary of declaring the devastating second wave over. With 42,640 new coronavirus infections on Tuesday, the lowest in 91 days, and a positivity rate of 3.21 per cent, it would seem the present phase of the Covid-19 crisis is over and it is a good time to lift restrictions. This optimistic picture, however, must be edged with abundant caution, said several scientists, citing the emergence of new variants, the still high absolute number of cases, the many districts where positivity rate remains over 5 per cent and concerns over reliability of data. “With the current positivity rate at less than 5 per cent, India’s Covid-19 second wave is on the wane as quickly as it rushed to its peak, but the end of it may yet be far away as more transmissible new variants such as Delta plus variant are emerging,” said Naga Suresh Veerapu, associate professor at the School of Natural Sciences (SoNS), Shiv Nadar University, Delhi NCR. The Delta plus variant has been formed due to a mutation in the Delta or B.1.617.2 variant, first identified in India and considered one of the drivers of the second wave in the country and also in several others including the UK. The test positivity rate or TPR -- the percentage of all coronavirus tests performed that turn out to be positive -- is an important metric through which the public health system keeps tabs on the level of Covid transmission. The WHO recommends that test positivity should remain at 5 per cent or lower for 14 days before countries or regions reopen. In February this year, the country was celebrating the end of the first wave and conveniently ignored an imminent second wave, Veerapu said. “The Delta variant that emerged in March spread across the different parts of India, then cases surged to the peak yielding a second wave. The second wave conjoined with the first when the latter was at 1 per cent positivity rate,” he told PTI. Public policy expert Chandrakant Lahariya added that while cases are on the decline, the absolute number of cases are still very high. “While the national level test positivity rate has come down, there are still many districts where TPR is above 5 per cent,” the Delhi-based physician-epidemiologist and health systems expert told PTI. “Therefore, before saying that the second wave is over, I would like to wait for the TPR to come down below 5 per cent everywhere and sustain for two weeks or longer,” he said. Scientist Gautam Menon agreed with Lahariya, noting that some states such as Kerala are still seeing positivity rates over 5 per cent. He added that it is unclear whether this reflects just better testing than other states or if the situation is still to improve there. Positivity rate was 10.84 per cent in Kerala on Sunday. According to Health Ministry data on Monday, India’s total tally of Covid-19 cases is 2,99,35,221 (2.99 crore/29.9 million) while active cases reduced to 7,02,887. On Tuesday, the numbers improved further with active cases falling below 7 lakh after 79 days. The death toll climbed to 3,89,302 with 1,167 daily fatalities, the lowest in 68 days. The second wave of the pandemic overwhelmed the healthcare system of the country, leaving hospitals struggling to cope with the surge in cases and critical drugs and oxygen in short supply. Infections have now slowed down and restrictions have been relaxed in most states. Agreeing that the drop in India’s cases has been quite dramatic, Menon noted, “From all we know, this is a genuine decline, both in urban and rural India.” “There is no strict definition of a ‘wave’, let alone of how and when it might be ending, but this is a good time as any to consider opening up, although with caution,” Menon, professor, Departments of Physics and Biology, Ashoka University in Haryana, told PTI. The experts also believe test positivity rates provide valuable information only if testing is broadly accessible across all regions. “Test positivity, when these tests are carried out on a random sample of the population and in sufficient quantity, is likely the best metric to dictate opening up, although we must be careful about local pockets where the level of infections have been lower than average and where the disease could still take off,” said Menon. “What we need to remember is that for a country the size of India, we need to have enough attention on the local level,” Lahariya added. He explained that Covid-19 is not just any other respiratory illness and decision-making parameters cannot be simple. “We know that there are new variants which are more transmissible. We know that human behaviour determines the spread of this virus. Therefore, it is not very relevant if we declare whether the second wave is over or not,” the public policy expert explained. “Key is, are we prepared to respond to the rise in cases? That's where the attention has to be,” Lahariya said. Widespread concerns about the accuracy of data, relating to both deaths and cases, also need to be factored in, said Menon. Though anecdotally, decline in cases appears to be true, media and other reports “suggest that deaths have been severely undercounted, sometimes by a factor of 10”. “I hope these reports will spur states to be transparent with their numbers,” he said. Lahariya said India has sub-optimally performing mechanisms for medical certification of causes of deaths (MCCD). Even before the pandemic, the causes of deaths used to be certified in only one-fourth of registered deaths. “Therefore, it is not unthinkable that even in some cases of Covid-19 deaths; deaths have not been certified correctly,” the scientist added. Veerapu said asymptomatic people and some with mild symptoms may not even turn up for testing, therefore leading to the underestimation of cases. However, he said the waning second wave provides enough opportunities to minimise the spread of the disease. “We should ramp up the vaccination drive, consolidate the health infrastructure to minimise the impact of the much anticipated third wave, and hone the public health strategies to prevent, control and respond to the third wave,” he added.   “Key is, are we prepared to respond to the rise in cases? That's where the attention has to be,” Lahariya said.   Widespread concerns about the accuracy of data, relating to both deaths and cases, also need to be factored in, said Menon.  Though anecdotally, decline in cases appears to be true, media and other reports “suggest that deaths have been severely undercounted, sometimes by a factor of 10”. “I hope these reports will spur states to be transparent with their numbers,” he said.   Lahariya said India has sub-optimally performing mechanisms for medical certification of causes of deaths (MCCD). Even before the pandemic, the causes of deaths used to be certified in only one-fourth of registered deaths.   “Therefore, it is not unthinkable that even in some cases of Covid-19 deaths; deaths have not been certified correctly,” the scientist added.     Veerapu said asymptomatic people and some with mild symptoms may not even turn up for testing, therefore leading to the underestimation of cases.   However, he said the waning second wave provides enough opportunities to minimise the spread of the disease.    “We should ramp up the vaccination drive, consolidate the health infrastructure to minimise the impact of the much anticipated third wave, and hone the public health strategies to prevent, control and respond to the third wave,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/is-second-covid-wave-over-positivity-rate-below-5-for-14-days-but-experts-say-end-still-far-999868.html
21-06-2021||National||India administers record 85 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses on day one of free shots||India administered a record 85 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines on Monday, as the Centre started providing free vaccines to all above 18 years as part of the liberalised immunisation drive. According to the Co-WIN dashboard, 85.15 lakh doses were administered at 67,839 vaccination sites across the country till 11 pm on Monday.  A total of 28.33 crore doses have been administered since the drive began on January 16. "Today’s record-breaking vaccine numbers are gladdening. The vaccine remains our strongest weapon to fight Covid-19. Congratulations to those who got vaccinated and kudos to all frontline warriors working hard to ensure so many citizens got the vaccine. Well done India,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said. Today’s record-breaking vaccination numbers are gladdening. The vaccine remains our strongest weapon to fight COVID-19. Congratulations to those who got vaccinated and kudos to all the front-line warriors working hard to ensure so many citizens got the vaccine. Well done India! Monday’s vaccination numbers are the highest for a single day since the immunisation drive began. The previous highest single-day vaccination was 43 lakh on April 5. According to revised guidelines, vaccine doses provided free of cost by the Centre will be allocated to states and Union Territories based on criteria such as population, disease burden and the progress of vaccination, and all above the age of 18 will be eligible for free jabs. Any wastage of the vaccine will affect the allocation negatively. The Centre will now procure 75% of vaccines being produced by manufacturers in the country, leaving the balance 25% for the private sector. "The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain,” the Health Ministry said. In May, over 7.9 crore vaccines were available for the nationwide drive, the ministry said, adding that these were ramped up to 11.78 crore in June. The Opposition had targeted the government over the slow pace of vaccination drive and claimed that 80 lakh doses would be required to be administered daily to ensure coverage of the entire population by December this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-administers-record-85-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-on-day-one-of-free-shots-999871.html
21-06-2021||National||Has PM-headed NDMA decided not to pay compensation to kin of Covid victims, SC asks Centre||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Union government if the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), headed by the Prime Minister, has decided on paying compensation to families of those who died of Covid-19. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M R Shah asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, whether NDMA, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has taken any decision that no compensation should be given as ex-gratia. The court put the query as Mehta defended the government's decision against paying Rs four lakh as ex-gratia on the ground that it would affect States' finances and efforts to tackle the pandemic. It reserved its judgement on separate petitions by advocates Gaurav Kumar Bansal and Reepak Kansal. They cited Section 12 of the Disaster Management Act 2005, which said that national authority should recommend guidelines for the minimum standards of relief to be provided to persons affected by disaster, which must include ex-gratia assistance. The court gave the parties three days time to file their written submissions. During the hearing, the bench also sought to know from the Centre details of compensation provided to people who died of Covid-19, as per the policy framed by each state. It court stressed "to avoid heartburn” among beneficiaries, the Centre should consider framing an uniform compensation scheme. Senior advocate S B Upadhyay, appearing for a party, contended that there was no uniform scheme on compensation to Covid victims.  He said that in Delhi, Rs 50,000 was being paid while in Bihar, Rs 4 Lakh and in Karnataka Rs one lakh for Covid deaths, pointing toward the disparity. Mehta, for his part, said most states were paying from funds other than State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF). The counsel also submitted government was duty-bound under Section 12 of the Act to frame a scheme for providing relief to the victims. He read the notification issued on March 14, 2020, where the government notified Covid as a natural disaster, and it is certainly like a catastrophe.  The bench noted that no one can say it is not a disaster within Disaster Management Act.  The court said that every disaster is different and there can be a small and big pandemic, or a big flood or small food, and insisted that standards of a small pandemic cannot be applied to a big pandemic. The Union government has earlier told the court ex-gratia can’t be paid to all those who died due to Covid-19 as it would exhaust the disaster relief funds, and also impact the Centre and States preparation to address future waves of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/has-pm-headed-ndma-decided-not-to-pay-compensation-to-kin-of-covid-victims-sc-asks-centre-999876.html
21-06-2021||National||No scientific evidence of Covid-19 vaccination causing infertility in men, women: Health Ministry||The Union health ministry on Monday reiterated there is no scientific evidence of Covid-19 vaccination causing infertility in men and women and asserted the jabs are safe and effective. There have been media reports expressing concern regarding infertility due to Covid-19 vaccination among people of reproductive age, the ministry said in a statement. Over the last few days, certain media reports have highlighted the prevalence of various superstitions and myths in a section of healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) including the nurses, it said.  Such misinformation and rumours were spread during the vaccination drives against polio and measles-rubella too, it added. The ministry said it has clarified in the FAQs (frequently asked questions) posted on the website that none of the available vaccines affect fertility, as all the vaccines and their constituents are tested first on animals and later on humans to assess if they have any such side effects. Vaccines are authorised for use only after their safety and efficacy is assured, the statement said. "Furthermore, in order to curb the prevalent myth regarding infertility due to Covid-19 vaccination, the government of India has clarified that there are no scientific evidences suggesting Covid-19 vaccination can cause infertility in men and women. The vaccines have been found to be safe and effective," it stated. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) has recommended the Covid-19 vaccination for all lactating women, terming it as safe with no need to stop or pause breastfeeding before or after the vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-scientific-evidence-of-covid-19-vaccination-causing-infertility-in-men-women-health-ministry-999879.html
21-06-2021||National||Loni incident: UP Police sends fresh notice to Twitter India as firm seeks questioning via video conferencing||Rejecting Twitter's plea to appear through video conference for questioning on a probe related to the viral video of an assault on an elderly man in Loni, Uttar Pradesh Police issued a fresh notice to the microblogging platform. A fresh notice was issued to Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari on Monday asking him to appear in person before the investigating officer at Loni Police Station, on June 24, said an official from Uttar Pradesh police. Earlier, Twitter India officials had informed the police that they were ready to be available for questioning via video conferencing. Confirming having received the reply, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) of Ghaziabad Amit Pathak said Twitter had also asked the Uttar Pradesh Police to make some changes in the notice issued by them. Not satisfied with the microblogging platform's response, the police have now sent a second notice, said the official. Ghaziabad Police had last week sent a legal notice to Twitter India Managing Director Manish Maheshwari to appear before Loni Police Station Investigating office to give a statement within seven days. Separately, Twitter India also restricted 50 tweets in connection with the incident. According to Twitter officials, access to tweets pertaining to the video showing the alleged assault of Abdul Samad Saifi and his beard being cut off have been withheld. "As explained in our Country Withheld Policy, it may be necessary to withhold access to certain content in response to a valid legal demand or when the content has been found to violate local law(s). The withholdings are limited to the specific jurisdiction/country where the content is determined to be illegal. We notify the account holder directly so they’re aware that we’ve received a legal order pertaining to the account by sending a message to the email address associated with the account(s), if available,” Twitter said in a statement. The Ghaziabad Police had on June 15 booked Twitter Inc, Twitter Communications India, a news website, journalists Mohammed Zubair and Rana Ayyub, besides Congress leaders Salman Nizami, Maskoor Usmani, Shama Mohamed and writer Saba Naqvi. This was the first case filed against a social media giant for third-party content on its platform after the government claimed that the microblogging site lost legal immunity due to non-compliance of the new IT rules. They were booked over the circulation of a video in which the elderly man, Abdul Samad Saifi, claims he was allegedly thrashed by some young men who also asked him to chant ''Jai Shri Ram'' on June 5. The Ghaziabad Police, who arrested nine people in connection with the case, claimed that there was no communal angle in the case and it happened due to enmity.  The police have maintained that the assault took place because the accused were unhappy about the ''tabeez'' (amulets) sold to them by Saifi, a resident of adjoining Bulandshahr district. However, the police claim the video was shared to cause communal unrest. The June 15 FIR stated that the Ghaziabad Police had issued a statement with facts of the incident but despite that, the accused did not remove the video from their Twitter handles. "Besides this, Twitter Inc and Twitter Communications India did not take any measures to remove their tweets," the FIR said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/loni-incident-up-police-sends-fresh-notice-to-twitter-india-as-firm-seeks-questioning-via-video-conferencing-999905.html
21-06-2021||National||Today's record-breaking vaccination numbers gladdening; vaccine strongest weapon to fight Covid, says PM Modi||Over 85.15 lakh vaccine doses, the highest in a single day, were administered across the country on Monday as the revised guidelines for Covid-19 vaccination came into effect, the Union Health Ministry said. India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage was recorded at over 28.36 crore since January 16, according to the data from the CoWIN portal. "Today's record-breaking vaccination numbers are gladdening. The vaccine remains our strongest weapon to fight Covid-19. Congratulations to those who got vaccinated and kudos to all the front-line warriors working hard to ensure so many citizens got the vaccine. Well done India!" Prime Minister Narendra Modi said. The previous single-day record was of over 48 lakh doses on April 1. In June so far, India saw an average vaccination of over 31 lakh per day. The average single-day vaccinations fell to as low as around 16 lakh in the first week of May when the country was at the peak of the second wave. Today’s record-breaking vaccination numbers are gladdening. The vaccine remains our strongest weapon to fight COVID-19. Congratulations to those who got vaccinated and kudos to all the front-line warriors working hard to ensure so many citizens got the vaccine. Well done India! Madhya Pradesh saw the maximum vaccinations on Monday followed by Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Modi said that the central government is beginning the 'Free Vaccination For All campaign' for every Indian from today. "The biggest beneficiary of this phase of India's vaccination drive shall be the poor, the middle class and the youth of the country. All of us should pledge to get ourselves vaccinated. Together we will defeat Covid-19," he said. The present phase of vaccination was announced by the Prime Minister on June 7. "Today's achievement showcases the trust placed by the people of India in the Government in its fight against the Covid-19 Pandemic," the health ministry said in a statement. The Union Government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding scope of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, the ministry said. During May 2021, more than 7.9 crore vaccines were available for the nationwide Covid19 vaccination exercise. These were ramped up to 11.78 crore in June. These include the free supply of vaccines to states and UTs from the Government of India, those directly procured by the states and UTs and those directly procured by the private hospitals, the ministry said. States were provided advance visibility of the vaccine doses available to them in June by the Union Ministry of Health. "This advance information enabled the states to prepare vaccine distribution plans district-wise and Covid-19 Vaccination Centre  (CVC) wise in an effective manner. This facilitated a massive ramping up of the vaccine administration across the country," the ministry said. According to the revised guidelines which came into effect from Monday, vaccine doses provided free of cost by the Centre will be allocated to states and UTs based on criteria such as population, disease burden and the progress of vaccination, and all above the age of 18 will be eligible for the free jabs. Any wastage of vaccine will affect the allocation negatively, they said. The Centre will now procure 75 percent of the vaccines being produced by the manufacturers in the country. It had earlier allowed states and private hospitals to procure 50 percent of the vaccines following demands for decentralisation of the process. However, after several states complained of problems including funding, Prime Minister Modi announced the revision of the vaccine guidelines. In order to incentivise production by vaccine manufacturers and encourage new vaccines, domestic vaccine manufacturers are given the option to also provide vaccines directly to private hospitals. This would be restricted to 25 percent of their monthly production, the new guidelines stated. Within the population group of citizens more than 18 years of age, states and UTs may decide their own prioritisation factoring in the vaccine supply schedule, the revised guidelines issued by the health ministry stated. The states and UTs would aggregate the demand of private hospitals keeping in view equitable distribution between large and small private hospitals and regional balance, they said. "Based on this aggregated demand, the Government of India will facilitate the supply of these vaccines to the private hospitals and their payment through the National Health Authority's electronic platform.  This would enable the smaller and remoter private hospitals to obtain a timely supply of vaccines, and further equitable access and regional balance," the ministry said. All citizens irrespective of their income status are entitled to free vaccination. Those who have the ability to pay are encouraged to use private hospital's vaccination centres, the guidelines said. "To promote the spirit of 'Lok Kalyan' (public good), use of non-transferable Electronic Vouchers, which can be redeemed at private vaccination centers, will be encouraged. "This would enable people to financially support vaccination of Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) at private vaccination centres," the revised guidelines said. The Covid vaccination in the country commenced with the vaccination for all healthcare workers from January 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/todays-record-breaking-vaccination-numbers-gladdening-vaccine-strongest-weapon-to-fight-covid-says-pm-modi-999911.html
21-06-2021||National||Karnataka, Assam, Tripura inform SC of Class 12 board exams cancellation||Karnataka, along with the states of Assam and Tripura informed the Supreme Court on Monday that they have cancelled Class 12 state board exams in view of the ongoing Covid-19 situation. The Karnataka government, however, submitted before a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari that no final decision has yet been taken on Class X board examinations. After taking on record submissions by the States, the bench posted a PIL by advocate Anubha Shrivastava Sahai for consideration on Tuesday. The petitioner earlier said out of 28 States, six States had already conducted the Class XII board examinations and 18 States had cancelled it. However, four States namely, Assam, Punjab, Tripura and Andhra Pradesh have not cancelled the examination as of now. Subsequently, Assam, Punjab and Tripura have also cancelled the Class XII board examinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-assam-tripura-inform-sc-of-class-12-board-exams-cancellation-999913.html
21-06-2021||National||Ex-WB CS Alapan Bandyopadhyay may lose retirement perks as Centre begins 'major penalty' action||The Centre has initiated "major penalty proceedings" against former West Bengal Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, amid a tug-of-war between the Union government and the Mamata Banerjee dispensation over him, which may deprive him of post-retirement benefits, partially or fully. The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) has sent Bandyopadhyay, now an advisor to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, a "memorandum" mentioning the charges and giving him 30 days to reply, officials said Monday. The former chief secretary has been warned of major penalty proceedings which allows the Central government to withhold pension or gratuity, or both, either in full or in part, they said. The June 16 memorandum sent to Bandyopadhyay informs him that the Centre proposes to hold major penalty proceedings against him under Rule 8 of the All India services (Discipline and Appeal) rules, 1969, read with Rule 6 of the All India Services (Death-cum-Retirement Benefits) Rules, 1958. "The substance of the imputations of misconduct or misbehavior in respect of which the inquiry is proposed to be held is set out in the statement of Article of Charge," it said. Bandyopadhyay, a 1987-batch IAS officer (retired) of West Bengal cadre, was "directed to submit within 30 days of the receipt of this memorandum a written statement of his defence and also to state whether he desires to be heard in-person". "Major penalty proceedings have been initiated against Bandyopadhyay as per relevant service rules," an official said. The rules allow the Central government to withhold "pension or gratuity, or both, either in full or in part, whether permanently or for a specified period". It also allows the Centre to order the "recovery from pension or gratuity of the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused to the central or a state government, if the pensioner is found in a departmental or judicial proceedings to have been guilty of grave misconduct or to have caused pecuniary loss to the central or a state government by misconduct or negligence, during his service, including service rendered on re-employment after retirement". The Centre had on May 28 sought services of Bandyopadhyay, barely a few days after he was given a three-month extension beyond the date of his superannuation (May 31), and asked the state government to relieve him immediately with a direction to him to report at DoPT, New Delhi. The DoPT had sent him a reminder after he failed to report in response to its May 28th order. As the tussle between the Centre and the state continued over the order, Mamata Banerjee on May 31 said that Bandyopadhyay has "retired" and been appointed as her advisor for three years. The Union Home Ministry has also slapped a show-cause notice on Bandyopadhyay under a stringent provision of the Disaster Management Act that entails imprisonment for up to two years, for abstaining from a meeting presided by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Cyclone Yaas. The notice said Bandyopadhyay "acted in a manner tantamount to refusing to comply with lawful directions of the central government". Bandyopadhyay had responded to the Home Ministry's notice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-wb-cs-alapan-bandyopadhyay-may-lose-retirement-perks-as-centre-begins-major-penalty-action-999916.html
21-06-2021||National||DH Deciphers | Will India finally have an official history of military events? ||The Defence Ministry unveiled a policy recently on framing the official history of wars or military operations. The policy mandates the forming of a committee for the compilation of history books on military operations and future wars. More on it here: Didn't India have a policy on declassifying military history?  Not really, even though expert committees have recommended framing such a policy so that one can learn from the mistakes of the past. There is the Public Record Act, 1993, and the Public Record Rules, 1997, which describe the procedures to be followed for the declassification of records and their transfer to the National Archives after 25 years. But most of the records of the Ministry of Defence are not in the archives. What about an official war history?  In the last 74 years, the only war history declassified by the union government relates to the army’s 1947-48 operations, which was released in the 1980s. Though official histories of the wars in 1962, 1965 and 1971 were prepared on the basis of declassified documents and interviews, none of the titles has been published by the government. In the last decade, when the accounts of the 1965 and 1971 wars were published privately, they carried a caveat of “not reflecting the views of the Ministry of Defence and the armed forces”. So there is still no official history of the wars that India fought even though an unofficial version is available on some websites. In the past, the ministry's History Division had published the history of Operation Polo to liberate Hyderabad in 1948, Operation Vijay to liberate Goa, the Indian armed forces in UN Operations in Congo (1960-63) and the Indian Custodian Force in Korea in 1953-4. But all are now out of print. Similarly, there are no official accounts of the Kargil conflict of 1999, major military operations of the 1980s like Op Bluestar on Punjab militancy, raiding of the Golden Temple, and Op Pawan – the first IPKF operation – in Sri Lanka. So the new policy is a big deal?  For the first time, a structure has been put in place to create an official history of wars and key military operations so that an official account is available for "restricted use" within the government. The Army, Air Force, Navy, Integrated Defence Staff, Assam Rifles and Indian Coast Guard have been asked to transfer the records, including war diaries, letters of proceedings and operational record books to the History Division for proper upkeep, archival and writing the histories. Who will write the official history? A panel headed by a joint secretary in the Defence Ministry and comprising representatives of the Army, Air Force, Navy, Foreign Ministry, Home Ministry and other government agencies will have to be formed within two years of a military operation or war so that the compilation of the records can be completed within three years. If required, prominent military historians can be included in the panel. Timely publication of war histories, according to the Defence Ministry, would give people an accurate account of the events, provide authentic material for academic research and counter unfounded rumours. What are the challenges in writing the official history of military events? A big shortcoming is the absence of a policy on declassifying military records. A uniform standard is required in classifying, safeguarding and declassifying information related to national security. Having the junior-most person in the hierarchy to declassify documents, as the 1997 rules provide, is a problem. No officer, especially a junior one, would be willing to take the risk of declassifying something really sensitive, even if it is 50 years old, wrote Manoj Joshi, a Distinguished Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation, in a recent article. The government needs to develop a system to downgrade the security status of the documents every five years so that the records can be released after certain years. There is no indication that the Centre is working on something similar. Will such official histories of military events be released to the public? Unlikely. A Defence Ministry official said: “Compiled history on wars or military operations will be for internal consumption first. Later, the committee may decide to publicly release the whole or parts of it, considering the sensitivity of the subject."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-will-india-finally-have-an-official-history-of-military-events-999962.html
21-06-2021||National||EU presents draft declaration at WTO to slow down proposal for TRIPS waiver||In another move to counter the proposal by India and South Africa for waiving off the Intellectual Property Rights protection on anti-Covid-19 drugs and vaccines, the European Union on Monday presented a draft declaration, stressing the use of compulsory licensing and other flexibilities already provided within the TRIPS agreement’s framework. The draft of the declaration presented by the EU is based on its June 4 proposal, which relied on measures already available within the framework of the Agreement on Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS). It signalled the EU’s intent to continue opposing the proposal mooted by India and South Africa in October 2020 for an IPR protection waiver for at least three years to ensure equitable access for all nations to the anti-Covid-19 drugs, vaccines and other medical tools required to contain the pandemic. The EU wants the WTO members to agree that the TRIPS Agreement does not and should not prevent them from taking measures to protect public health. It also wants them to reiterate their commitment to the TRIPS Agreement and affirm that the pact can and should be interpreted and implemented in a manner supportive of their right to protect public health and, in particular, to promote access to vaccines and medicines for all. The EU presented the draft proposal even as the WTO TRIPS Council recently agreed to commence negotiation on the text of the waiver proposed by India and South Africa and now co-sponsored by 61 other nations. An informal meeting on June 17 made it clear that differences over the proposal still persisted, although the members of the council agreed to hold a series of informal consultations among themselves over the next few weeks and to formally meet on July 20 to review the progress and prepare a report to be presented to the WTO General Council. The negotiation on the proposal by India and South Africa, however, is likely to be a long-drawn-out process as the WTO TRIPS council will discuss the EU’s June 4 counter-proposal too. Several international organisations campaigning for equitable access to anti-Covid-19 drugs and vaccines slammed the EU for its attempt to slow down the negotiation. “We fail to see how the @EU_Commission communication (the draft declaration) to the @WTO TRIPS Council on the #TRIPSwaiver contributes to text-based negotiations, other than seeding confusion & (and) slowing progress,” tweeted the Health Action International (HAI), which is based in Amsterdam. It called upon the EU member states to break ranks and raise voices in support of the proposal moved by India and South Africa. The Medicines Sans Frontier (MSF) also denounced the EU as well as Switzerland, Norway and the United Kingdom for employing delay tactics instead of agreeing to start formal negotiations on this critical waiver at a time when the Covid-19 had already killed more than 3.5 million people around the world and stark inequities in access to medical tools required to contain the pandemic had come to the fore. The MSF stated that while it had long advocated for the use of compulsory licensing as needed to ensure countries benefit from the price-lowering effect of competition among generic producers to increase access to essential medicines, this route was not efficient during pandemics, as legal obstacles, pressure from pharmaceutical corporations and red tape would make it too cumbersome, slow and complicated to address challenges. The waiver proposed by India and South Africa would on the other hand provide countries with an effective and expeditious way to remove key IP barriers in advance, rather than wait for barriers to hit and then scramble into action, argued the MSF.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eu-presents-draft-declaration-at-wto-to-slow-down-proposal-for-trips-waiver-999963.html
21-06-2021||National||UGC asks educational institutions to put up banners thanking PM for free vaccination||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has asked all universities, colleges and technical institutions to put up banners thanking Prime Minister Modi for "starting free vaccination for 18 years and above age group", sources said Monday. The revised guidelines for Covid-19 vaccination announced by the Prime Minister earlier this month came into effect on Monday. Under these guidelines, those aged 18 and above are eligible for free vaccination. In a WhatsApp message sent to various university officials Sunday, UGC Secretary Rajnish Jain also asked the institutions to share the banners on their social media pages. While he did not respond to calls seeking his comments, officials of at least three universities confirmed having received the "directive". "The Government of India is starting free vaccination for 18 years and above age group from tomorrow--21st June, 2021. In this regard, universities and colleges are requested to kindly display these hoardings and banners in their institutions. "The approved design (creatives) of hoardings and banners in Hindi and English, as provided by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, are attached for your ready reference," reads Jain's purported text message. The poster has a picture of the Prime Minister with "Thank you PM Modi" written on it. Institutions such as Delhi University, Hyderabad University, LNCT University in Bhopal, Bennett University, Northcap University in Gurgaon, among others shared the banners on their social media pages with hashtag "ThankyouModiji". The move drew sharp reactions from several quarters including academicians, student bodies and politicians. Swaraj India President and former UGC member Yogendra Yadav said on Twitter, "As a former member of the UGC, I am mortified. Things were rotten at the UGC even then (2010-12), but such servility was unimaginable. Everyday, we discover a new low." Delhi University Professor and former Executive Council member Rajesh Jha said, "This is unprecedented. Universities cannot be used for propaganda of the government. "Universities are not extended arms of the government that they can be used for such things. By tweeting something from the official handle, Delhi University is projecting a single opinion which is not the scenario since there are differing opinions and viewpoints within the university," he said. His views were echoed by Abha Dev Habib of Delhi University Teachers Association (DUTA), who alleged institutions are being used to run propaganda for the PM. In a Facebook post, she said free vaccination is a right, funded by the taxpayers’ money, and any delay in rolling it out is a blame the government cannot escape. "UGC demanding real relief in terms of compensation, death gratuity and scholarship for students... nothing on that. We have written for development of medical facilities to the MoH... nothing on that. Ok is a Poster as a virus to overwrite all of that!" she said. JNU Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) Secretary Moushumi Basu said, "Why does it always have to be about the Prime Minister? Even the vaccination certificates have his mugshot. Isn't it our right to be vaccinated for free after all the mess that they have created? "Even if we have to thank, why can't we thank the healthcare workers. To be told by the UGC how we have to thank is just not done. There is certainly a problem. It is all quite bizarre." DU professor Hansraj Suman said, "It is quite condemnable. No other government has used an autonomous body like the UGC for its propaganda. Instead of using money for such government promotion, that money can be used to give mobile phones to students who are facing difficulties in accessing online classes." Earlier in the day, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had alleged that the Centre government is putting pressure on officials in Delhi to issue advertisements thanking the Prime Minister for free Covid-19 vaccines. Neeraj Kundan, the national president of the Congress-affiliated National Students' Union of India, said, "It is hilarious that students haven't yet been vaccinated and they are being asked to thank our PM. Students would have been thankful had the government announced fee waivers or student loan waivers for them." "Instead, many students have lost an entire academic year and their foreign university prospects have been affected since students were not vaccinated on time. Even after all this, the government is thinking about its promotion, which is a joke," he said. Jawaharlal Nehru University Students' Union vice president Saket Moon alleged, "The government is trying to use the situation for its propaganda which is not good."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ugc-asks-educational-institutions-to-put-up-banners-thanking-pm-for-free-vaccination-999971.html
21-06-2021||National||IT Ministry may issue FAQs on new social media rules in 1-2 weeks||The IT Ministry is likely to issue FAQs pertaining to the new intermediary rules in the next 1-2 weeks, a source said. The Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) would touch upon various aspects of the new rules, including the measures, how the norms would benefit users of social media platforms, and any other clarification that stakeholders may have. The FAQs are currently being worked on and are likely to be issued in 1-2 weeks, the source in the IT Ministry said, adding that the set of FAQs would address 10-20 questions. The new IT rules for social media companies, which came into effect last month, mandate large platforms like Facebook and Twitter to undertake greater due diligence and make these digital platforms more accountable and responsible for the content hosted by them. Under the rules, significant social media intermediaries -- those with over 50 lakh users -- are required to appoint a grievance officer, a nodal officer and a chief compliance officer. These personnel have to be residents in India. Further, social media companies are required to take down flagged content within 36 hours and remove within 24 hours content that is flagged for issues such as nudity and pornography. Earlier this month, the government had given one last chance to Twitter to comply with the new rules and had issued a stern warning that failure to adhere to the norms will lead to the platform losing exemption from liability under the IT Act. Twitter recently lost its 'safe harbour' shield in India over non-compliance with IT rules and failure to appoint key personnel mandated under the new guidelines, despite repeated reminders, and the platform is now liable for users posting any unlawful content. The IT Ministry had questioned Twitter over not providing information about the Chief Compliance Officer as required under the rules. Also, the resident grievance officer and nodal contact person nominated by the company is not an employee of Twitter Inc in India as prescribed in the rules, the ministry had earlier flagged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/it-ministry-may-issue-faqs-on-new-social-media-rules-in-1-2-weeks-999981.html
21-06-2021||National||Ghaziabad assault case: Twitter India MD wants to join probe virtually||The Twitter India managing director has offered to join through video conference the Ghaziabad police probe into the circulation of a communally sensitive video clip of an elderly Muslim man on the social media platform, officials said on Monday. The Ghaziabad police was told that the information for the probe sought by it does not pertain to Twitter India but to Twitter Inc, the global head office, the officials said. Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari, who lives in Bengaluru, was issued notice by the Ghaziabad police on June 17 and asked to report at its Loni Border police station within seven days to get his statement recorded in the case, the officials added. “The Twitter India MD has responded and offered to join the probe via video call for the time being. He has assured his cooperation with the police,” Superintendent of Police (Ghaziabad Rural) Iraj Raja told PTI. “Twitter India officials have also provided the police with some information and clarifications on the issue. In light of this information, we are going to send another notice to relevant officials of Twitter India,” Raja said. The Ghaziabad police is yet to take a call on Maheshwari's response on joining the probe through video conference and are in touch with the legal experts of Twitter India, the officer said. “We will see how it works out. If we find that video call is sufficient then he would be allowed this option otherwise also they have assured cooperation by physical presence,” Raja said. The Ghaziabad police has so far issued notices to Twitter India and news website The Wire in the case in which journalists Mohammed Zubair and Rana Ayyub, writer Saba Naqvi, Congress politicians Salman Nizami, Maskoor Usmani, Shama Mohamed have also been accused of sharing the video with an intention to provoke communal unrest. Notices to other accused would be issued soon, the police officials said on Monday. In the video clip, which surfaced on social media on June 14, elderly Muslim man Abdul Shamad Saifi purportedly says he was thrashed by some young men and asked to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. The Ghaziabad police, however, has ruled out a communal angle and said incident was a result of personal enmity as the accused were unhappy about a 'tabeez' (amulet) Saifi had sold to them. The FIR states that the Ghaziabad police had issued a clarification statement with facts of the incident but despite that, the accused did not remove the video from their Twitter handles. The police had also clarified that those who attacked Saifi included Hindu as well as Muslim men and the incident was a result of personal issues between them and not communal, it said. "Besides this, Twitter Inc and Twitter Communications India did not take any measures to remove their tweets," it added. So far 10 people allegedly involved in the attack on Saifi have been arrested over the FIR that was lodged on June 7 after his complaint, two days after the incident, the police said. Local Samajwadi Party workers Ummaid Pehelwan Idrisi has also been arrested after a separate FIR was lodged against him for allegedly circulating the video clip of Saifi through his Facebook account by giving it a communal colour, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ghaziabad-assault-case-twitter-india-md-wants-to-join-probe-virtually-999984.html
21-06-2021||National||India among 30 nations to receive 1.6 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines from US||India is among nearly 30 nations, which will receive altogether 1.6 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines the United States will send out in the second tranche of its donation of jabs to foreign nations. President Joe Biden’s administration in Washington DC on Monday announced the distribution of  5.5 crore doses of vaccines that it would send out in the second tranche, of the 8 core doses the US had committed to donating to other nations from its own stockpiles. The US had announced the distribution of the first tranche – consisting of 2.5 crore doses of vaccines – on June 3. India and over 25 other countries had been allocated altogether 1.3 crore doses – 60 lakh directly and 70 lakh through COVAX – an initiative launched by the World Health Organization (WHO), Gavi – The Vaccine Alliance and the others to ensure equitable access to Covid-19 jabs around the world. The Biden Administration on Monday announced that approximately 4.1 crore or 75% of the total 5.5 crore doses of the second tranche of its donation would be shared through COVAX. Of the doses to be shared through COVAX, 1.6 crore would be allocated to the countries in Asia, like India, Nepal, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Maldives, Bhutan, Philippines, Vietnam, Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia, Laos, Papua New Guinea, Taiwan, Cambodia, and the Pacific Islands. Approximately 1.4 crore would be earmarked for Latin America and the Caribbean nations and 1 crore for Africa, according to a fact-sheet released by the White House. In addition to the vaccines to be sent out through COVAX, the US will also donate approximately 1.4 crore – or 25% of the 5.5 crore doses of the second tranche – directly to other countries. Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan will receive doses from the US both directly and through COVAX. Biden recently announced that the US would purchase half a billion doses of the Covid-19 vaccines manufactured by Pfizer and would donate them to 92 low and lower middle-income countries and members of the African Union. The G7 and other nations agreed to provide an additional more than one billion doses starting summer 2021. In addition, the US is committed to expanding local production of vaccines, and through the Quad (America, Japan, Australia and India) partnership and the International Development Finance Corporation’s support for vaccine manufacturing with more than one billion doses to be produced in Africa and India in 2021 and 2022, according to the White House. The US was expected to discuss with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government before deciding on the exact number of Covid-19 vaccines India will get out of the doses the US will donate to other countries from its own stockpile. Though it has been more than a fortnight after the US announced distribution of the first tranche of its donation of vaccines, it is still not clear how many doses of vaccines the US will actually send out to India. “We are awaiting further details regarding the timeline and the quantity of vaccines that the US government has announced that it would share with various countries, including India. I don't have any particular update for the moment on that,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, told journalists in New Delhi. He was asked if the government had any information on the exact number of vaccines the US would donate to India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-among-30-nations-to-receive-16-crore-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-from-us-999988.html
21-06-2021||National Politics||Chidambaram demands restoration of statehood to Jammu and Kashmir||Seeking restoration of statehood for Jammu and Kashmir, Congress leader P Chidambaram on Monday said Parliament should repeal the "offending" laws in the upcoming Monsoon session and restore the status quo ante there. He asserted that it is the only way to draw the starting line for a political resolution of the Kashmir issue "What was made under the Constitution cannot be unmade by an Act of Parliament, misinterpreting and misusing the provisions of the Constitution," he said. His remarks come ahead of the June 24 meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi where 14 political leaders from Jammu and Kashmir, including four former chief ministers, have been invited for talks. "J&K was a 'state' that signed an Instrument of Accession and acceded to India. It must enjoy that status forever. J&K is not a piece of 'real estate'. J&K is 'people'. Their rights and wishes must be respected," he said in a series of tweets. "In the Monsoon session, Parliament should repeal the offending laws and restore the status quo ante in J&K. That is the only way to draw the starting line for a political resolution of the Kashmir issue," the former union minister said. Chidambaram noted that one should remember that the "dismembering" of J&K has been challenged in the Supreme Court and the cases are pending for nearly 2 years. "Congress Party's position, reiterated yesterday, that full Statehood must be restored to J&K should clear any doubt or ambiguity," he also said. The Congress had on Sunday said it is committed to restoration of full statehood for Jammu and Kashmir and the prime minister and the BJP should accept this demand in the interest of Constitution and democracy. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said depriving Jammu and Kashmir full statehood and not allowing its people to elect their own representatives is a direct attack on democracy and the constitutional principles. The Central government abrogated the state's special status and bifurcated it into UTs on August 5, 2019. The erstwhile state has been under the Centre's rule since June 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chidambaram-demands-restoration-of-statehood-to-jammu-and-kashmir-999759.html
21-06-2021||National Politics||Congress should change its name and reach out to people, says Jyotiraditya Scindia||BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia on Monday advised the Congress, his former political party, to change its name and make fresh efforts to find a place in the heart of people. Scindia, who joined the BJP in March 2020, was responding to a question about the recent demand of Congress leaders to change the name of Gwalior, his home turf. “If there is so much interest in changing the name, then the Congress should first change the name of their party and again go to the public...make a place in the heart of people,” Scindia told reporters when asked about the opposition party's demand. Some local Congress leaders had demanded that Gwalior be renamed as Maharani Laxmi Bai Nagar to honour the legendary queen. The demand was made on June 18, the martyrdom day of the freedom fighter, who had died in Gwalior. Scindia accused the Congress of indulging in politics even during a pandemic. “The Prime Minister has already said that the Congress is a party of namdars (dynasts), while BJP is an outfit of Kamdars (those who are known for their work),” he said. The former Union minister said Congress leaders initially opposed vaccination against Covid-19 and spread canard about it, but now they themselves are getting jabs. He informed that a 1,000-bed hospital will soon come up in Gwalior.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-should-change-its-name-and-reach-out-to-people-says-jyotiraditya-scindia-999875.html
21-06-2021||National Politics||Pawar's meet with Opposition leaders on Tuesday amid regional front buzz||An array of Opposition leaders will be meeting Sharad Pawar in New Delhi Tuesday amid signs of an emerging regional grouping ahead of the 2022 Presidential polls and 2024 general elections with the NCP boss acting as sort of the magnet to bring diverse political forces together. Poll strategist Prashant Kishor, who had led poll strategy campaigns of a number of Chief Ministers from the Opposition camp in past, including that of Mamata Banerjee and M K Stalin this year, on Monday had a nearly two-hour-long meeting with Pawar, his second in a fortnight, triggering a buzz of his attempts to aid the emergence of an alternative Opposition front to take on the Modi-led BJP in the next Lok Sabha polls. NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said Pawar will work from Tuesday to unite all Opposition parties and the meeting that he chairs will also dwell on the political situation in the country, apart from discussing the upcoming Lok Sabha session. The meeting will be attended by former Finance Minister (in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee led NDA) and TMC leader Yashwant Sinha, AAP MP Sanjay Singh, CPI's D Raja, NC's Farooq Abdullah, journalist-turned-former-BJP leader Sudheendra Kulkarni, Samajwadi Party spokesperson Ghanshyam Tiwari, former JDU (suspended) MP Pawan Verma, former Congress (suspended) spokesperson Sanjay Jha, former Rajya Sabha MPs K T S Tulsi (Congress), Advocate Majeed Memon (NCP) and Javed Akhtar (nominated), and NCP MP Vandana Chavan. Yashwant Sinha, a bitter critic of Modi is playing a key role in the Opposition unity attempts under the banner of Rashtriya Manch floated by him in 2018.   Malik tweeted that besides them, other eminent persons from different sections like Justice A P Singh, Karan Thapar, journalist-turned-former-AAP leader Ashutosh, former Chief Election Commissioner S Y Qureshi, K C Singh, Colin Gonsalves, economist Arun Kumar, and Pritish Nandy will also be attending the meeting. It will be interesting to see if any senior Congress leader attends the meeting as the main Opposition party earlier stonewalled the attempts to project Pawar as the probable Chairman of UPA before the next general elections. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut had pitched for it in March this year even as Pawar, in December last year, had distanced from such a campaign saying he has no interest in becoming UPA Chairperson. The meeting of Pawar with regional leaders in the national capital is happening also at a time when former Maharashtra Chief Minister and senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan's remarks about a Congress Chief Minister and talk of 'going solo' in upcoming Mumbai local bodies polls. This has created rumblings in the MVA government headed by Shiv Sena's Uddhav Thackeray in which Pawar plays a key role in keeping the allies united. The meeting of Pawar with regional leaders on Tuesday is being seen as a corollary to Opposition Chief Ministers following a common strategy of writing letters to the Prime Minister on Centre's Covid-19 strategy. Also, following her party's West Bengal victory, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee calling for larger Opposition unity attempts. The meeting, which is of a preliminary kind with no clear contours of a united Opposition face as yet, is, however, significant as this explores the future of how Opposition leaders will work together given Presidential elections are due next year. Pawar is a leader with relations across the political spectrum and can pull strings, which not many in the Opposition can do. In the 2012 President poll, UPA candidate Pranab Mukherjee had managed to breach the NDA ranks and got support from its allies JDU and Shiv Sena. Many believe that while Pawar is indeed the magnet of Opposition unity for the 2024 polls, the 2022 Presidential polls could serve as the first key test for any such attempt.  With the Congress so far not opening its cards on the matter, the regional grouping could be looking at the possibility of a non-Congress, non-BJP National Front kind of arrangement for the time being. Before the meeting of Opposition leaders at Pawar's residence, the NCP general body also met in Delhi on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pawars-meet-with-opposition-leaders-on-tuesday-amid-regional-front-buzz-999951.html
21-06-2021||National Politics||Anti-BJP front not possible without Congress: Nana Patole||Any anti-BJP front is not possible without the Congress, Maharashtra state party president Nana Patole said on Monday even as he extended his "best" wishes for a likely "Shiv Sena-NCP alliance" for the 2024 elections. "If an alliance between the Shiv Sena and the NCP is in the offing for the 2024 polls, we extend our best wishes. But an anti-BJP front cannot materialize without the Congress," he told reporters. Patole was responding to a query on the likely tie-up between the Sena and the NCP if Congress decides to go solo in the 2024 elections. All these three parties are constituents in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) which came to power in November 2019 with Sena president Uddhav Thackeray as the chief minister. Patole had recently caused a flutter saying the Congress will contest future elections on its own. In a veiled jibe at the Congress, CM Thackeray on Saturday said that people would "beat with footwear" those who only talk about contesting elections alone without offering solutions to people's problems. On Sunday, Patole clarified the Congress will stand strong with the CM with all its might until the government completes its full five-year term. Earlier on Monday, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said the coordination among the allies of the MVA was a model example of how a coalition government should function. Meanwhile, reacting to Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik's letter to CM Thackeray suggesting "reconciliation" with the BJP to save some leaders of the Sena, including him, from "harassment by Central investigating agencies," Patole said the BJP has been using these agencies to target and destabilise governments headed by opposition parties since the last 18 months. "But this strategy won't work in Maharashtra. We are standing firm with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. This government will not succumb to any pressure," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/anti-bjp-front-not-possible-without-congress-nana-patole-999978.html
21-06-2021||North and Central||LeT commander, involved in killing of civilians, cops neutralised in J&K's Sopore||Three militants, including a commander of Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) involved in the killing of policemen and civilians, were killed in an overnight gunfight with security forces in Sopore town of north Kashmir's Baramulla district on Monday. The encounter started after J&K police, army and paramilitary CRPF launched a joint cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in Gund Brath, Sopore, following specific input about the presence of militants in the area on Sunday night, police said.  The gunfight ended early on Monday with the killing of three LeT militants, one of them a Pakistani.  Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said one among the slain militants was LeT commander Mudasir Pandith, who was involved in the killing of three policemen, two councillors and two civilians in recent months in Sopore.  Pandith, he said, was also involved in other militancy-related incidents and termed his killing as a big success.  "With the killing of Pandith, not only people of Sopore will get a respite, but recruitment of new youths into militancy will also stop in the area," the Kashmir police chief said.  Pertinently, 55 militants have been killed in J&K so far this year and most of them were locals.  Last year, 203 militants, including 166 locals were killed by security forces across the Valley. As many as 157 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2019 while the number was 257 in 2018 which was the highest in a decade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/let-commander-involved-in-killing-of-civilians-cops-neutralised-in-jks-sopore-999674.html
21-06-2021||North and Central||PDP leader Naeem Akhtar released from house detention||PDP leader Naeem Akhtar was Sunday released from house detention after over a month, officials said here. This comes amid hectic political consultations in Jammu and Kashmir within mainstream regional parties, including the PDP and National Conference (NC), over an all-party meeting to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 24. "Akhtar has been released from house detention," an official said. The PDP leader was put under house arrest on May 10 after his release from a five-month preventive detention during which he was lodged at the MLA Hostel here. Several leaders of the PDP, including Akhtar and Sartaj Madni, and those of NC were taken into preventive custody on December 21 last year -- a day ahead of the counting of votes for the District Development Council elections. Akhtar was first detained in August 2019 and later booked under the Public Safety Act (PSA). He was released in June 2020 after 10 months of detention, but was again taken into custody in December last year. Madni, who is also the uncle of PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, was released from the preventive detention on Saturday. The PDP on Sunday authorised Mehbooba to take a decision on the invitation for the June 24 talks. . The issue will also be discussed in the meeting of the PAGD -- of which the NC as well as the PDP are a part of -- on Tuesday here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pdp-leader-naeem-akhtar-released-from-house-detention-999707.html
21-06-2021||North and Central||Journalist, 2 others booked for FB offensive post against Ram Temple Trust Secy||The Uttar Pradesh Police booked a journalist and two others invoking 15 sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for creating an "objectionable and indecent" Facebook post against Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust’s general secretary Champat Rai, police said on Sunday. The alleged post accused Rai of grabbing lands belonging to a college and cow shelter in Uttar Pradesh's Bijnore district. According to the police sources, an FIR was lodged at Nagina Police station in the district against Vineet Narain, a journalist, and two others for allegedly sharing a Facebook post in which allegations of land grab had been made against Rai and his brothers. The trio, which included Alka Lahoti, who had alleged that Rai had helped his brothers grab her land, were charged with conspiracy and hurting the sentiments of crores of Hindus. Rai's brother Sanjay Bansal, who had lodged the complaint, also alleged that he had called Narain to apprise him about the true facts but one Rajnish, who had picked up the phone, threatened to kill him (Bansal). District police officials said that the allegations against Rai and his brothers were 'false'. Rai was already facing charges of irregularities in the purchase of a piece of land worth Rs 2 crore for a whopping Rs 18.5 crore for Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Aam Admi Party (AAP) leader and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh and Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Tej Narayan Pandey had claimed that the price of the land in question, which was at Bagh Bijaisi area in Ayodhya town, shot up from Rs 2 crore to Rs 18.5 crore within a span of ten minutes. The two leaders demanded a CBI probe into the matter. ''It is a very serious matter... it must be thoroughly investigated,'' Pandey said. Rai, however, rejected the allegations and said that the land was purchased below the market value. The Trust has been on a land buying spree ever since it was entrusted with the task of constructing the Ram Temple. The central government had allotted 70 acres of land for the Temple. The Trust later decided to expand the area of the Temple and it had purchased several temples adjacent to the Ram Janambhoomi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/journalist-2-others-booked-for-offensive-post-against-ram-temple-trust-secy-999726.html
21-06-2021||North and Central||Major fire breaks out at shoe factory in Delhi's Udyog Nagar||A major fire broke out at a shoe factory in West Delhi's Udyog Nagar on Monday morning, Delhi Fire Service officials said. No injuries have been reported so far in the incident, they said. The Fire Department said it received a call about the blaze at 8.22 am, following which 24 fire tenders were rushed to the spot. The officials said fire-fighting operations are underway and the cause of the fire is not known yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/major-fire-breaks-out-at-shoe-factory-in-delhis-udyog-nagar-999746.html
21-06-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand CM performs 'asanas' to mark International Yoga Day||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat performed various 'asanas' on the occasion of International Yoga Day on Monday and appealed to people to make yoga part of their daily routine for mental and physical health. He said Uttarakhand has a distinct identity in the world because of its close association with yoga which gives both physical and mental strength. "Yoga is a science that unifies the body, heart and soul. Everyone must do yogic exercises regularly to lead a healthy life," the chief minister said. करें योग, रहें निरोग Announcement by the United Nations to observe June 21 as the International Yoga Day was a result of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's initiative, he said. Uttarakhand's contribution in popularising yoga across the world has been significant, he said. Accompanied by Ayush Minister Harak Singh Rawat, the chief minister performed different yogic postures or asanas. Ayush Minister Rawat also spoke about Uttarakhand's old and intimate association with yoga. "In the ancient times saints and ascetics did yoga in the caves of Uttarakhand. The whole world today recognises the power of yoga that had its origins here," he said. करें योग, रहें निरोग योग तन व मन के बीच सामंजस्‍य स्थापित करने का ऐसा शाश्वत साधन है जिसके नियमित अभ्यास से मनुष्य में एक नई आत्म चेतना जागृत होती है। Similar programmes were held across the state to mark the occasion. Pradesh BJP president Madan Kaushik performed yogic postures at Haridwar's Shankar Ashram. Pradesh BJP general Secretary Ajeya Kumar and Dharampur MLA Vinod Chamoli took part in a programme at a yoga camp on the premises of Dharampur Shiv Mandir here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-cm-performs-asanas-to-mark-international-yoga-day-999771.html
21-06-2021||North and Central||PAGD unaware about agenda of PM’s meeting, in a fix on how to move forward||Unaware about the agenda of the proposed meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 24, the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) is in a fix on how to move forward with the invite. Finding no other options, the PAGD – an alliance of six parties in Jammu and Kashmir, including the National Conference (NC) and the PDP, formed in October last to fight for the restoration of erstwhile state’s special status under Article 370 – has called a meeting on June 22 to decide about the future course of action. The meeting is scheduled to take place at the Gupkar residence of NC chief Farooq Abdullah, who is also the chairman of the PAGD at 11 am. However, the agenda of the PM’s meeting – the first such step from the Centre to end the political impasse in J&K after August 5, 2019 – has not been made public. The two main constituents of the PAGD – the NC and the PDP – have been holding deliberations over the Centre’s offer for the last two days. PAGD spokesman and senior CPI(M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami, while confirming that the agenda of the PM’s meeting was not known, said the alliance will meet on Tuesday to decide about its strategy. “The Prime Minister is convening the meeting and even the agenda is not circulated. Given an opportunity we will talk on our terms. It is not conditional dialogue,” he told DH. Sources said the PDP president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti is of the opinion that the PAGD should send Farooq Abdullah to participate in the meeting on behalf of the alliance. “By doing so, the PAGD can send a message that the alliance is united in their demand for restoration of J&K’s special status and statehood,” they said. However, a senior leader of the PAGD, wishing anonymity, said that the alliance is in a dilemma. “We can’t miss an opportunity to attend the PM’s meeting, but at the same time, the Centre has kept its cards closed. If we attend the meeting and nothing concrete comes out, the PAGD would lose its relevance,” he revealed. The PM’s meeting with all political parties from J&K is part of the Centre’s initiatives to bolster political processes, including holding Assembly elections in the UT. This will be the Prime Minister’s first interaction with all the political parties of the UT since August 5, 2019 when the Centre abrogated the state’s special status and bifurcated it into UTs. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pagd-unaware-about-agenda-of-pm-s-meeting-in-a-fix-on-how-to-move-forward-999782.html
21-06-2021||North and Central||AAP's CM face for Punjab to be from the Sikh community: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister and AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced that the party's chief ministerial face for the 2022 Punjab Assembly polls will be from the Sikh community. When asked who will be the CM's face of the party for the 2022 polls, Kejriwal said, “Discussions are going on in the party regarding this, when time comes, you will be informed". "But one thing I can tell you is that entire Punjab will be proud of him. One thing is certain that AAP's CM face will be from the Sikh community,” he said. Kejriwal, who is the AAP national convener, asserted that the people of Punjab are fed up with the present leadership ruling the state and added that the state is looking for a new type of leadership. Kejriwal was here to induct former IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who was part of the SIT probing the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident in Punjab, into the Aam Aadmi Party here.       Singh joined the party fold in presence of Kejriwal and other senior leaders including Raghav Chadha and AAP state unit chief and MP, Bhagwant Mann. When asked during a press conference if the AAP's CM face can be from the Dalit community, Kejriwal replied, “Entire Punjab will be proud of him and he will be from Sikh community”. To a question on from where Kunwar Vijay Pratap will fight the polls, Kejriwal said it will be decided later. Asked if there have been any talks with Navjot Singh Sidhu, the Congress leader, who has been at loggerheads with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, the AAP leader said, “Sidhu is a Congress leader, a senior leader. I respect him a lot. So, I think there should be no loose talk regarding any leader”. To a question if there been any meeting with Sidhu, Kejriwal said, “If anything happens, you will be the first to know.”  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aaps-cm-face-for-punjab-to-be-from-the-sikh-community-kejriwal-999803.html
21-06-2021||North and Central||Centre has allocated only 15 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses to Delhi in July: Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia||As the Centre initiated the free universal Covid-19 vaccination in the country, the AAP-led Delhi government on Monday said it will be getting only 15 lakh vaccines next month which is way below its requirement but the Narendra Modi government was pressurising its officials to issue advertisements "thanking" the Prime Minister for free vaccines. Calling the Centre's vaccination initiative as the world's most "messed up, derailed" programme, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the national capital is not getting free vaccines for this month beyond June 21. "There are 2.94 crore doses are needed for Delhi and only 57 lakh has been allocated so far...In July, Delhi has been allocated 15 lakh free vaccines...At this pace, it will take another 15-16 months to vaccinate the capital's entire population," Sisodia said during a digital address. "You have been saying India has been conducting the largest vaccination drive globally, but it has turned out to be the most mismanaged, derailed and messed up exercise in the world," he said. Sisodia said the capital would need 2.30 crore more doses but the Centre is allocating only 15 lakh for the next month. "The Chief Minister (Arvind Kejriwal) has already said that we will inoculate all people in Delhi within two months if we are given the required doses," he said. Referring to the advertisements by BJP-led government states in Delhi newspapers, Sisodia claimed that Delhi government officials were "pressurised" by the Centre to issue advertisements "thanking Modi" There are "no vaccines but advertisements are there. If the money spent on advertisements are used on vaccines, states could buy from abroad also. What we need is not advertisements but vaccines", he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-has-allocated-only-15-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-to-delhi-in-july-deputy-chief-minister-manish-sisodia-999809.html
21-06-2021||North and Central||Amarnath yatra cancelled due to Covid-19 for second year in a row||The annual Amarnath yatra has been cancelled for a second consecutive year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.  "It's important to save people's lives. So, it is not advisable to hold this year's pilgrimage in the larger public interest," J&K Lt Governor, Manoj Sinha, who is also chairman of the Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB), said after holding a meeting. It's important to save people's lives. So, it is not advisable to hold and conduct this year's pilgrimage in the larger public interest. He said the SASB is aware of and respects the sentiments of millions of devotees, and "to keep the sentiments alive, the Board shall continue the live telecast of morning and evening Aarti from the Holy Cave shrine." The decision has finally put an end to speculation surrounding the annual pilgrimage. The 56-day-long annual pilgrimage was scheduled to begin from June 28 from the traditional Pahalgam-Chandanwari track and the shorter Sonamarag-Baltal route. However, the SASB has decided to hold symbolic yatra with all the traditional religious rituals to be performed at the Cave Shrine as per the past practice, an official spokesperson said. He said a threadbare discussion was held with the members of the Board on the present Covid-19 situation before arriving on the decision. Sinha subsequently also held detailed deliberations with Chief Secretary, DGP and other senior officers and directed that devotees should be enabled to attend to morning and evening Aarti in online mode. He said it would help them to pay their obeisance while also avoiding and travel and exposure.  The Lt Governor also stressed upon the need to follow Covid protocol on the significant and pious days like Pratham Pooja, Samapan Pooja.  The SASB CEO, Nitishwar Kumar said, the Board has made the arrangements for the mace of Lord Shiva- Chhari Mubarak' to be taken to the holy cave on August 22 when the yatra is to conclude coinciding with the festival of Raksha Bandhan.  The CEO said that both morning telecast of Aarti at 6 am and evening Aarti at 5 pm, each for 30 minutes, is to be live-streamed on Board official website and the app specifically dedicated for the devotees. Every year, lakhs of pilgrims either take the traditional and longer 45km-long Pahalgam route or the shorter 14km-long Baltal route to Amarnath, one of Hinduism’s holiest shrines. The pilgrimage usually spans nearly a month-and-a-half and takes place during July and August. Last year, the yatra was also cancelled due to Covid while in 2019 it was cut short following intelligence inputs of terror threats ahead of the Centre scrapping Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. In 2018, the pilgrimage was held for 60 days. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amarnath-yatra-cancelled-due-to-covid-19-for-second-year-in-a-row-999836.html
21-06-2021||North and Central||Daily Covid-19 case count falls below 100 in Delhi; positivity rate 0.16%||The national capital reported 89 Covid-19 cases, the lowest this year so far, and 11 deaths on Monday, while the positivity rate dipped to 0.16 per cent, according to data shared by the Delhi health department. This is the first time since February 16, when 94 people were diagnosed with the disease, that the number of new cases have dropped below the 100 mark.  The 11 new fatalities have pushed the death toll in the city to 24,925.  Since the outbreak of the disease in the country, Delhi has recorded 14,32,381 cases. Of this, over 14.05 lakh patients have recovered so far.   On Sunday, Delhi reported seven deaths and 124 cases of the coronavirus with a positivity rate of 0.17 per cent. On Saturday, it recorded seven deaths due to the deadly disease, the lowest since April 1, and 135 fresh cases with positivity of 0.18 per cent. The city had on Friday reported 165 cases with a positivity rate of 0.22 per cent, while the death count stood at 14. The infection rate which had reached to 36 per cent in the last week of April, has come down to below 0.20 per cent now. Delhi had been reeling under a brutal second wave of the pandemic, which claimed a massive number of lives daily and also led to a shortage of oxygen supply at various hospitals. On April 20, Delhi had reported 28,395 cases, the highest in the city since the beginning of the pandemic. On April 22, the case positivity rate was 36.2 per cent, the highest so far. The highest number of 448 deaths was reported on May 3. According to the latest health bulletin, 57,128 tests, including 45,468 RT-PCR tests, were conducted a day ago. The number of active cases has decreased to 1,996 from 2,091 on Sunday, according to the bulletin. The number of people under home isolation dipped to 563 from 600 on Sunday, while the number of containment zones dropped to 4,597 from 4,752 a day before, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/daily-covid-19-case-count-falls-below-100-in-delhi-positivity-rate-016-999853.html
21-06-2021||North and Central||UP police bust 'ISI funded conversion racket', arrest two Muslim clerics||Uttar Pradesh police on Monday claimed to have busted a ''conversion racket'', which was allegedly funded by the Pakistan spy agency ISI, and arrested two Muslim clerics, both residents of Delhi's Jamia Nagar area, in this connection. Additional Director General, law and order, Prashant Kumar told reporters that the anti-terrorist squad (ATS) of the state police had been getting information about ''mass conversion'' of women and deaf and dumb children. He said that the ATS nabbed Mohemmad Umar and Jehangir Alam, residents of Delhi, after their involvement in the conversion came to light. ''The duo has so far converted around one thousand people in UP and other parts of the country,'' Kumar said. The official also said that the duo and some other had established an 'Islamic Dawah Centre' in Delhi through which they used to convert people to Islam. ''Mostly the deaf and dumb children and women were targetted...they were lured into conversion and were offered money...many converted women were also later married off,'' he added. The official claimed that many children, who received education at a society meant for deaf and dumb children, had been converted into Islam by the duo. Kumar said that the 'Islamic Dawah Centre' had also been receiving funds from foreign organisations and ISI. ''We are still investigating the matter,'' he added. An FIR, under different sections of the IPC, including 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on the grounds of religion), 295 (Injuring or defiling places of worship) as well as the newly enacted UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Act, was filed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-police-bust-isi-funded-conversion-racket-arrest-two-muslim-clerics-999859.html
21-06-2021||North and Central||Two Pakistani militants killed in Kashmir this year||Despite a good presence of foreign militants in Kashmir, security forces have only been able to kill two Pakistani ultras this year. "This year only two foreign terrorists have been killed and both were eliminated in Sopore area of North Kashmir. They were from Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT)," J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh said at a press meet. He added that a good number of foreign militants were present in Kashmir still "but they are lying low."  "So it would be wrong to claim that Kashmir is free from foreign terrorists,” Singh said.  About infiltration along the Line of Control (LoC), he said that the February ceasefire between Indo-Pak armies has helped to check infiltration to a large extent. On a number of active militants in Srinagar, the police chief said two ultras operating in the city outskirts. “We have seen one or two incidents in Srinagar. We can’t filter 100% movement of militants but in near future, we will launch the city as well," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-pakistani-militants-killed-in-kashmir-this-year-999860.html
21-06-2021||North and Central||Did you know? Madhavrao Scindia staged a 'dacoity' to spook Indian cricket stars||He was a serious politician but the late Madhavrao Scindia was quite the fun prankster too and was once hosting the greatest stars of Indian cricket when he decided to also have a scare-fest – at their expense of course. And so, the senior Congress leader and scion of the erstwhile Gwalior royal family staged a "dacoity" to spook the cricketers, including Sunil Gavaskar, Gundappa Vishwanath and Erapalli Prasanna. The anecdote, on the time the cricketers had been invited to play an exhibition match in Gwalior, is recounted in senior journalist Rasheed Kidwai's recently released book The House of Scindias: A Saga of Power, Politics and Intrigue. It focuses not just on the history of the Scindias but also gives people a peek into the palace politics, intrigues and convictions of the Scindia household over generations. Madhavrao was not just a well-loved Congress leader and a former Union minister. He wore many other hats and would often take time off for a round of golf or don a pair of flannels to play cricket, his greatest passion, says the book published by Roli Books. The story goes that on a rest day during the exhibition match in Gwalior, Madhavrao decided to take his guests to Shivpuri for a ‘shikar’ trip (hunting was permitted then).  "At midnight, when the players had gone to bed, they heard gunshots and found themselves surrounded by 'dacoits' who said they would 'kidnap' them. All the members of the party were asked to get inside jeeps and hand over their belongings," Kidwai writes. Viswanath and Prasanna were in particular petrified and started howling, saying they were part of the Indian Test cricket team and the country needed them, according to the book. The “dacoits”, however, pretended they had never heard of cricket. The drama went a bit too far and the guests were not amused when they were told that the “dacoits” were, in fact, Madhavrao’s employees, and that the whole incident had been staged. The amusing incident was also recounted by the late Mansoor Ali Khan Pataudi, former India captain and a friend of the Scindias, during a television interview in which he said Madhavrao and him were hand in glove on the prank. The book states that Madhavrao’s passion for cricket began at an early age. Encouraged by his school teacher and coach Sharief Ahmed, he had set up a palace cricket team that played against various sides.  Madhavrao’s passion for cricket was well known. Once a young lad shouted at him for a cheeky single, saying, 'Chal, chal (run, run)'. The brusque address had almost Madhavrao run himself out, according to the book. After the match, the lad went up to him apologising, “Maharaj, I am sorry I couldn’t address you as shrimant or maharaj in the heat of the moment!” Madhavrao laughed it off." Another interesting anecdote narrated in the book relates to friendly cricket matches played by MPs in Delhi. Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel used to recall how he himself got bowled out, short of a century, just because Madhavrao wanted the strike.  "This had happened in the winter afternoon of 1980-1981 when a friendly cricket match among parliamentarians was on. Patel, a young Congress MP from Gujarat, was batting with flourish when Madhavrao walked in to join him at the other end," Kidwai writes. Journalist D K Singh is quoted as saying that Patel was on a roll, nearing the century mark, leaving Scindia at the non-striker’s end most of the time.  "Frustrated, the scion of the erstwhile royal family of Gwalior walked up to him and said, ‘You have done your part. You can let others take it from here'. Patel, second-time Lok Sabha MP from Bharuch, Gujarat, got himself bowled, short of a century," recounts the book. Singh later asked Patel why he did not complete the century and  then walked out and Patel’s response was, “Arre, how could I? He was Madhavrao Scindia and I was a nobody in Delhi.” The book also chronicles the journey of Madhavrao Scindia 'the politician'. Like Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and Pranab Mukherjee, Scindia was "probably one of the best prime ministers India never had", Kidwai says.  "His rise was cruelly cut short by fate—at the same time as when the Congress was on the trail of a comeback. He died in a tragic plane crash on September 30, 2001, just eight months after the death of his mother, Vijayaraje Scindia," says the book.  But while the ailing Rajmata was in her eighties and had the satisfaction of seeing her party, the BJP, firmly in power, Madhavrao was just 56, in the prime of his political life, it says. Less than three years later, in 2004, a Congress-led coalition would come to power at the Centre and remain at the helm for the next 10 years.  “… Madhavrao Scindia would have been Prime Minister if he had lived,” former Union minister K. Natwar Singh is quoted as saying.  In other words, according to Singh, Madhavrao would have been Sonia Gandhi’s first choice as prime minister in the UPA government instead of Dr Manmohan Singh. "While that will always remain in the realm of conjecture, there is little doubt that within the Congress, Madhavrao was much more popular as a leader than Manmohan Singh, who is by nature a reticent man," the book says.  The book also deals with other Scindias that played a key role in India's politics — Rajmata Vijaya Raje Scindia, her daughters Yashodhara Raje Scindia, Vasundhara Raje, and Madhavrao's son Jyotiraditya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/did-you-know-madhavrao-scindia-staged-a-dacoity-to-spook-indian-cricket-stars-999865.html
21-06-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan preparing for possible third wave of Covid-19 affecting children: Health Minister||Rajasthan Health Minister Raghu Sharma on Monday said special attention is being given to strengthen medical facilities in children hospitals in the state in view of the possibility of a third wave of coronavirus impact on children. Addressing a review meeting after inspecting facilities at J K Lon Hospital, he said that about 200 ICU beds would be available soon in J K Lon Hospital that currently has 800 beds. He said that keeping in mind the possibility of a third wave affecting children, 600 beds in this hospital can be reserved for coronavirus patients. All these 600 beds can be converted into ICU beds, if needed. All the beds in the hospital are connected with a centralised oxygen system, he said, adding that an oxygen plant is being set up in the hospital. After the plant is established, around 1,500 litres of oxygen will be available in J K Lon Hospital. The minister said preparations for the treatment of coronavirus affected patients will not affect the 200-bed NICU unit. He said the treatment of children would continue in the NICU unit as usual. During the inspection, SMS Medical College Principal Dr Sudhir Bhandari, Hospital Superintendent Dr Arvind Shukla, Chief Medical and Health Officer Dr Narottam Sharma were also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-preparing-for-possible-third-wave-of-covid-19-affecting-children-health-minister-999869.html
21-06-2021||North and Central||UP's next CM to be decided after polls, says minister||Senior BJP leader and Uttar Pradesh Labour Minister Swami Prasad Maurya has said that the next chief minister of the state will be decided by the central leadership after the completion of Assembly elections early next year. “The chief minister will be finalised by the central leadership after the Assembly elections,” Maurya told newspersons in reply to a question at the BJP headquarters here on Sunday. Conflicting signals have continued to emerge from the ruling BJP over who would lead the party in the 2022 Assembly elections and who will be the chief ministerial candidate. Speaking to newspersons in Etah last week, the BJP's state unit president Swatantra Dev Singh had said that the next Assembly polls will be contested under the leadership of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. “Corruption and hooliganism have ended and development is taking place. We will fight the 2022 elections under the hardworking and honest Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath,” Swatantra Dev had stated. Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya had earlier said in Bareilly that the party's national leadership will decide under whom the upcoming elections will be fought. When asked if there was any confusion in the party over who would lead the party in the coming polls and who would be the chief ministerial candidate as seen in the recent statements of party leaders, BJP spokesman Harishchandra Srivastava said, “Swatantra Dev is the state unit president and what he has said is important. What Keshav Prasad Maurya and Swami Prasad Maurya have said is on the basis of the party's norms and traditions.” "Formally, the announcement of chief minister's name is decided by the Parliamentary Board, and so Keshav Maurya and Swami Maurya would have said this,” Srivasatava added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ups-next-cm-to-be-decided-after-polls-says-minister-999881.html
21-06-2021||North and Central||Next Uttar Pradesh CM will be decided after 2022 polls: Senior BJP leader Swami Prasad Maurya||Despite all-out efforts to portray that all is well within the BJP, sharp differences have cropped again over the issue of the chief ministerial face of the saffron party in the next Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, which are due early next year. After Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, UP minister and senior BJP leader Swami Prasad Maurya has also said that the issue of the chief minister would be decided after the next Assembly polls. ''The elected representatives of the party (BJP) will decide who will be their leader.....sometimes the central leadership also takes a call on the issue,'' Maurya told reporters. Maurya said that in 2017 also, the BJP had not declared its chief ministerial face. ''Yogi Adityanath was chosen after the polls,'' he added.  He said that besides Adityanath, there could also be other claimants to the top post. ''It could be Yogiji.....there may also be some other claimants,'' the minister went on to add. Earlier Keshav Prasad Maurya had also said that the central leadership would decide who the BJP's chief ministerial face, if any, would be. ''It has not yet been decided,'' he had remarked. The remarks once again indicated that a power tussle is still continuing within the UP BJP despite statements to the contrary by the senior saffron party leaders. The remark came on a day when BJP national general secretary BL Santosh and UP in-charge Radha Mohan Singh landed in Lucknow and held discussions with the RSS and party leaders. Earlier, UP BJP chief Swatantra Deo Singh had ruled out a change of guard in the state despite demands from several party leaders, MLAs and MPs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/next-uttar-pradesh-cm-will-be-decided-after-2022-polls-senior-bjp-leader-swami-prasad-maurya-999899.html
21-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi sees lowest single-day rise this year as Covid-19 cases fall below 100||The national capital reported 89 Covid-19 cases Monday at a positivity rate of 0.16 per cent, both lowest this year so far, while 11 more people succumbed to the disease, according to data shared by the health department here. This is also the first time since February 16 -- when 94 people were diagnosed with the disease -- that the number of new cases has dropped below the 100-mark. On January 27, the capital had reported 96 cases. The positivity rate of 0.16 percent is also the lowest this year. The 11 new fatalities have pushed the death toll in the city to 24,925. Delhi has recorded 14,32,381 coronavirus cases since the pandemic started ravaging countries. Of this, over 14.05 lakh patients have recovered so far. On Sunday, Delhi reported seven deaths and 124 cases of coronavirus with a positivity rate of 0.17 per cent. On Saturday, it recorded seven deaths due to the deadly disease, the lowest since April 1, and 135 fresh cases with a positivity of 0.18 per cent. On Friday, the city reported 165 cases with a positivity rate of 0.22 per cent, while the death count stood at 14. The infection rate which had reached to 36 per cent in the last week of April, has come down to below 0.20 per cent now. On April 20, Delhi had reported 28,395 cases, the highest in the city since the beginning of the pandemic. On April 22 the case positivity rate was 36.2 per cent, the highest so far. The highest number of 448 deaths was reported on May 3. According to the latest health bulletin, only 57,128 tests, including 45,468 RT-PCR tests, were conducted a day ago. The number of active cases decreased to 1996 from 2091 on Sunday, according to the bulletin. The number of people under home isolation dipped to 563 from 600 on Sunday, while the number of containment zones dropped to 4597 from 4752 a day before, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-sees-lowest-single-day-rise-this-year-as-covid-19-cases-fall-below-100-999925.html
21-06-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Not calling students back to schools anytime soon, says Manish Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said students will not be called to schools anytime soon keeping in mind their safety and security in view of the Covid pandemic. Sisodia visited four Delhi government schools -- SKV Kondli, GGSS Kalyanpuri, government co-ed schools at IP Extension and Preet Vihar -- and inspected the construction work of 172 new classrooms, an official statement from the deputy chief minister's office said. "Keeping in mind the security and safety of children, we are not calling students back to school anytime soon. We are, however, ensuring that the construction work for the new and improved classrooms are done at a fast pace so that when the children do end up returning back to school, they are welcomed with new and colourful classrooms with the best facilities," he said. The statement said 97 per cent of the construction work at SKV Kondli and GGSS Kalyanpuri have been completed and will be fully finished by June. Both the schools are getting 20 new classrooms each, it said. About 90 per cent of the construction work to build 84 new classrooms at government Co-ed, IP Extension has also been completed and the construction will be fully finished by July, it said, adding that 48 classrooms at the government co-ed senior secondary school at Preet Vihar will be completed by August, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-not-calling-students-back-to-schools-anytime-soon-says-manish-sisodia-999982.html
21-06-2021||North and Central||Fraud Ram Temple donation website busted, 5 held||Five men who allegedly made an illegal website in the name of the Ram Janmabhoomi Trust Ayodhya and duped people of lakhs of rupees by receiving donations on the pretext of the Ram Temple construction were arrested on Monday, the Uttar Pradesh police said. The accused were nabbed by a joint team of the Noida Cyber police station and Lucknow Cyber Crime headquarters, it said in a statement. “The accused had floated a website in name of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Trust Ayodhya and put out bank account numbers on the website for donors who volunteered to contribute for the Ram Temple in Ayodhya,” the police said. They duped donors of lakhs of rupees. "They did not only breach the trust of people who made donations, but also floated a website illegally for con job,” the police added. Those held have been identified as Ashish Gupta (21), Naveen Kumar Singh (26), Sumit Kumar (22), Amit Jha (24) and Suraj Gupta (22), according to officials. Three of them hail from Amethi district in Uttar Pradesh and two from Sitamarhi in Bihar but all of them were currently staying at New Ashok Nagar in East Delhi adjoining Noida, the officials said. The UP police team seized five mobile phones, one laptop, and 50 photocopies of Aadhaar cards, among others, from the gang, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fraud-ram-temple-donation-website-busted-5-held-999992.html
21-06-2021||Opinion||RBI seeks to take microfinance regulation forward||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has proposed a new regulatory regime for microfinance which takes things forward from where they have been since the Andhra crisis occurred over a decade ago. The Malegam committee’s recommendations adopted after that created a new category of microfinance institutions (MFI) under the umbrella of non-banking finance companies (NBFC) termed NBFC-MFIs. MFI regulation has hereafter been focused on NBFC-NFIs. The problem with this was that over time NBFC-MFIs have accounted for only 30 per cent of the assets under the microfinance genre of lending, with banks and small finance banks (SFB) taking up most of the rest of the space. The RBI is now proposing a single uniform set of regulations to govern microfinance irrespective of who delivers it, which has the virtue of creating a level playing field. The present situation in Assam has highlighted the need for this. Delinquency among microfinance borrowers has become a political issue there. Still, banks and SFBs cannot be faulted for any rule-breaking that has allowed this to happen as there are no special rules for their microfinance operations. If they have stuck to the norms that apply to them as banks, they are in the clear. The situation has been highlighted by the fact that Bandhan Bank is a significant microfinance lender in Assam. But being a bank, it is not even clear if the new law set to enter the statute books in Assam (it is yet to do so despite a lot of pre-election publicity) to regulate microfinance will apply to Bandhan Bank. The proposed new regulation on the pricing of microfinance loans also scores on simplicity by throwing out of the window the existing complicated formula and allowing the pricing of loans to be determined by the market, as is the case with lending rates adopted by banks. But does it mean that sharp players eager to ramp up business quickly will open their doors wide to intending borrowers in acute need of finance to agree to high-interest rates to get the loan and later come to grief? The proposed regulation has got around this problem and the rule that there is a limit to the number of institutions that can lend to one individual by laying down a simple norm. The lending institution has to ensure that the EMI a household has to pay does not exceed 50 per cent of its income. In seeking to define this income, the RBI has also laid down a definition for microfinance itself. Collateral free loans repayable in instalments for households with annual incomes of Rs 1.25 lakh for rural households and Rs two lakh for urban households will be considered microfinance loans and outline the boundaries of the microfinance space. This goes back to the classical concept of microfinance which is all about giving small unsecured loans to poor working women at interest rates that are a fraction of what the moneylender charges to enable them to raise their incomes and get out of poverty. The need to reform the regulation governing microfinance had arisen due to the acute problems of delinquency among borrowers in Assam, making the matter an election issue. As a result, this had led to election promises of loan waiver, which the current government has delivered on by getting into an agreement with the Microfinance Institutions Network, the industry body, to waive loans exceeding Rs 4,000 crore. Significantly, two states where microfinance is widely available, Assam and West Bengal, went to the polls recently. Still, microfinance was an issue in one (Assam) and not in the other (West Bengal). Assam is not even among the top five states in terms of outstanding microfinance loans. This underlines the historical reality that microfinance recoveries suffer whenever drought or flood causes widespread distress. In the present instance, it was the pandemic induced lockdowns. But these quickly recover once the regular cycle of rural life (that is where most microfinance borrowers are) is restored. Earlier to the pandemic, microfinance recoveries suffered briefly because of demonetisation. Microfinance loans do far better in terms of non-performing assets compared to regular banks. Before the pandemic, the gross NPAs of the banking sector hovered at around 7.5 per cent. However, the ‘portfolio at risk’ for more than 180 days for the microfinance sector stood around 2 per cent. This underlines the fact that the microfinance model is a viable one. What is more, it is taking banking to sections that have remained unserved despite nationalised banks being around for over half a century. Whether in rural areas or urban slums, the poor have an acute need for finance to run their micro-businesses and gratefully treat all those who play straight with them. Borrowers know that you become eligible for another loan of a higher amount once you repay a loan on time. A key reason why microfinance has become viable is that its operational staff come from the same rural stock as the customers. Therefore, the fundamental ‘know your customer’ requirement in banking is well delivered. In contrast to this, nationalised bank staff who front rural and semi-urban branches are primarily from urban stock and are not very familiar with the undercurrents of rural life. Microfinance is doing very well, and RBI’s forward-looking ideas for updating its regulatory framework can further secure the foundations for this weapon to fight poverty. What RBI wants - Have a standard definition of what is microfinance - Bring all institutions giving microfinance loans under one regulatory umbrella - This will create a level playing field for all payers - EMI must not exceed 50 per cent of household income - Let market forces determine the cost (interest rate) of microfinance  (The writer is a columnist and author) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/rbi-seeks-to-take-microfinance-regulation-forward-999870.html
21-06-2021||South||2 killed in explosion at firecracker factory in Sivakasi||Two people died and two were injured on Monday after an explosion at a firecracker manufacturing factory, in Thaiyilpatti near Sivakasi in Tamil Nadu's Virudhunagar district, news agency ANI reported. Rescue operations are underway. More details awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/2-killed-in-explosion-at-firecracker-factory-in-sivakasi-999744.html
21-06-2021||South||Raghuram Rajan, Nobel laureate Esther Duflo to advise TN govt on economy||Nobel laureate Esther Duflo and former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Raghuram Rajan will be part of a five-member Economic Advisory Council constituted by the Tamil Nadu Government to advise Chief Minister M K Stalin on economic issues related to the state. Arvind Subramanian, former Chief Economic Advisor (CEA) to the Union Government, Development Economist Prof Jean Dreze, and S Narayan, a retired Tamil Nadu-cadre bureaucrat who was Union Finance Secretary, are the other three members of the council. The announcement of the Economic Advisory Council to the Chief Minister, probably the first of its kind in the country, was made in Governor Banwarilal Purohit’s customary address to the 16th Tamil Nadu assembly. The committee will provide general guidance on economic and social policy, social justice and human development-related issues, in particular matters related to ensuring equal opportunities for women and the well-being of underprivileged groups, read a Government Order (GO) issued after the announcement. Finance Minister Palanivel Thiagarajan said the panel was not a “traditional” one-time report submitting committee that is commonly appointed by governments. “The composition of the committee reflects the economic and political philosophies of the DMK as it has members who have proven track records of working for the underprivileged. They will share their expertise and insights with us. These dedicated individuals will advise the government on various issues individually or collectively, pro-actively or in response to our request,” he told DH. Experts said the TNEAC promises to be entirely different from panels appointed in the past to study various issues, pointing out that the members would not have agreed to be part of the panel if it was a routine one. They also said the Finance Minister’s stamp was visible all over the committee -- Thiagarajan is a former investment banker who had worked with top financial institutions like Lehman Brothers and Standard Chartered. A detailed GO said the state’s fiscal situation was precarious with persistent high revenue and fiscal deficits and a large overhang of debt while noting that the expectations of the people are very high that the administration would deliver on faster economic growth, social justice and equity through new programmes and enhanced service delivery. “In this context, the Government requires expert advice from the best economists available globally, who are familiar with Tamil Nadu, its economy, society and polity, as also the trends in the Indian and global economy,” the GO said. The council has been tasked to analyse and provide advice on any issue of economic and social policy referred by the Chief Minister or Finance Minister Thiagarajan.  While Esther Duflo is Professor of Poverty Alleviation and Development Economics at the prestigious MIT, Rajan is a former RBI Governor and Katherine Dusak Miller Distinguished Service Professor of Finance at the University of Chicago‟s Booth School. Subramanian, who was CEA between 2014 and 2018, is a Distinguished Senior Fellow, Center for Global Development Professor at Ashoka University, and Jean Drèze, is currently Visiting Professor at Ranchi University in India. All are authorities in their respective fields. This is not the first that Esther Duflo is associated with Tamil Nadu – she had been involved in several studies in the past during late J Jayalalithaa’s regime as part of an MoU signed between the state and Abdul Latif Jameel – Poverty Action Lab (J-PAL).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/raghuram-rajan-nobel-laureate-esther-duflo-to-advise-tn-govt-on-economy-999764.html
21-06-2021||South||Kerala CM wants secular nature of yoga to be retained||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday termed Yoga as a 'form of healthcare' and said if it is confinedwithin the frames of any religion, a vast majority of the society would be denied its benefits. Modern Yoga is not something that should be seen in connection with spirituality or any particular religion, the Marxist veteran said in his video message to mark the seventh International Yoga Day. Stating that Yoga is beneficial for both the physical and mental well-being of people, he urged people to make the ancient practise part of their daily routine. "Modern Yoga is not something that needs to be seen in connection with any particular religion or spirituality. It should be seen as a form of healthcare,"Vijayan said. Saying that Yoga is a scientific physical exercise practise, he said it would ensure health and peace of mind to people. "It's benefits will be denied to a larger section of the society if it is connected to any particular religion or spirituality and it should not happen," he added. The Chief Minister praised the efforts of the Kerala Yoga Association (KYA), a registered outfit in the southern state to promote yoga science,for its efforts to retain the 'secular nature' of Yoga. The outfit had imparted yoga training to at least 50,000 people in the state to fight the Covid-19 during the time of the severe spread of the pandemic, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-wants-secular-nature-of-yoga-to-be-retained-999787.html
21-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Governor's speech stresses state autonomy and federalism||Harping on to federalism, the M K Stalin-led Government in Tamil Nadu on Monday said it was committed to achieving its “ultimate goal of greater autonomy” for states and establishment of “true federalism” at the Union level through constitutional means. The customary address by Governor Banwarilal Purohit during the first session of the 16th Assembly devoted a significant portion to emphasise on the ruling party’s well-stated positions on ensuring social justice, State autonomy, continuing with the 69 per cent reservation and exemption from NEET. The Governor’s address, first after DMK stormed to power in May, used the term Ondriya Arasu (Union Government) and not Madhiya Arasu (Central Government) as it was referred to during the previous AIADMK and DMK regimes. Ever since Stalin took over as Chief Minister, the DMK government has been referring to the Centre as the Union Government quoting the Constitution which says India is a “Union of States”. “This Government is guided by the spirit of the Dravidian Movement and identifies social justice, gender equality, economic equity, opportunity-for-all through reservations, and progress through education and social reforms as its core values. These values will drive every action, every legislation, every scheme, and every initiative of this Government,” Purohit said. Contending that “strong states” are needed to create a “strong Union”, the Governor declared that the government stands “fully committed to achieving its ultimate goal of greater autonomy for states” and establishment of true federalism at the Union level through constitutional means. “This Government will staunchly stand in defence of the rights of the states and constitutionally oppose any infringement of such rights. At the same time, we will maintain a cordial relationship with the Union Government as partners in the process of nation-building, in line with our policy of extending our hand in friendship, even as we speak up for our rights,” the Governor said. The DMK’s emphasis on federalism and resorting to the use of the term ‘Ondriya Arasu’ had already irked the BJP, which sees “ulterior motives” in the new government’s action. The ruling party has been a strong advocate of state autonomy and greater devolution of powers to states since it formed its first government in 1967. Purohit said providing clean administration was the government’s “highest priority” and promised to “revitalise” the LokAyukta and “energising” the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption (DVAC) to expeditiously deal with pending complaints. He also said the Right to Services Act will be introduced to streamline the delivery of various public services by Government agencies. The government nudged the Union Government to reject the Mekedatu Project proposed by Karnataka, which it said violates a judgement of the Supreme Court, while it will seek permission to carry out remaining works for strengthening the Mullaperiyar Dam in Kerala. It also announced the expedition of the Cauvery-Gundaru link project being opposed by Karnataka. Purohit also said the government was committed to promoting transparency and accountability in temple management while handing out an assurance that assets, lands and properties of temples will be protected. “A State Level Advisory Committee for all major Hindu temples will be constituted to enhance facilities for devotees, improve the maintenance of temples and to advise on related issues,” the Governor said. The governor also said the government is determined to transform Tamil Nadu into a state with a “society with self-respect, with an empowered citizenry enjoying their rights, and which is prosperous in all respects, as envisioned by Thanthai Periyar.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-governors-speech-stresses-state-autonomy-and-federalism-999788.html
21-06-2021||South||Siddipet Collector touches CM Chandrashekhar Rao's feet in Telangana; draws criticism from opposition||Siddipet district Collector Venkatram Reddy stoked a controversy by touching Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao's feet in the presence of higher officials and public representatives. KCR was in Siddipet on Sunday to inaugurate several government offices. As part of that, he inaugurated the Collector's office where Venkatram Reddy was present. After symbolically sitting in the Collector's chair, Reddy got up, bent and touched the feet of KCR who was standing next to him along with others. A video of the incident went viral. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and several other dignitaries were present when the incident took place. The Chief Minister was seen trying to stop the Collector from touching his feet. Reddy on Sunday night issued a statement justifying his act by saying KCR is a fatherly figure to him. "It is part of Telangana's culture to take blessings of elders during auspicious occasions. I took the blessings of the CM who is like a fatherly figure to me when I was taking charge in the new collectorate," the collector said in the statement. Requesting not to make an issue out of it, Reddy said he did so as Sunday also happened to be Fathers' Day. Reacting to the incident, TelanganaBJP's chief spokesperson K Krishna Saagar Rao said KCR's bureaucratic appeasement seems to be working, as District Collector of Siddipet showcased his allegiance to his master- the Chief Minister- by touching his feet in full public glare. "Antics like these are unbecoming of a senior administrative officer. Such actions lower the dignity, integrity and independence of IAS officers to execute their roles in the state," the BJP leader said. The State's administrative officials should focus on delivering their professional roles and responsibilities with honesty, rather than turning into sycophants of their political bosses, he added. AICC spokesperson Sravan Dasoju said the Siddipet collector prostrating in front of the chief minister is obnoxious and unacceptable. "Mr Venkatram Reddy has been enslaved by the chief minister just as many bureaucrats in this state of Telangana. Majority of the bureaucrats have completely forgotten that they are accountable only to the Indian Constitution but not any individual is in power," he said. He further said the incident only indicated that there is only anarchy and dictatorial rule in Telangana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/siddipet-collector-touches-cm-chandrashekhar-raos-feet-in-telangana-draws-criticism-from-opposition-999819.html
21-06-2021||South||Kerala gold smuggling case: Customs serves notice to 53 including UAE consulate officials||The Customs officials probing the Kerala gold smuggling case issued show-cause notices to 53 persons, including top officials of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram and Kerala government officials. It was learnt that the show cause notices were issued as a prelude to filing a charge-sheet mention about the undue favours availed by the accused from the state government by misusing the nexus of some of the accused — especially former UAE consulate employee Swapana Suresh — with the who's who in the government. Kerala CM Vijayan's former principal secretary M Sivasankar, who was earlier held by the Customs in the gold smuggling case, was also among those who were issued notices. Former UAE consul general Jamal al-Zabi and attache and charge d'affaires of the consulate Rashid Khamis Al Ashmia were also served the notices. Customs received a nod from the Ministry of External Affairs for proceeding against the consulate officials having diplomatic protection. According to sources, Customs found that the Kerala government's protocol wing extended undue diplomatic privileges to some officials of the consulate, which indeed helped them in smuggling under the cover of diplomatic baggage. The proximity of Suresh with the CMO as well as many top leaders in the government was misused for these purposes. Apart from smuggling around 165 kilogram gold on over 20 occasions, the Customs also found instances of currency smuggling. The smuggling was exposed in July last year after 30 kilogram gold, worth around Rs 15 crore, was seized by the Customs from a baggage with a diplomatic tag addressed to the charge d'affaires.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-customs-serves-notice-to-53-including-uae-consulate-officials-999842.html
21-06-2021||South||Mother accused of sexually abusing son in Kerala gets relief as SIT finds allegations unconvincing||In relief to a mother accused of sexually abusing her 14-year-old son in Thiruvananthapuram, a special investigation team that probed the case found the allegations not convincing. The 37-year-old woman hailing from Kadakkavoor in the suburbs of Thiruvananthapuram was arrested in January after her estranged husband complained that she had sexually assaulted their 14-year-old son. The local police registered a case under POCSO Act after recording the boy's statement. The special investigation team found that the child's statement was not convincing and circumstantial evidence also did not support the versions. Phycologists who counselled the boy also said that the statements were not convincing, police sources said. The SIT submitted its report at the POCSO court in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mother-accused-of-sexually-abusing-son-in-kerala-gets-relief-as-sit-finds-allegations-unconvincing-999921.html
21-06-2021||South||International Yoga Day 2021: Congress and BJP inhale hate, exhale anger||Congress and BJP sparred as the nation celebrated the seventh International Yoga Day. In a veiled attack on the Modi government, Rahul Gandhi tweeted, "It’s #YogaDay Not #HideBehindYogaDay". Union Minister of State for AYUSH, Youth Affairs and Sports Kiren Rijiju took strong umbrage at it and said on Twitter, "I'm ashamed of him because he will never. Whole world has gracefully accepted YOGA but he ridicules! I'm proud that after 6 decades of dynastic rule, India's Prime Minister  @narendramodi  Ji convinced the United Nations and 21st June is celebrated as #InternationalDayOfYoga." Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi got into a row with BJP leaders over his "Aum" and "Allah" remarks on Monday.  "Yoga will neither become more powerful by chanting Aum, nor Yoga's power will be lessened by uttering Allah," Singhvi tweeted early in the morning triggering a spate of angry reactions from BJP leaders and also some stinging remarks from others on social media. Union Minister Prakash Javadekar accused Congress of looking at yoga through the prism of religion and continuing to practise the politics of "appeasement". "The Congress looks at yoga through the prism of religion and is proving that it is even today engaged in politics of appeasement," Javadekar said in a tweet. BJP general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya hit out at the Congress leader, saying that the greatness of yoga does not end with remarks made by some "chhutbhaiyya" (petty) leaders and cautioned against what he called displaying a "narrow" mindset. After the row, Singhvi hit back tweeting "Those engaged in looting crores of donations of devotees in the name of Shri Ram are trying to get over their embarrassment by raising questions on my faith. They should know yoga is part and parcel of India since time immemorial. Neither the knowledge stream of yoga nor my faith needs any certificate from any cunning nationalist. Beware of false campaigns." श्री राम के नाम पर करोड़ों भक्तों के चंदे की लूट मचाने वाले लोग मेरी आस्था पर सवाल उठा अपनी झेंप मिटा रहे हैं। Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said, "Modern yoga is not something that needs to be seen in connection with any particular religion or spirituality. It should be seen as a form of healthcare.". Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that yoga remains a ray of hope in the Covid-hit world. He said that yoga has proved a source of strength and poise for people during the pandemic and helped people to muster confidence and strength to fight with it. He added that the frontline 'Corona warriors' made yoga their shield and people, doctors and nurses took to yoga to deal with the effects of the virus. The Prime Minister also called for reaching the ancient technique to every person while keeping intact its foundation and core. While the Culture Ministry organised yoga programmes at 75 heritage locations across India on the theme 'Yoga, An Indian Heritage' to mark the International Day of Yoga, many Chief Ministers including BJP's Yogi Adityanath, Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Vijay Rupani  and Congress' Bhupesh Baghel sent messages The seventh International Yoga Day was televised because of coronavirus pandemic had a Common Yoga Protocol (CYP), a specified sequence of yoga drills of about 45 minutes.  On this occasion,  Modi launched the mYoga app, developed by the Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga, Ministry of Ayush in partnership with the World Health Organisation, that will provide many videos of yoga training and practice based on common yoga protocol in many languages.  The government said that Yoga Day activities have also reached more than one lakh villages on Monday. Around 190 countries observed the day including people at Times Square in New York.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/international-yoga-day-2021-congress-and-bjp-inhale-hate-exhale-anger-999945.html
21-06-2021||South||Puducherry govt extends lockdown till June 30||The Puducherry government announced on Monday that the lockdown which was to end tonight at 12 has been extended till midnight of June 30 to contain the spread of Covid. The government made the announcement through an order that the coronavirus curfew would be in force without any change from 10 PM to 5 AM the next day. The order, prohibiting the opening of cinemas, theatres and multiplexes and similarly social, political and entertainment-related gatherings, would remain. However, commercial, business establishments and shops are permitted to function from 9 AM to 9 PM every day without air-conditioning facility, the order said. Vegetable and fruit shops are permitted to do business from 5 AM to 9 PM. Restaurants and bars within the hotels, lodges and guest houses and other standalone eateries are permitted to operate with 50 per cent capacity up to 9 PM. This timing is applicable to tea shops and juice stalls. Retail outlets of liquor and arrack are allowed to remain open from 9 AM to 9 PM. The Excise Department, in close coordination with police, should ensure strict enforcement of crowd regulation at the liquor outlets, the order said. Adequate security should be put in place at shops located at the borders for enforcing crowd control regulation, it said. The Excise Department should also expeditiously issue instructions for door-step delivery of liquor only within the Union Territory of Puducherry. Private and government public passenger transport (buses, autos and taxis) are permitted to operate till 9 PM on all days, the order stated. Vehicle for medical and emergency purposes, marriages, death of a key relative, interviews and examinations are permitted on all days. Registration of documents can be carried on by following Covid protocols. Beach road, parks and gardens would be open from 5 AM to 9 AM. All places of worship would be open till 5 PM. Wedding-related gatherings shall have guests not exceeding 100 and the number of mourners at the funerals should not exceed 20. Essential services such as petrol bunks, ATM centres, telecommunication services, media, IT, water supply, sanitation, electricity supply and private security services, dairy, milk supply, milk booths, medical services would function without restrictions, the order said. Sports activities are permitted without spectators. TV serial and film shooting are allowed with a maximum of 100 people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-govt-extends-lockdown-till-june-30-999972.html
21-06-2021||South||Suspected dowry death in Kerala||In a suspected case of dowry death, a 24-year-old woman was found hanging in her husband's house in the suburbs of Kollam district in South Kerala. Vismaya, a native of Nilamel in the district, was found hanging in the toilet of her husband S Kirankumar's house at Sooranad. Kirankumar is an employee of the Kerala motor vehicles department. Vismaya's relatives alleged that she was facing mental and physical torture at her husband's house over dowry. The couple got married about a year back. The victim's brother said that she used to send messages about the alleged torture. A few days ago the husband took Vismaya, an Ayurveda medical student, back to the house after she had left, he said. The local police registered a case and have started an investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/suspected-dowry-death-in-kerala-999973.html
21-06-2021||South||Five killed in car-lorry collision in Kerala highway, police suspect highway robbery bid||Mystery shrouds a car accident in which five people were killed near Ramanattukara in Kerala in the early hours of Monday with police detaining a few people who allegedly followed them in other vehicles. Five men were killed on the spot after the car in which they were travelling collided head-on with a fully-loaded lorry on the Kozhikode-Palakkad highway. The Bolero car that hit the cement-laden lorry at a sharp curve was completely damaged in the impact of the collision, Feroke police said. Police identified the deceased as Nazer, Subair, Muhammed Zahir, Asainar and Thahir, all hailing from Cherpulassery in Palakkad district. The deceased were said to be returning from Calicut International airport in nearby Karipur. Launching an investigation, police have taken into custody a few people who allegedly followed the ill-fated Bolero car in other vehicles. After analysing the CCTV footage, police said one of the vehicles has also been seized. The investigation is on to trace one more vehicle. Police suspect that the detained people had a connection with those who were killed in the accident. The detainees are being questioned by a joint police team probing the case at Feroke police station, police said. According to police, there were around 15 people in three vehicles, including those who met with the accident. Police are investigating the purpose of their travel from Cherpulassery to Calicut Airport in three vehicles at night during the time of the weekend lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Police said the investigation team is probing whether they had any link with the gold smuggling mafia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/five-killed-in-car-lorry-collision-in-kerala-highway-police-suspect-highway-robbery-bid-999987.html
21-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu government announces new norms to protect students from sexual abuse||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday announced guidelines like advisory panel and safety audit for schools to ensure the protection of students from sexual violence and protocol for conducting online classes. Following several complaints that led to arrests of a CBSE school teacher, an international school founder, an athletics coach, and a martial arts instructor over sexual harassment allegations, the government said the norms would be applicable to all types of schools in Tamil Nadu. Irrespective of the board of education, every school should constitute a "Student Safeguarding Advisory Committee" (SSAC) and the School Education Department would set up a state-level Central Complaint Centre (CCC) for guidance, an official release here said. During virtual classes, both the faculty and students should follow a dress code, appropriate for classroom settings. All online classes should be recorded and a random audit should be undertaken by SSAC periodically. The SSAC must inform the CCC immediately on receipt of a complaint and trained multidisciplinary team members drawn from different fields would guide complainants from the state-level centre. All interaction between CCC and callers would be documented and kept strictly confidential. "An orientation programme will be organised for all stakeholders associated with the schools to acquire a comprehensive understanding of provisions in POCSO Act. The School Education Department will provide the orientation module." A standard, safety self-audit tool would be developed by the School Education Department, and it is mandatory for all school managements to comply with the audit norms on an annual basis. Safety boxes should be placed in school campuses to receive both complaints and feedback and it should be reviewed by the SSAC periodically and appropriate action should be taken. A separate register should be maintained by the SSAC to document all complaints received, both written and oral and all schools should every year observe a "Child Abuse Prevention Week" (from November 15 to 22) by holding awareness programmes. The SSAC should comprise the principal, two teachers and two parent-teacher association members, a management representative, a non-teaching staffer and an external member (optional) to continually review, monitor and recommend measures on all aspects of students' safety. In a month, the CCC would be functional with a hotline facility, a dedicated e-mail id to receive complaints from anyone to inform sexual abuse of students. People were outraged after allegations of sexual harassment of girl students at a popular CBSE school here by a commerce-accountancy teacher surfaced in social media last month. This teacher allegedly appeared in inappropriate dress for online classes and against this background authorities have mandated proper dress code for virtual interactions between students and faculty. The alleged abuse and need for protecting children became a talking point and the teacher of the CBSE school was arrested. Also, it prompted victims who suffered at the hands of others to come forward and lodge police complaints. Subsequently, an athletics coach and an instructor of martial arts were also arrested for sexual harassment of girls. On June 16, the founder of an international school near here, who is also a self-styled Godman, was arrested in Delhi and brought to Chennai and remanded to judicial custody. He was arrested on the basis of a complaint of victims alleging they were sexually harassed at the school.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-government-announces-new-norms-to-protect-students-from-sexual-abuse-999989.html
21-06-2021||South||Jobs to wives of murder-accused in Kasaragod triggers row||Part-time jobs given to wives of CPM activists accused in the murder of two Youth Congress activists in a government hospital in Kasaragod has triggered a political row in Kerala. The Opposition parties have launched a stir against the hiring alleging that the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front was supporting murder politics. Opposition leader V D Satheesan of the Congress alleged that the LDF government was going ahead with steps to protect the double murder case accused. Wives of the first three accused in the double murder case were given the jobs of part-time sweeper in Kanhangad government hospital. District panchayat president Baby Balakrishnan maintained that it could be just a coincidence as the selection was done fairly. She added that the dependents of the accused in cases also have human rights. The LDF government has faced allegations of protecting the accused in the case earlier too, though murder was due to personal rivalry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jobs-to-wives-of-murder-accused-in-kasaragod-triggers-row-999990.html
21-06-2021||State||Mysuru: People celebrate International Yoga Day virtually||Amidst lockdown, hundreds of people in Mysuru participated in the 7th International Yoga Day on Monday virtually. The district administration, along with other departments and organisations, conducted the programme. People who participated will receive e-certificates. Mysuru is considered as the 'Yoga Hub' but for the last two years, the day is being celebrated virtually.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-people-celebrate-international-yoga-day-virtually-999767.html
21-06-2021||State||Karnataka relaxes Covid-19 restrictions in 6 more districts||The B S Yediyurappa administration on Monday added six more districts, including Bengaluru Rural, under Unlock 2.0 that is valid till July 5. In all, the government has relaxed Covid-19 restrictions in 23 districts now.  In an order, the government said Udupi, Bengaluru Rural, Shivamogga, Ballari, Chitradurga and Vijayapura have been placed under Category-1 “after considering the weekly moving average positivity rate and also taking into account consistent declining trend of the case positivity rate”.    On Sunday, the state government included Dharwad under Category-1 on the same grounds.  Now, Bengaluru Urban, Uttara Kannada, Belagavi, Mandya, Koppal, Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru, Kolar, Gadag, Raichur, Bagalkot, Kalaburagi, Haveri, Yadgir, Ramanagar, Bidar, Dharwad, Udupi, Bengaluru Rural, Shivamogga, Ballari, Chitradurga and Vijayapura will enjoy relaxations under Unlock 2.0. Under Unlock 2.0, shops will be open from 6 am to 5 pm beginning Monday. Buses and the Bengaluru metro will operate with 50 per cent capacity. Hotels, clubs, restaurants, lodges, resorts and gyms have been conditionally allowed to operate their businesses. In Category-2 districts where the Covid-19 positivity rate is 5-10 per cent, only essential shops are allowed to operate from 6 am to 2 pm and there is no permission for dine-in services at hotels among other restrictions. These are Hassan, Dakshina Kannada, Chamarajanagar, Chikmagalur, Davangere and Kodagu.  Mysuru, whose positivity rate is above 10 per cent, will remain locked down.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-relaxes-covid-19-restrictions-in-6-more-districts-999815.html
21-06-2021||State||KSRTC to begin bus services to Andhra Pradesh, Telangana||Karnataka State Road Transport Corporations (KSRTC) will begin inter-state bus operations to Telangana and Andhra Pradesh starting from Tuesday, following the relaxation of Covid-19 lockdown rules. The KSRTC said that buses will be operated in compliance with the guidelines of the respective states. The number of services will be dependent on traffic density and need. As per the rules, a bus will have passengers up to 50% seating capacity. Services to Andhra Pradesh will be operated from 6 am to reach the destination within 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ksrtc-to-begin-bus-services-to-andhra-pradesh-telangana-999839.html
21-06-2021||State||Karnataka simplifies TDR process, plans to introduce 90-day time limit||Karnataka has decided to do away with multi-agency surveys for the grant of Transferable Development Rights (TDR) to people whose lands are acquired for various government projects.  The government will also introduce a 90-day limit for the TDRs to be issued. TDR refers to the grant of additional built-up area to a landowner in return for the portion of a plot taken for a public project. "The Cabinet on Monday cleared an amendment to the Karnataka Town & Country Planning Act to “prevent delays in granting TDR”, Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai said.  Bommai said that existing regulations mandated surveys by the project implementing agency such as BBMP or BMRCL followed by planning agencies such as the BDA and other urban development authorities before TDR was issued. "This led to delays to the tune of four to five years in granting TDR," Bommai said. Henceforth, planning authorities will have to issue TDRs based on the survey carried out by the project implementing agency. The rights will be issued within 90 days of the recommendations made by the planning authority, failing which it will be deemed issued, he said. In other decisions, the Cabinet approved the construction of a greenfield airport at Hassan at a cost of Rs 196.35 crore, which will be released in two packages. The funds will be for the construction of a runway, passenger terminal and other equipment required for the airport, Bommai said. It was also decided to amend Rule 22(a) of the Karnataka Land Grant Rules. With this change, persons or agencies seeking to use landlocked kharab lands have to submit at least a decade-old survey report to show that there was no lake or forest there. Further, the Cabinet has allowed the Mysuru Urban Development Authority to use its own funds to develop the required infrastructure at 107 layouts that currently lack basic amenities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-simplifies-tdr-process-plans-to-introduce-90-day-time-limit-999912.html
21-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||As novel coronavirus mutates, Karnataka panel pushes for faster tracking||Karnataka’s Genomic Surveillance Committee is pushing a series of proposals to fast-track genomic sequencing to find or track evolving and dangerous mutated variants of the novel coronavirus in the state. The push comes amid mounting concern not just over the Delta+ variant which could result in a surge of new cases, but also the so-called P2 variant of the novel coronavirus which ICMR studies have found to be severely pathogenic. Experts in the committee, which was formed on June 9, said that existing surveillance is limited and unable to present a clear picture of the mutant virus landscape. According to data, Karnataka has sequenced only 1,167 samples to date, since the start of the Covid-19 outbreak last year. “This is a very small number,” one committee member pointed out. In a meeting held on Friday, the committee said it recommended training existing lab personnel in genome sequencing to help scale up statewide ability, plus adopting Next-generation sequencing (NGS) approaches, which could allow as many as 5,000 samples to be sequenced in a week at centres. Experts added that the current surveillance system is not quick to respond to events on the ground. One member, Dr Vishal Rao, said: “Our data is skewed. We don’t have a panoramic view of the genomic landscape. We have 8,572 new variants [of the novel coronavirus] found in India but we don’t have a clear categorisation by Variants Under Investigation (VUI), Variants of Interest (VOI) and Variants of Concern (VOC).” According to Professor Satyajit Mayor, director, National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), and also a committee member, the current challenge of building up sequencing capacity can be likened to the challenges in scaling up RT-PCR testing early in the pandemic. “Previously, our task was finding how many people were positive. Now, we need to know how the virus is circulating in the population -- which will help us make assessments and show what measures or urgency need to be taken. The current level of surveillance does not have depth. However, building capacity is hard as genome sequencing is difficult,” he said. He added: “At the end of the day, all we can do is recommend. That recommendation is then taken to the Covid Task Force for consideration.” One effect of limited sequencing is that the detection of new mutant viruses is delayed. The new P2 variant (also known as B.1.1.28.2) has been detected in Gujarat and West Bengal. It has not yet been found in Karnataka. “This is precisely the point,” Dr Rao said. “We don’t have the level of genomic surveillance to prove that this variant is not here already.” A study conducted by ICMR-NIV in Pune in recent weeks, found that the P2 caused a six-fold reduction in the neutralisation of antibodies among infected Syrian hamsters, in comparison to hamsters infected with the old B1 variant of the novel coronavirus which helped drive the first wave of infections last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/as-novel-coronavirus-mutates-karnataka-panel-pushes-for-faster-tracking-999671.html
21-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Covid-19 Unlock: Chaos, relief as hotels, gyms, metro, buses restart operations in 17 districts||Hotels have begun services, gyms have reopened and public transport buses and Metro have resumed operations with riders on Monday as the state government's guidelines further relaxing Covid-19 curbs in 17 districts of Karnataka, including Bengaluru city have come into effect. The new guidelines popularly called "Unlock 2" have come into effect from 6 AM and will be in force up to 5 AM on July 5. In the 17 districts, where the Covid-19 positivity rate is below 5 per cent shops will be open from 6 AM to 5 PM beginning Monday and public transport including bus and metro began operations with 50 per cent capacity. Though resumption of bus operations comes as a relief to office goers and others who depend on them for commuting, them plying in lesser numbers and with 50 per cent capacity is causing chaos at bus stands in several places in Bengaluru, with a high number of people wanting to avail services. Similar reports are received from across the state. While the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporations (KSRTC) has said it is deploying 3,000 bues initially for local and inter-district long route bus operations, the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) had said it will ply 2,000 buses. According to BMTC officials, till 8 AM, a total of 796 buses are being operated. Hotels, clubs and restaurants without air conditioning have now been reopened for service until 5 PM with 50 per cent seating, however, liquor will not be permitted. Gyms also began functioning at half capacity and parks will be open from 5 AM to 6 PM for walking and jogging. Functioning of lodges and resorts with bookings up to 50 per cent, outdoor sports activities without spectators, outdoor film shooting are among the other things that are permitted from Monday. However, there will be a curfew in place between 7 PM and 5 AM on weekdays and during weekends curfew will be in place from 7 PM on Friday to 5 AM on Monday throughout the state. Among those that continue to remain shut are swimming pools, places of worship, political events, educational institutions, shopping malls, pubs and amusement parks. Steady increase has been seen in traffic movement in the city, with all government and private offices being permitted to function with 50 per cent of their staff strength and offices dealing with essential and emergency services are permitted to function as per their requirement. These relaxations are applicable in Bengaluru Urban, Uttara Kannada, Belagavi, Mandya, Koppala, Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru, Kolar, Gadag, Dharwad, Raichur, Bagalkot , Kalaburagi, Haveri, Ramanagara, Yadgir and Bidar. In rest of the districts that have a positivity rate of more than 5 per cent, the existing relaxation which was in place from June 11, will apply, allowing essential shops to be open from 6 AM to 2 PM, and movement of people till 7 PM. Mysuru, where the positivity rate is high, will remain under a strict lockdown until July 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-covid-19-unlock-chaos-relief-as-hotels-gyms-metro-buses-restart-operations-in-17-districts-999749.html
21-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||From The Newsroom: Karnataka adds six more districts under Unlock 2.0||In your evening news brief, Karnataka adds six more districts, including Bengaluru Rural, under Unlock 2.0; Prime Minister Narendra says yoga remains a "ray of hope" and a source of strength for the people in the fight against the pandemic and Supreme Court asks Centre to submit details of compensation provided to people who died of Covid-19.  The B S Yediyurappa administration on Monday added six more districts, including Bengaluru Rural, under Unlock 2.0 that is valid till July 5. In all, the government has relaxed Covid-19 restrictions in 23 districts now.  In an order, the government said Udupi, Bengaluru Rural, Shivamogga, Ballari, Chitradurga and Vijayapura have been placed under Category-1 “after considering the weekly moving average positivity rate and also taking into account consistent declining trend of the case positivity rate”.    On the seventh International Yoga Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the ancient Indian discipline remains a "ray of hope" and a source of strength for the people in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. The prime minister said frontline warriors and doctors have told him that they made yoga their "protective shield" while fighting the pandemic.   The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre to submit details of compensation provided to people who died of Covid-19, as per policy framed by each state. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, submitted before a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M R Shah that it was not the case that government did not have funds to pay ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh to kin of Covid victims, but the focus of expenditure was holistic, to make funds available for rehabilitation, mitigation and preparedness.     Source: DHNS/PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/from-the-newsroom-karnataka-adds-six-more-districts-under-unlock-20-999837.html
21-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Don't be under illusion that Covid is gone: Karnataka CM warns as restrictions ease||As the state entered into another phase of relaxation of lockdown measures, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday told people not to be under the "illusion" that the Covid-19 pandemic is gone and asked them to be vigilant and follow all the precautionary preventive measures. "From today we have relaxed almost everything other than in a few districts, but don't be under the illusion that the Covid has gone, we will have to wear masks, maintain distance and sanitize our hands regularly," Yediyurappa said. Speaking at a cooperative department event here, he requested people to be vigilant until we get rid of Covid completely. Karnataka has further relaxed the Covid-19 restrictions in 17 districts where the positivity rate is below 5 per cent, including Bengaluru, starting from Monday, allowing all shops to function from 6 am to 5 pm and public transport to resume operations with 50 per cent capacity. Among other things, hotels, clubs and restaurants have also opened for service until 5 pm with 50 per cent seating, but liquor will not be permitted. Earlier in the day speaking at another event, Yediyurappa said as the Covid numbers have come down than expected, we decided to relax lockdown restrictions, but the fear of corona still looms large. He appealed to people to cooperate by following preventive measures and get vaccinated. The 17 districts where most of the restrictions have been relaxed are Bengaluru Urban, Uttara Kannada, Belagavi, Mandya, Koppala, Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru, Kolar, Gadag, Dharwad, Raichur, Bagalkot, Kalaburagi, Haveri, Ramanagara, Yadgir and Bidar. In the rest of the districts that have a positivity rate of more than 5 per cent, the existing relaxations which were in place from June 11 will apply, allowing essential shops to be open from 6 am to 2 pm, and movement of people till 7 pm. Mysuru, where the positivity rate is high, will remain under a strict lockdown until July 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dont-be-under-illusion-that-covid-is-gone-karnataka-cm-warns-as-restrictions-ease-999855.html
21-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government to set up separate Covid Care Centres for kids in all taluks in to fight third wave||Aimed at effectively facing the possible third wave of the pandemic, a separate Covid Care Centre (CCCs) will be set up for children at every taluk or assembly constituency level, Karnataka Minister for Women, and Child Development Shashikala Jolle said on Monday. Amid concerns that children may be hit hard in case of a third wave, the Minister said a hospital in Bengaluru city will be identified as a special Covid hospital for children. "Department is making arrangements to identify children with symptoms during the possible third wave at every taluk or assembly constituency level, and on testing positive they will be shifted to Covid Care Centres for children at taluk and assembly level along with their mothers," Jolle said. Speaking to reporters here, she said government hostels are being identified for this purpose, and separate girls and boys units will be set up for children above 10 years. "Arrangements are being made at separate hostels for children who are differently-abled," she said, adding that in urban districts like Bengaluru, community halls and choultries will also be used for CCCs to quarantine children who are asymptomatic. The Minister further said hospitals have been identified in Bengaluru city by authorities in case the children infected need hospitalisation, and 1,419 beds have already been reserved. She said along with enhancing the number of beds, it has also been decided to identify a special Covid hospital for children in Bengaluru. Citing reports and experts' opinion that children may be infected in large numbers during the third wave, Jolle said children were infected during the first and the second wave as well and pointed out 2,38,252 children between the age group of 0-18 years were infected in Bengaluru urban. Many of them were asymptomatic, very few were hospitalised and most recovered at the Covid care centre. As per the war room data, 51 children have died and several of them had comorbidities, she said. Noting that during the second wave about 50 children have lost their parents in the state and have become orphans, she said most of them are from middle class and poor families, and assistance is being provided to them under the "Chief Minister's Bala Seva Scheme". The Minister, in response to a question, said vaccination trials have been conducted on about 30 children and depending on the outcome of these trials, vaccination drives for children may start. "The CM and PM will decide on it," she said. On experts' opinion to reopen schools for children in a phased manner, she said in the backdrop of possible third wave, she will discuss with the education minister in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-to-set-up-separate-covid-care-centres-for-kids-in-all-taluks-in-to-fight-third-wave-999857.html
21-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka mulls exclusive Covid-19 hospital for children in Bengaluru||Karnataka is mulling reserving an entire hospital in Bengaluru for pediatric Covid-19 care ahead of the feared third wave of Covid-19, Women & Child Development Minister Shashikala Jolle said Monday. Jolle held a meeting with officials and legislators to chalk out plans for Bengaluru to tackle the Covid-19 third wave that is expected to affect children. Speaking to reporters, Jolle said: "We want to set up a dedicated hospital in the city for treating children affected by Covid-19. A decision will be taken after discussing with the chief minister."  "Apart from that, authorities have already identified 1,419 beds in Bengaluru's municipal limits for the treatment of children. This includes 141 ventilator ICU beds, 116 non-ICU ventilator beds, 430 HDU beds and 712 general beds. This will be expanded as more beds are required," she said.  "Also, the government will open Covid Care Centres (CCC) in all taluks for children. The department, in coordination with health, education, rural development and home departments, is in the process of identifying children ahead of the third wave. If a child is tested positive, all arrangements have been made for the mother to stay with the child in the CCC. For children above nine years, boys and girls will be ensured separate facilities. Differently-abled children will get separate facilities," she said.  Until now, as many as 2.38 lakh children have tested positive for Covid-19 across the state. This includes 67,687 children up to nine years and 1.70 lakh children aged 9-18. In Bengaluru alone, in the last year, as many as 51 children died due to Covid-19, Jolle said.  The government will have to focus on ensuring nutrition for children. For instance, in Bengaluru Urban, there are 9,761 malnourished children while there are 124 children who are severely malnourished, she said. As many as 30 children in the state have been vaccinated on a trial basis. If it works well, then a decision to vaccinate all children will be taken after consulting the CM, she added. 'Opening schools risky' Jolle said that opening schools in the middle of a pandemic will be risky. When asked about her department's stand on a recommendation to open schools made by a panel headed by Dr Devi Shetty, Jolle said the department was yet to look at the report. "We'll discuss it with the Primary & Secondary Education Minister. If such a recommendation has been made, I believe it will be risky for children," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-mulls-exclusive-covid-19-hospital-for-children-in-bengaluru-999893.html
21-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 4,867 new Covid-19 cases, 142 deaths||Karnataka reported 4,867 new cases of Covid-19 and 142 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 28,11,320 and death toll to 34,025, the health department said on Monday. The day also saw 8,404 discharges, pushing the total number of recoveries to 26,54,139. Bengaluru Urban logged 1,034 new cases, as the city saw 1,976 discharges and 28 deaths. Active cases stodd at 1,23,134. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 3.25 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 2.91 per cent. Of the deaths reported on Monday, 28 were from Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru (22), Dakshina Kannada (14), Ballari (12), Dharwad (8), Davangere (7), followed by others. Mysuru recorded 546 new cases, Dakshina Kannada 542, Hassan 364, Shivamogga 217, Kodagu 206, followed by others. The total number of positive cases in Bengaluru Urban district is at 12,06,293, followed by Mysuru 1,62,629 and Tumakuru 1,13,867. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 11,20,507, followed by Mysuru 1,53,702 and Tumakuru 1,09,490. Cumulatively a total of 3,28,89,270 samples have been tested, of which 1,49,731 were tested on Monday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-4867-new-covid-19-cases-142-deaths-999926.html
21-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Schools to reopen only after study of panel report: Suresh Kumar||The decision on reopening of schools for offline classes will be taken only after the department of primary and secondary education receives the report submitted by the committee headed by Dr Devi Shetty about the Covid third wave. In a statement released to media, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said the report has been submitted to the chief minister and the decision about reopening of schools and academic activities will be taken after verifying and discussing the report thoroughly. “I have heard only through news reports on the committee’s recommendation about offline classes. I can react about it only after receiving the report,” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/schools-to-reopen-only-after-study-of-panel-report-suresh-kumar-999943.html
21-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt advised to give awards to DDPIs for school development||Adviser to the state government (Education Reforms) Prof M R Doreswamy has recommended to constitute an annual award scheme for Deputy Directors for Public Instructions (DDPIs) for best performance in the development of government schools. In a press statement, he said, “This has been recommended following the suggestions by the experts’ committee. Even an orientation course will be organized in Dharwad about the implementation of National Education Policy.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-advised-to-give-awards-to-ddpis-for-school-development-999944.html
21-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt proposes committee to look into school fee issue||The state government has moved an Interlocutory Application (IA) before the High Court of Karnataka proposing to set up a committee headed by retired high court judge to look into the school fees issue. The IA was moved in the petitions filed challenging the decision of the state government to cut the tuition fee by 30%. Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum granted time to the petitioners, associations representing private school managements, to file their objections to the IA filed by the state government. The matter has been posted to June 29 for further consideration. According to the state government, the proposed committee would recommend measures to resolve the issue after recording the views of all stakeholders, including the parents and the management. The IA has cited the example of the TMA Pai case of 2007 in which the Supreme Court had ordered for the constitution of state-level committees headed by high court judges to look into the fee fixed by professional colleges. The state government said that several representations have been received from the parents associations requesting to extend the fee cut for the current academic year (2021-22) in view of the Covid-19 situation. Meanwhile, the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka (KAMS) has objected to the IA. The association said that many of the parents have not paid even the 70% of the fee fixed last year. It also contended that the state government has no right to reduce the tuition fees even citing Covid-19 situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-proposes-committee-to-look-into-school-fee-issue-999946.html
21-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Expenditure looking up as Karnataka govt opens purse strings||The state government has spent more, so far, this fiscal compared with the corresponding period last year - an early trend that suggests the Covid-19 pandemic may not be bad enough this time to adversely impact public expenditure. The Finance Department is keenly tracking expenditure data reported by the administrative departments, with officials keeping their fingers crossed as there is no guarantee that the pandemic will not surge again and come in the way of government spending. It is widely accepted that government spending increases productivity leading to economic growth. In April and May, the government has registered an expenditure of 8.4% of the total allocation for the financial year, according to data made public by the government. This is up from 4% the government managed in April and May 2020 when the state was under a lockdown.  In terms of money, expenditure in April and May amounts to Rs 18,030.46 crore. In April and May 2020, it was Rs 8,866.45 crore. “It’s very premature to say how things will be going forward,” Finance Secretary (expenditure) P C Jaffer told DH. “Nothing was moving in April and May last year. We hadn’t allowed any expenditure except salary and emergency. But such a strong control hasn’t been exercised this time,” he pointed out. When the pandemic struck last year, the Finance Department kept control on expenditure. “Last year, the delegation of financial powers (to heads of departments) was less. In 2021-22, the delegation of the powers is back to pre-Covid levels,” Jaffer said. Jaffer also admitted that the expenditure, so far, was lesser than what was achieved in the same period in 2019-20, when there was no pandemic. In 2020-21, the government had to cut Rs 19,774 crore from 40 departments to manage costs during the Covid-19 pandemic. Finally, it achieved a total expenditure of 79.71% against total allocation last year. “...Despite recovery, reaching pre-lockdown levels will take time,” the state’s Medium Term Fiscal Plan 2021-25 has pointed out. In its recent expenditure authorisation directive to all departments, the Finance Department stated: “The heads of departments who are responsible for incurring expenditure should see that the expenditure be spread over evenly in all the months and avoid incurring large expenditure at the close of the financial year with the intention that the budget should not lapse.” Expenditure is already full in the health and urban development departments, Jaffer said, adding that “we are providing them with additionalities already.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/expenditure-looking-up-as-karnataka-govt-opens-purse-strings-999949.html
21-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Nimhans' yoga courses a global hit during pandemic||The yoga therapy offered by the National Institute for Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (Nimhans) during the pandemic times has turned out to be a hit at both the national the international level. The institute, which was offering offline inhouse yoga sessions for mental health and neurological issues, switched to online mode in April 2020. Since then, about 20,000 people worldwide have benefited from the online sessions offered by the institute. As per Nimhans data, about 15,000 adults, 4,000 children and another 1,000 from the USA had benefited from the course. The sessions were provided free of cost to help the public in their mental and physical well-being during the pandemic. The yoga sessions are being offered by the Department of Integrative Medicine which has departments like Yoga, Ayurveda and Psychiatry together to treat the patients. "Since April 2020, we have conducted over 500 online yoga sessions for adults and 100 sessions for children in the age group of 5 to 10 years," explained Dr Nishita, scientist B, Yoga, at Nimhans. During the yoga sessions, experts from the institute focussed on improving sleep quality, reducing anxiety and stress levels, improving concentration and other issues. The 45-minute session also trained the participants in pranayama and meditation techniques. The feedback received by the institute from participants showed that 36% felt they were relaxed and calm after the sessions, 23% said their energy levels had improved, fatigue feeling has reduced and 14% said their concentration level increased. Dr Kishore Kumar, professor, Ayurveda, at the Department of Integrative Medicine, said, "people can avail our services by registering themselves on our website. This department was set up to work in an integrative way where allopathy, Ayurveda and yoga experts join hands in treating the patients." The yoga sessions for adults are conducted from 6.50 am to 7.30 am and for kids from 5 pm to 6 pm. In case if they miss out on the sessions, they can visit the recorded videos uploaded on the YouTube channel of the institute. For details, visit www.nimhansyoga.in||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nimhans-yoga-courses-a-global-hit-during-pandemic-999952.html
21-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||D K Shivakumar helps his ex-jail mates||Karnataka Pradesh Congress president D K Shivakumar, who was in Delhi’s Tihar Jail for 45 days as an undertrial in connection with the Enforcement Directorate’s probe on alleged ill-gotten wealth, has come to the rescue of two of his jail mates. Mohsin Raza, a painter, was in Tihar jail as he could not pay Rs 4 lakh alimony to his wife after divorce. Shivakumar was sent to the same barack where Mohsin was kept. Mohsin used to help Shivakumar in daily activities, including washing clothes and doing odd jobs. Moved by Mohsin’s loyalty, Shivakumar paid Rs 4 lakh alimony to Mohsin’s wife and got him released from jail. Now, Mohsin is employed at Shivakumar’s brother and Bangalore Rural MP D K Suresh’s official residence in Delhi. Shivakumar also ensured the release of another person, who was in jail in a similar case. According to Shivakumar, he was a graduate and used to teach Hindi in jail. Shivakumar said he paid Rs 5 lakh to the inmate’s ex-wife and settled his divorce case. “Now, he was provided a job at my institute in Bengaluru,” Shivakumar said. “There are a lot of people who are spending jail terms on various issues,” Shivakumar told media persons here. Shivakumar was in Delhi to meet the party leaders to discuss organisational reshuffle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/d-k-shivakumar-helps-his-ex-jail-mates-999955.html
21-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka cabinet okays Rs 1,500-cr DRIP project||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s political secretary M P Renukacharya’s constituency Honnali in Davangere district received a bounty of irrigation projects that were approved by the Cabinet on Monday. The Honnali taluk received clearance for Detailed Project Report (DPR) of two projects worth Rs 582 crore. This includes administrative approval for DPRs for a Rs 415-crore project to fill up 94 tanks in the taluk by lifting water from Tungabhadra reservoir and another Rs 167-crore project to augment tanks under Sasivehalli lift irrigation scheme. Renukacharya is seen as a loyalist of Yediyurappa, batting for him throughout speculations over change in leadership in the state. Phase-II and Phase-III of the World Bank-sponsored Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project (DRIP), worth Rs 1,500 crore, was approved by the Cabinet. While the World Bank will fund 70% of the project amount, the state will fund 30%. Administrative approval was granted for the DPR of a Rs 670-crore project to fill 74 tanks under Kudligi constituency in Ballari district. In another decision, the Cabinet cleared the promulgation of an ordinance to increase the contingency fund from Rs 500 crore to Rs 2,500 crore. Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that owing to an increase in expenditure due to the pandemic, the government had decided to enhance the allocation under the contingency fund. The ordinance will be promulgatedshortly.  The Cabinet also cleared the construction of 100 police stations at a cost of Rs 200 crore in the next two years, and enhancing reservation for children of farmers and agricultural labourers in graduate and diploma courses in agriculture from 40% to 50%. Other decisions included construction of buildings at Rani Chennamma University at Rs 110 crore and construction of a new bridge across Ganagavalli river connecting Ramanaguli and Dongri villages in Uttara Kannada district at Rs 25 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cabinet-okays-rs-1500-cr-drip-project-999957.html
21-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru Urban first among districts, Karnataka second among states in nationwide Covid vaccine drive||Karnataka on Monday administered a whopping 10.36 lakh jabs in a single day as part of a mega vaccination drive undertaken by the state. This is the second-highest in the country, after Madhya Pradesh, which administered 14.71 lakh doses, according to Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar. Among the districts, Bengaluru Urban topped the country with 2,14,709 lakh vaccinations, followed by Indore in Madhya Pradesh with 1.86 lakh jabs. The state had set a conservative target of seven lakh doses for itself, for Monday’s vaccination drive. Out of this, 1,62,78,437 people have received the first dose accounting for 23.16% of the state’s seven crore population and 33,07,968 have received the second dose (4.7% of the total population). By 7:41 pm on Monday, as many as 10,36,523 doses were administered across Karnataka. The top five districts that conducted vaccination include BBMP (1,68,957), Belagavi (79,020), Ballari (58,856), Tumakuru (50,816), and Mandya (50,524). The BBMP, which had set a target of a mere 65,000 doses for itself, administered as many as 1.55 lakh doses with 25,000 odd doses being administered by the private hospitals in the city. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said, “We had undertaken several local awareness drives including door-to-door visits and calling up beneficiaries. We spoke to all the stakeholders in the priority groups to assemble them at the worksites on time. Vaccinator numbers were also doubled. A lot of doctors were drafted in from other departments of government hospitals not under our ambit to help us with this one-day drive. It required a lot of effort from health officers onthe ground.” D Randeep, Special Commissioner (Health), BBMP said, “A total of 1,55,753 doses were administered in Bengaluru till 5.45 pm. This includes 1,30,034 by BBMP (85%) and 25,719 by private organisations (15%). All this was achieved with a single day of planning. We identified two or three people in each ward who can mobilise people and bring them to the vaccination site.” The previous highest vaccination record in Bengaluru was reported on June 4 with 1.17 lakh vaccinations. As many as 528 vaccinators, along with a verifier, were deployed for the day from the BBMP. In addition, volunteer vaccinators were mobilised from various nursing colleges. Several workplace sites were supported with in-house vaccinators too. For the first time, a stock of 1,87,000 vaccine doses was supplied to the BBMP. The total vaccines distributed to government vaccination centres in the city were 1,44,000 doses of Covishield and 43,000 doses of Covaxin. Session sites were increased from a daily average of 300 to 528 which included 160 sites in urban primary health centres and general hospitals and 368 sites in workplace session sites. Regular field visits were conducted throughout the day by eight zonal health officers and 28 health officers to monitor the performance and support the staff on duty. Beneficiaries from all eligible sectors were also mobilised by around 978 Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs), and 429 Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs) working in the field. The drive was continuously supported by all the elected representatives and various non-governmental organisations throughout the day which played a role in increased vaccination coverage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-urban-first-among-districts-karnataka-second-among-states-in-nationwide-covid-vaccine-drive-999958.html
21-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||SC/ST Act: Karnataka HC asks prosecution to cut delay in appeals||The high court on Monday directed the directorate of prosecutions to issue necessary guidelines to avoid delays in preparing opinions for filing an appeal in cases under the SC and ST (Prevention of atrocities) Act. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka passed this direction on a PIL on the failure of the government to implement the provisions of the Act.  The bench was perusing the affidavit filed by the director of prosecutions. The court observed that the age-old practice of waiting for the certified copies to commence the process of opinion is delaying the process. The court observed that since the judgments are available on the Computerized Information System or National Judicial Data Grid, there is no need to wait till receipt of the certified copy. “Only when the concerned prosecutor finds that any material document is missing, an application for the certified copy can be made. We direct the Director of Prosecutions to frame proper guidelines in this regard,” the court said. The court had asked the government whether timeline has been fixed for taking decision on the question of preferring an appeal.  The bench directed the government to place on record the data of meetings of the High Power Vigilance and Monitoring Committee. The state has also been directed to place on record similar meetings held by the district level and sub-divisional committees after November 2020. The court said meetings will have to be held immediately if not held as per the rules. The matter has been posted to July 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc/st-act-karnataka-hc-asks-prosecution-to-cut-delay-in-appeals-999959.html
21-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Minor rape victim's 'no objection' immaterial in bail matters: Karnataka HC||The High Court has refused bail in a case of abduction and rape under the Pocso Act, wherein the victim had filed an affidavit stating that she had gone out with the accused voluntarily and had married him. Refusing to take the affidavit of the victim as her consent for granting bail, the court noted that it is against the law to consider a minor girl’s ‘no objection’ statement. The accused was arrested for abduction and rape of a 15-year-old girl based on the complaint by the victim’s mother. The court observed that the offences involved in the case are under sections 4 and 6 of Pocso Act and sections 9 and 10 of the Child Marriage Restraint Act. The court noted that the victim in her statement under section 164 of CrPC had categorically stated the accused had threatened her and took her to his first wife’s house. Justice K Natarajan said that the statement under section 164 CrPC is foremost important for considering the bail petition and granting bail to the accused on the basis of a 'no objection' by the minor victim is nothing but giving licence to the offender to commit similar offences. “Therefore, in the interest of the public at large and with an intention to curtail such type of sexual offences, the court shall ignore the consent of a minor girl giving 'no objection' for granting bail to the accused and the court should deal with such an heinous offence with an iron hand,” the court said. The petitioner (accused in the case) contended that they had eloped and even registered their marriage. The court noted that the marriage certificate, issued by the secretary of a mosque, entered the age of the victim as 19 years. The court said though second marriage is permissible under the Mohammedan Law, the personal law cannot override the Special Law of Pocso, Child Marriage Restraints Act and General Penal Code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/minor-rape-victims-no-objection-immaterial-in-bail-matters-karnataka-hc-999970.html
21-06-2021||West||Yoga Day 2021: Politicians stress on yoga for physical, mental health||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and leaders from various political parties emphasised on the importance of yoga for good physical and mental health and some of them performed asanas to mark the International Yoga Day on Monday. At the Raj Bhavan, Koshyari along with officers and other staff participated in a yoga session conducted under the guidance of Hansa Jayadeva, director of The Yoga Institute, a century-old training facility. Social distancing norms were followed during the yoga session in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, a statement from the Raj Bhavan said. Union minister Nitin Gadkari participated in the 'Yoga An Indian Heritage' campaign in Nagpur. Maharashtra PWD Minister Ashok Chavan on his Twitter handle posted a picture of former prime minister Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru doing the 'shirsasan' exercise. "This International Day of Yoga, let us renew our resolve to follow true virtues imbibed by yoga- non violence, truthfulness, avoidance of malice and hatred," the former state CM tweeted. NCP chief Sharad Pawar said yoga was an excellent way of achieving good physical and mental health. There is a need to practice yoga to imbibe its long-term benefits for good health, he said in a tweet. Due to Covid-19 related restrictions, several organisations held online yoga sessions to mark the occasion. BJP leader Shaina NC, who had been organising 'Yoga By The Bay' at the Marine Drive promenade for last six years, said this time the "home edition" session was held on Facebook and around 7,000 people participated in it. A yoga event was also organised at the Maharashtra BJP office which was attended by state party chief Chandrakant Patil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/yoga-day-2021-politicians-stress-on-yoga-for-physical-mental-health-999761.html
21-06-2021||West||Unable to get phone for online classes, Maharashtra girl hangs self||A 17-year-old girl in Maharashtra's Nanded district allegedly committed suicide as she did not have a mobile phone to attend online classes and her parents' financial condition did not permit them to buy her one, police said on Monday. The girl, a resident of Naygaon, some 260 kilometres from here, hanged herself in her home on June 16, an official said. "She is a Class XI student. Her parents are daily wage workers. She wanted a phone to attend online classes but her parents were unable to arrange money to buy a device. This made the girl take the extreme step. A suicide note has been found, and the parents of the deceased have also confirmed the lack of a phone as the reason for the act," the Naygaon police station official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/unable-to-get-phone-for-online-classes-maharashtra-girl-hangs-self-999807.html
21-06-2021||West||Amit Shah inaugurates 3 bridges, APMC office building during Gujarat visit||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday inaugurated three bridges in Ahmedabad city and a newly built office building of the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) at Kalol in Gandhinagar district. A public programme at the Kalol APMC was cancelled by Shah in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. He met people and left the place without giving a speech after the formal inauguration. Shah inaugurated the Vaishnodevi flyover, Khodiyar Container Depot flyover and a newly built railway overbridge at Chattral-Panser road. He posted a tweet saying, "Inaugurated Vishnodevi and Khodiyar Container depot flyover and Panser railway over bridge, which will make commuting easy and people will benefit from it. I appreciate the work of the Gujarat government which has completed these developmental works on time under the leadership of Modiji (Prime Minister Narendra Modi) in this coronavirus pandemic time." Later, Shah went to inaugurate the APMC office building at Kalol, which is part of his Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency. Some people were invited to the APMC to participate in the programme. However, it was cancelled by Shah and only the office building inauguration was done. "Home Minister Amit Shah cancelled this programme as it is not prudent to hold a gathering in the time of the coronavirus pandemic," said Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel, who had accompanied Shah for the event. After the inauguration, Shah met those invited to the event and later left the place along with other leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amit-shah-inaugurates-3-bridges-apmc-office-building-during-gujarat-visit-999811.html
21-06-2021||West||UP assault case: Bombay HC grants transit anticipatory bail to journalist Rana Ayyub||The Bombay High Court on Monday granted transit anticipatory bail to journalist Rana Ayyub for a period of four weeks in connection with an FIR registered against her by the Uttar Pradesh Police for allegedly circulating a video in which an elderly Muslim man claimed he was thrashed and asked to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. The police in their FIR claimed the video was circulated to create communal unrest. The FIR was registered at the Loni Border police station at Ghaziabad in UP on June 15 under IPC Sections 153 (giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153A (promoting enmity between groups on ground of religion, class etc), 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feels of any class by insulting its religion or religious belief) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). Ayyub's counsel Mihir Desai on Monday told a single bench of Justice P D Naik that the applicant was a journalist who had just forwarded the video from her Twitter handle. "On June 16, when she came to know that the content of the video was not correct, she deleted the same," Desai said. He further said the offences under which Ayyub has been booked are all punishable only up to three years in jail and hence, she should be given time to approach the court concerned in Uttar Pradesh to seek relief. Justice Naik noted that the police probe subsequently found the person, who allegedly claimed he was thrashed and forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram', had some altercation with the people who beat him over some other transaction. "Considering the factual aspects of the case and to enable the applicant (Ayyub) to approach the court concerned in Uttar Pradesh where the FIR is lodged, protection from arrest can be granted for a temporary period of four weeks," the court said in its order. "In the event of the applicant's arrest in this period, she shall be released on a personal bond of Rs 25,000," Justice Naik said, adding there would not be an extension of the time period granted to the applicant. Apart from Ayyub, the FIR names Twitter Inc, Twitter Communications India, news website 'The Wire', journalist Mohammed Zubair, Congress leaders Shama Mohamed, Salman Nizami, Maskoor Usmani and writer Saba Naqvi. As per the FIR, the accused persons did not verify the credibility of the video, and shared it online with a communal angle with an intention to disrupt public peace and create a divide between two religious groups. In a video clip, which surfaced on social media on June 14, the man, identified as Abdul Shamad Saifi, was heard saying he was thrashed by some young men and asked to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. However, the Ghaziabad police ruled out a communal angle and said the accused persons were unhappy about a “tabeez” (amulet) which the victim had sold to them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/up-assault-case-bombay-hc-grants-transit-anticipatory-bail-to-journalist-rana-ayyub-999850.html
21-06-2021||West||Maratha quota protest: Leaders from several parties attend, promise support||A three-hour protest led by BJP Rajya Sabha MP Sambhaji Chhatrapati on the Maratha reservation issue was held in Nashik on Monday, with leaders cutting across party lines, including two Maharashtra ministers, arriving at the venue on Gangapur Road here to offer support. The silent protest, with participants wearing black shirts and black masks, took place from 10am to 1pm and among those who came to offer support to the cause were ministers Chhagan Bhujbal from the NCP and Dada Bhuse from the Shiv Sena, as well as NCP's Narhari Zirwal, deputy speaker in the state Assembly. "The Maratha community must get reservation. The NCP, Sena and Congress support this demand. The Supreme Court struck down quotas for Marathas, and also reservation in local bodies for OBCs. The Maratha community and OBCs should get together to fight for their demands and the Centre must cooperate in the court battle," Bhujbal said. On May 5, the Supreme Court had struck down a Maharashtra law that gave reservations in jobs and education to Marathas under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes category. The apex court also ordered recently that reservation in local bodies in Maharashtra for SC, ST and OBCs etc should not cumulatively exceed 50 per cent of the total number of seats. Meanwhile, organisers of the protest said BJP MP Sambhaji Chhatrapati would address a meeting later in the evening on a proposed 'long march' of outfits demanding quota for the Maratha community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maratha-quota-protest-leaders-from-several-parties-attend-promise-support-999854.html
21-06-2021||West||Mumbai qualifies for 'level 1' of unlocking but curbs to continue||Mumbai will continue to remain in 'level 3' of the coronavirus-induced restrictions till June 27 even though the city's Covid-19 positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy have come down and it is eligible to be upgraded to 'level 1', the local civic body has said. The state government earlier this month announced a five-level plan to ease restrictions as per weekly Covid-19 positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy. As per the government order, cities and districts which have a positivity rate of five per cent and the oxygen bed occupancy of less than 25 per cent come under level-1, where curbs can be lifted completely. The level-3 category is applicable for places where the positivity rate is five per cent to 10 per cent and the oxygen bed occupancy is more than 40 per cent. In Mumbai, the positivity rate has come down to 3.79 per cent and the oxygen bed occupancy is 23.56 per cent, the BMC said. A civic order said even though Mumbai is eligible to be upgraded to 'level 1', the current curbs will remain considering the population density and geography of the city, the local train commuting from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) to the city and the threat of a possible third wave voiced by medical experts. The local train services are currently being run only for those under the essential and emergency services category. As per the Maharashtra government's order of June 4, municipal corporations and districts have been notified as independent administrative units and they can take decisions on categorisation for unlocking as per the criteria laid down by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-qualifies-for-level-1-of-unlocking-but-curbs-to-continue-999866.html
21-06-2021||West||At least 36 injured after double-decker bus overturns in Mathura||At least 36 passengers were injured after a double-decker bus overturned on the Yamuna Expressway in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura district on Monday, police said. The injured have been admitted to different government and private hospitals, they said. The accident occurred when the Delhi-bound bus that was coming from Madhubani in Bihar with over 100 passengers, including labourers and their families, onboard overturned after one of its front wheels came off. Some of the injured have also sent to different private hospitals, Mathura Superintendent of Police (rural) Srish Chandra said. Senior officials including the chief medical officer reached the spot and supervised the rescue operation. Nineteen injured were brought to the district hospital. Three of them were in a critical condition and were referred to the S N Medical College, Agra, said Dr Mukund Bansal, Chief Medical Superintendent of Mathura district hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/at-least-36-injured-after-double-decker-bus-overturns-in-mathura-999907.html
21-06-2021||West||At 6,270, Maharashtra's daily Covid-19 cases returns to mid-Feb levels||In an encouraging development, Maharashtra’s 24-hour Covid-19 cases total came down to mid-February levels with 6,270 cases being reported on Monday. It needs to be mentioned that through the second fortnight of April and the first fortnight of May, the state has reported over 60,000 cases several times. During the last 24 hours, the state reported 6,270 cases and 94 deaths taking the progressive total to 59,79,051 and 1,18,313, respectively. Of the 94 deaths reported today, 77 occurred in the last 48 hours and 17 in the last week. As deaths that have occurred before the period of one week in various districts and corporations have been updated on the Covid portal, these deaths have been added to the cumulative state death tally – which has seen an increase of 258. Out of the 258 deaths, 114 occurred in Pune, 68 in Nashik, 22 in Nagpur, 18 in Thane, 13 in Ahmednagar, 4 in Ratnagiri, 4 in Sangli, 3 in Raigad, 3 in Satara, 3 in Sindhudurg, 2 in Kolhapur, 1 in Akola, 1 in Beed, 1 in Dhule and 1 in Solapur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/at-6270-maharashtras-daily-covid-19-cases-returns-to-mid-feb-levels-999968.html
21-06-2021||West||21 cases of Delta Plus variant reported in Maharashtra||In what signals alarm bells, 21 cases of the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 has been reported in Maharashtra. "So far 21 cases of Delta Plus variant have been found in Maharashtra," state Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope said  The highest number of cases have been detected in Ratnagiri (9) followed by Jalgaon (7), Mumbai (2) and one case each in Palghar, Thane and Sindhudurg districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/21-cases-of-delta-plus-variant-reported-in-maharashtra-999974.html
