22-06-2021||Comment||Excellent judgements, but do police care?||The Delhi High Court’s order declaring protests, without resorting to arms or weapons, a fundamental right and not terrorism is most welcome, enlightened and timely, and becoming of the twenty-first century that we live in. The words of wisdom contained in each of the three separate bail orders are telling, notwithstanding the specific situation of any case. The court has quite rightly called the ‘mind-set’ of booking ordinary and unarmed protesters under UAPA as being perilous to the very idea of democracy. Its remark that a State agency “must not countenance crying wolf” is most telling. Booking of cases by the police under UAPA, TADA (despite its abolition), POTA, or the Sedition Law (Section 124A of the IPC) or other related laws and provisions have been on the upswing in recent years. People have been charged with sedition for liking a Facebook post, cheering a rival cricket team (Pakistani), spoofing politicians in cartoons, stand-up comedy, criticising a yoga guru, or for not standing up in the cinema hall for the national anthem, and such other actions. The very idea of nationalism or patriotism is placed at stake by the dreaded Sedition Law, when merely praising neighbouring Pakistanis as friendly people becomes a serious offence. The Sedition Law is being applied today in independent India against students, intellectuals, journalists and activists just as it was intended by the British rulers when the law was made in the 19th century and applied against students, intellectuals, journalists, activists or even ordinary folks criticising the then colonial government. There have been any number of judgements in the High Courts and the Supreme Court cautioning against the indiscriminate application of such laws by various governments and their agencies. However, the governments have found it expedient to continue using these laws, regardless, to serve their purposes. This is probably because given the pace at which our justice system grinds, the tardy judiciary processes and the long periods of incarceration without bail are in themselves often worse than the punishments. In some cases, the periods of such captivity run longer than the maximum punishment for the supposed crimes themselves. While this may be an excellent judgement (appealed by the State, of course!), truth is, it may be too early to start rejoicing. For one, neither as citizens, nor as governments are we a very law-abiding people. One can think of many instances where even Supreme Court directives and decisions are defied by various governments without attracting contempt of court, often leaving the Supreme Court a helpless spectator. The reasons for such cavalier treatment of court orders by governments, bureaucrats and police officials are easy to fathom. Practically any case in our courts outlives the term-in-office of the culpable bureaucrats, policemen or other functionaries. Given the delays in judicial decisions, when courts have decades worth of backlog, contempt proceedings can hardly be effective in calling the guilty to account. Most senior functionaries have official indemnity and protection from arrest for any offence, leave alone a milder ‘contempt of court’ charge. The functionaries are long retired, and in some cases dead, before the judgement is delivered. At the same time, upholding the majesty of law demands that the laws are effectively, and if necessary, forcefully, implemented. True, the Delhi High Court may have called the arrests of ordinary protesters under the draconian UAPA as violative of one’s constitutional right to protest. But in India, that still does not mean that you can safely draw your cartoons, indulge in stand-up comedy spoofing political or politically-connected bigwigs, or like or forward sundry posts on social media, especially if you are a student or an intellectual from a particular set of universities – such as JNU or Jamia Milia -- or an intellectual against the slant of the ruling dispensation. Many participants in such public protests or social media postings are publicly vilified, with selective leaks of their cases in the public domain. Relevant in this context is the Karnataka High Court’s recent direction to the police not to leak information to the media about an investigation even while the case is live. This, once again, leads us to the same argument all over again: The High Court judgement is fine, but will the police actually follow the directive? That begs the obvious question: How do we get such judgements to lead to systemic correction? How do we ensure that court judgments are followed to the letter and spirit by those concerned? The Supreme Court has frequently drawn attention to the need for urgent judicial reforms. Perhaps judicial reform, like charity, must begin at home. For starters, the Supreme Court (and even the High Courts) could carve out a separate administrative cell from their registrar’s office, tasked with bringing to book those functionaries who violate the court’s directives. Their entire focus must be to prevent any violation of their directives and orders. Every such violation should be recognised as contempt of court to begin with, under the quasi-judicial administrative process, rather than a judicial process. This quasi-judicial process should be straight-forward. For example, who was the police officer and his superior officer directly responsible for flouting a court directive, or say, arresting someone, in violation of the court directive under any of the draconian laws? Such functionaries should be indefinitely suspended with half pay or entirely without pay under the court order, until they can prove their innocence in the normal course of the judicial process. This punishment would be exactly proportionate to what these functionaries do, for instance, to those they wrongfully arrest— subjecting them to the torture of the judicial process. Under this scenario, any bureaucrat or policeman would think twice before carrying out such wrongful arrests blindly, at the behest of their political or other masters. Without such bite, many of the pronouncements of the higher courts sadly remain mere expressions of good intention and wisdom. (The writer is an academic and author of several books)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/excellent-judgements-but-do-police-care-1000187.html
22-06-2021||First Edit||A welcome step on Jammu and Kashmir political process||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s invitation to 14 political parties for talks in New Delhi on June 24 is a welcome step towards breaking the political impasse in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). Since August 5, 2019, when Parliament abrogated Article 370 and bifurcated the erstwhile state of J&K into two Union territories, J&K and Ladakh, the political process in J&K has been on ice. The New Delhi meeting may well be the Modi government’s first genuine step to revive this process. The initial response of the invitees seems positive. The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), which emerged to oppose New Delhi’s abrogation of J&K’s autonomy, is to meet on Tuesday to decide its position. Given the deep alienation of Kashmiri politicians and people from the Indian State, the parties could have rejected New Delhi’s offer outright. That they have not bodes well for Delhi’s initiative. Both sides have much to gain with this meeting. For J&K parties, the talks provide an opportunity for face-to-face engagement with the government to air their grievances and revive the political process. As for the Modi government, it has been under intense international pressure, especially from the United States, to restore democratic processes and rights in the Kashmir Valley. It has become evident that relations with the Joe Biden administration can improve only if New Delhi takes steps to restore democracy in the Valley. The possibility of a White House summit, perhaps as soon as September, may have weighed on Modi’s mind, as also the evolving situation in Afghanistan and its implications for India.   Although government sources have sought to tamp down expectations of a breakthrough, the holding of assembly elections in J&K is expected to be discussed at the meeting and the government can be expected to try to get as many parties as possible to contest the election to give it broad-based legitimacy. To get them on board, Modi must show flexibility in approach. Kashmiri parties will need to show some gains from dealing with Delhi. The Centre should be ready to extend concessions. Kashmiri parties are likely to press for restoration of Article 370 and statehood for J&K. While Delhi will be unwilling to restore Article 370, it could well show them a roadmap, perhaps even take steps, towards restoration of J&K’s statehood. Modi has in the past promised to restore statehood. Restoring J&K’s statehood is a compromise that should be acceptable to both sides. The meeting is an opportunity for New Delhi and the Kashmiri parties to repair their ruptured relationship and revive the political process. Both sides must approach it sincerely, mindful of the many failures in resolving the Kashmir problem in the past due to insincerity and attempts at political manipulation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-welcome-step-on-jammu-and-kashmir-political-process-1000188.html
22-06-2021||In Perspective||Bridging the North-South chasm||About two decades ago, when people came to know that ‘South Indian’ me was going to marry a Punjabi, there were murmurs. A colleague warned that the tongue that “these South Indians spoke with its ‘illais’ and ‘pillais’” (whatever that meant) would perplex her for the rest of her life. And on that count, maybe she should reconsider. It was something we shrugged off then, but it reflected an attitude, an ‘othering’ that existed and still does, and has now surfaced, yet again, with the recent memo (since withdrawn) that forbade the use of Malayalam in ‘working places’ at the G B Pant Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research (GIPMER) in Delhi. The circular read, “A complaint has been received regarding Malayalam language being used for communication in working places in GIPMER. Whereas maximum patient and colleagues do not know this language and feel helpless, causing a lot of inconvenience. So, it is directed to all nursing personnel to use only Hindi and English for communication. Otherwise, serious action will be taken.” (sic) If one chooses to look beyond the bureaucratese of ‘inconvenience’ and ‘serious action’, what one can sense is an undertone of hostility and disrespect. What lies at its root? Is it a fear of the unknown or is it a nativist disdain for anything that isn’t one’s own? Given that Malayalam is an Indian language, it begs the question, why is it so unknown? Not just Malayalam, all South Indian languages seem to be something of a black hole for many in North India! Equally, the ignorance of southern cultures is also jarring. Social media is replete with videos, memes and posts that attempt to ‘decode’ South India and its languages, sometimes getting into micro-details about how it is ‘Kannada’ and not ‘Kannad’ and so on. The chasm has to be bridged for the benefit of all and so that such incidents do not recur. What is to be done? Three-language formula When the Constitution was promulgated in 1950, the language issue was a burning one. Many wanted Hindi to be enshrined with the status of ‘national language’. But the lack of consensus resulted in a compromise. Hindi was designated ‘official language’, English ‘co-official language’ and 14 others were made ‘scheduled languages.’ By 1966, English was to be eased out and Hindi formally enthroned. Language riots in Tamil Nadu in early 1966 effectively killed that idea. English remained on the books. In 1968, the three-language formula was incorporated into the National Education Policy. The formula stipulated that students from the Hindi-speaking states would take up English, Hindi and a modern Indian language (preferably a South Indian language), while students from non-Hindi speaking states would also take up Hindi, English and one Indian language. But in many Hindi-speaking states, Sanskrit became the third language instead of a modern Indian language. Tamil Nadu stuck to a two-language formula. But several states adopted the formula in true spirit and implemented it. And the numbers of non-Hindi speakers who know the language has grown. In part, Hindi’s acceptance in the southern states is due to the history of Hindi propagation in the region. In 1918, Mahatma Gandhi founded the Dakshina Bharat Hindi Prachar Sabha to teach Hindi to South Indians. He believed that using an Indian tongue as a link language would unshackle Indians from the vestiges of colonial rule, a great deal of which flowed from the extensive usage of English. The Sabha’s headquarters in Chennai continues to function unhindered more than a century later. Even in the thick of the anti-Hindi riots in 1966, protesters were strictly instructed not to make the Sabha a target. But Gandhi did not merely stop at attempting to popularise Hindi in South India. In Hind Swaraj, he also recommended that northerners learn Tamil. That a linguistically diverse nation like India had to learn to give and take seemed to be the spirit behind these actions and recommendations. This hasn’t quite worked out. Hindi has grown, but not so the other tongues. The way forward? If the fear of the unknown has to be dealt with, the implementation of the three-language formula in its true spirit is a must. But what else, besides? Is there a case now for the southern states to do the inverse of Gandhi’s actions? Could cultural centres, in the Alliance Française vein, be set up in various northern states to both propagate southern languages as well as disseminate the finer points of southern culture? The Kannada Sanghas and Tamil Sangams that exist have so far largely served as meeting points for Kannadigas and Tamilians. Few others involve themselves in their activities. Given the economic ascendance of the South, could a case be made out for northerners to learn southern languages? This could perhaps drive away the fear of the unknown as well as give many an idea about cultures other than their own. Maybe that will help bridge the chasm. (The writer is a Punjabi-knowing Keralite. He also knows Tamil, Kannada, Malayalam, Hindi and English)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/bridging-the-north-south-chasm-1000185.html
22-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Woman offers fruits to monkeys, lands in trouble||A video clip of a woman offering fruits to monkeys at Male Mahadeshwara Wildlife Sanctuary limits has gone viral on social media and has landed her in trouble. This has invited action from the Forest department, for violating the law. Besides, another video of one Bhuvan appealing to the people to send bananas, cucumbers and other fruits, claiming that the monkeys and other animals were starving, will also be facing action. The Forest department has a video clip showing tomatoes, bananas and other fruits being thrown on the roadside, from Anethale to Talubetta. M M Hills Deputy Conservator of Forests V Yedukondalu said, offering fruits and food to wild animals is an offence. The wildlife division has installed boards at several places in this regard to create awareness among the devotees and passengers to the temple. Those violating this are fined. The woman offering fruits is a violation of the law. Action would be taken against her, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/woman-offers-fruits-to-monkeys-lands-in-trouble-1000242.html
22-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka eases lockdown restrictions in four districts||The Karnataka government on Tuesday further relaxed the Covid-19-related restrictions in four districts allowing all shops other than those air-conditioned, to function from 6 am to 1 pm. However, air-conditioned shopping complexes and malls will continue to remain shut. In an order, revenue department Principal Secretary N Manjunatha Prasad said the lockdown norms have been relaxed in Dakshina Kannada, Hassan, Davanagere, and Chamarajanagara districts with immediate effect and until 5 am of July 5.  "In exercise of powers conferred under Section 24 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the Chairman, State Executive Committee, after assessing current Covid-19 situation in certain districts, hereby permits functioning of all shops other than air-conditioned shops, air-conditioned shopping complexes and malls, from 6 am to 1 pm," the order said. The government had imposed restrictions from April 27 in view of the surge in coronavirus cases and relaxed the curbs in a phased manner, following a decline in infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-eases-lockdown-restrictions-in-four-districts-1000254.html
22-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||130 detonators, gelatin sticks recovered after 2 children hurt in blast||The police recovered explosives, including 130 detonators, gelatin sticks and other materials at Channahalli, where two children sustained injuries in a gelatin stick explosion in Alur taluk in Hassan district on June 21. The police and bomb disposal squad visited the spot and recovered detonators and gelatin sticks and other materials in a truck that was parked near the blast site. According to locals, the truck has been parked at the same place for the last few years. "All detonators and explosives were diffused after getting permission from the Court. The samples have been sent to labs for testing," said Additional SP Nandini. MLA H K Kumaraswamy said, "The negligence of the Yettinahole project contractor caused the explosion. Compensation should be disbursed to the families. A probe should be conducted." The Police have registered cases against Yettinahole project contractor D Shankar and Company and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/130-detonators-gelatin-sticks-recovered-after-2-children-hurt-in-blast-1000307.html
22-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dharmendra Pradhan launches oxygen plant at AIMS||Union Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan virtually launched the new Oxygen plant at Adichunchanagiri Institute of Medical Sciences (AIMS) in BG Nagar in Nagamangala taluk in Mandya district on Tuesday. The plant has a capacity to generate 700 litres of liquid oxygen per minute. The plant can supply oxygen to 150 oxygenated beds and 40 ventilator beds at a time. Adichunchnagiri seer Nirmalanandanatha Swami started the work to install an oxygen generator at the hospital when the first wave of Covid struck Mandya district. Necessary equipment was imported from Europe through an iron ore company at Kuduremukh. The works were completed in a month. After launching the facility, Pradhan lauded the services of the Mutt during the Covid crisis. "The Mutt has become a model by installing the oxygen plant," he said. BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel, Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan and MLA Suresh Gowda attended the event online. Later, the seer, along with Prasannanatha Swami visited the unit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dharmendra-pradhan-launches-oxygen-plant-at-aims-1000310.html
22-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Swimming pool at Mysuru DC’s residence lacked Heritage Committee's approval?||Construction of a swimming pool at the official residence of Mysuru Deputy Commissioner Jalasannidhi reportedly did not have approval of the District Heritage Committee. The report of Regional Commissioner G C Prakash on the construction of a swimming pool states that it does not have the approval of the District Heritage Committee, according to sources. The 100-year-old Jalasannidhi is a heritage building. It was alleged that Rohini Sindhuri, who served as deputy commissioner, constructed it for luxury, violating the norms to be followed on the premises of a heritage structure. MLA Sa Ra Mahesh and ex-corporator K V Mallesh had alleged that huge sums were spent when the government was facing shortage of funds to manage the Covid-19 pandemic. The government had asked the Regional Commissioner to probe the matter. The report submitted to the Principal Secretary for Revenue was leaked to the media. As per this report, there was no approval from the Public Works Department for an estimate of Rs 32.55 lakh, the project did not have administrative approval, there was no work order for the construction of the pool and there was no agreement with the agency that executed the project. The report states that the swimming pool can't be thrown open for public use. So, there is no public interest, it states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/swimming-pool-at-mysuru-dc-s-residence-lacked-heritage-committees-approval-1000313.html
22-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vaccine hesitancy vanishes, people make a beeline for jabs in Karnataka districts||Districts struggling with erratic supply of vaccines and poor vaccination coverage received a shot in the arm by Monday's 'Maha Lasika Abhiyana', an aggressive vaccination drive under which doses were supplied to match the district's vaccination potential. Belagavi district officials who administered 86,239 doses till 9.14 pm on Monday said the fear of the second wave which hit the state brought more people to the camps. "Previously, even when we had more than a lakh doses in hand, people did not come forward for vaccination. Now vaccine hesitancy has vanished. We don't need to mobilise them anymore," said Belagavi District Health Officer Dr Shashikant Muniyal. There are 234 vaccination centres in Belagavi and 600 vaccinators. Officially, there are 12 private vaccination centres in the district. "We have administered more than 1,01,528 doses including in the peripheral areas. We're still updating data on Co-WIN as sub centres in villages have no good internet connection. The vaccine supply was good. So we planned the drive in taluks, villages, rural and urban areas. Involvement of elected members also helped. Many volunteers also helped," he said. Pre-registration wasn't required and people could walk-in with the specified documents of identity.  Ballari district officials administered 64,406 doses. District Health Officer Dr HL Janardhan said they had set a target of 70,000 doses. "Adequate supply of vaccines, inter-departmental involvement, taluk and district administration and collective responsibility of tahsildars and elected representatives helped. If only health department is involved, it becomes difficult to mobilise people," he said. Tumakuru district officials administered 51,552 vaccine doses and said the district had received 10,000 doses of Covaxin and 36,000 doses of Covishield apart from leftover doses from a previous consignment. Dr M B Nagendrappa, district health officer, said, "We have already prepared an action plan for future too. Fear due to the second wave played a role in people coming forward at 300 of our vaccination centres. Almost 600 personnel were roped for vaccination drive," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vaccine-hesitancy-vanishes-people-make-a-beeline-for-jabs-in-karnataka-districts-1000395.html
22-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Revanna to Congress: Announce Siddaramaiah as next Karnataka CM||MLA H D Revanna on Tuesday challenged the Congress high command to announce Siddaramaiah as the next chief minister. "Politics is different and the trust between myself and Siddaramaiah is different. As per the statements of KPCC working president R Dhruvanarayan, the JD(S) might have neglected Siddaramaiah. Now, he is in Congress. Let them announce that he is the next CM", he told reporters. "Dhruvanarayan can't win the polls without the support of Siddaramaiah. He should first clarify whether he supports Siddaramaiah or others", he said. "The JD(S) will stage a protest in Hassan on Wednesday over rising fuel prices. A procession will be taken out from Hemavathy statue to the Deputy Commissioner's office. Petrol prices have crossed Rs 100 mark in several parts of the State. The State government is levying Rs 26 cess per litre, but has not taken up any development works," he criticised. On the allegations of M A Gopalaswamy that Revanna met the Chief Minister for his personal work, Revanna said, "I met Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to discuss the problems of the district and not to get signatures on any documents. If he proves that I met him for personal gains, I am ready to quit politics", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/revanna-to-congress-announce-siddaramaiah-as-next-karnataka-cm-1000316.html
22-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah should know how to control MLAs: D K Shivakumar||Taking a dig at Siddaramaiah, KPCC president D K Shivakumar on Tuesday said the former Chief Minister should know how to control his MLAs being a leader of the party. Shivakumar was reacting to a question on some of Congress MLAs insisting that Siddaramaiah should be the party's Chief Ministerial candidate in the Karnataka Assembly elections. Speaking to media after meeting Congress General Secretary in-charge in Karnataka Randeep Surjewala, Shivakumar said, "The party will tell Siddaramaiah soon. The party's top leaders know how to control MLAs,"  Shivakumar said.  "I am an ordinary worker. I am working for the party as per top leaders direction," he said before adding, "I have no further agenda." He said that he discussed the party's district office bearers' reshuffle with Surjewala. Alleging that the state government fudged Covid-19 death data, he said that the party workers will visit each household and collect info about the number of deaths due to the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-should-know-how-to-control-mlas-d-k-shivakumar-1000327.html
22-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Arsikere CMC: Jolt to JD(S) as its 7 members resign, support BJP||Seven JD(S) members of Arsikere City Municipal Council (CMC) turned against MLA K M Shivalingegowda on Tuesday, resigned from primary membership of the party and extended support to the BJP. Seeking separate seating facility at the CMC, Harshavardhan, Kalaiarasi, Chandrashekaraiah, N Kavitha Devi, Darshan, B N Vidyadhar, Ayesha and Independents Puttaswamy and Melagiriappa submitted a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner R Girish in Hassan. The members alleged that they were constantly under pressure due to the local leaders. They wanted to be identified as a separate group and needed separate seating arrangements. They were extending our support to the BJP. They were unable to take up development works in their wards and were not resigning due to any pressure. Their act did not violate provisions of Defendants Prohibition Act, they clarified. The CMC has 31 members. While 21 are from JD(S), six are from the BJP, three Independents and one Congress member. As per the reservation, the BJP bagged the president's post. It is said that Operation Lotus by the BJP forced the resignation episode.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/arsikere-cmc-jolt-to-jds-as-its-7-members-resign-support-bjp-1000333.html
22-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Now, a tug of war between Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah on Congress state unit rejig||Amid a tussle between Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee President D K Shivakumar and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on projecting the next Chief Ministerial candidate, another tug of war has begun on the appointment of new office-bearers for the state unit. While Shivakumar wanted to remove all the existing office-bearers, mostly district, taluk and block presidents and different wing heads, and bring "fresh faces", Siddaramaiah was resisting it. Both powerful leaders — who are hoping to bring the party to power in Karnataka by taking advantage of dissident activities in BJP and public anger against ruling dispensation in handling Covid-19 pandemic — have started preparing the ground for mobilising support at the grassroots level. Shivakumar, who is a strong contender for the Chief Minister's post, landed in Delhi two days ago and met party leaders including Rahul Gandhi with the plea to stop leaders from projecting Siddaramaiah as the next CM. He also sought permission from the party top brass to reshuffle the state unit. In a bid to counter Shivakumar, Siddaramaiah is also expected to come to the national capital soon to meet party high command leaders. While Congress General Secretary Rahul Gandhi has been insisting that MLAs or MP candidates should be fielded based on recommendations from district and block levels instead of state level, putting their own favourite individuals as local units heads is key for any leader to ensure his loyalists get party tickets for any elections, a Congress leader said. Shivakumar, who is keen on removing the existing district and block unit heads, is learnt to have suspected that incumbent office-bearers who were appointed when Dinesh Gundu Rao was KPCC president, are not loyal to him. "Gundu Rao, a protege of Siddaramaiah, appointed all office bearers as per Siddaramaiah's suggestions," a leader from the Shivakumar camp said. “We want to remove district and block-level office bearers as they failed to work effectively in strengthening the party and helping people during the pandemic,” Shivakumar said. According to Shivakumar, since the party has to face zilla panchayat, taluk panchayat and urban local bodies polls soon, revamping ground-level units is very important to energise the organisation. The Vokkaliga leader also said he discussed party and state issues with Rahul on Tuesday but refused to disclose more. He said he is keen on adopting a new formula for appointing local-level functionaries. However, appointment of new office bearers is not easy for Shivakumar without the approval of Siddaramaiah, as the latter is also ready with his own list of people in case the party approves the removal of existing office-bearers. Appointing their own candidates to local units is also key to field their own loyalists for coming local body elections, said a Congress leader. Fielding their own supporters for Assembly elections and ensuring their victory would mean it will be easy to mobilise support from elected leaders for the CM's post, the leader said, adding that it is ultimately a numbers game. A person having the backing of the highest number of MLAs matters a lot, said the leader. Siddaramaiah already started a whirlwind tour of the state distributing ration kits to the poor. These kits are organised by the former chief minister’s loyalist leaders in an attempt to reach out to the common man.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/now-a-tug-of-war-between-shivakumar-and-siddaramaiah-on-congress-state-unit-rejig-1000336.html
22-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||'Migrant' ministers jittery over graft charges against Karnataka Excise Minister K Gopalaiah||The recent allegation of graft against Excise Minister K Gopalaiah has left the ‘migrant’ group of ministers jittery. As two ministers from the camp were forced to resign from the Cabinet since the turn of the year, the migrants are wary of a ploy against them, in a bid to attack Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. ‘Migrant’ camp refers to 17 Congress and JD(S) MLAs who quit the previous coalition government to join BJP. Attacks on them by the likes of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa, who blamed them for the disgruntlement against the Yediyurappa government, has also not gone down well with the camp. May head to Delhi According to sources, the ministers are expected to take up their grievances with the party high command and are likely to head to Delhi. The ongoing attempts to unseat Yediyurappa was also a cause of alarm for the migrants, who fear about their future in the Cabinet in case the CM is replaced by the high command. Less than six months after former excise minister H Nagesh was forced to resign over allegations of corruption, a similar case has rattled Gopalaiah. Though he has denied allegations made in a viral audio clip purported to be involving Excise officials in Koppal district, in which they claim to make regular payments to the minister, the issue has unsettled the camp. Soon after the Cabinet meeting held on Monday, a few ministers of the camp including Health and Family Welfare minister K Sudhakar, Agriculture Minister B C Patil, Urban Development minister Byrati Basavaraju and Textiles minister Shrimanth Patil huddled to discuss the developments. A week ago, the group of ministers had held a meeting, reportedly over Eshwarappa’s remarks and complained to BJP general secretary and Karnatakaincharge Arun Singh. A minister from the camp, on the condition of anonymity, said that the ‘native’ BJP camp was working against them. “We took the complaint to Singh, who has asked us to come to Delhi.” Another minister from the camp Ramesh Jarkiholi was forced to resign after a video allegedly of the minister in a compromising position with a woman was leaked to the media.  Soon after, ministers of the migrant camp approached the court, seeking an injunction against the publication of anything defamatory against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/migrant-ministers-jittery-over-graft-charges-against-karnataka-excise-minister-k-gopalaiah-1000389.html
22-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka BJP to observe Balidan Diwas on Wendesday||The Karnataka BJP unit will observe Balidan Diwas on June 23 to commemorate the death anniversary of Syama Prasad Mukherjee, considered to be the party's founder. Online seminars will be held in 300 locations around the state on Mukherjee's life and contributions. Between June 23 and July 6, which is Mukherjee's birthday, around 11 lakh saplings will be planted across the state, BJP general secretary N Ravikumar said. A meeting of the BJP state executive committee will be held on June 26, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-bjp-to-observe-balidan-diwas-on-wendesday-1000394.html
22-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Change plan to build Shivamogga airport in lotus shape: Congress||The state government must immediately change the architectural blueprint of the Shivamogga airport, which has been planned to be constructed in the shape of a lotus, the Congress said on Tuesday. A political party cannot make use of public money for publicising its symbol, the party said.  In a joint press conference, AICC spokesperson Brijesh Kalappa and Congress legislator N A Harris urged the state government and the Centre to make the required changes in the plan. "The Shivamogga airport is planned to be constructed in the shape of a lotus. Everyone knows which party's symbol this is. The party cannot use government money for furthering its cause," they said. They cited a similar instance from 2016, in which the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) wanted to build statues in the shape of an elephant (its party symbol). In that case, the Delhi High Court had held that the party cannot use tax payers' money for publicising the symbol of a political party. The Election Commission, too, had stated that such a move would be against the principles of a transparent election process, they said.  Any party which misuses public funds to publicise its own symbol will risk losing the allotted symbol. Hence, the BJP must change the architectural blueprint of the Shivamogga airport. If it goes ahead with it, the party will risk losing its symbol, the Congress leaders said. DH had earlier reported (December 2020) that the airport was being designed in the shape of a lotus.  Also, in the wake of allegations by BJP MLC H Vishwanath, on misappropriation of funds for the Upper Bhadra Project, the party urged for a joint house committee probe. With BJP legislator Arvind Bellad making allegations about phone-tapping, a CBI inquiry must be ordered into the matter, the leaders demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/change-plan-to-build-shivamogga-airport-in-lotus-shape-congress-1000420.html
22-06-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Vaccine for all'||On the seventh International Yoga Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the ancient Indian discipline remains a "ray of hope" and a source of strength for the people in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-vaccine-for-all-1000049.html
22-06-2021||National||Voting value in GST council should be proportionate to taxes contributed by states: TN FM||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) structure has “fundamental flaws” and now is the time to reform it, Tamil Nadu Finance Minister P T R Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said. In an interview with DH’s ETB Sivapriyan, the former top banker spoke on the state’s fiscal health, the need for doing away with the ‘One State, One Vote’ formula in the GST council, why the DMK government attaches prime importance to the HR & CE department, and spiritual leader Jaggi Vasudev.  Edited excerpts: While in opposition the DMK had accused the then AIADMK government of gross financial mismanagement. It has been over a month since you took over as Finance Minister and what is your take on the state’s fiscal health? The biggest problem was the lack of revenue with Tamil Nadu losing about 3.5-4 per cent of its GSDP in revenue. They should have focused their attention on bringing that back up because much of it happened between 2014 to 2021. Things were not bad as long as (J) Jayalalithaa was in complete control of governance but once she began losing control after her conviction in 2014, the problem started, and it got much worse after her passing. An effectively revenue neutral or revenue surplus state from 2004 to 2014 suddenly started having record revenue deficits each year and consequently exploding debt. We are planning to release a White Paper on the state’s finances in a month which will explain what went wrong. After taking over the department, I realised that much of the financial mismanagement was the result of sleepwalking, not because they consciously took bad decisions. As things began to slide, nobody bothered to check what was happening and nobody even cared to correct the mistakes. I feel it is a bigger problem of negligence which brings us to the question of why? It was because of lack of priority, lack of competence, or willful actions like corruption. It is hard for me to explain 100 per cent of the negligence retrospectively. This will become clearer when we publish the white paper. The state’s debt stands at Rs 4.85 lakh crore, but the new DMK government has promised a lot of welfare measures and has already begun implementing some of them. Where will you get the money from? The debt on the books as of March 31, 2021, is stated at Rs 4.85 lakh crore but it is only a Revised Estimate, and not the Final Account. There is a whole lot of hidden debt that will come out in the white paper. After we came, we have not been profligate, but rather spending on welfare measures that are very specific to the pandemic. My job now is to fix revenue and leakages in tax collection. Our incremental spending so far would not have crossed Rs 20,000 crore, which is largely due to the one-time Covid-19 relief of Rs 4,000 to over 2 crore families and the costs incurred on augmenting medical infrastructure. If we were to run the finances and the balance sheet properly, I do not think we are going to face long-term negative consequences due to this Rs 20,000 crores of spending during the greatest pandemic of a century. This amounts to about 1% of the GSDP of TN which is conservatively around Rs 20 lakh crore. Many countries have spent more than 10 per cent of their GDP to overcome the effects of the pandemic. Do you expect to sell assets to generate revenue, as many other states are planning, and the Union Government has been doing for many years? I will not rule out asset sales, but that will of course happen as directed by Chief Minister M K Stalin. The great luxury of Tamil Nadu is that we have a lot of easily liquidatable, market-valued, non-core assets. But every state government is sitting on all kinds of value in terms of prime land that should be much better utilised not just to get funds for the people’s government, but also because of its multiplier effect on the economy. The reason we are reluctant to sell assets now is that we do not want to put the proceeds into a system that is broken. We must fix the system first, and then we will worry about what is the right ratio of debt, interest and so on, and how do we get from here to there. What will be the next focus of the DMK government once the Covid-19 pandemic is brought under control? The government has given a lot of promises and one must remember they are not done in a day. There were two sets of promises that our leader made to the people. One is the 10-year long-term vision for the state which I feel is doable, and the second is the short-term commitments in the manifesto. When you make a manifesto for an election, it is for the term of the government that the election decides, and everything is not fulfilled in just 24 hours and the remaining period goes off without doing anything. We are going to be driven towards delivering everything we have said in a realistic time frame within this term. Ever since the DMK government assumed office on May 7, there has been a renewed interest in Federalism. The government has brought in a change in the nomenclature – from Madhiya Arasu to Ondriya Arasu. Why is it that the DMK continues to harp on federalism? This terminology is an over-hyped subject. The licenses issued by the state of Gujarat read Union of India, and the court cases have the Union of India as the counterparty. The GST council meeting lists the chairperson as Union Finance Minister. I do not understand why we need to have this discussion. But as far as federalism goes, it is not a recent or temporary principle for us. It is the lifeblood of the Dravidian movement because the natural extension to self-respect is self-reliance and self-determination. In Tamil, we call it suya nirnayam which means I must have a say in deciding my outcome and that is the basis for local self-governance. Our stand has always been that we should devolve powers down to the village panchayat. Federalism is in our blood. And one should realise that we are in politics only to put into action the principles that we take pride in.  When we talk about the devolution of powers to the panchayat level, what is the DMK’s stand on conducting local body elections in the state. Except for the village level, elections have not been held for the past five years. Is the DMK committed to conducting the elections? We are very clear that these elections should be conducted as early as possible. We cannot have one stance when we are in opposition and another when we come to power. We want to run these elections as early as possible, and one should understand we went to the court only to ensure that the redistricting of wards and reservation to women and SC/ST happens fairly and equitably. The AIADMK government did not hold the elections because they wanted all the powers to be concentrated in the hands of the then Municipal Administration minister (S P Velumani). We are committed to holding the elections as soon as we fix the problems of faulty redistricting of wards by the previous AIADMK government. We cannot hold the elections without rectifying the fault as it would imply our previous stance was wrong – which it is not. In your speech at the GST Council Meeting, you harped on to federalism emphasising that India is a Union of States. Don’t you think such speeches put the DMK in a confrontation mode with the Union Government currently run by BJP? One should see the speech in context. Since this was the first time that the DMK was in government after GST was introduced in 2017, we wanted to make our stand clear in the maiden speech. I did not say I was there to espouse federalism and I did not say that I was there to lecture on state’s rights. I merely asked everyone to re-evaluate the gains and losses since the inception of the GST journey, relative to expectations. I pointed out that gains were not realised, and losses were many more than expected, so now is the time to fix fundamental problems in the structure. I asked if not now, then when? I still feel the likelihood for a change or restructuring is much higher now than in a non-crisis time. If I was so confrontational, why did the Union Finance Minister circulate my remarks to all States and add them into the minutes of the meeting as I requested? I did not go there intending to give a lecture on Federalism. I just did my job as a good citizen and a conscientious member of the GST council. Many other State’s Ministers called or write and congratulated me. I have no regrets.  DMK has been advocating reforms in the GST. What are the reforms that the party wants to be carried out? We want profound reform as we feel the system has fundamental flaws. The way taxes are collected, and the way they are distributed are both problematic. We are not comfortable that the GST Council is simply informed after some bureaucrats set the rates. We ask how they were authorised to do so. If they (Union) delegate such powers to bureaucrats, they must come back to the Council of Elected Ministers for approval, at the very least. It is the Council that must approve the proposal. We cannot just be informed of rates that un-elected individuals have determined. The fundamental question is, what is the role of unelected bureaucrats relative to elected representatives? The system has a basic weakness, and states have to play ball either explicitly or implicitly on many issues. We want early disbursement of GST dues from the Union Government and the compensation to be paid on time. As we speak, a lot of dues are pending. You opposed the ‘One State, One Vote’ formula in the GST Council as “fundamentally flawed.” How do you want the voting value to be decided? I think the logic is it should be based in proportionate to the GST generated or contributed by states. I think that is only fair. It is we who sacrificed our unilateral rights to do state-level taxation on sales when we joined the GST regime. The current ‘One State, One Vote’ system in the GST Council should go, and it should be replaced with proportional representation on the lines I stated. The current method perpetrates an injustice on states like Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra, and Gujarat in multiple ways. A lot of attention is being given to the functioning of temples and their transparency under the new government. Is it the DMK’s way of blunting the criticism that the party is anti-Hindu? The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR & CE) is one of the most important departments to the Dravidian movement and it has always been so. It has nothing to do with random statements by rabble-rousers who do not understand a thing about the functioning of temples. This department has been of utmost importance from the days of the South Indian Liberation Federation (SILF) in the 1910s. These temples are important to us because they reflect our culture, our heritage, our race, and our very existence across history. Not just the Justice Party in which my great grand uncle M T Subramania Mudaliar and grandfather P T Rajan played an important role, but the DMK also has focused on preserving this heritage, which is at the very core of our identity. DMK governments have allotted maximum funds to the HR & CE department, and it was our leader late Kalaignar (M Karunanidhi) who got the Tiruvarur chariot rolling after decades. The DMK’s efforts for temples are not just in 2021 but from our earliest Governments in the 1960s. It is part of our identity, so we pay this much attention to the temples and our leader has allotted the portfolio to an active minister (P K Sekarbabu) with historically unprecedented funds. So, it is not because the DMK wants to prove a political point or respond to BJP’s criticism? We have been doing it (protecting temples) well before the BJP existed. The first HRE Bill was brought in the 1920s during the Justice Party rule in the then Madras Presidency. Was there such a thing called the BJP in 1920? Then why did we do it? We did it because of our principles as I have clearly explained. We do not do it in “reaction” to others. How narcissistic is it to say that everything that happens is because of one person or one party? You criticized the Free TN temples campaign and accused spiritual leader Jaggi Vasudev of violating rules on various counts. But a few days later you issued a statement saying you will not comment further on the issue. Do you regret criticising him? I have not changed my views at all. He (Jaggi Vasudev) is a man who uses God and religion to make a living, to earn money. I still stay that way, and I am not taking my words back. There may be violations of 10 or more different departments and laws. Incidentally, Isha Foundation itself has accepted that it has violated the regulations when seeking regularisation of some structures. When they have accepted and it is documented by none other than the Comptroller and Auditor-General (CAG), what is there to debate or argue? My clarification was necessitated because a crescendo was building up that some immediate action was on the anvil. I merely said it was not my role to prosecute because none of the violations relates to the departments I look after. But this issue highlights a bigger problem. Trusts with Income Tax exemption status are seen as special category entities, and states often neglect their regulatory role. It is not in the nation’s interest to have entities that are registered with the state government but implicitly or effectively regulated solely by the Income Tax Department of the Union. It is not a sustainable long-term model. The previous Government passed into law a Trust Regulation Act (2020) as guided by both the High Court and Supreme Court. We opposed the framing of that Act as draconian and ill-designed, and after other interventions, the law was withdrawn. But on principle, I agree with both courts that states should have effective laws to regulate charitable trusts that do not come under HR & CE and the Wakf board. We need a law, and I will request the Chief Minister that we must enact a well-crafted law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/voting-value-in-gst-council-should-be-proportionate-to-taxes-contributed-by-states-tn-fm-1000046.html
22-06-2021||National||India's fresh Covid-19 cases fall below 50K after 91 days; 1,167 fatalities in 24 hours||India on Tuesday reported 42,640 fresh Covid-19 cases and 1,167 new deaths. India saw less than 50,000 single-day infections after 91 days, the Union Health Ministry said in a statement. Active cases in the country dropped below 7 lakh after 79 days, according to Union Health Ministry.   The death toll in the country now stands at 3,89,302. Daily recoveries outnumbered the daily new infections for the 40th consecutive day, the Ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-fresh-covid-19-cases-fall-below-50k-after-91-days-1167-fatalities-in-24-hours-1000078.html
22-06-2021||National||Don't believe a 'Third or Fourth Front' can challenge BJP: Prashant Kishor||In a dramatic reveal, political strategist Prashant Kishor has ruled out the possibility of an association of opposition parties ahead of the next general election, putting to rest speculations after his meetings with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar in recent days. He also said the Third Front model is "tried and tested" and he believes it to be archaic and not applicable in the current political dynamic. After Kishor met Pawar for the second time in two weeks on Monday, speculations were rife of bringing together a 'Third Front' in the 2024 general elections. Clarifying that it’s not the case, Kishor told that these meetings are for the men to get to know each other better. Talking about his hours-long meeting with Pawar, Kishor said the two engage in hardcore political discussions. They explore the possibilities of schemes by going state by state, that will work in fighting against BJP, he added. In his conversation with NDTV, Kishor went on to say that Bengal Chief Minister Mamta Banerjee’s victory tells all the opposition parties that "they too can stand up to the BJP and give them a contest". Meanwhile, he criticised the Congress’s approach and said the party "must realise that it has a problem and then do something about it". After his meeting with Kishor on Monday, Pawar and Yashwant Sinha of the Trinamool Congress called for a meeting of opposition leaders at the former’s residence in the presence of journalists, ex-diplomats, academics, and intellectual figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-believe-a-third-or-fourth-front-can-challenge-bjp-prashant-kishor-1000107.html
22-06-2021||National||Pawar's opposition meet today: What we know so far and what to expect||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar and Trinamool Congress leader Yashwant Sinha have invited leaders from opposition parties to meet on Tuesday, ahead of a Lok Sabha session, with a view to uniting anti-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parties in the country. The NCP has said the agenda of the meeting in Delhi will be to discuss the Lok Sabha session and the current political situation in the country, while a party spokesperson has affirmed that Pawar would work to bring opposition parties under a single banner going forward. The meet will bring together figures from across the anti-BJP spectrum, including leaders like Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh, Communist Party of India’s D Raja, Jammu and Kashmir National Conference's Farooq Abdullah and Samajwadi Party spokesperson Ghanshyam Tiwari. The important meet could set the tone for a grand opposition to the ruling BJP. The discussion will include not only like-minded politicians, but also economists and public figures such as economist Arun Kumar and screenwriter Javed Akhtar. The meeting comes a day after Pawar sat down with poll strategist Prashant Kishor at his residence for the second time in two weeks, where they reportedly spoke about issues relating to opposition unity. Kishor is widely credited as the architect of recent assembly election results that went against the BJP in West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. The question of Congress’ involvement in the mega alliance could be a deciding factor, given its national presence. However, the question of leadership in any such alliance is a prickly issue and has often been seen as the major obstacle in these discussions. Moreover, Pawar and company would have to iron out differences between local parties who are in opposition to the Congress at a state-level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pawars-opposition-meet-today-what-we-know-so-far-and-what-to-expect-1000111.html
22-06-2021||National||Renowned poet Poovachal Khader passes away||Eminent lyricist-poet Poovachal Khader, who had penned a handful of evergreen romantic songs and nostalgic melodies in Mollywood during late 1970s and 80s, died following Covid-19 complications here on Tuesday. He was 73. He died following cardiac arrest while undergoing treatment for Covid and intense pneumonia at the government medical college hospital here, family sources said. Creator of a number of biggest ever hit songs of Malayalam, Khader wrote nearly 1500 songs in about 400 movies in his career spanning over five decades. "Poomaname" (Nirakoottu), "Anuragini itha en" (Oru Kudakkeezhil), "Etho janma kalpanayil" (Palangal), "Natha nee varum" (Chamaram) and so on were among the evergreen songs penned by Khader. Born in a tiny hamlet named Poovachal near hear in December 25, 1948, Khader had worked as an engineer in the government service before becoming a part of the tinsel town. After entering the Mollywood by penning lyrics for a movie in 1972, he had been a prominent presence in the industry for several decades and penned songs for maestros like K J Yesudas, P Jaychandran, S Janaki and so on. He worked with several iconic filmmakers including Bharathan, Padmarajan, P N Menon, K G George and I V Sasi during his illustrious creative career. Also a published author, Khader wrote a number of Mappila and radio songs besides penning lyrics for movies. He is survived by wife Amina Beevi and two daughters. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan termed the demise of Khader as a 'great loss' to the world of literature and said he might be the lyricist who had written highest number of film songs in Malayalam. Most of his songs had received incredible acceptance among people, he added. Union Minister V Muraleedharan also condoled the death of Poovachal Khader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/renowned-poet-poovachal-khader-passes-away-1000123.html
22-06-2021||National||J&K's Gupkar alliance to attend Modi's all-party meeting, but won't compromise on Article 370||After days of suspense, the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) on Tuesday announced that they will attend the Prime Minister’s all-party meeting on Jammu and Kashmir on June 24 in New Delhi, but “there will be no compromise on the Article 370 issue.” “Our stand is clear and all of you know what our stand is. Since New Delhi has invited the leaders individually, we have decided that all those invited will attend the meeting and put forth their points on J&K,” National Conference president Farooq Abdullah told reporters here after chairing a meeting of the PAGD leaders at his Gupkar residence.   He said they will put their stand before the Prime Minister and (Union) Home Minister and when the meeting will end, “we will brief you about what we said and what was the response.” Firebrand PDP president and former chief minister, Mehbooba Mufti said the agenda of their meeting is to demand restoration of what was snatched “illegally and unconstitutionally” on 5 August 2019 by the Centre. “We are not against dialogue. I believe New Delhi should have released all political prisoners for creating an atmosphere for talks but it didn’t," she said. CPI (M) senior leader, Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami, who is also the spokesman of the PAGD, said that there should be no “mistaken belief that we are going to sign on the agenda of New Delhi.” “We are going to see what New Delhi’s offer is and if it is in the interest of the people of J&K, then only we will proceed. Otherwise there is going to be a big no from us,” he told reporters. Awami National Conference (ANC) vice-president Muzaffar Shah, who is nephew of Farooq Abdullah, said there will be no compromise on Article 370 and Article 35 A. The leaders of eight political parties — the NC, PDP, BJP, Congress, Apni Party, CPI (M), People's Conference, and the Panthers Party — were telephonically invited by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla for participation in the meeting to be held at the prime minister's residence in the national capital at 3 pm on Thursday. The PAGD — an alliance of NC, PDP, CPM, Peoples Movement and ANC — formed in October last year by Kashmir-centric leaders with the pledge towards restoration of the special status of J&K revoked by the Center in August 2019 – had called a meeting today to discuss its strategy. Sources privy to today’s meeting told DH that as soon the leaders assembled, Mehbooba was in favor of sending only Farooq Abdullah to attend the PM’s meeting on behalf of the PAG. “However, Tarigami and Abdullah convinced her by saying they should not repeat the mistake Hurriyat Conference leaders did in 2016 by refusing to talk to a Parliamentary delegation,” they revealed. It was finally decided that Abdullah, Mehbooba and Tarigami will be attending the meeting on behalf of the PAGD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jks-gupkar-alliance-to-attend-modis-all-party-meeting-but-wont-compromise-on-article-370-1000124.html
22-06-2021||National||Sai University opens admission for UG programmes for FY22||Sai University in Chennai has opened admissions for its UG programmes for the academic year 2021-2022. The varsity has three schools -- School of Arts and Sciences, School of Computing and Data Science and School of Law. For the undergraduate programmes, the university is accepting test scores of SAT/ACT/Pearson Undergraduate Entrance Exam (as required for relevant program) for admissions. "Our aim at Sai University is to nurture students to become problem solvers. We want to create a conducive ecosystem for learning, where we bolster a student’s ability to think critically, comprehend complex situations analytically, and then articulate it in the best way possible,” K V Ramani, Founder and Chancellor of Sai University, said. Last year, the virtual foundation stone was laid by the then Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami at Navalur on the Old Mahabalipuram Road in Chennai. The city campus can accommodate 240 students, while the main campus is being built at Paiyanur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sai-university-opens-admission-for-ug-programmes-for-fy22-1000141.html
22-06-2021||National||On boats, trucks and JCB: Officials cross all barriers to exceed vaccine target in Arunachal district||Authorities of Changlang district in Arunachal Pradesh, located on the border of Myanmar, have managed to vaccinate 50 per cent of its population in the 18 to 44 age group and 90 per cent of its 45+ age group against Covid-19 using unconventional modes of transport to reach there. Due to the rise in Covid-19 cases in the district, Changlang’s district administration announced a “vaccination challenge” for the 12 health care centres to ramp up the vaccination process. In the three-day-long campaign, the authorities managed to give the first shot to 44,366 people in the age group of 18 to 44 years and 20,227 people in the 45+ age group, which accounts for 50 per cent and 90 per cent of the total population in each category respectively. The largely forested Changlang is located around 300 km away from the state’s capital, Itanagar. “It was especially a challenge to go to areas across the Noa Dihing River. Most are not connected by bridges,” Yadav said. In a tweet, Devansh Yadav shared photos of the health care authorities’ efforts to reach there. In the images, the healthcare workers can be seen using boats, a JCB excavator and a truck on muddy roads to carry out the vaccination process. Rivers, hills or slushy routes- our Vaccination teams on the job!! ✌🏻 In the vaccination challenge, the healthcare workers were given daily targets based on the population in a circle with a cash prize, which they can use to meet the requirements of their centres. For maximum vaccinations in a day, the first prize was for Rs 2 lakh, followed by Rs 1 lakh to the second-prize winners, and Rs 75,000 for the third-prize winners. “The result was great. Put together, the district crossed its target by 200.1per cent,” Yadav said. Before this initiative, only 13 per cent of the 18-44 age group and 80 per cent of the 45+ age group were vaccinated in the Changlang district. A 25-year-old nurse, Takio Jully, who rode the JCB, said, “I have been doing vaccinations since April, but never before did we have to travel in a JCB for it.” She described it as a “novel experience” and added, “It took us two hours to travel about 30 km. When we arrived, even the villagers, who are usually cut off, found it amusing.” The Innao Primary Health Centre (PHC) managed to bag the first prize by administering more than 900 Covid-19 shots in areas inhabited by the Chakma community, which earlier had a daily target of 300. Sharing her experience, Jully said people were apprehensive about taking the vaccine, until the benefits were explained to them. She said, “Everyone has to get a shot, so we will go anywhere to administer it, even if it involves going on a JCB.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/on-boats-trucks-and-jcb-officials-cross-all-barriers-to-exceed-vaccine-target-in-arunachal-district-1000144.html
22-06-2021||National||Post-Covid patient with lung fibrosis gets a new life||A 42-year-old post-Covid-19 patient with severe lung fibrosis got a fresh life in Mumbai. Varsha Kale, a Mumbai resident, who could barely walk five steps after being infected with Covid-19 on March 1, has now come back to routine. Dr Arvind Kate, Pulmonologist at Zen Multispecialty Hospital, Chembur, Mumbai, treated the patient. The patient, who was treated by Dr Arvind Kate, Pulmonologist at Zen Multispecialty Hospital, Chembur, Mumbai, with low SPO2 levels is back on track after prompt treatment and resumed her daily routine. She had symptoms such as body pain and fever and was home quarantined in Nashik, where she had been during the lockdown. Things turned awry when her oxygen level dropped below 90 on March 9. Varsha was immediately admitted to the hospital nearby, underwent a CT scan but her condition didn’t improve and her oxygen level dropped to 20. The family panicked and shifted her to another hospital in the city as her health kept deteriorating. Then, the patient was on a Bi-Level Positive Airway Pressure (BPAP) machine is a type of ventilator used to treat chronic conditions that affect breathing. Her health improved and she tested negative. But, to her dismay, her CT scan revealed lung fibrosis. She was given medication and discharged from the hospital on April 4. Later, the family travelled to Mumbai in her car equipped with an oxygen cylinder and concentrator and visited Dr Kate. “On arrival, the patient underwent a CT scan. Lung fibrosis is the scarring of tissues leading to breathlessness, chronic cough, and weakness. The thickened and stiff tissue makes it more difficult for your lungs to function properly. As lung fibrosis worsens, one becomes progressively shorter of breath. Also, the lung damage which one undergoes due to lung fibrosis can't be repaired. But medications and therapies can help tackle symptoms and improve quality of life,” said Dr Kate. There are many patients like Varsha who have been diagnosed with post-Covid lung fibrosis. “A prompt diagnosis is also key to managing it. The patient was advised to stay away from sick people, limit visitors at home and take physiotherapy as she was immobile for a month. One follow-up, the patient’s health has drastically improved and she doesn’t require oxygen support now,” he said. “Our world turned upside down once my wife Varsha got infected with Covid and her oxygen level kept dropping and reached till 20. She was gasping for breath and it was painful for us to see her struggling that way. She couldn’t even walk 5 steps. To top it all, she was also having lung fibrosis. For over a month she was bed-bound on oxygen support and required oxygen daily,” said the patient’s husband Nitin Kale. She doesn’t require oxygen support now, and her SPO2 level is above 95. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/post-covid-patient-with-lung-fibrosis-gets-a-new-life-1000146.html
22-06-2021||National||Over 2.14 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses available with states: Centre||More than 2.14 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs and over 33,80,590 vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. According to the ministry data published at 7 am, India administered 86.16 lakh vaccine doses in a single day, the highest ever single-day vaccination achieved in the world so far. Cumulatively, 28.87 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide inoculation drive. More than 29.35 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far, through Government of India (free of cost channel) and through direct state procurement category. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage is 27,20,14,523 doses, the ministry said. "More than 2.14 crore (2,14,90,297) Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered," it said. "Furthermore, more than 33,80,590 vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by the states and UTs within the next three days," the ministry said. The new phase of universalistion of Covid-19 vaccination commenced on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-214-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-available-with-states-centre-1000155.html
22-06-2021||National||PM Modi to interact with participants of Toycathon-2021||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with participants of Toycathon-2021 on Thursday via video conferencing, his office said.  Toycathon-2021 was jointly launched by the Ministry of Education, WCD Ministry, MSME Ministry, DPIIT, Textile Ministry, I&B Ministry and AICTE on January 5, 2021 to crowd-source innovative toys and games ideas, the PMO noted.  Around 1.2 lakh participants from across India registered and submitted more than 17,000 ideas for the Toycathon 2021, out of which 1,567 ideas have been shortlisted for the three-day online Toycathon Grand Finale, being held from June 22 to June 24.  Due to Covid-19 restrictions, this Grand Finale will have teams with digital toy ideas, while a separate physical event will be organised for non-digital toy concepts, it said.  India's domestic market as well as the global toy market offers a huge opportunity to the manufacturing sector.Toycathon-2021 is aimed at boosting the toy industry in India to help it capture a wider share of the toy market.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-interact-with-participants-of-toycathon-2021-1000159.html
22-06-2021||National||PWD announces no-leave policy for field staff during monsoon||The Public Works Department (PWD) on Tuesday said field staff of road maintenance and electrical units won't be allowed to get leaves during the oncoming monsoon season as preparations were on to keep the city free of waterlogging. As per an office order, issued by Delhi government's PWD, "in any unavoidable/exceptional circumstances leaves may be granted with the prior approval of the concerned Chief Engineer". "In view of the oncoming monsoon season, it has been decided by the competent authority that no field staff of road maintenance unit and electrical units maintaining Storm Water Pump houses under the control of Public Works Department will be allowed to take leaves during the monsoon period," it said. Last year, images of vehicles stranded at waterlogged Minto Bridge underpass, where a delivery van driver drowned, had led to a huge public outcry. To keep the city waterlogging free, the civic agencies are carrying out desilting (removal of silt and garbage) of drains in a big way. The PWD and the three Municipal Corporations of Delhi (MCDs) hoped that desilting of drains would be completed before the onset of monsoon by month-end. Earlier, a senior PWD official said that it was "on track" and would be completed between June 20 and 25. According to a rough estimate, there are around 2,000 drains, spanning around 1,054 km, which come under the PWD, the official said. The PWD maintains 1260-km roads in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pwd-announces-no-leave-policy-for-field-staff-during-monsoon-1000178.html
22-06-2021||National||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin 77.8% effective in Phase 3 trial, shows data||Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer of Covaxin, has submitted its phase-3 clinical trial to the Central Drug Standards Control Organisation, claiming nearly 78% efficacy of its Covid-19 vaccine, which is currently being used for mass vaccination in India. An expert panel under the CDSCO on Tuesday reviewed the data, news agencies claimed quoting unnamed sources, but there was no confirmation from the Union Health Ministry on whether the home-grown vaccine received the final approval from the Drugs Controller General of India. The Hyderabad-based firm claimed that the indigenous vaccine demonstrated 77.8% efficacy in the final trial conducted on 25,800 subjects. “The Covid-19 Subject Expert Committee of the CDSCO on Tuesday reviewed the data and accepted it. Their recommendations have been sent to the DCGI now,” PTI reported, quoting a source.  Releasing the interim results from phase-3 trials in April, Bharat Biotech and ICMR claimed that Covaxin demonstrated an overall interim clinical efficacy of 78% and 100% efficacy against severe Covid-19 disease. The absence of the phase-3 clinical trial data is Covaxin’s biggest stumbling block for getting the World Health Organisation certification. In the absence of the WHO recognition, those travelling abroad are now advised to take the Covishield jab to get a Covid-19 vaccination certificate. Bharat Biotech is expected to attend a "pre-submission" meeting on July 23 with the WHO as a part of the process to get the Emergency Use Listing for the made-in-India shot. Though the meeting will not be a detailed review of the product, the vaccine-maker will have an opportunity to submit a summary on the overall quality of the jab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotechs-covaxin-778-effective-in-phase-3-trial-shows-data-1000180.html
22-06-2021||National||India's Covid-19 vaccination pace seen dwindling from first day record||India's vaccinations over the next few weeks could fall short of the blistering pace set on the first day of a federal campaign, unless it makes inroads in a vast hinterland and bridges a shortage of doses, experts said on Tuesday. The 86 lakh doses injected on Monday represented a record two-fold jump as India kicked off free inoculation for all adults, reversing a policy for individual states and hospitals to buy vaccines for those aged 18 to 44. "This is clearly not sustainable," Chandrakant Lahariya, an expert in public policy and health systems, told Reuters. "With the currently projected vaccine supply for the next few months, the maximum daily achievable rate is 40 lakh to 50 lakh a day." The inoculation effort in the world's second most populous nation had covered just about 5.5% of all the 95 crore people eligible, even though India is the world's largest producer of vaccines. A devastating second wave of infections during April and May overwhelmed medical staff and facilities, killing hundreds of thousands. Images of funeral pyres blazing in car parks and open spaces spurred questions over the chaotic vaccine rollout. Since May, India has distributed an average of fewer than 30 lakh doses each day, far less than the 1 crore health officials say is crucial to protect the millions vulnerable to new surges. Particularly in the countryside, where two-thirds of a population of 140 crore lives and the healthcare system is often overstretched, the drive has faltered, experts say. Maintaining the pace of the vaccination effort will prove particularly challenging when it comes to injecting the younger population in such "underserved" areas, said Delhi-based epidemiologist Rajib Dasgupta. Widespread vaccine shortages since May have worsened the divide between urban and rural areas, as many younger people in cities turned to private hospitals, paying between $9 and $24 a dose in the rush to protect themselves from the virus. Such regional gaps in healthcare are exacerbated unless comprehensive data is made available on vaccinations, among others factors, said Bhramar Mukherjee, a professor of epidemiology at the University of Michigan. Authorities in New Delhi said more than 80 lakh residents had yet to receive a first dose, and added that inoculating all the adults in the capital would take more than a year, at the current pace. Even as new infections have dropped nationwide to their lowest in more than three months, experts expressed concern over the transmissibility of the variants driving infections in India and spreading worldwide and urged a faster vaccination effort. Over the past 24 hours India reported 42,640 new infections, its lowest figure since March 23, along with 1,167 deaths. Its tally of infections now stands at 2.998 crore, with a death toll of 389,302, health ministry data showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-vaccination-pace-seen-dwindling-from-first-day-record-1000182.html
22-06-2021||National||India tests longer-range drone flights, eyes Covid-19 vaccine deliveries||An aviation firm has carried out the first tests in India of longer-range drone deliveries, as hopes grow that they could deliver medicines as well as Covid-19 vaccines to remote areas. Greater use of drones could be a game-changer for medical services in the South Asian nation's hard-to-reach rural areas where healthcare is limited and roads often poor, experts say. Throttle Aerospace Systems is among 20 organisations granted permits by the government since May to conduct experimental flights beyond the current limit of 450 metres (1,475 feet). Two drones -- one that can carry up to one kilogramme (2.2 pounds) for 20 kilometres (12 miles) or nearly an hour, and another that can lift two kilos for 15 kilometres -- were tested on Monday in the southern state of Karnataka. "Medicines was the payload here and... 2.5 kilometres were covered in seven minutes and it delivered the medicines at the designated point and the drone returned," Throttle's co-founder, Sebastian Anto, told AFP at the test site in the southern state of Karnataka. The government this month also invited bids from drone operators to help set up a pilot project for the delivering of medical supplies as it seeks to bolster its faltering coronavirus vaccination drive. The epidemiology chief of the Indian Council of Medical Research, Samiran Panda, told The Hindu daily newspaper that the technology could help vaccinate priority groups in hard-to-reach places. "We need smart vaccination instead of mass vaccination to stem an epidemic," Panda told the newspaper last week. India lags behind many other nations when it comes to drones -- or Unmanned Aerial Vehicles -- both in terms of their uses and the regulatory framework. Under current regulations, they have to be flown in full view, or within 450 metres, of their operators on the ground. In Germany, researchers are reportedly testing drone prototypes that can track down disaster victims by their screams. In Australia, drones using artificial intelligence algorithms are being used to spot crocodiles and count koalas in rugged terrain. India, home to 1.3 billion people spread across some 3.2 million square kilometres (1.15 million square miles), is the world's seventh-largest country by land mass. "Drone technology would have a huge impact in those areas where emergency medicines and vaccines could be supplied," co-founder of lobby group the Drone Federation of India, Vipul Singh, told AFP. "Where it takes a few hours to travel 20-30 kilometres by road, whereas a drone can actually travel that distance in 10 to 15 minutes," said Singh, also the co-founder of Bangalore-based Aarav Unmanned Systems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-tests-longer-range-drone-flights-eyes-covid-19-vaccine-deliveries-1000203.html
22-06-2021||National||TN CM assures resolutions in Assembly against farm laws, CAA||Resolutions would be adopted in the Assembly during the upcoming budget session against the Centre's farm laws and the Citizenship Amendment Act, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin said on Tuesday. Ever since the three farm laws were enacted by the union government, the DMK had all along demanded the Centre to withdraw the laws, which are "against the interests of farmers," the Chief Minister said intervening his party MLA Tamizharasi, who spoke on the matter in the House. The government has made a clear decision to pass a resolution seeking the withdrawal of these three farm laws reflecting the feelings of farmers across the country, he said adding there is no change on that decision. However, since this is the first session after the DMK assumed office and when the debate on motion of thanks to the Governor's Address is on, it would not be appropriate to adopt such resolutions, he said. Stalin asserted that Tamil Nadu government's opposition to the farm laws would be made known by way of a resolution during the budget sitting. Similarly, since the CAA has "affected the interests of minorities across the country leading to a sense of fear" among them, a resolution would be adopted in the budget session urging the central government to take back the Citizenship Amendment law, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tn-cm-assures-resolutions-in-assembly-against-farm-laws-caa-1000217.html
22-06-2021||National||Gujarat: At 67, Vadodara woman fulfils decades-old doctorate dream||While for many, age is a reminder to take things slow, for 67-year-old Usha Lodaya, it pushed her to pursue her teenage dream of becoming a doctor. Lodaya, who had dropped out of college at 20, has completed her doctorate course in Jainism after resuming her education in her sixties. The gritty Vadodara resident enrolled into a Jainism course at Maharashtra-based Shatrunjay Academy, an institution set up to spread the knowledge of Jainism among the community members. On Sunday, the sexagenarian passed her viva voce on 12 contemplations in Jain tradition, to earn her doctorate degree. "It has been my dream to become a doctor ever since I enrolled for a Bachelor of Science degree decades ago. However, I was forced to drop out of college when I was 20 years old because of an early marriage," Lodaya told PTI. Inspired by her guru Jaydarshitashriji Maharaj, a scholar on Jainism, Lodaya renewed her ambition and worked to realise it by enrolling for an online course in Jainism at the trust-run institute in Jalgaon, Maharashtra. "My decades-old dream came to be realised as I was inspired by my guruji to join a three-year graduation course in Jainism started at Shatrunjay Academy," she said. Lodaya completed a three-year degree course in Jainism, followed by a two-year Masters and a three-year Doctorate course. "As I belong to the Jain community, I plan to continue exploring the religion further and teach students from the community, who come to me regularly," said a determined Lodaya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-at-67-vadodara-woman-fulfils-decades-old-doctorate-dream-1000218.html
22-06-2021||National||Supreme Court upholds ICSE, CBSE assessment scheme for class 12||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to interfere with the assessment scheme propounded by both CBSE and CISCE for evaluation of Class 12 students, whose board examinations have been cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The top court rejected the objections raised by a parents’ body as well as students and said that it is not possible to have a second guess approach with regard to various aspects of the assessment scheme. “We hold that there is no reason to interfere with the Scheme propounded by the CBSE or ICSE. Notably, there is another group of students represented by different counsel who has unreservedly supported the Schemes under consideration and does not want any interference therewith,” said a special bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari. “More so, we find that the stated Schemes are fair and reasonable and take into account concerns of all students and is in the larger public interest,” the bench added.  The bench also noted the submission of Attorney General K K Venugopal, assisting the court in an individual capacity and also appearing for the Centre, that University Grants Commission (UGC) will issue directives to all the colleges and varsities that admissions be made after the declaration of results by all the boards -- Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) and state boards. The top court, which dealt with all the major objections of the interveners -- Uttar Pradesh Parents’ Association, and second compartment and private students -- said the scheme propounded cannot be doubted on the mere apprehension of manipulation of marks by the CBSE schools to favour their own students. The bench rejected the submission of senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for UP Parents Association, Lucknow, that option to students for external examination as given in the CBSE’s scheme should be offered at the very initial stage to both the school and the students and the results should be declared together. It said, “We are of the considered opinion that tweaking the Scheme in any manner, as propounded by the two Boards would result in denial of one option to the students and also delay the declaration of results indefinitely. There would be uncertainty until the examination for improvisation is actually conducted and results are declared”. The bench said that on the other hand, if the students are given the option of accepting the internal assessment marks, the results could be declared before July 31, 2021, and despite a declaration of those results, they may still have the option of appearing in the examination for improvisation, if they so choose to. “It is worthwhile to note that a somewhat similar Scheme was adopted in the previous academic year and the body of students accepted the internal assessment results. Hardly, 10 students from ICSE and 15,000 from CBSE availed of the option to appear in the examination for improvisation of marks,” it said. The bench also dealt with the objection of Singh that the past performance of three years of the students is being reckoned for internal assessment in the scheme propounded by CBSE, which in his view, is unfair and irrational. The bench said that it agrees with the submission canvassed by Venugopal that the scheme is a composite one and has been formulated by the expert body which was appointed by the Board consisting of thirteen members. It noted Venugopal’s submission that all aspects have been taken into account by the expert body on the basis of which the final decision to cancel the examination was taken, including formulation of the scheme to have holistic approach and to ensure that no candidate/student is prejudiced. The bench said that instead, the Scheme intends to rationalize the internal assessment performance and bring semblance of parity amongst the assessment of different schools. “This exercise will be undertaken by a broad-based Result Committee. It is, therefore, not open to us to have a second look as suggested by Vikas Singh. We would instead uphold the Scheme as propounded by the respective Boards, which, are independent and autonomous bodies and entitled to take their own decision with regard to the affairs of conducting examination by them,” the bench said. It said that on the submission that the results be declared on the same date to avoid students missing the opportunity in admissions to colleges, the Attorney General has made statement on instructions that UGC will direct all universities to commence the process of admissions after the declaration of results by all the boards. The top court also dealt with the submission that there is the possibility of CBSE schools manipulating the records as the relevant data on the basis of which internal assessment is to be done is not in the custody or in possession of the board. “Even this submission does not commend to us. We find force in the argument canvassed by learned Attorney General for India that the broad-based Result Committee would examine all aspects of the matter and take decision on the basis of registers maintained by the concerned schools, and inspected by the competent authority. On the basis of such vague apprehension, the Scheme as has been propounded cannot be doubted,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-upholds-icse-cbse-assessment-scheme-for-class-12-1000234.html
22-06-2021||National||Covid-19: Top five states by daily vaccination numbers as new policy kicks in||India’s new Covid-19 vaccination policy kicked in on Monday and saw the highest number of vaccines being administered since the start of the entire inoculation campaign as the Centre shouldered the responsibility of supplying vaccines free of cost to all adults in the country. The Centre has said states had been given visibility on the number of vaccine doses available to them in the month of June by the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare beforehand, which helped them plan out their vaccine distribution strategy district-wise in an efficient manner and underpinned the record rollout of almost 81 lakh doses. So far, more than 28.7 crore doses have been doled out, and over 17 per cent of the population has received at least one dose. Madhya Pradesh was, by far, the state that administered the most vaccines on Monday, distributing 15.4 lakh doses, out of which the district of Indore itself accounted for more than 2.12 lakh doses — nearly three times the number of doses administered in Delhi. The state overshot its initial 10-lakh-dose target as around 7,000 vaccination centres were set up across the state’s 52 districts and local administration organised transport to reach and return from vaccination centres, with special attention towards the elderly and disabled. Karnataka came runner-up with 10.67 lakh shots, though Bengaluru Urban clocked the most jabs in the entire nation at 2.14 lakh doses. The state breezed past its conservative target of seven lakh doses for the day. India’s most populous state, Uttar Pradesh, was third on the list, pushing out 6.74 lakh jabs on Monday. The state’s vaccination coverage has so far been lagging in percentage terms, though the state government has plans to ramp up production to 10-12 lakh doses a day by July. Gujarat missed out on a podium finish but vaccinated more than 5 lakh people on Monday through a network of around 5,000 vaccination centres and a campaign that went onto the streets to spread vaccine awareness. Union Home Minister Amit Shah is currently in the state on a two-day visit, where he will visit three vaccination centres to help spread the word about the state government’s inoculation drive. Haryana administered more than 4.72 lakh doses according to the Centre’s figures, though the state government has claimed upwards of 6 lakh doses were administered on the day, with Gurugram vaccinating more than 1 lakh people on the day, according to state's home minister Anil Vij.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-top-five-states-by-daily-vaccination-numbers-as-new-policy-kicks-in-1000250.html
22-06-2021||National||NCP leaders discuss party's future policies, role in 2024 Lok Sabha polls at its executive meeting||The NCP held its national executive meeting on Tuesday and discussed the current national issues, the party's future policies and its role in the 2024 Lok Sabha election. The meeting was chaired by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar and attended by party leaders Supriya Sule, Praful Patel and Sunil Tatkare among others. The meeting, which was held at Pawar's residence, lasted for about two hours. The future goals of the party were discussed in detail at the meeting, Pawar said in a series of tweets in Marathi and English. "I had a detailed discussion with my committee members on our future policies, our role in the next Lok Sabha (polls) and current national issues," he said. Among various issues, the meeting also discussed the local body elections to be held in Mumbai next year, Patel said. "The party's work was evaluated at the meeting, which also discussed the state elections to be held next year," the Rajya Sabha MP told reporters. Pawar is scheduled to host a meeting of the leaders from several opposition parties and eminent personalities at his residence later in the day to discuss the current scenario in the country amid the speculation about the possible formation of a third front against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). A senior NCP leader, meanwhile, said the meeting to be hosted by Pawar has been organised by Rashtra Manch convenor and Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Yashwant Sinha. "Sinha had approached Pawar in this connection and the NCP chief agreed to host the meeting. All the leaders participating in the meeting have been invited by the Rashtra Manch, not the NCP," he said. "This meeting is highly overrated and speculative," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncp-leaders-discuss-partys-future-policies-role-in-2024-lok-sabha-polls-at-its-executive-meeting-1000257.html
22-06-2021||National||India has 22 Delta Plus Covid-19 variant cases: Government||India currently has 22 cases of the Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus, of which 16 are in Ratnagiri and Jalgaon districts of Maharashtra, health officials said on Tuesday, observing that an advisory has been sent to the states reporting such cases. In addition, the “variant of concern” has been found in genome sequences sampled from Palakkad and Pathanamthitta districts of Kerala, and Bhopal and Shivpuri districts of Madhya Pradesh, the Union Health Ministry wrote in an advisory to the states. The ministry has asked Maharashtra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh to implement the public health measures in a more focussed and effective way in the districts reporting Delta Plus cases. The Chief Secretaries have been advised to take up immediate containment measures in the districts and clusters (as identified by the INSACOG or India’s Covid-19 genome sequencing consortium) including preventing crowds and intermingling of people, widespread testing, prompt tracing as well as vaccine coverage on a priority basis. Indian scientists mapping the genomes of SARS-CoV-2 variants have informed the ministry that the Delta Plus variant has three characteristics – (1) increased transmissibility (2) stronger binding to the lung cells and (3) potential reduction in response to monoclonal antibody treatment. But its prevalence is still low as out of 45,000 sequences of SARS-CoV-2 genomes, the Delta Plus strain has been found in 22 cases. The states have been advised to ensure that adequate samples of positive persons are promptly sent to the designated INSACOG laboratories so that clinical epidemiological correlations can be made for further guidance to be provided to States. Nine other nations – the USA, the UK, Portugal, Switzerland, Japan, Poland, Nepal, China and Russia – have reported this strain, characterised by a new mutation known as K417N that may allow the pathogen to dodge a new class of Covid-19 medicines called monoclonal antibodies. "For any new variant, the public health responses have been standardised. They are test-track-isolate-prevention of intermingling and vaccination,” Bhushan said, asserting that both Covishield and Covaxin were effective against Delta variants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-22-delta-plus-covid-19-variant-cases-government-1000259.html
22-06-2021||National||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin likely to get DCGI clearance today: Report||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin is likely to get clearance from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) today, according to a report by ANI quoting sources.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotechs-covaxin-likely-to-get-dcgi-clearance-today-report-1000263.html
22-06-2021||National||India to host 9th Asian Ministerial Energy Roundtable next year||India has agreed to host the 9th Asian Ministerial Energy Roundtable (AMER9) next year, the International Energy Forum (IEF) said on Tuesday. The 9th Asian Ministerial Energy Roundtable, dates of which will be announced later, will take forward the understandings reached in the previous meeting in Abu Dhabi during 2018, which was co-hosted by India. That meeting focused on global energy security in the age of change. India agreed to host the 9th roundtable after a virtual meeting between IEF Secretary-General Joseph McMonigle and Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, the IEF said in a statement. Chief executive officers of Indian Oil Corp, Bharat Petroleum and Hindustan Petroleum Corp, in addition to senior officers from the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, were also present at the meeting. "Their discussions also covered the IEF agenda of activities, energy markets and the recovery of the global economy in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic," the statement said. The two agreed to continue their institutional engagement on a regular basis and will consider a new proposal drafted by the IEF to enhance bilateral cooperation. "We welcome India's decision to host the Asian Ministerial Energy Roundtable next year. "This demonstrates the value of the IEF as a neutral platform to convene the world's energy powers and support dialogue to balance the interests of energy market participants and minimise the risks of economic shocks," said McMonigle. He added that India is expected to account for the largest share of energy demand growth of any country in the world over the next two decades. "So, their decisions on energy and the transition will be critical in determining the future of energy markets and climate change for everyone." Pradhan said India appreciates the role of the IEF as a unique, neutral body of energy producers and consumers. "We held discussions on global oil markets and transition pathways, and I conveyed our concern on rising crude prices and its negative impact on the fragile global economic recovery and the need for price stability," he said. The International Energy Forum (IEF) is the world's largest energy organisation with 71 member countries, accounting for 90 per cent of the global energy market. It holds energy dialogue promoting energy security, market stability and transparency in the transition to a sustainable and inclusive future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-host-9th-asian-ministerial-energy-roundtable-next-year-1000265.html
22-06-2021||National||Defence Ministry bags Rs 583 crore deal with Goa Shipyard to procure two pollution control ships||The Defence Ministry on Tuesday signed a contract with Goa Shipyard Ltd (GSL) for the construction of two pollution control vessels for the Indian Coast Guard at a cost of about Rs 583 crore, officials said. The ships are being procured to significantly augment the capability of the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) to respond to incidents of oil spills at the sea and also boost the force's pollution response mechanism. These two vessels are scheduled for delivery by November 2024 and May 2025 respectively. The defence ministry said the "special role ships" will be indigenously designed, developed and built by GSL. "The acquisition will significantly augment the capability of ICG to respond to oil spill disasters at sea," it said. At present, ICG has three pollution control vessels (PCVs) in its fleet at Mumbai, Visakhapatnam and Porbander to carry out dedicated pollution surveillance, oil spill monitoring and response operations in the Indian exclusive economic zone and islands around it. "The new PCVs planned are for pollution response requirements in eastern and the ecologically sensitive Andaman and Nicobar regions," the ministry said in a statement. "The vessels, with the capability of operating helicopter on board, will have many advanced features with modern pollution response equipment of niche technology for containing, recovering and dispersing of the marine oil spill," it said. The ministry said the contract would further boost the indigenous shipbuilding capability and increase employment opportunities in the shipbuilding sector that involves around 200 MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) vendors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-ministry-bags-rs-583-crore-deal-with-goa-shipyard-to-procure-two-pollution-control-ships-1000269.html
22-06-2021||National||Uphaar fire tragedy: Sushil Ansal played fraud to get passport renewed, police tells court||Sushil Ansal, convicted in the 1997 Uphaar cinema fire which killed 59 people, played a fraud on authorities by concealing information about criminal cases pending against him while getting his passport renewed, Delhi Police has told a court in a charge sheet filed against him. In its 8-page charge sheet filed before Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma, the police claimed that Ansal misled the government authority on oath that he has not been convicted in any criminal proceedings by any court. The police claimed that regarding the passport issued in 2013 to Ansal on a 'Tatkaal' application, “it is found that an affidavit under the Tatkaal scheme required specific deposition by the applicant to the effect that there were no criminal proceedings pending against the applicant in any court of law or that she/ he has not been convicted by any court of law for any criminal offence in past.” “In 2013, this affidavit was filed by the accused Sushil Ansal along with his application and he has on oath misled the Government Authority (RPO) that he has not been convicted in any criminal proceedings by any Court,” said the charge sheet, filed in February this year but has come to public knowledge only now. The matter has been adjourned for January 31, 2022. The police also said that a supplementary charge sheet will be filed in the case soon, along with the sanctions from the authorities concerned to prosecute Ansal. The case was lodged on the direction of the Delhi High Court while hearing a petition by Association of Victims of Uphaar Tragedy (AVUT) chairperson Neelam Krishnamoorthy alleging that Ansal concealed or gave false information to the authorities for renewal of his passport. Krishnamoorthy said that it took Delhi Police more than two years since the high court's direction to file the charge sheet despite the fact that that a detailed inquiry report by MEA was available on record. “We hope that the sanction under section 15 of Passport Act is granted at the earliest, for the trial to commence. In past too Sushi Ansal has taken the advantage of delayed trial and got scot free after being held guilty for the death of 59 people. I hope this matter will be decided at the earliest,” she said. Ansal, however, surrendered his passport on August 14, 2017 “because he knew that adverse orders against him may well be passed”, the final report said. “Sushil Ansal was fully aware of the provisions of Passport Act. He had deliberately left the relevant boxes in the application form pertaining to criminality or court proceedings unticked,” it said in the charge sheet. The police said however that during the course of investigation, no evidence came on record against the then sub-inspector who conducted the verification in 2013 of the passport of accused as he carried out the verification as per laid down procedure. “Regarding the role of RPO officials it is found that in 2013 the passport was issued as no adverse report was received from Special Branch, Delhi Police as the applicant Sushil Ansal changed the address from Panchseel Park to Feroze Shah Road and also concealed the fact of his conviction in his declaration in passport application,” it said. The charge sheet sought Ansal's prosecution under sections 177 (furnishing false information) and 181 (False statement on oath or affirmation to public servant or person authorised to administer an oath or affirmation) and 12 (obtaining a passport by suppressing information about his nationality) of Passport Act. Krishnamoorthy, who lost two children in the tragedy, has been fighting a legal battle on behalf of the victims' families for the last 20 years. It was alleged in the complaint that Ansal was getting his passport renewed every 5-10 years. As per rules, the passport application for new/ re-issue/ replacement of lost/ damaged passport issued by the Ministry of External Affairs mandates the applicant to disclose whether he is involved in any criminal case or not and to produce the NOC from the concerned court in case they are involved in any criminal prosecution. The plea claimed that Ansal was holding two passports. The court had also noted in an order that his passport number given to the court in 2018 was different from the earlier one mentioned in 2008. The fire at the Uphaar cinema had broken out during the screening of Hindi film 'Border' on June 13, 1997, had claimed 59 lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uphaar-fire-tragedy-sushil-ansal-played-fraud-to-get-passport-renewed-police-tells-court-1000275.html
22-06-2021||National||Rural areas administered more doses than urban in record Covid vaccination on June 21: Govt||As India achieved a "historic milestone" of administering 88.09 lakh coronavirus vaccine doses in a single day on June 21, nearly 64 per cent of the jabs were given in rural areas, the government said on Tuesday. Madhya Pradesh administered the maximum number of doses on June 21, followed by Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Assam, an official said. Addressing a joint press conference on the pandemic situation and vaccination status, the official said, "A historic milestone was achieved on 21st June 2021 -- 88.09 lakh doses administered in a single day." Of the doses, 36.32 per cent were administered in urban areas and 63.68 per cent in rural areas, the official said. Since the vaccination began in mid-January, India has administered 29.16 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines till 3 pm on June 22, he said. The government also said the coronavirus situation has been improving in the country but stressed on following Covid-19-appropriate behaviours. It said there has been an almost 90 per cent decline in India's daily Covid-19 cases as compared to the highest peak reported on May 7. It said 22 cases of delta plus variant of the coronavirus have been detected in the country so far, and added that it's still not a variant of concern. Of the 22 cases of delta plus variant, 16 have been reported from Ratnagiri and Jalgaon in Maharashtra and the rest from Madhya Pradesh and Kerala, the government added. India recorded less than 50,000 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 91 days, taking the total tally of cases to 2,99,77,861, while active cases fell below 7 lakh after 79 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 42,640 Covid infections were reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 3,89,302 with 1,167 daily fatalities, the lowest in 68 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rural-areas-administered-more-doses-than-urban-in-record-covid-vaccination-on-june-21-govt-1000279.html
22-06-2021||National||BJP's silence hurts, relations with them cannot remain 'one-sided,' says Chirag Paswan||"Hurt" at the BJP's silence while he battles challenges from within his party, Lok Janshakti Party leader Chirag Paswan said on Tuesday his relations with the saffron party cannot remain "one-sided" and he will consider all possibilities about his future political steps if attempts to corner him continue. In an interview with PTI, Paswan said his father Ram Vilas Paswan and he always stood by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP like a "rock" but the saffron party was not there when he expected their intervention during these "difficult" times. Underlining that he retains his faith in Modi, Paswan said, "But if you are cornered, pushed and forced to take a decision, then the party will consider all probabilities... The LJP will have to take a decision about its political future based on who stood by it and who did not." To questions on whether the BJP reached out to him during the current crisis and speculation about its role in the split, he said it was not "appropriate" for the saffron party to keep mum while the JD(U) worked to "engineer" a split in the LJP. "I expected them (BJP) to mediate and try to sort whole things out. Their silence definitely hurts," he said.  The BJP has maintained that the LJP crisis is an internal matter of the regional party. Asked why he kept mum on the BJP while targeting another NDA constituent JD(U), Paswan said it was the saffron party that has kept mum on him. He alleged that Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's party played a "visible" role in splitting his party and has had a history of doing so.  Kumar never wanted a Dalit leader to gain in stature and had earlier tried to weaken the LJP founder and his father, he said, citing a history of the JD(U) wooing LJP leaders to its side.  Amid speculation that his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, who has led a group of five MPs against Paswan and has been recognised as the LJP leader in Lok Sabha, may be inducted in the Union Cabinet, the two-term MP asserted that if the BJP offers Paras a ministerial berth as an LJP nominee then such a decision will not be acceptable to him.   Paras may be inducted as an independent or in any other capacity but his representation as the LJP nominee will not be acceptable to him, Paswan said, adding that it is now for the Election Commission to decide on the rival claims about which faction represents the party.   Asked if he still sees himself as a constituent of the BJP-led NDA at the national level, he said, "I don't know. It is for the BJP to decide whether I am part of the alliance or not. I have proven my honesty as an ally with them... But this relation cannot be one-sided forever." "If in return you do not recognise me, you help those who have separated from my party or are seen standing with them directly or indirectly. then I cannot remain in this capacity forever. If you do not give me recognition and respect, then eventually as party president I will have to take a decision in future," Paswan said. He, however, added that he would like the relations of "faith" that developed between his party and PM Modi when his father was around to continue.   Ram Vilas Paswan was a Cabinet minister in the Modi government since it came to power for the first time in 2014 and till his death last year. Chirag Paswan said "friends" from the rival RJD-Congress alliance in Bihar have reached out to him for joining them but added that his priority is not an alliance but to deal with the political and legal battle with the rival faction on hand. Amid talks of various anti-BJP regional parties coming together and NCP leader Sharad Pawar seen to be working on it, he said, to a question on whether he sees a role for himself in the grouping, that "one can never say never" in terms of possibilities.    On all contentious issues during the Modi government, be it revocation of article 370, abolition of instant triple divorce among Muslims or the enactment of Citizenship (Amendment) Act, his father and he had been vocal supporters of its stand and noted that the JD(U) took a different line from the BJP.   He has announced "Aashirvad Yatra" from Hajipur in Bihar from July 5, the birth anniversary of his father, as he battles the rival front for the party's ownership.  While five of six LJP MPs are with Paras, Chirag Paswan has asserted that over 90 per cent of the party's office-bearers are with him.  Paras, on the other hand, has claimed that his faction is the real LJP. He was also elected president of the party recently, a development rejected by Paswan as "unconstitutional". Paras and four other MPs have been expelled from the party by Paswan-leaded group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjps-silence-hurts-relations-with-them-cannot-remain-one-sided-says-chirag-paswan-1000283.html
22-06-2021||National||Man drills hole in wall of bank, steals over Rs 55 lakh; arrested along with accomplice||A 34-year-old man was arrested for allegedly burgling over Rs 55 lakh after breaking into a bank from an adjoining under-construction building in east Delhi’s Farsh Bazar area, police said on Tuesday. Without knowing about the accused, the bank officials had earlier entrusted him the task of fixing a hole in the wall inside their premises that he had himself drilled for committing the crime, police said. The accused was wearing a helmet at the time of the burglary to hide his identity, they said. Police also said another person was arrested who received some amount of the stolen money. The two accused men have been identified as Hariram and Kalicharan (39), both residents of Vishwas Nagar, they said. On Monday around 10.15 am, police received information regarding a burglary in a bank in Vishwas Nagar area. Police inspected the spot and found that a hole was made in a wall of the server room of the bank from the adjacent under-construction building. Another hole in the wall of a strong room in the basement was made and cash worth Rs 55,03,330 was stolen from the vault, a senior police officer said. During investigation, various teams were formed for collecting information from frequent visitors, guards, contractual staff and any details of people who have entered in the locker room over the last six months, police said. After checking over 50 CCTVs, one camera installed near an ATM located to another under-construction building was found facing upward. It was noticed that the CCTV was tampered. The man's palm and some portions of his face were captured in the camera for a few microseconds, the officer said. While working on the lead, it was established that the camera was tampered with from the first floor of the building, police said. Three prime suspects were apprehended by police who had their presence in the building at the time the direction of the CCTV was already pointed towards the entry point in the under-construction building, they said. Detailed analysis of CCTV footage revealed that the person was Hariram, who lives nearby in a nearby street, and was known by the caretakers of the building that had the CCTV footage, the officer said. "Later, Hariram was apprehended. During interrogation, he tried to mislead police by saying that a person gave him Rs 1,000 to divert the direction of the camera, but later confessed to his crime," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram said. Hariram said he was called into the bank for renovation work at the strong room six months ago. During renovation, he conducted a detailed recce of the place and gathered all the information about the cash and possible entry and exit routes, the DCP said. He further revealed that he had planned for the money heist for the last three months, but could not take it up due to the lockdown. Hariram got access to the under-construction building by removing the previous lock and replaced it with another similar one, Sathiyasundaram said. As soon as he got an opportunity, he entered inside the under-construction building, made small holes there and another one in the strong room. He further disclosed that he wanted to use the stolen money for gambling activities, police said. Based on his inputs, cash worth Rs 54,48,730 was recovered from a house in the same area where he was working as a guard and Rs 49,200 seized from co-accused Kalicharan, who Hariram had lost to in gambling. The remaining money was spent by the duo, police said. A grinder, broken grinder plate, hammer, chisel and helmet were also recovered from Hariram’s possession. Hariram is a trained construction worker and has worked in nearby under construction buildings over the last few years. He belongs to Madhya Pradesh and lives in the national capital with his wife and two children. Kalicharan has a small business and is also involved in illegal gambling activities, police added.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-drills-hole-in-wall-of-bank-steals-over-rs-55-lakh-arrested-along-with-accomplice-1000285.html
22-06-2021||National||India has seen 37% excess rainfall so far this monsoon: IMD||India has received 37 per cent excess rainfall during the monsoon season so far, the India Meteorological Department said on Tuesday. The country gauged 13.78 cm precipitation against the normal of 10.05 cm till June 21, it said.   "The cumulative rainfall during this year's Southwest Monsoon season till June 21 has been excess by about 37 per cent above Long Period Average (LPA)," the weather department said in a statement. It said that northwest India has received 71.3 mm rainfall against the normal of 40.6 mm rainfall during the period, a surplus of 76 per cent. Central India has registered 145.8 mm rainfall against the normal of 92.2 mm, an increase of 58 per cent. The southern peninsula has received 133.6 mm rainfall, which is 24 per cent more than normal, while east and northeast India witnessed 253.9 mm rainfall against the normal of 224.8 mm during the period. After arriving two days late in Kerala, the monsoon raced across the country, covering eastern, central and adjoining northwest India 7 to 10 days earlier than normal, according to the IMD. However, further progress over the remaining parts of country, including Delhi, parts of Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab, is unlikely during the next seven days, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-seen-37-excess-rainfall-so-far-this-monsoon-imd-1000289.html
22-06-2021||National||IIT-B scientist gets DCGI nod to launch algo-based Covid-19 testing tool||Bengaluru-based tech startup Algorithmic Biologics has received regulatory approvals to launch its Covid-19 testing method that can help scale up testing for the deadly virus infection at half the prevailing cost and one-tenth of the time. Called Tapestry, the new testing tool is developed by the startup launched by IIT-Bombay professor Manoj Gopalkrishnan. It enables the safe reopening of places of work and education as it is affordable and can be used frequently using a single round quantitative pooling algorithm with the gold-standard RT-PCR test, the professor who teaches machine learning at the IIT- Bombay told PTI on Tuesday from Hyderabad. Gopalkrishnan said Tapestry, which has been under development since last March, has just been cleared by the Drugs Controller General (DCGI) for commercial use as a non-regulated medical device and has also been registered with the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization. The professor said he has tied up with two labs for the testing -- Delhi-based LabAssure and Bengaluru-based Dhitiomics for commercial use and is in talks with many other labs for a nationwide launch. Tapestry lowers testing time to four hours, which is just a tenth of the present time taken by the traditional RT-PRC tests, while the cost is under 50 per cent of the lowest such test at around Rs 250, he said. The tool has undergone sampling tests on over 8,000 people since last July at the Institute for Stem Cell Science & Regenerative Medicine, Bengaluru, and the Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology in Bengaluru. Clinical trials were carried out at Tata Memorial Centre from last August, while field trials were held on the students of the International Institute of Information Technology in Hyderabad from this February, said Gopalkrishnan. He has a PhD from the University of Southern California and electrical engineering from IIT Kharagpur and has been teaching at the IIT-Bombay since 2008. Tapestry, also validated by Harward Medical School, was invented at the IIT-B and taken forward with the help of leading research institutions like the National Centre for Biological Sciences, Institute for Stem Cell Science & Regenerative Medicine, Tata Memorial Centre, Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology and a few reputed international research labs. The tool works like a compression algorithm for molecular testing and uses samples from different individuals, which are mixed into pools using a code. Each sample is sent to three pools, ensuring testing in triplicate and accurate results. Individual-level results are recovered by looking at the pattern of the pooling results and applying a decoding algorithm, said the 40-year-old professor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-b-scientist-gets-dcgi-nod-to-launch-algo-based-covid-19-testing-tool-1000292.html
22-06-2021||National||Right to life should prevail over rights of patent holders: NHRC Chairperson Justice Arun Mishra||Amid a debate over patent waiver on Covid-19 vaccines, National Human Rights Commission Chairperson Justice Arun Mishra on Tuesday said right to life should prevail over the rights of patent holders to ensure that the scarcity of medicines related to the virus infection is overcome and made available to poor at affordable prices. He made the observations during a session on 'State's Response to Covid-19 Pandemic' at the online global meeting of the Human Rights Council (HRC). "The right to life should prevail over the rights of patent holders to ensure that the scarcity of the life-saving drugs, medicines and vaccines relating to Covid-19 is overcome in the world over and are made available to the poor at affordable prices," he said. Justice Mishra said the world was facing "colossal loss" caused by the pandemic and new challenges have emerged for protecting the life and livelihoods of the marginalised sections of the society. He said education has suffered, healthcare infrastructure fell short, families left destitute and children have been orphaned. He also touched on several key issues and expressed concern about how these were impacting human rights. "These included, among others, e-commerce, which he said, has concentrated wealth in fewer hands. He also referred to the challenges of cross border terrorism and how the rehabilitation of its victims and drug peddling is lurking at large," an NHRC said. While "cherishing the freedom of cyberspace", Justice Mishra cautioned that "it should not be misused to subvert the constitutional values".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/right-to-life-should-prevail-over-rights-of-patent-holders-nhrc-chairperson-justice-arun-mishra-1000296.html
22-06-2021||National||Government revises timeline of second tranche of coal mine auctions for commercial mining||The coal ministry on Tuesday announced revision in the timeline of the second tranche of auctions for commercial mining. In a statement, the ministry said the last date for registration of bidders and sale of tender documents on the MSTC website and the bid due date have been revised. The last date for submission of bids has been extended to July 8, 2021. The revised timeline will be uploaded on the MSTC website, it added. The government had in March offered 67 coal mines for sale, launching the second tranche of commercial coal mining auctions and termed it a step towards 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'. This is the highest number of mines on offer in a particular tranche after commencement of the auction regime in 2014. Of the total 38 coal blocks offered in the first round of auctions for commercial coal mining, the government successfully auctioned 20 mines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-revises-timeline-of-second-tranche-of-coal-mine-auctions-for-commercial-mining-1000299.html
22-06-2021||National||Board exams: 'If there is any Covid-19 fatality, we will hold state govt responsible', SC tells AP||“If there is any fatality, we will hold the state responsible,” the Supreme Court told the Andhra Pradesh government on Tuesday on being informed of its decision to hold Class 12 board examination.   A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari was informed that Andhra Pradesh and Kerala are the only two states which have till now decided to hold the Class 12 board examination. “You will have to give very good reasons to hold Class 12 board examinations. If there is any fatality, we will hold the state responsible,” the bench told counsel for Andhra Pradesh. At the outset, advocate Mahfooz Nazki, appearing for the state, said the government has till now decided to hold the examination but the final decision will be taken in the first week of July. The bench sought to know as to why the state was creating uncertainty in the minds of students by delaying the final decision for the first week of July. “You take a decision by Wednesday and we will take up the matter on Thursday,” the bench told Nazki. The top court is hearing a plea seeking directions to state governments to not hold board examinations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. It asked Nazki as to what makes the Andhra Pradesh government think that it can manage to hold the examination and whether the state has all necessary logistics keeping in mind pandemic. Nazki said it has nearly five lakh students and as per his instructions 15 students will be made to sit in one class room during the examination. The bench further questioned the counsel whether the state has that many schools to accommodate the students during the examinations. “Why don't you have schemes like CBSE and CISCE to assess the students,” the bench said. Nazki said that they have a kind of problem because grace marks are given in class 10 in the state boards plus the internal assessment mechanism of students is not that strong. The bench said, “You must come up with a very good reason, if you want us to allow you to hold the Class 12 board exams. You must take the decision by tomorrow and file an affidavit”. Advocate G Prakash, appearing for the Kerala government, said that they have filed an affidavit indicating the decision of the state government to hold the examination. The bench said that it will consider the affidavit of Kerala government on Thursday and asked a students’ body of the state to file a counter affidavit to the state government’s response. On Monday, the top court was informed by the Assam and Tripura governments that they have cancelled their state boards of Class 12 board exam due to the pandemic. The Counsel for the Karnataka government had said it too has announced that class 12 board exam has been cancelled, but no final decision has been taken as far as Class 10 examination is concerned. On June 17, the top court was informed that out of 28 states, six states have already conducted the board exams, 18 states have cancelled them, but four states (Assam, Punjab, Tripura and Andhra Pradesh) have not cancelled them as of now.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/board-exams-if-there-is-any-covid-19-fatality-we-will-hold-state-govt-responsible-sc-tells-ap-1000308.html
22-06-2021||National||Delhi court adjourns INX Media case against P Chidambaram for July 9||A Delhi court on Tuesday adjourned for two weeks a money laundering case allegedly involving former Union minister P Chidambaram, in relation to INX Media scam. Special Judge M K Nagpal posted the matter for hearing on July 9 due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. The judge noted that the court was only hearing urgent matters. Chidambaram was arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the INX Media corruption case on August 21, 2019. On October 16, 2019, the ED arrested him in a related money-laundering case. Six days later, on October 22, the apex court granted bail to Chidambaram in the case lodged by the CBI. In the ED case, he got bail on December 4, 2019. The CBI had registered its case on May 15, 2017, alleging irregularities in a Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) clearance granted to the INX Media group for receiving overseas funds of Rs 305 crore in 2007, during Chidambaram's tenure as finance minister. Subsequently, the ED had lodged the money-laundering case. His son Karti Chidambaram was arrested by CBI in February 2018 and he was granted bail in March 2018 in INX Media corruption case. He was granted interim bail from the Delhi high court in the money laundering case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-adjourns-inx-media-case-against-p-chidambaram-for-july-9-1000317.html
22-06-2021||National||FM Sitharaman reviews new I-T portal glitches with Infosys officials||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday reviewed with Infosys officials the technical glitches that continue to mar the new income tax e-filing portal. Sitharaman, along with Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur, Revenue Secretary Tarun Bajaj, CBDT Chairman Jagannath Mohapatra and other senior ministry officials, went point by point on the issues facing the new portal with officials of Infosys - the vendor which developed the site. While there was no official word on what transpired at the meeting, a statement issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) said "the technical glitches shall be addressed fast". ICAI representatives attended the meeting on Tuesday. The portal launched on June 7 continued to face glitches, including longer logging in time, inability to generate OTP for Aadhaar validation, non-availability of ITRs for past years. Several stakeholders have submitted written inputs highlighting the issues facing the portal as well as areas that need to be fixed. The stakeholders have also highlighted weak user interface, inability to view old demand, grievances and intimation orders as the issues that need to be fixed. The ICAI in a statement issued after the meeting said that it has been asked to provide its continuous support and inputs to CBDT and Infosys, in resolving the issues, as early as possible. “The Income Tax Department said the new portal was aimed at making compliance more taxpayer-friendly, however the technical glitches shall be addressed fast, for convenience of all,” the ICAI statement said. The e-filing portal www.incometax.gov.in was launched on June 7, which the tax department as well as the government said was aimed at making compliance more taxpayer-friendly. This is the portal that common income taxpayers will also use to file their annual returns for assessment year 2021-22,  for income earned in financial year 2020-21. The last date for filing of such returns by individual taxpayers is September 30. At the company's annual shareholder meeting, Infosys had on Saturday stated that it is working to resolve the issues and has already succeeded on some fronts. Addressing shareholders' questions on the matter, Infosys said it is deeply concerned with the inconvenience caused by the technical glitches in the new income tax e-filing portal, and that it is working to resolve all the issues at the earliest. "Infosys is working to resolve the concerns in the new income tax e-filing portal. For the last week, several of the technology glitches, which impacted the performance and stability, have been addressed. And as a result, we have observed lakhs of unique daily users in the portal," said Infosys Chief Operating Officer Pravin Rao while responding to queries during the AGM. Answering a shareholder's question, Rao informed that close to one lakh income tax returns have been filed so far on the portal. Ahead of Tuesday's meeting with Infosys, the Finance Ministry had on June 16 invited written representations from stakeholders regarding glitches or issues faced on the new income tax e-filing portal. Tax consultants have submitted their representations pertaining to technical and performance issues, issues of missing data, modules which are not working. Some consultants have also suggested that the old e-filing portal should remain active till the time the new portal stabilises and in the meantime beta testing be carried out to resolve the issues faced by users. Infosys was in 2019 awarded a contract to develop the next-generation income tax filing system to reduce processing time for returns from 63 days to one day and expedite refunds. Sitharaman herself had on June 8 asked Infosys and its Chairman Nandan Nilekani to fix the technical glitches. A day after the launch of the new portal, social media users had flagged glitches in the new e-filing portal to the finance minister. Following that, Sitharaman took to Twitter and asked Infosys and its chairman to fix the problem. Replying to the tweet, Nilekani had said Infosys is working to fix the glitches.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fm-sitharaman-reviews-new-i-t-portal-glitches-with-infosys-officials-1000320.html
22-06-2021||National||Pfizer in final stages of agreement to supply Covid-19 vaccine doses to India, says CEO||US Pharma giant Pfizer is in the final stages of an agreement with India to supply anti-Covid-19 vaccines, CEO Dr Albert Bourla said on Tuesday, observing that the domestically manufactured vaccines would be the backbone of vaccinating the Indian people. Addressing the 15th edition of the India-US Bio Pharma & Healthcare Summit being organised by the US-India Chamber of Commerce, Dr Bourla also said that Pfizer has made a specific plan that the mid and low-income countries, which includes India, will receive at least two billion of such doses. "My hope is that very soon we will finalise the approval of the product in India by the Indian health care authorities and the agreement with the government so that we can also start sending vaccines, on our side,” Bourla said. The Pfizer CEO said that a significant local manufacturing of vaccines that is happening at the Serum Institute of India will provide the “backbone of vaccinating” the Indian people. "But getting the additional mRNA vaccines from us and also from Moderna will contribute significantly," he said. Pfizer, he said, is confident of producing three billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines and another four billion by next year, making it seven billion in all.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pfizer-in-final-stages-of-agreement-to-supply-covid-19-vaccine-doses-to-india-says-ceo-1000322.html
22-06-2021||National||Delta Plus a 'variant of concern', says Health Ministry||Delta Plus variant of coronavirus is a 'Variant of Concern' in India, Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday.  India currently has 22 cases of the Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus, of which 16 are in Ratnagiri and Jalgaon districts of Maharashtra, health officials said on Tuesday, observing that an advisory has been sent to the states reporting such cases. In addition, the “variant of concern” has been found in genome sequences sampled from Palakkad and Pathanamthitta districts of Kerala, and Bhopal and Shivpuri districts of Madhya Pradesh, the Union Health Ministry wrote in an advisory to the states. The ministry has asked Maharashtra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh to implement the public health measures in a more focussed and effective way in the districts reporting Delta Plus cases. The Chief Secretaries have been advised to take up immediate containment measures in the districts and clusters (as identified by the INSACOG or India’s Covid-19 genome sequencing consortium) including preventing crowds and intermingling of people, widespread testing, prompt tracing as well as vaccine coverage on a priority basis. Indian scientists mapping the genomes of SARS-CoV-2 variants have informed the ministry that the Delta Plus variant has three characteristics – (1) increased transmissibility (2) stronger binding to the lung cells and (3) potential reduction in response to monoclonal antibody treatment.  But its prevalence is still low as out of 45,000 sequences of SARS-CoV-2 genomes, the Delta Plus strain has been found in 22 cases. The states have been advised to ensure that adequate samples of positive persons are promptly sent to the designated INSACOG laboratories so that clinical epidemiological correlations can be made for further guidance to be provided to States. Nine other nations – the USA, the UK, Portugal, Switzerland, Japan, Poland, Nepal, China and Russia – have reported this strain, characterised by a new mutation known as K417N that may allow the pathogen to dodge a new class of Covid-19 medicines called monoclonal antibodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delta-plus-a-variant-of-concern-says-health-ministry-1000335.html
22-06-2021||National||'Covid-19 under control': Telangana CM Rao hosts lunch for entire village||Barely two days after the Covid-19 restrictions were eased in the state, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao hosted lunch for an entire village. Since Sunday, from when the lockdown was totally lifted, Rao has been on a whirlwind tour of the districts inaugurating new collectorates and other government buildings. On Tuesday, Rao had lunch with all the locals of Vasalamarri, his “adopted village” in the Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district. Addressing a public meeting, the CM said that his government would extend every possible support to make the settlement stand as a model of development. The Rao government, which has been accused of low testing and under-reporting of Covid-19 cases and deaths, on Saturday declared that Covid-19 has come under control in the state. The CM laid the foundation for a 2000 bed multi-super speciality hospital in Warangal on Monday, saying that his government would turn the city, about 150 kms northeast of Hyderabad, into a medical hub to ease the pressure on the state capital. Rao, who was infected by the virus in April and recovered after a few days, accused the media of indulging in scaremongering about Covid-19, 'black fungus', variants etc., “When I was with Covid-19, I was given only paracetamol and antibiotics. Though it was prescribed, I did not consume Vitamin-D tablets. The media has sensationalised the virus infection involving simple treatment with early detection and has scared many people. Did the virus call on their phones and inform them that it would target the children more next time?” the CM remarked in a meeting on Monday. The CM's comments came at a time when several physicians, public health experts are stressing on the need to maintain caution as there is a strong possibility of a third wave, with a probability of children being affected more. Concerns are already being raised over people thronging the public spaces like parks in Hyderabad and other places, with many of them flouting the mask, social distancing rules. As per the official figures, the new positive cases have remained under the 1,500 mark for the past week in Telangana. The daily new Covid-19 cases in Hyderabad have been below 200 for over two weeks now. On Tuesday, 1,175 cases were reported from among the 1,24,907 samples tested from across the state. According to the health department, active cases in Telangana now are only 16,640. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-under-control-telangana-cm-rao-hosts-lunch-for-entire-village-1000340.html
22-06-2021||National||40% drop in single-day Covid-19 vaccinations after record 88 lakh shots||India on Tuesday administered around 53 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines – nearly 40% drop from Monday’s record-breaking 88 lakh inoculations – with experts pointing out that sustaining such a high level of vaccination would depend on supplies, states' collaboration, and public enthusiasm. Till 9 pm, the government dashboard on Covid-19 vaccination showed that close to 53 lakh shots were given as against the 88.09 lakh recorded a day before. “It is impossible to sustain such a scale (as seen on Monday) given our current production capacity in the immediate term. It may last for a day or two until the existing supply and the accumulated inventory dries up. The expected daily supply is less than 40 lakh during June/July,” health economist Rijo John, a visiting professor at Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode told DH. Madhya Pradesh that administered 17.14 lakh doses on June 21, managed to vaccinate only 4,800 plus individuals on Tuesday, giving credence to critics, who described Monday’s show as an “image-booster” for the Modi government. Similarly, Karnataka with 11.38 lakh vaccinations on Monday, administered 3.78 lakh shots a day later. While Uttar Pradesh maintained a similar level, Bihar (from 5.75 lakh to 2.62 lakhs) and Haryana (5.15 lakh to 75,000 plus) are among the states with a clear drop in vaccination numbers. “Vaccination cannot be seen as a one-day fixture. Clearly, yesterday was a pre-planned, image-booster. Today we have not sustained that level. We simply have to sustain at least 80 lakhs a day for the next four-five months,” tweeted Congress leader Jairam Ramesh. Vaccination cannot be seen like a one-day fixture. Clearly, yesterday was a pre-planned, image-booster. Today we have not sustained that level. We simply have to sustain at least 80 lakhs a day for the next four-five months. Health officials, on the other hand, asserted that record-breaking vaccination on June 21 was not a "sudden episode" but a planned exercise that was executed with support from the states. “It is well beyond our expectations. The daily average vaccination between June 1-21 was 34.66 lakhs from where it rose because of coordinated planning with the states,” said VK Paul, NITI Ayog member and one of the principal advisors of the government on Covid-19. The Centre has a target of administering one crore doses once the supply situation improves. Nearly 64% of Monday’s vaccination happened in the rural areas and the trend would continue for the next eight days, said Bhushan. Asked whether the elderly citizens, who were confined inside the four walls of their houses since last year can now go out or socialise, Paul said fully vaccinated senior citizens could go out for walks or socialise keeping the social distancing rules in mind, but they should not visit crowded markets. However, there is no decision on school reopening as large gatherings provide the virus with an opportunity to spread. “We can take the risk only when we are better protected,” added Paul. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/40-drop-in-single-day-covid-19-vaccinations-after-record-88-lakh-shots-1000351.html
22-06-2021||National||Param Bir Singh fined Rs 5,000 for not appearing before commission||A commission headed by a retired High Court judge on Tuesday imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 on former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh for not appearing before it despite a summons. The Maharashtra government in March this year formed a one-member commission of Justice (retd) Kailash Uttamchand Chandiwal to probe corruption allegations levelled by Singh against then state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. Days after he was shunted out as Mumbai police commissioner and transferred to Home Guards, Singh claimed in a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray that Deshmukh used to ask police officers to collect money from restaurant and bar owners in Mumbai. Deshmukh, an NCP leader, denied the allegations. Singh did not appear before the commission on Tuesday and his lawyer filed an application saying that the summons was not served to him. The commission, however, held that the summons had been duly served, and imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 on the IPS officer, to be deposited in the Chief Minister's Covid Relief Fund, said a government lawyer. He had not appeared on a previous occasion too, the lawyer added. The commission, which has been given six months by the state government to submit its report, will hold a hearing on Wednesday too, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/param-bir-singh-fined-rs-5000-for-not-appearing-before-commission-1000355.html
22-06-2021||National||Man who broke into east Delhi bank waited for lockdown to end to buy burglary tools||The Delhi Police on Tuesday said the man, accused of decamping with over Rs 50 lakh after breaking into a bank from the adjoining under-construction building in east Delhi's Farsh Bazar area, waited for the lockdown to end to execute his plan. When the lockdown ended, he bought burglary tools, they said. The incident took place on Sunday. According to police, before committing crime, the accused, Hariram, had entered a building in front of the bank and changed the direction of the CCTV camera upwards at 1.56 pm to avoid himself getting recorded. Police also said he took around six hours for the burglary. The accused entered the building after 2 pm and came out around 8 pm, they said. The accused had planned the burglary around six months ago when he was called in the bank for renovation work at the strong room. He conducted recce of the place, police said. The under-construction building was closed from past two years where he earlier used to work. He took the access into the building by removing the previous lock and replaced it with a similar one, police said. He is a trained construction worker and has worked in the nearby under-construction buildings for last few years. On Sunday around 2.30 pm, he entered the building after changing the direction of the camera on the first floor of another building, which was already focusing towards entry point to the under-construction building. The accused was carrying multiple blades and all the required items to cut the wall and metallic items. He first cut the wall of the under-construction building at ground floor and entered into the bank premises via server room. Later, he made another hole on the floor and entered the strong room in the basement. He took the money and fled from the spot, police said. Some of the blade pieces of grinder got broken while he was cutting the walls and found at the spot. After committing the crime, he went into another building whose keys he had and hid the money in a plastic drum on the terrace. He had the access of the building as he used to clean the car of its owner and also occasionally worked as a guard, police said. Police said the building was under-construction due to which the locals might not have suspected anything unusual after hearing the noise of the grinder machine. When Hariram was nabbed, he initially tried to mislead police by saying that someone gave him Rs 1,000 to change the direction of the CCTV camera. However, he later confessed to the crime, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-who-broke-into-east-delhi-bank-waited-for-lockdown-to-end-to-buy-burglary-tools-1000359.html
22-06-2021||National||Amit Shah holds meetings with Gujarat govt officials, BJP functionaries||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday held separate meetings with senior officials of the Gujarat government as well as functionaries of the state BJP. Shah, who represents Gandhinagar Lok Sabha seat, chaired a meeting of MLAs of the Assembly segments of his constituency. BJP presidents of Gandhinagar and Kalol taluka units also participated. Shah is on a two-day visit to his home state Gujarat which began on Monday. "Held a meeting with all the MLAs of Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency and party presidents of Gandhinagar and Kalol taluka to review the progress of various developmental works. I am confident that we all will make Gandhinagar seat the most developed Lok Sabha constituency of the country under the leadership of Modiji (PM Modi)," Shah tweeted. गांधीनगर लोकसभा क्षेत्र के अंतर्गत सभी भाजपा विधायकों और गांधीनगर व कलोल तालुका के पार्टी अध्यक्षों के साथ बैठक कर क्षेत्र में किए जा रहे विकास कार्यों की समीक्षा की। Shah later met Gujarat state BJP president CR Paatil, other leaders and MLAs and discussed the ongoing activities of the party and plans, a BJP leader said. Later, Shah chaired a high-level meeting attended by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, Paatil, and senior IAS officers, including state Chief Secretary Anil Mukim, CM's Chief Principal Secretary K. Kailashnathan and Additional Chief Secretary, Industries, Dr Rajiv Kumar Gupta. While the agenda of this meeting was not known, it is believed that Shah reviewed the progress of some ongoing and upcoming big-ticket projects such as Metro Rail, new attractions at Science City and redevelopment of the Sabarmati Ashram as well as Gandhinagar railway station. Earlier in the day, Shah planted tree saplings in Ahmedabad and appealed to citizens to make it the city with the largest green cover not just in India, but in the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-holds-meetings-with-gujarat-govt-officials-bjp-functionaries-1000372.html
22-06-2021||National||Goa may reopen tourism after July 30; third Covid wave will be deciding factor: CM ||Goa will consider opening up for tourism after 100 per cent vaccination coverage of the first jab among the state's population, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday, even as he said that the advent of the third Covid wave could a deciding factor. "We can think of restarting tourism activity after 100 per cent completion of the first dose, which is after July 30. We will make a decision after analysing the possible coming of the third wave. At present, we cannot predict," the Chief Minister told reporters in Panaji. Sawant said that the absence of tourism activity had hit the state government's revenues hard, especially when it came to the collection of the Goods and Services Tax over the last two months when Covid cases were witnessing a severe spike. The Chief Minister also said that the Goa government was tinkering with a new SOP that would allow people who had both vaccination shots, entry into the state without the need of a Covid-19 negative certificate. Currently, only those with a Covid-19 negative certificate are allowed entry into the coastal state. Sawant also said that nearly 60 per cent of the state's population had been administered the first vaccine jab and that Goa would reach 100 per cent coverage by July 30. "Percentage-wise we are carrying out the highest vaccination in a day. We are vaccinating 20,000 persons per day. We have already administered the first dose to 60 per cent of the population. Our target is to complete 100 per cent of first dose vaccination by July 30," Sawant also said. The Chief Minister also said that the Goa government was fully prepared to take on the third wave in case it emerges in Goa. "We are fully prepared for the third wave. We have appointed an expert committee which comprises of doctors from the Indian Paediatric Association, Indian Medical Association, Goa Medical College and the Directorate of Health Services," Sawant said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-may-reopen-tourism-after-july-30-third-covid-wave-will-be-deciding-factor-cm-1000406.html
22-06-2021||National||Covid-19: Pending editions of JEE-Mains likely in August, NEET may be postponed to September||The Ministry of Education is contemplating conducting pending editions of engineering entrance exam JEE-Mains in July and August while the medical entrance exam NEET can be shifted to September, according to sources. However, a final decision in this regard is yet to be taken and the Ministry is in process of reviewing the Covid-19 situation across states and UTs. "The pending editions of JEE-Mains are likely to be conducted either at the end of July or August with a fortnight's gap between the two tests. NEET is likely to be pushed to September," a source said. From the current academic session, JEE-Mains is being conducted four times a year to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores. The first phase in February was followed by the second phase in March, while the next phases were scheduled for April and May. But those were postponed after an exponential rise in the number of Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic in the country. The JEE-Advanced exam, which is conducted for admission to the prestigious Indian Institutes of Technology and the National Institutes of Technology, was also postponed. The exam was scheduled on July 3. While no further decision was taken on NEET-UG which is scheduled on August 1, the registration for the exam, which was supposed to commence from May 1, was kept in abeyance. The ministry is also yet to decide on the fate of the Central University Common Entrance Test (CUCET). Earlier this month, the CBSE cancelled class 12 board exams in view of the pandemic and has announced a marks tabulation policy. Following the same route, the CISCE and several state boards also cancelled the same exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pending-editions-of-jee-mains-likely-in-august-neet-may-be-postponed-to-september-1000408.html
22-06-2021||National||India and US to carry out two-day mega naval drill in Indian Ocean from Wednesday||The Indian Navy will participate in a two-day mega naval exercise with the US naval carrier strike group Ronald Reagan in the Indian Ocean region from Wednesday, in reflection of the growing operational cooperation between the two navies, officials said. The Indian Air Force said it also will participate in operational engagements with the US Navy in the exercise with the US Carrier Strike Group (CSG) which is currently deployed in the Indian Ocean Region. A carrier battle group or carrier strike group is a mega naval fleet comprising an aircraft carrier, accompanied by a large number of destroyers, frigates and other ships. Indian Naval ships Kochi and Teg along with a fleet of P8I maritime surveillance aircraft and MiG 29K jets will participate in the drills, Navy officials said. "The Indian Naval warships along with aircraft from Indian Navy and Indian Air Force will be engaged in joint multi-domain operations with the carrier strike group comprising Nimitz class aircraft carrier Ronald Reagan, Arleigh Burke class guided missile destroyer USS Halsey and Ticonderoga class guided missile cruiser USS Shiloh," Indian Navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal He said the two-day exercise aims to strengthen the bilateral relationship and cooperation by demonstrating the ability to integrate and coordinate comprehensively in maritime operations. "High tempo operations during the exercise include advanced air defence exercises, cross deck helicopter operations and anti-submarine exercises. The participating forces will endeavour to hone their war-fighting skills and enhance their interoperability as an integrated force to promote peace, security and stability in the maritime domain," Madhwal said. "Indian Navy and US Navy regularly undertake a host of bilateral and multilateral exercises which underscore the shared values as partner navies, in ensuring commitment to an open, inclusive and a rule-based international order," he said. The IAF said the assets to be part of the exercise would include Jaguars and Su-30 MKI fighters, AWACS (Airborne Warning and Control System) and air-to-air refueller aircraft. In a statement, it said the US CSG is expected to field F-18 fighters and E-2C Hawkeye aircraft. "The exercise will be carried out south of Thiruvananthapuram, on the western seaboard, over two days," the IAF said. "The exercise with the US CSG will focus on multiple areas including enhancing aspects of interoperability, nuances of international integrated maritime search and rescue operations and exchange of best practices in the maritime airpower domain," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-and-us-to-carry-out-two-day-mega-naval-drill-in-indian-ocean-from-wednesday-1000410.html
22-06-2021||National||Government should borrow more and increase spending, says P Chidambaram||The Modi government must revive demand in the economy through a generous fiscal stimulus and support low-income and poor families through cash transfers, says former finance minister and Rajya Sabha member P Chidambaram in an interview with DH's Annapurna Singh. He talks at length about the government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. Q. What are your comments on the government’s handling of the Covid-19 situation so far? A. The government’s record of handling the pandemic, especially the second wave, has been a disaster. Every decision or non-decision was a grave misstep. To list a few, the government prematurely, and wrongly, declared that it had defeated Covid-19 at the World Economic Summit when the second wave was just around the corner. Second, much of the healthcare infrastructure that had been built during the first wave was dismantled, Covid Care Centres were closed, the number of testing slowed down, and so on. Third, no attempt was made to assess the demand for, and the supply of, vaccination doses. Assessing the demand was simple arithmetic but it turns out the government did not know how to count! The government had no clue that to fight the pandemic, apart from vaccines, the country would require oxygen, medicines (such as Remdesivir), tankers, ventilators, ICU beds, etc. There was no plan to augment the supply of these essentials. The first order on domestic producers was placed only on January 11, 2021, while other large countries had placed orders and pre-booked the production in May-June 2020. The size of the first order was a paltry 1.1 crore doses when the requirement was for over 200 crore doses! The first payments to the two domestic manufacturers were made only on April 19, 2021. No vaccine other than Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V was given approval under the mistaken notion of Atmanirbhar Bharat and, to the best of my knowledge, none has been approved so far. Last but not the least, all powers were centralised under the National Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Act and there was little or no consultation with the state governments. Q. As the second Covid-19 wave appears to be ebbing, what kind of support do you think the government should extend to businesses to start afresh? A. The only answer to a fall in demand and consumption (a recession) is to boost demand through a generous fiscal stimulus. Monetary policies such as keeping the bank rate low or infusing liquidity have limited utility. The heavy lifting has to be done by the government on the fiscal side. This, the government failed to do, despite every economist of repute advising the government to increase spending. I do not believe money was a constraint. The government had the option to borrow more and enlarge the fiscal deficit. If, at any point, the government was convinced that the fiscal deficit had become too large, it had the option to monetise part of the deficit. Dr Abhijit Banerjee, Nobel Laureate, among others advocated that course. As far as helping businesses — especially MSMEs — the government’s response was too little too late. Even in the first wave, many thousands of small and medium businesses had closed down and the second wave put the lid on the closure. I doubt if many of the closed units will open again. The government’s ‘Credit Guarantee Scheme’ is a pale shadow of what was intended and what was announced and what was understood. The guarantee is not for Rs 3 lakh crore, as was believed, but the total credit offered will be Rs 3 lakh crore. Even that amount has not yet been fully availed of despite nearly a whole year having passed. The reason is that many MSMEs are bankrupt, their balance sheets are not credit-worthy, and no banker will lend them money (especially when the CBI and ED are looking over their shoulders). In sum, the government has no plan to revive the MSME sector. The unemployment figures are a testimony to the number of units that have been closed.  Q. Some have suggested the RBI print money and finance the government. Do you think it can have costly macro-economic implications? What is the alternative? A. Of course, there are implications but it is the business of the government and the central bank (RBI) to manage the consequences of a large fiscal deficit and partial monetisation. Why should the sovereign have the power to create money if it will never use it? During the international financial crisis in 2008, many countries of the world saved their economies by adopting ‘unconventional’ policies. The nations managed the consequences, emerged out of the Great Recession, and are now strong economies. Given the current situation, there is no alternative to borrowing more and spending more. Q. What are your thoughts on the Universal Basic Income to Indians and whether it will help fight Covid-19 blues? A. The emphasis is not on Universal but on Basic Income. Low-income and poor families must be supported through cash transfers. Every major economy, including the US, is transferring cash to the poor and even the middle class. In the present situation, India should transfer cash to the bottom one-third of families, that is approximately eight crore families benefiting about 40 crore people. Q. Retail inflation has now breached the 6 per cent comfort level of RBI. Not only food and fuel but also the core inflation has risen to an 85-month high in May. What according to you is the reason for such a spike and what should the government do to control that? A. The principal reason is the repeated hikes in fuel prices. Fuel prices have a cascading effect and impact every aspect of the economy, every good and every service. The people are paying a price for the greed of the government that knows of no other way to raise resources. Besides fuel price inflation (a whopping 37.61 per cent), there seem to be production constraints, supply disruptions, and hoarding and black-marketing. Pulses inflation is 9.39 per cent, edible oil inflation is 30 per cent. All these points to incompetent economic management. The immediate remedy is to reduce the taxes and cesses on petrol and diesel and other fuels. Fuel prices will soften and that will have a beneficial impact on both WPI and CPI. Next, the government should address the supply and distribution constraints. Q. How can the government shield the poor and the lower middle-class households from rising prices? A. The poor and the lower middle-classes can be protected to some extent only through cash transfers. Please remember, there is only MGNREGA (that Mr Modi ridiculed and despised) that is putting cash in the hands of families among the rural poor. In the absence of any similar programme for the urban poor and the non-manual workers among the poor, the only option is cash transfers. A reduction of indirect tax rates such as GST on a larger number of goods and services, at least for six months, would be a good step. Large and liberal free rations using the huge stocks of grain is another step the government should take immediately. The fourth step is to fill, on an emergency basis, all the vacancies in government and semi-government bodies and institutions. These four steps can mitigate the suffering of the poor and the lower middle-classes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-should-borrow-more-and-increase-spending-says-p-chidambaram-1000414.html
22-06-2021||National||Model Tenancy Act not retrospective: Govt||The implementation of the Model Tenancy Act, which was approved by the Union Cabinet, will be prospective and not retrospective, said Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs on Tuesday. The proposed act clearly says it is applicable, ”after the Act is in force." This means that Act is not “retrospective", said the Ministry. Earlier in the day, BJP Mumbai President MLA Mangal Prabhat Lodha met Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri to seek clarification about the proposed law. On the Paagdi system which is prevalent in is Mumbai and Maharashtra, the Minister also said the law doesn’t apply Paagdi system of Tenancy and Landlord Relationship, Lodhaji told the media after the meeting. The delegation which comprised BJP MLAs also said that it got clarification on these issues as several people in Maharashtra spreading false news about the proposed law and creating panic among the public. The Ministry had proposed the Model Tenancy Act to overhauling the legal framework with respect to rental housing across the country. The proposal is expected to give a fillip to private participation in rental housing as a business model for addressing the huge housing shortage, said the Union Housing Ministry in a statement. The law is a model and it is up to the state to adopt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/model-tenancy-act-not-retrospective-govt-1000418.html
22-06-2021||National||Looking forward to working with G7: Jaishankar on its mega infrastructure initiative||India is looking forward to working with the G7 on its infrastructure initiative in view of the convergence between the two sides on issues relating to connectivity, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday. In its recent summit in the British seaside resort of Cornwall, the Group of Seven richest democracies unveiled the mega infrastructure plan which was seen as a counter to China multi-trillion-dollar Belt and Road initiative. Asked at a virtual conference about the plan by the G7 countries to develop infrastructure under its Build Back Better World (B3W) initiative, Jaishankar said India was looking forward to working with the bloc on it. At the same time, he listed India's development projects in a large number of countries and said New Delhi would continue with them. The external affairs minister said India has a history of rolling out infrastructure projects but what it shared with the G7 is that "today it is important to have broad principles that such projects should be viable, they should be transparent, they should not contribute to debt, they should be environmentally friendly." "Most of all, they must be a priority of the community where they are located. So it is an area where we do feel that there is a lot of convergence with the G7 and we are looking forward to working with them. But, as I said we have a substantial portfolio of projects we have already done in the last years and which I expect to see us continue to do more in the coming years," he said. Jaishankar was speaking the Qatar Economic Forum. In the G7 summit, leaders the US, France, Canada, Britain, Germany, Italy and Japan resolved to help the developing nations in carrying out infrastructure projects under the B3W initiative. Listing implementation of development projects abroad by India, Jaishankar said they were rolled out in as many as 62 countries. "We have actually signed up to, I think, something close to about 630 projects and about half of them, 340, have actually been done," he said. India participated at the G7 summit as one of the four guest countries. "When it comes to an issue like supply chains, I think there, we share with G7 the importance of having a more resilient and reliable supply chain. We also feel that we can also contribute to it by expanding our own manufacturing capabilities," the external affairs minister said. Replying to a question on Covid-19 vaccines, he scaling up of vaccine manufacturing by India is important for the whole world. He said the US and Europe need to step forward in the supply of raw materials if India has to ramp up its own production. Jaishankar said when India started production of the vaccines, it was living up to its obligation with Covax and even supplying the vaccines to some of its neighbouring countries as it genuinely believed that no one is "safe till everyone is safe". "Now when the second wave hit us, obviously we looked to purpose the deployment of the vaccines primarily at home but I am quite confident that as the production picks up again, we see ourselves playing a global role and it is important we have to do that," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/looking-forward-to-working-with-g7-jaishankar-on-its-mega-infrastructure-initiative-1000423.html
22-06-2021||National Politics||PM Modi hails 'Centre-state bhagidari' in ushering 'reforms by conviction and incentives' during Covid||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the economic response to the Covid-19 pandemic was formulated to ensure that solutions do not follow a 'one size fits all' model, and asserted that "reforms by conviction and incentives" were undertaken on the back of "Centre-state bhagidari (partnership)". In a post on social media platform LinkedIn, he said that in the backdrop of the financial crunch seen across the world, Indian states were able to borrow significantly more in 2020-21.  "It would perhaps pleasantly surprise you that states were able to raise an extra Rs 1.06 lakh crore in 2020-21. This significant increase in availability of resources was made possible by an approach of Centre-State bhagidari," the prime minister said. Noting that Covid-19 pandemic has come with a whole new set of challenges to governments across the world in terms of policy-making, Modi said India was no exception and asserted that raising enough resources for public welfare while ensuring sustainability is proving to be one of the biggest challenges. "When we formulated our economic response to the Covid-19 pandemic, we wanted to ensure that our solutions do not follow a 'one size fits all' model. For a federal country of continental dimensions, finding policy instruments at the national level to promote reforms by State governments is indeed challenging," he said.  "But, we had faith in the robustness of our federal polity and we moved ahead in the spirit of Centre-State bhagidari," he said in his post titled "Reforms by Conviction and Incentives". Modi noted that in May 2020, as part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat package, the Centre announced that state governments would be allowed enhanced borrowing for 2020-21.  An extra 2 per cent of GSDP was allowed, of which 1 per cent was made conditional on the implementation of certain economic reforms. he said. Asserting that this nudge for reform is rare in Indian public finance, Modi said it was a nudge, incentivising the states to adopt progressive policies to avail additional funds.  "The results of this exercise are not only encouraging but also run contrary to the notion that there are limited takers for sound economic policies," the prime minister said in his LinkedIn post on "innovative policy making in the time of Covid-19". The four reforms to which additional borrowings were linked with 0.25 per cent of GDP tied to each one had two characteristics -- they were linked to improving the ease of living to the public and particularly the poor, the vulnerable, and the middle class and secondly, they also promoted fiscal sustainability. Modi pointed out that the first reform under the 'One Nation One Ration Card' policy required state governments to ensure that all ration cards in the state under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) were seeded with the Aadhaar number of all family members and that all Fair Price Shops had Electronic Point of Sale devices.   He highlighted that 17 states completed this reform and were granted additional borrowings amounting to Rs. 37,600 crore.  He said that the second reform, aimed at improving ease of doing business, required states to ensure that renewal of business-related licences under seven acts is made automatic, online and non-discretionary on mere payment of fees.  Another requirement was implementation of a computerised random inspection system and prior notice of inspection to reduce harassment and corruption under a further 12 Acts, he said.  He pointed out that 20 states completed this reform and were allowed additional borrowing of Rs. 39,521 crore. While pointing out that the 15th Finance Commission and several academics have emphasised the crucial importance of sound property taxation, Modi said the third reform required states to notify floor rates of property tax and of water and sewerage charges, in consonance with stamp duty guideline values for property transactions and current costs respectively, in urban areas.  He said that 11 states completed these reforms and were granted additional borrowing of Rs. 15,957 crore. Modi said the fourth reform was the introduction of Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) in lieu of free electricity supply to farmers and the requirement was for formulation of a state-wide scheme with actual implementation in one district on a pilot basis by year end.  Additional borrowing of 0.15 per cent of GSDP was linked to this, he added.  Modi said 13 states implemented at least one component, while 6 states implemented the DBT component, and as a result, Rs. 13,201 crore of additional borrowings was permitted.  "Overall, 23 states availed of additional borrowings of Rs. 1.06 lakh crores out of a potential of Rs. 2.14 lakh crores. As a result, the aggregate borrowing permission granted to states for 2020-21 (conditional and unconditional) was 4.5% of the initially estimated GSDP," he said. "For a large nation with complex challenges as ours, this was a unique experience. We have often seen that for various reasons, schemes and reforms remain un-operational often for years. This was a pleasant departure from the past where the Centre & States came together to roll out public-friendly reforms in a short span of time amidst the pandemic," the prime minister stressed.  "This was made possible due to our approach of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas and Sabka Vishwas. Officials who have been working on these reforms suggest that without this incentive of additional funds, enactment of these policies would have taken years," he said.  India has seen a model of "reforms by stealth and compulsion". This is a new model of "reforms by conviction and incentives", he asserted. In his post, Modi also thanked all the states who took the lead in ushering in these policies amidst tough times for the betterment of their citizens.  "We shall continue working together for the rapid progress of 130 crore Indians," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-hails-centre-state-bhagidari-in-ushering-reforms-by-conviction-and-incentives-during-covid-1000256.html
22-06-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi questions timing of Opposition leaders' meeting||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday parried questions on opposition leaders holding a meeting and efforts to form a possible third front, saying today is not the time to discuss politics. Gandhi, who held a virtual press conference on the pandemic situation, said he wanted to focus on Covid and how to save the country from the third wave of coronavirus which may hit soon. "On the political aspect, my intention here is to bring focus on Covid. My intention here is to point clearly in the direction where we think the government should act," said the Congress leader who released a white paper of the party on Covid management. "So, I am not going to distract you or myself by getting into, you know, what is going on in the politics and what is going on here and there. "There is a time and place for that discussion and I am happy to talk to you at that time," he said when asked about a meeting of opposition leaders convened at the residence of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar here. Pawar is meeting leaders from several opposition parties and eminent personalities at his residence to discuss the current scenario in the country amid speculation about the possible formation of a third front against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The meeting hosted by Pawar has been organised by Rashtra Manch convenor and Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Yashwant Sinha. Samajwadi Party's Ghanshyam  Tiwari, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Jayant Chaudhary, National Conference (NC) leader and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah, Sushil Gupta from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Binoy Viswam from the Communist Party of India (CPI) and Nilotpal Basu from the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) were among those who attended the meet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-questions-timing-of-opposition-leaders-meeting-1000298.html
22-06-2021||National Politics||Nitish Kumar leaves for Delhi amid speculations about JD(U) joining Union government||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday left for the national capital, purportedly for medical reasons, though speculations ran rife that bargaining a decent share in the Union cabinet was also on the agenda of the JD(U) de-facto leader. The JD(U) has been a BJP ally for close to three decades, barring a hiatus in 2013-2017. Kumar, who had himself served in the cabinet headed by late Atal Bihari Vajpayee, turned down the offer of the saffron party of a "token representation" to all alliance partners after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls which saw Prime Minister Narendra Modi steering the BJP to a thumping majority. "I do not know why his Delhi tour is being linked to the proposed cabinet reshuffle. To the best of my knowledge, he needs treatment for some eye problem and is visiting the national capital for the purpose," said Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan, one of the closest aides of Kumar. The Union cabinet reshuffle is a prerogative of the prime minister and it is for him to decide whom to hold consultations with on the issue, Singh said. Singh, who has been with Kumar ever since the latter broke ranks with Lalu Prasad to chart his own political course, is seen as one of the candidates the JD(U) might strongly back, were it to join the Union council of ministers. Another ministerial probable RCP Singh, who succeeded Kumar as the national president of the party a few months ago, laughed off at the suggestion but dropped ample hints that the JD(U) was now eyeing a spot in the Union government. "My name has been doing the rounds since 2017. Any decision as to who will be in the Union cabinet from our party has to be taken by our leader. Of course, he does so after consulting all," said Singh, a former IAS officer whose rise in politics, after retirement from service about a decade ago, has been meteoric. He said, "We agree, it does not look good that we are partners in power in the state but not at the Centre, though we are a part of the NDA there as well. Things will look up for both parties once we join the Union government." He also took a swipe at LJP leader Chirag Paswan, who has been cornered within the party following a revolt by all his fellow MPs who have floated a separate faction. "I heard his two statements that he is the son of a tiger (late Ram Vilas Paswan) and that he is now an orphan. Has anybody ever heard of a tiger lamenting for being orphaned?" the JD(U) chief said. The JD(U) suffered in the assembly polls last year because of Paswans sudden rebellion, initially believed to be having the backing of the BJP which has now distanced itself from the Jamui MP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nitish-kumar-leaves-for-delhi-amid-speculations-about-jdu-joining-union-government-1000303.html
22-06-2021||National Politics||Opposition leaders discuss Covid-19 management, unemployment at Sharad Pawar's meeting||Leaders of several opposition parties including TMC, SP, AAP, RLD and the Left assembled at NCP chief Sharad Pawar's residence here on Tuesday and discussed various issues facing the country, amid heightened speculation about the possibility of a third front against the ruling BJP. Leader of the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) Nilotpal Basu, who attended the meeting, said it was not a political meeting but an interaction among like-minded people. "Issues like Covid management, 'attack' on institutions and unemployment were discussed at the meeting," he said. The meeting lasted over two hours. Former finance minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Yashwant Sinha, Samajwadi Party's (SP) Ghanshyam  Tiwari, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Jayant Chaudhary, Sushil Gupta from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Binoy Viswam from the Communist Party of India (CPI) were among those present at the meeting. National Conference (NC) leader and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah, former Congress leader Sanjay Jha and former Janata Dal (United) leader Pavan Verma also participated. Other prominent personalities who arrived at Pawar's residence to attend the meeting were Javed Akhtar and KC Singh. Earlier in the day, a senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader, on the condition of anonymity, said though Pawar is hosting the meeting, it has been organised by Yashwant Sinha who is the convenor of the Rashtra Manch. Sinha formed the Rashtra Manch, a political action group, in 2018 that targeted the BJP-led government's policies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-leaders-discuss-covid-19-management-unemployment-at-sharad-pawars-meeting-1000304.html
22-06-2021||National Politics||Meeting at Sharad Pawar's house apolitical exchange of views or political mobilisation of anti-BJP forces?||A meeting of opposition leaders from many anti-BJP parties, all except the Left being regional forces, hosted by the veteran leader and NCP president Sharad Pawar on Tuesday is being seen by political pundits as a beginning of an exercise by them to join forces to put up a more cohesive challenge to the saffron party. The meeting participants were, however, at pains to downplay its political import, more so as such attempts of unity among regional parties have often come unstuck, and projected it as an interaction among "like-minded people" under the aegis of Yashwant Singh's Rashtra Manch, an apolitical grouping with distinct anti-BJP views. However, no one can overlook the fact that it was hosted by Pawar at his residence and comes close on the heels of the astute politician's recent meetings with political strategist Prashant Kishor, including one just a day before, political watchers feel. The meeting comes against the backdrop of the Trinamool Congress handing over a crushing defeat to the BJP in West Bengal in the recent spate of assembly polls. The BJP-led front also fared poorly in Tamil Nadu and Kerala, where the alliance led by the DMK and Left won respectively, and its main national rival Congress also showed no signs of revival in its fortunes as it lost to the BJP in Assam. It also failed to impress in Kerala. While several assembly polls are expected next year, including in key states like Uttar Pradesh and Punjab in the first few months, efforts to bring together regional forces and other non-BJP parties are mainly being seen as aimed at the next Lok Sabha elections in 2024. With the regional parties historically putting up a much better show than the Congress against the BJP since it stormed to power at the Centre, the view that they should challenge the Modi government in a more united voice at the national level has gained momentum in the recent past. Banerjee had written to leaders of 15 anti-BJP parties, including the Congress, seeking a more united fight against the saffron party in March, when she was busy fighting the assembly polls in her state. CPI-M's Nilotpal Basu, who attended the meeting, said they discussed governance issues like Covid management, unemployment and an alleged attack on institutions by the BJP and downplayed its political significance. Besides Pawar, Basu and Sinha, a former BJP leader now TMC vice president, Ghanshyam Tiwari of Samajwadi Party, Jayant Chaudhary of RLD, Omar Abdullah of National Conference, Binoy Viswam of the CPI and Sushil Gupta of AAP, several members of civil society were part of the meeting. Even those who did not represent any political party, like famous lyricist Javed Akhtar and former diplomat K C Singh, are known for their critical views of the BJP. While invites were sent to some Congress leaders, none of them attended, a clear signal that the main opposition party does not want to be a part of the grouping spearheaded by regional parties. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi parried questions on opposition leaders holding the meeting and efforts to form a possible third front, saying today is not the time to discuss politics. Gandhi, who held a virtual press conference on the pandemic situation, said he wanted to focus on the Covid-19 situation and how to save the country from a potential third wave of the pandemic. LJP's Chirag Paswan, who has been himself battling challenges from within his party, on the other hand, said "one can never say never" in terms of possibilities when he was asked whether he sees a role for himself in a grouping of various anti-BJP regional parties and Pawar seen to be working on it. He also said "friends" from the rival RJD-Congress alliance in Bihar have reached out to him for joining them but added that his priority is not an alliance but to deal with the political and legal battle with the rival faction on hand. Many prominent regional parties like Shiv Sena, DMK and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, which is in power in alliance with the Congress in Jharkhand, were not part of the meeting held at Pawar's house. Previous experiments of regional parties to form a third or fourth front to challenge the Congress, when it ruled at the Centre, have been short-lived. Central governments headed by them in 1989, when the BJP had supported them, and then in 1996, when the Congress backed them to keep the BJP out, did not last for even two years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/meeting-at-sharad-pawars-house-apolitical-exchange-of-views-or-political-mobilisation-of-anti-bjp-forces-1000314.html
22-06-2021||National Politics||No attempt to isolate Congress: Leaders after attending 'Rashtra Manch' meeting chaired by Sharad Pawar||The pressing need for an "alternate vision" in India was the central theme of a two and half-hour-long huddle in Delhi, held at the residence of NCP chief Sharad Pawar under the auspices of 'Rashtra Manch' headed by Trinamool Congress vice president Yashwant Sinha. The meeting came amid a growing chorus in the Opposition camp to put up a united fight against the NDA in the upcoming polls. The meeting decided to set up a committee headed by Sinha and featuring political leaders as well representatives of other walks of life to give people an "alternate vision". After the meeting, the leaders tried to downplay its importance, seeking to give it a 'larger than politics' image and also cited the attendance of many people from outside politics. The leaders of the regional parties, who attended the meeting, were at pains to explain that this is an attempt to form a front minus Congress.  Among the nearly two dozen participants, more than a dozen were political leaders including the president of a party, the vice president of another, both sitting and former MPs. Some non-political people were also there, critical of the BJP. While the meeting was not attended by Congress or some of its coalition partners like JMM (Jharkhand), DMK (Tamil Nadu) and Shiv Sena (Maharashtra), Ghanshyam Tiwari of Samajwadi Party, Jayant Chaudhary of RLD, Omar Abdullah of National Conference, Binoy Viswam of the CPI and Sushil Gupta of AAP attended the event.  The meeting took place nine months before the crucial Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls as well as elections in Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat and Goa next year, which is being considered a semi-final of sorts before the 2024 general elections.   Former Congress spokesperson Sanjay Jha (suspended from the party) told DH that the meeting discussed India's current political scenario and the need to give the people an alternative voice. Sources said that speakers in the meeting rued that the Opposition is not being able to articulate an effective counter-ideological point to BJP's ideology, while the future is about the battle of ideology. Lyricist and former Rajya Sabha MP Javed Akhtar, who attended the meeting, cautioned against keeping the activities just confined to television debates and preparing documents and underlined the need to involve people. Sudheendra Kulkarni, who had in past acted as a strategist for BJP when L K Advani was in the party and had also been with CPI-M at the beginning of his political career is learnt to have emphasized the need to draft the main Opposition party Congress into such plans, a source said. A leader said, "Congress has to be the fulcrum". Briefing reporters after the meeting, former Rajya Sabha MP of NCP Majeed Memon explained that there was "no attempt to isolate Congress from the political point of view or exclude it". "I invited at least five Congress leaders--Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari, Vivek Tankha (members of G-23 in Congress) Abhishek Singhvi and Shatrughan Sinha. There are reports in the media suggesting that this meeting called by Pawar Sahab is boycotting Congress or a big alliance is being formed isolating Congress. There is no such thing," said Memon after the meeting. He also said that the meeting was "not any political programme" and projecting it as one is wrong. Samajwadi Party spokesperson Ghanshyam Tiwari hit out at NDA dispensation at the Centre, saying "the meeting stressed that a deficit of vision in this young country cannot be allowed only because the present government is against any kind of vision." Sources said Sinha and Pawar did not talk much in the meeting and preferred to listen to the participants. After the meeting, Sinha merely said, "The meeting continued for two and half hours during which several issues were discussed." Earlier, Pawar held a meeting with his party leaders to decide the course of NCP's actions in the future polls. On Monday, Pawar held a meeting with poll strategist Prashant Kishor. In March, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to leaders of 15 anti-BJP parties, including the Congress, seeking a more united fight against the saffron party, a stand which she has maintained even after winning the state for a third consecutive term. That the meeting was convened by Trinamool Congress vice president Sinha and chaired by NCP boss Pawar, who many believe could be a magnet of Opposition unity, indicates the political significance of the event. NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik had on Monday said that Pawar would work from Tuesday to unite all Opposition parties and the meeting chaired by him would also dwell on the political situation in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-attempt-to-isolate-congress-leaders-after-attending-rashtra-manch-meeting-chaired-by-sharad-pawar-1000342.html
22-06-2021||National Politics||Three-member Congress team to attend PM Modi's J&K meet||A three-member Congress team would participate in the meeting on Jammu and Kashmir convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday. The decision was taken at a meeting of senior Congress leaders chaired by party chief Sonia Gandhi, which was attended by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, senior leaders P Chidambaram, Karan Singh, J&K Congress chief Ghulam Ahmed Mir. “It was decided that Congress should respond to the initiative of the Prime Minister. It would have been better though if the government had shared the agenda for the meeting,” Mir said. Besides Mir, senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad and former J&K deputy chief minister Tara Chand will attend the meeting. “The party believes that dialogue is the only way to resolve any problem. No agenda for the meeting has been mentioned in the invitation, so it would not be correct to speculate on it,” Mir said. He said the Congress delegation participating in the meeting was “fully equipped” to take part in the debate and discussion at Thursday’s deliberations with the Prime Minister. Congress had demanded restoration of full statehood to Jammu and Kashmir holding of elections to allow people to elect their representatives instead of a rule by Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/three-member-congress-team-to-attend-pm-modis-jk-meet-1000346.html
22-06-2021||National Politics||Power lunch: Yogi Adityanath, RSS leaders meet at UP Deputy CM Maurya's home||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday joined senior RSS leaders for lunch at the home of Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, as the ruling party geared up for the assembly polls just months away. RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale and two other functionaries, Krishna Gopal and Anil, spent an hour and a half at Maurya’s house, where the chief minister and another deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma were also present. The meeting was described as “informal” and the guests blessed Maurya’s recently married son and daughter-in-law. But some significance is being seen in this being the “first time” that the CM has dropped in at the official residence of his deputy, located close to his own in Lucknow. Recently, replying to reporters’ queries in Bareilly, Maurya had said the BJP parliamentary board will decide under whose leadership the next assembly elections are to be fought, a remark interpreted by the opposition as a sign of a rift between the two. A party spokesperson had dismissed the comment as the BJP’s traditional stance, but Maurya had been seen as a likely candidate for the CM’s post before the party chose Adityanath the last time. Earlier, on Monday, Adityanath, his deputies Sharma and Maurya, and RSS leaders Hosabale Krishna Gopal had met BJP national general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh and BJP vice-president and Uttar Pradesh in-charge Radha Mohan Singh at the CM’s home. The two central BJP leaders also met the party office bearers at the state unit headquarters on Tuesday. A Maurya aide said Tuesday’s lunch was the first time that Adityanath visited the deputy CM’s official residence. But before this, the CM had visited Maurya’s family home in Kaushambi district in October 2018, when the deputy CM’s father Shyam Lal Maurya passed away. Maurya presented a saffron “angavastra” to Adityanath and white ones to his other lunch guests. His family posed for photographs with them. His son Yogesh Kumar Maurya married Anjali Maurya on May 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/power-lunch-yogi-adityanath-rss-leaders-meet-at-up-deputy-cm-mauryas-home-1000348.html
22-06-2021||National Politics||Amarinder Singh spells out action plan to fulfil poll promises as Navjot Singh Sidhu ups ante||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday outlined the action plan to fulfil key poll promises related to law and order during his meeting with the Mallikarjun Kharge-led panel to end factionalism in the state Congress, ahead of the assembly polls early next year. Singh’s meeting with the three-member Kharge panel came at a time when his bete noire Navjot Singh Sidhu launched a broadside against the chief minister, an action that was strongly disapproved by the Congress leadership. The chief minister is also learnt to have conveyed his unhappiness at Sidhu’s outburst against him saying such remarks could weaken the Congress ahead of the elections. Even as the chief minister met the three-member panel, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi held meetings with a group of leaders, who are unhappy with Singh’s style of functioning.  “Everybody has said that they will fight the polls together and the party is united under the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi,” Kharge told reporters after the meeting with the Punjab Chief Minister. He said the discussions with the Punjab leadership have been about contesting the 2022 assembly elections as a united force and expressed the hope that the differences would be sorted out amicably. “Everything will be alright… whatever big or small mistakes or complaints are there, they will be resolved,” said Kharge. Congress President Sonia Gandhi had set up a three-member panel led by Kharge with AICC General Secretary Harish Rawat and senior leader J P Agarwal as members to end factionalism in Punjab Congress. Sidhu, who has been sidelined after he resigned from the Punjab government following differences with Singh, has stepped up the attack on the chief minister over the sacrilege issue. The matter relates to the investigation into incidents of desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib in 2015 under the Akali Dal government. Sidhu has accused Singh of going soft on former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal. Action against those involved in the sacrilege cases and the drug mafia were the key election promises of Congress in the 2017 elections. Singh’s detractors, including Sidhu, accuse him of not fulfilling the election promises. Ahead of the next year’s elections, Sidhu is eyeing the post of the Punjab Congress chief and is unwilling to join the state government again. The chief minister is against Sidhu’s appointment as the state Congress chief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amarinder-singh-spells-out-action-plan-to-fulfil-poll-promises-as-navjot-singh-sidhu-ups-ante-1000412.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||UP: Dalit woman accuses man of rape, blackmail, forced conversion||A Dalit woman here has alleged that a Muslim youth raped her after befriending her through social media, and also accused his family of forced conversion for marriage, police said on Monday. They said a case was registered against the youth and his family members on the complaint of the woman, who has also alleged that the man forced her to undergo abortion and his family members asked her to bring Rs 7 lakh from her parents before kicking her out of their house on April 10. She has also accused him of hurling casteist remarks at her, they said. Senior Superintendent of Police Rohit Singh Sajwan Monday said the youth, a resident of Pilibhit district, had befriended the woman through the Facebook account of his sister almost five years ago. He started chatting with the woman and later introduced himself, but they continued their interaction. He then called her to a mall in Bareilly from where he took her to Pilibhit on the pretext of making her meet his family, where his parents and sister allegedly locked her in a room, she has alleged. Sajwan said the woman alleged she was raped by the man who also recorded the act and pressured her for a nikaah after forced conversion. When she refused to do so, she was threatened that her video would be circulated online, he said. He said her nikaah was finally done in September 2020 after changing her religion, but she was allegedly kept in a guest house for three months. The SSP said the woman claimed she became pregnant in the meanwhile, but the man allegedly forced her to undertake abortion. He also exerted pressure on her to get Rs 7 lakh from her parents, and on April 10 kicked her out of house after hurling casteist remarks at her, the SSP said. Sajwan also said that according to the woman, the man fled with his maternal uncle after leaving her, and also took the nikaah documents and photographs with himself. The SSP added that the matter is being investigated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-dalit-woman-accuses-man-of-rape-blackmail-forced-conversion-1000069.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||If second wave of Covid-19 was bad, third will be worse: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said 90% of the deaths during the second wave of Covid-19 could have been avoided but for want of timely treatment and asked the Modi government to be prepared to deal with the third wave of the pandemic. Gandhi released a White Paper of the management of Covid-19, prepared by AICC Research Department headed by M V Rajeev Gowda, that described the Modi government’s response to the pandemic as the “gravest governance failure”. “It is pretty clear that the management of the first and second wave was disastrous,” the former Congress President told reporters in a virtual press conference. Gandhi described the White Paper as the “blueprint” to deal with the third wave for the government to consider in shaping the response to the pandemic. “If you think the second wave was bad, the third wave is going to be worse, because the virus is intelligent and transforming itself,” he said. Gandhi frowned upon Prime Minister Narendra Modi turning emotional while addressing the nation over the Covid-19 situation. “The Prime Minister’s tears cannot wipe the tears of those families who lost their near and dear ones. The Prime Minister’s tears were not for them, but oxygen could have saved them,” said the Lok Sabha member from Wayanad. He said 90% deaths during the second wave could have been avoided had the patients received timely treatment and asked the government to ensure adequate hospital beds, medicines and oxygen supplies in place before the third wave hits the country. Gandhi was appreciative of the 85 lakh vaccinations achieved on Monday, the first day of the liberalised vaccination policy, and hoped that the same process would be followed everyday. He said there was no scope for bias in the allocation of vaccines and all states should be treated equally. “The government must not view India’s states as BJP versus non-BJP,” the leader said, arguing in favour of a decentralised fight against Covid-19 where the Prime Minister, Chief Minister, District Magistrates and citizens all have their roles to play. The former Congress President also mooted setting up of a Covid-19 compensation fund to help families that have lost sole breadwinners to the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/if-second-wave-of-covid-19-was-bad-third-will-be-worse-rahul-gandhi-1000106.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||Statue of Ambedkar found vandalised in Uttar Pradesh||A statue of Bhimrao Ambedkar was found damaged on Tuesday morning in Rampur Asli village here, leading to protests by locals, police said. They said some unidentified people damaged the statue late on Monday night. The incident led to protests by locals who blocked on the Gadwar-Nagra road, Additional Superintendent of Police Sanjay Yadav said. As soon as the police received information about the incident, officers, including the deputy superintendent of police, reached the spot and persuaded the angry villagers to lift the blockade, Yadav said. A case was registered and necessary legal action would be taken against those behind the vandalism, he said, adding that the statue was damaged several times before as well and the matter was being probed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/statue-of-ambedkar-found-vandalised-in-uttar-pradesh-1000114.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||Akhilesh alleges UP govt hiding actual Covid death toll||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday accused the Uttar Pradesh government of hiding the actual number of deaths due to Covid-19. Through this, he said, the BJP government is actually hiding its face. Yadav's remarks came a day after a report claimed that the death toll due to Covid-19 in 24 districts of Uttar Pradesh from July 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021 was up to 43 times higher than the official figures. Its findings are based on a comparison of the official death toll in these districts during the nine-month period with the excess deaths registered in the state's Civil Registration System (CRS). The mortality data was accessed through a Right to Information (RTI) application. In a tweet in Hindi, Yadav said, "According to information accessed through the Right to Information, it has come to light that the death toll in 24 districts of Uttar Pradesh in the nine months of the pandemic till March 31, 2021 is up to 43 times higher than the government figures." "Actually, the BJP government is not hiding the death figures but its face," he said. As of Monday, Uttar Pradesh's Covid-19 death toll stood at 22,224 while the total number of cases was 17,04,476, according to a government bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akhilesh-alleges-up-govt-hiding-actual-covid-death-toll-1000133.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||In Uttarakhand, ayurvedic doctors can now prescribe allopathic medicines||The ayurveda-versus-allopathy debate has taken a new turn with the Uttarakhand government deciding to allow ayurvedic doctors to prescribe select allopathic medicines to patients in emergencies. Making the announcement on the sidelines of a programme to mark the International Day for Yoga at the Uttarakhand Ayurvedic University on Monday, Ayush Minister Harak Singh Rawat said the decision was taken for the benefit of the people living in the state's remote hill areas, where the primary health centres mostly have ayurvedic doctors. There are around 800 ayurvedic doctors in Uttarakhand and as many ayurvedic dispensaries, of which 90 per cent are located in the remote hill areas, he said. The decision, which requires changes in the Uttar Pradesh Bharatiya Chikitsa Adhiniyam, will help people living in the disaster and accident prone hill areas who are deprived of proper healthcare facilities, the minister said. However, the announcement sparked a sharp reaction from the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Uttarakhand, which termed it "illegal". "It is illegal and falls into the category of mixopathy," IMA, Uttarakhand secretary Ajay Khanna said. "Mixopathy will only harm patients in an emergency. The Supreme Court and the high courts are very clear on this. Ayurvedic doctors cannot practise allopathy as they are not qualified for it," he said. "How can ayurvedic doctors prescribe allopathic medicines without knowing about allopathy?" Khanna asked. However, Bharatiya Chikitsa Parishad, Uttarakhand vice president and senior physician J N Nautiyal welcomed the decision, saying 80 per cent of the state's population, which is deprived of healthcare facilities, is going to benefit immensely from it. On the IMA's reaction to the announcement, Nautiyal said, "The IMA has double standards. Ayush doctors work in the ICUs and emergency wards of hospitals. The IMA has no problem with that. But now, when something is going to benefit such a large number of people in the hills, they have a problem." The ayurveda-versus-allopathy debate began in the country last month when Ramdev questioned the efficacy of allopathic drugs in the treatment of Covid-19, prompting the IMA's Uttarakhand unit to serve a defamation notice to the yoga exponent and demand a compensation of Rs 1,000 crore from him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-uttarakhand-ayurvedic-doctors-can-now-prescribe-allopathic-medicines-1000149.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||PM's J&K all-party meet will facilitate commencement of political process in UT: Apni Party||The Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party has hailed the political outreach of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and hoped that the June 24 all-party meet will facilitate commencement of a political process in the union territory that will lead to genuine empowerment of its people. The party headed by Altaf Bukhari also demanded that concrete confidence building measures be taken by the Centre to address woes of the people of J&K. The party held a meeting on Monday in which the leaders "hailed the political outreach of the prime minister and hoped that the June 24 meeting will facilitate commencement of a political process in Jammu and Kashmir that will eventually pave the way for genuine empowerment of its people". Party general secretary Rafi Ahmad Mir on Tuesday said Bukhari has been authorised by the party to "represent the wishes and aspirations of the people of Jammu and Kashmir in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pms-jk-all-party-meet-will-facilitate-commencement-of-political-process-in-ut-apni-party-1000151.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||SIT questions former Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal in Kotkapura firing case||Former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal was on Tuesday quizzed by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident. The Punjab Police SIT reached Badal's official MLA flat in Sector-4. It was there for nearly two-and-a-half hours, sources said. Earlier, the SIT had summoned the Akali Dal patriarch for questioning in Mohali on June 16. But Badal had sought a change of the date of appearance, saying he was not keeping well. Earlier, Harcharan Bains, principal adviser to Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Badal, had said, "Five-time Punjab CM Sardar Parkash Singh Badal will appear before the SIT at his official MLA flat at Sector-4 in Chandigarh at 10.30 am on June 22. Still not in good health, Badal, however, is keen to fulfil his legal and constitutional duties as a law-abiding citizen of the country." Badal was the chief minister of Punjab in 2015 when incidents of the desecration of religious texts and subsequent police firing on people protesting over the issue took place in Faridkot. In May, the state government set up a new SIT led by Additional Director General of Police L K Yadav to probe the Kotkapura police firing incident following the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which had quashed the report submitted by the first SIT headed by Inspector General Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh on April 9. The new SIT is investigating two FIRs registered on October 14, 2015 and August 7, 2018 in connection with the Kotkapura incident. It has already questioned former DGP Sumedh Saini and some other police officers. The previous SIT had questioned Badal in 2018. At that time, Badal had said the SIT was "politically motivated" and the probe was an attempt to defame him. In 2015, police had also opened fire at a similar demonstration in Behbal Kalan, also in Faridkot, where two people were killed. A separate probe is underway in that case.  Check out latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sit-questions-former-punjab-cm-parkash-singh-badal-in-kotkapura-firing-case-1000176.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||90% of Haryana Police personnel have received first dose of Covid vaccine: DGP||About 90 per cent of Haryana Police personnel have received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine while 65 per cent have taken both doses, Director General of Police (DGP) Manoj Yadava said on Tuesday. The Haryana Police has nearly 60,000 personnel, including home guards and Special Police Officers (SPOs). The vaccination drive for police personnel, who are included in the frontline workers category, started on February 4. "So far, 53,924 officers and jawans have got the first anti-Covid shot and more than 38,988 have received both doses," Yadava said in a statement. He said 90 per cent of the police personnel have received the first dose and are waiting for the completion of the mandatory gap period to take the second dose. Around 65 per cent of the police personnel have taken both doses of the vaccine, he added. Yadava stressed that the protective shield of the vaccine is very important to prevent the infection. In addition, all precautions and safety guidelines must be followed. "While working on the frontline, policemen have to protect themselves against the infection along with (ensuring) the safety of others. With a good pace of vaccination, we are striving to achieve the target of 100 per cent vaccination soon," he said. Besides maintaining law and order, the DGP said, the police personnel took care of the elderly, ensured that the poor and needy got food and migrant workers and labourers returned home safely. "After noticing the shortage of ambulances in the deadly second wave, more than 460 Innova vehicles were provided to all districts to transport infected patients free of cost to hospitals and back home," he said. Besides this, police helped the patients in home isolation by ensuring home delivery of oxygen cylinders. Police's efforts in serving mankind were also recognised at the national level, he added. Yadava said, "Today, as a result of collective efforts, the Covid death rate in the state has come down and the recovery rate is quite high. The infected police personnel have also joined duty after the recovery." Out of the 6,547 police personnel who tested positive for Covid-19, 6,480 have recovered and returned to work and 67 are still infected, he said. "Unfortunately, 45 personnel, including three Special Police Officers, have succumbed to the virus. Despite all this, our men and women in khaki are working very hard and performing their duty," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/90-of-haryana-police-personnel-have-received-first-dose-of-covid-vaccine-dgp-1000206.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||Decision to cancel Amarnath Yatra not pleasant but appropriate: Mahant Deependra Giri||Mahant Deependra Giri, the custodian of the Charri Mubarak of Amarnath, the holy mace of Lord Shiva, on Tuesday said the decision to cancel the annual pilgrimage for the second consecutive year was "not pleasant" but an appropriate one, keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic and the safety of the pilgrims and the staff involved. "The annual Amarnath pilgrimage has been cancelled this year like last year.  Though the decision is not pleasant, it is appropriate in view of the (Covid) pandemic and for the safety of the pilgrims and the staff involved in the yatra," Giri said in a statement. The Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board decided to cancel this year's pilgrimage on Monday in view of the pandemic. The board said the ritualistic aspects of the yatra will be conducted and the proceedings streamed live on certain platforms. Giri hoped that the countrymen would be fully vaccinated against Covid-19 before the next year's yatra and the pilgrimage would also resume. "I hope by this time next year, the citizens of our country will be fully vaccinated and we can have the usual and normal pilgrimage," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/decision-to-cancel-amarnath-yatra-not-pleasant-but-appropriate-mahant-deependra-giri-1000210.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||Noida shooting range to be named after 'Shooter Dadi': Adityanath||As a mark of respect to women power, the shooting range at the Noida stadium will be named after "Shooter Dadi" Chandro Tomar, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Tuesday. Hailing from Baghpat in western Uttar Pradesh, Tomar was above 60 years of age when she picked up the gun for the first time, but went on to win many national competitions for veterans, her feats inspiring the award-winning Bollywood movie, "Saand ki Aankh". Adityanath announced on Twitter that the shooting range would now be named after Tomar, an eminent shooter who symbolised "vitality, will power and women empowerment". "Naming the shooting range after Chandro Tomar is a tribute to women power, in line with the Mission Shakti programme of the Uttar Pradesh government," he tweeted in Hindi. In his letter to the chief minister, Singh had highlighted how Tomar, who hailed from Baghpat's Johri village, broke the barriers of orthodoxy to make the state and the country proud. "In a region, where women stay in the confines of household responsibilities, she stepped out because of her strong will power and earned a place for herself in the world that today makes ordinary women in villages proud of her," he wrote. A befitting tribute to Tomar would pave the way for lakhs of women and girls, who have been inspired by "Shooter Dadi", to achieve their goals, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-shooting-range-to-be-named-after-shooter-dadi-adityanath-1000213.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||Passenger held for ruckus at IGI Airport over denial to fly without RT-PCR test report||A 36-year-old businessman from Uttar Pradesh was arrested as he allegedly created a ruckus at the Indira Gandhi International Airport after the Vistara airline did not allow him to board as he was not carrying a mandatory RT-PCR report, police said on Tuesday. Suraj Pandey, who hails from Rudrapur, was arrested on Monday after Vistara Deputy Manager Deepak Dhandha filed a complaint in this regard. Pandey was to head to Mumbai but did not have an RT-PCR test report. He was not allowed to fly to Mumbai following this, Dhandha claimed in his complaint.  The complaint also claimed that Pandey turned violent, started shouting and even got onto the baggage belt and started walking on it. "We checked the CCTV footage to verify the complainant's version. From the contents of the complaint, CCTV footage and enquiry conducted so far, accused Suraj Pandey had committed offence under relevant sections of the Delhi Police Act," Deputy Commissioner of Police (IGI Airport) Rajeev Ranjan said. He was arrested and later released on bail. According to a statement by Vistara, Pandey behaved badly with its staff and other customers, and his acts threatened the safety of ground operations. "We have provided a full refund of the booking to the customer and notified the authorities of the incident," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/passenger-held-for-ruckus-at-igi-airport-over-denial-to-fly-without-rt-pcr-test-report-1000223.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||Golden Temple replica at Delhi park dismantled, says DSGMC president||Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Tuesday said a replica of the Golden Temple being built at a park in Punjabi Bagh area of the national capital has been dismantled as it was against "Sikh decorum". The Bharat Darshan Park, being developed by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation, has replicas of 18 popular monuments from across the country including Mysore Palace, Charminar and Khajuraho Temple. The Golden Temple replica was being built using scrap material and was the most expensive of all in the park, officials said. In a tweet, Sirsa said, "Big Victory for DSGMC: Thanking the Sangat. We have succeeded in getting the replica of Sri Darbar Sahib dismantled from Punjabi Bagh Park. This replica was against Sikh Maryada (decorum)." In a video posted on his Twitter handle on Monday, the DSGMC president had said, "Sri Darbar Sahib, Amritsar is not a tourist spot that can be replicated. It is the sanctum sanctorum for Sikhs and seeing a replica for touristy offends us to the core." Sirsa said the DSGMC learnt about the replica on Sunday. On Monday, Sirsa talked to MCD officials to express the committee's reservations. Later, members of the committee reached the park and started dismantling the structure with the support of MCD staff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/golden-temple-replica-at-delhi-park-dismantled-says-dsgmc-president-1000225.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||Electoral Compulsion? Yogi seeks to smooth ruffled feathers within party ahead of UP polls||In an apparent bid to stem growing discontent within the BJP over his style of functioning, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Aditynath on Tuesday met deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya, one of his staunch critics, who had recently said that the next CM of the state would be decided after the 2022 UP assembly polls. It was Adityanath's first visit to Maurya's residence in over four years. Adityanath, who was accompanied by senior RSS leaders, also had lunch with Maurya, sources said. Although BJP leaders in Lucknow claimed that the Chief Minister visited Maurya's residence to 'bless' the latter's son and his newly wedded wife, sources said that the visit was aimed at soothing Maurya's ruffled feathers. ''The Chief Minister could not attend the marriage ceremony owing to Covid-19 protocol,'' said a state BJP leader. Maurya, an influential OBC leader, was tipped to be the chief minister after BJP's resounding win in the 2017 Assembly polls as Adityanath turned out to be the dark horse. Maurya was, however, made deputy CM in a bid to placate him. The relations between the two leaders have remained strained since then and Maurya had, on several occasions, complained that he was not accorded the importance he deserved. He had also complained of interference in the working of the PWD ministry by the CMO (Chief Minister's office). Maurya had said that the central leadership would decide who the BJP's chief ministerial face. ''It has not yet been decided,'' he had remarked. Adityanath's meeting with Maurya was being seen as an attempt by the former and the saffron party and RSS leadership to placate those, who were 'unhappy' with the UP CM and sought a change of guard in the state before the next Assembly polls due in March 2022. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/electoral-compulsion-yogi-seeks-to-smooth-ruffled-feathers-within-party-ahead-of-up-polls-1000235.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||BJP welcomes PAGD's decision to take part in PM-led all-party meet||J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina on Tuesday welcomed the decision of the Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) to take part in the scheduled all party meeting to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi, saying “we all must unite in the interest of the nation and work for 'Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat'". Raina also thanked the Prime Minister for convening the meeting and said he had always shown his big heart for Jammu and Kashmir by addressing developmental issues and providing justice to the deprived communities. “Prime Minister has convened a meeting of J&K parties on June 24 and it is a proud moment for all of us. We will utilize this opportunity to raise the issues of public interest and talk about strengthening the nation to keep its flag flying high,” Raina told reporters after an emergency meeting of the party here. He said the Centre has extended the invitation to J&K parties with an open mind and heart and it is now the responsibility of the invitees to reciprocate and join the meeting. Asked about his reaction to the decision of the PAGD to take part in the meeting, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said “it is very good that all political parties are taking part in the meeting. We have already announced that I along with my colleagues are joining the meeting". “It is a very important meeting and when the Prime Minister is on the chair it has its own sanctity. All issues of public interest will be discussed,” he said, adding “we will need to join hands to speak in one voice for our nation and the tricolor. We should strengthen the pledge of 'Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat'.” He said Jammu and Kashmir is an integral part of India but “lakhs of people” have lost their lives due to Pakistan-sponsored terrorism over the past 35 years and many others including Kashmiri pundits, Sikhs and nationalist Muslims were compelled to migrate at gun point. “J&K people are Indian by heart and the tricolor is in their hearts. Every child is Indian and loves India,” Raina said, adding it is Pakistan which has destroyed J&K and tried to turn it into a graveyard. However, he said the Indian Army, police and paramilitary forces along with Modi-led government gave a befitting reply to the anti-national forces and even attacked them in their safe sanctuaries. As far as talks are concerned, he said India has always tried to have good relations with its neighbours. “We have good relations with the nations across the globe but national unity and integrity is supreme for us. The territorial integrity and sovereignty is our priority and will remain so.” Raina said the Modi-led government facilitated large scale development in Jammu and Kashmir, strengthened Panchayati Raj Institutions by holding elections to strengthen grass-root level democracy and made available adequate funds besides providing justice to different sections of the society including Dogra, Pakistan-occupied Kashmir refugees, West Pakistan refugees, Gorkha and Walmiki communities, Scheduled Caste and scheduled tribes and even women. “Modi has shown a big heart to the people of Jammu and Kashmir and will continue to serve them for their prosperity,” he said.  Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-welcomes-pagds-decision-to-take-part-in-pm-led-all-party-meet-1000237.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||UP to deny welfare schemes to parents with more than two kids under population control policy||The Uttar Pradesh government is contemplating enacting a law to bar the parents having more than two children from availing benefits of the government welfare schemes. The law was intended to check the increasing population of India's most populous state. According to the sources, the UP Law Commission is preparing a draft proposal in this regard which will be submitted to the state government shortly. The chairman of the Commission Justice (retd) Aditya Nath Mittal said that the increasing population had proved to be a drain on the resources of the state. ''Increasing population is responsible for several problems of the state, unemployment, children not getting admission in schools and no place in the hospitals,'' Mittal said. Sources said that government welfare schemes include subsidies on food grains from ration shops, subsidised housing and state government employment. Although the government officials denied that the new policy had anything to do with any specific religion, opposition parties slammed the BJP government for targetting a particular community. ''BJP has always been against a particular community....they have been on the receiving end under the current dispensation,'' said a senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader. He also attributed the move to the state government's attempts to hide its failures in controlling the Covid 19 pandemic in the state.  Saffron leaders, however, welcomed the move and said that it would help check the growing population of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-to-deny-welfare-schemes-to-parents-with-more-than-two-kids-under-population-control-policy-1000244.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||Will press for restoration of J&K special status in all-party meet with PM: PDP chief Mufti||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's all-party meet, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday said peace in the region cannot be restored without undoing the "illegal" and "unconstitutional" act of revocation of the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. Speaking to reporters at the end of a huddle of the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), she said during the meeting with the prime minister on Thursday, she will press for the restoration of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir which was "snatched away from us". "The agenda of the alliance, for which this alliance has been formed, what has been snatched away from us, we will talk on that, that it was a mistake and it was illegal and unconstitutional, without restoring which the issue of J-K (cannot be resolved) and the situation in J-K (cannot improve) and peace in the whole region cannot be restored," she said. Mehbooba, who was flanked by other leaders of the alliance including its chairperson Farooq Abdullah, said the Centre should hold dialogue with everyone including Pakistan to resolve the Kashmir issue. "They (India) are talking to the Taliban in Doha. They should talk with everyone in Jammu and Kashmir and with Pakistan as well for the resolution (of Kashmir issue)," she said. The PDP president said her party was never against dialogue with the Centre, but wanted some confidence-building measures for the people of Jammu and Kashmir like release of prisoners as in other parts of the country due to Covid. She said the political prisoners and other detainees from J-K should have been released if the Centre truly wanted to reach out to the people of J-K and to the political parties who were "humiliated so much" over the last two years. "I think they should have done so, but it does not mean that we are against the dialogue," she said. The PDP president, who is also the vice-chairperson of the PAGD, said she wanted Abdullah as the head of the PAGD to represent the alliance for the prime minister's meeting, but "he (Abdullah) said as the leaders have been invited individually, so we all should go individually". "Whatever agenda they have, we will place our agenda before them. We hope that with our going for the meeting, at least our people who are in various prisons in and outside J-K, are released and those who cannot be released, be at least brought to J-K. Poor people have to collect money to go and meet their kin (who are in prisons outside J-K) once or twice a year," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-press-for-restoration-of-jk-special-status-in-all-party-meet-with-pm-pdp-chief-mufti-1000248.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||1-year-old girl raped, murdered in UP village; accused arrested||A one-and-a-half-year-old girl died after allegedly being raped by a man in a village on Tuesday, police said. The accused, who was later nabbed by the villagers, tried to escape from police custody while being taken to court but was overpowered after being shot in the leg, police said. The toddler was sleeping in an open courtyard on Monday night when the accused (30) picked her up and raped her at a deserted school building nearby, ASP (Rural) Ashok Kumar told reporters. When the parents did not find their girl early morning on Tuesday, a search began and she was found profusely bleeding. The accused, who was also with the victim, was caught by the villagers and handed over to the police, the ASP said. The girl was admitted to hospital where she succumbed to injuries later in the day, he said. A case under charges of murder and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was lodged against the accused. While being taken to court in the afternoon for remand, the 30-year-old attacked the police team and tried to escape from the spot, SHO of the area police station Sanjay Singh said. Police fired in the air but the accused did not stop and got shot in the leg, the SHO said, adding that he was arrested and sent to court for remand following a medical examination. The ASP said charges under the National Security Act will also be invoked against the accused. The girl's father said he frantically searched for his missing daughter along with other villagers only to find her in such a bad state in the nearby school.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1-year-old-girl-raped-murdered-in-up-village-accused-arrested-1000258.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||From The Newsroom: Jammu and Kashmir parties decide to attend PM Modi's meeting||In your evening news brief, Kashmir parties decide to attend PM Modi’s meeting; the UK launches negotiations to join a trade partnership in and around the Pacific Ocean, and in Uttarakhand, ayurvedic doctors can now prescribe allopathic medicines.   After days of suspense, the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) on Tuesday decided that they will attend the Prime Minister’s all-party meeting in Jammu and Kashmir on June 24 in New Delhi. “Our stand is clear and all of you know what our stand is. Since New Delhi has invited the leaders individually, we have decided that all those invited will attend the meeting and put forth their points on J&K,” National Conference president Farooq Abdullah told reporters here after chairing a meeting of the PAGD leaders at his Gupkar residence.   The UK launched negotiations Tuesday to join a trade partnership in and around the Pacific Ocean, as it explores new opportunities around the world following its departure from the European Union. The British government said negotiating teams will be working over the coming months to join the 11-country Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, which is home to around half a billion people.   The Ayurveda-versus-allopathy debate has taken a new turn with the Uttarakhand government deciding to allow ayurvedic doctors to prescribe select allopathic medicines to patients in emergencies. Making the announcement on the sidelines of a programme to mark the International Day for Yoga at the Uttarakhand Ayurvedic University on Monday, Ayush Minister Harak Singh Rawat said the decision was taken for the benefit of the people living in the state's remote hill areas, where the primary health centres mostly have ayurvedic doctors. Source: DHNS/PTI/AP||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/from-the-newsroom-jammu-and-kashmir-parties-decide-to-attend-pm-modis-meeting-1000282.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||Jyotiraditya Scindia hopeful of berth in Modi cabinet||Dynamics in Madhya Pradesh BJP politics are likely to change as speculations are rife that Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia is going to be inducted in the Modi cabinet. A hopeful Scindia has stepped up efforts to impress upon the BJP high command his willingness to work in tandem with the state leadership. He has also given signs of aligning himself with Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.   Scindia’s acclimatisation in the RSS culture appears to have progressed well, though Madhya Pradesh BJP leadership remains wary of his ambitions. Indications of the RSS’s growing  affinity for the main toppler of the Kamal Nath government in March last year are evident in the state BJP working committee that was announced by the state president Vishnu Datt Sharma on June 8. The 403-member panel has not only accommodated a fairly good number of Scindia supporters, but has also honoured him as a permanent invitee in the auguste company of party veterans, including CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan and former Lok Sabha speaker Sumitra Mahajan. Sharma was reportedly not willing to oblige the scion of the erstwhile Gwalior state so generously, but yielded under pressure from Nagpur. RSS general secretary Dattatrey Hosbale had asked BJP president JP Nadda to ensure that Scindia’s wish-list is honourably taken care of. This message was duly communicated to Sharma, himself a direct RSS appointee. Scindia’s two-day Bhopal visit followed hectic closed-door meetings among state’s top BJP leaders, including general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Prahlad Patel, former vice-president Prabhat Jha and number two in the Shivraj Singh cabinet Narottam Mishra. They also had secret parleys with state BJP leaders. Except Narendra Tomar, all the other top leaders are known Shivraj Singh Chouhan detractors. Vijayvargiya is without work there days after the West Bengal elections. The BJP general secretary might not be fancying the chief minister’s post for himself after the West Bengal fiasco, but he is reported to be keen to see Shivraj being replaced by Narottam Mishra. Number two in the cabinet, Mishra had played a key role under his mentor and Union home minister Amit Shah’s guidance in toppling the Kamal Nath government. He was in the forefront in most of the dealings with 22 MLAs who broke away from the Congress following Scindia. All these leaders — Vijayvargiya, Mishra, Patel and Jha — had meetings among themselves as well as state BJP leaders in first week of this month in Bhopal and Delhi, triggering speculations about  their rallying together to oust Shivraj Singh Chouhan. Scindia holds the key to the Shivraj Singh’s continuance. And, in turn, the chief minister is also seem inclined to see Scindia in the Union Cabinet. A week later, Scindia went to the Gwalior home of former state minister Jaibhan Singh Pavaiya, the bitterest critic of the royal family. His gesture is being seen as an attempt to win over detractors in the BJP. BJP insiders, however, say Jyotiraditya Scindia might appear to have pleased the RSS leadership but he is yet to win over the Prime Minister to fulfil his dream of becoming a Union minister, a reward that was part of the deal he had struck while pledging support to the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jyotiraditya-scindia-hopeful-of-berth-in-modi-cabinet-1000293.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||Militants shoot dead CID officer in Srinagar||An officer of Jammu and Kashmir police's Criminal Investigation Department (CID) was shot dead by suspected militants in the outskirts of Srinagar on Tuesday evening.   Reports said unidentified militants shot at and critically injured a CID inspector when he was returning after offering prayers at Kanipora area of Nowgam in the outskirts of the city.  He was shifted to a hospital where doctors declared him brought dead, reports added.  A police official while confirming the killing identified the slain officer as Pervaiz Ahmad Dar, posted at police station Parimpora. Reports said immediately after the incident, senior police officers rushed to the spot and the area was cordoned off to nab the attackers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militants-shoot-dead-cid-officer-in-srinagar-1000341.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||Union Cabinet reshuffle PM's prerogative, says Nitish||Bihar Chief Minister and JD(U) leader Nitish Kumar said on Tuesday that a reshuffle of the Union Cabinet is the prerogative of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and stated that he is in the national capital on a private visit. Speaking to reporters, he also rejected Lok Janshakti Party leader Chirag Paswan's charge against the JD(U) that it was behind the split in his party, saying some people keep speaking against it for getting "publicity." "I have no reaction to this. It is their internal matter," the JD(U) leader said. Asked about the speculation about the Cabinet reshuffle in which his party is expected to be given berth, he said it is totally the privilege of the prime minister, and there is no issue over it. He said he is here for his eye checkup, downplaying reports that it may be linked to the likely expansion of the Union Cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/union-cabinet-reshuffle-pms-prerogative-says-nitish-1000349.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||FASTag begins on UP's Yamuna Expressway after long delay||After a long delay, users of the Yamuna Expressway will now be able to use the FASTag to electronically pay toll tax on the privately-managed highway connecting Noida and Agra, officials said. The service was inaugurated at the Jewar toll plaza of the expressway on Tuesday in presence of the officials of the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) and the Jaypee Infratech Limited (JIL). “The FASTag service was expected to come up earlier but got delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic,” YEIDA CEO Arun Vir Singh said at the inauguration event. The 165-km-long expressway has three toll plazas – Jewar, Mathura and Agra on the route. All the plazas will have four FASTag lanes, two on either side, according to officials. A key agreement for installation of the FASTag system, which has already been installed on government-managed National Highways, was signed on March 15 between the YEIDA, JIL and IDBI bank, the officials said. The IDBI bank shall be the acquiring bank and manage toll collection and related processes for the toll plazas of the projects for a period of seven years, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fastag-begins-on-ups-yamuna-expressway-after-long-delay-1000388.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||Security has improved in J&K, but need to be alert along LoC: Core Group review meeting||All security parameters in Jammu and Kashmir have improved this year, but there is a need to be alert due to indications of heightened activity in terror launchpads across the Line of Control (LoC) in the last two months, top security officials in the Union Territory said here on Tuesday. They were participating in a review meeting of the Core Group on security in Jammu and Kashmir, comprising top officials of civil administration, intelligence agencies and security forces, held at Badami Bagh Cantonment here. The meeting was co-chaired by the General Officer Commanding of the Army's Chinar Corps, Lt Gen D P Pandey, and Director General of Police Jammu and Kashmir Dilbag Singh. During the meeting, the officials shared inputs about the LoC and hinterland security situation. The officials stated that the ceasefire with Pakistan has improved the security situation along the border, but intelligence inputs on terrorist launch pads and terrorist training activities in Pakistan indicate the need to be alert along the LoC. There are indications of heightened activity in the last two months. The cross-border smuggling of narcotics and weapons continues to be the focus of the intelligence agencies and security forces. This included continued vigil and checks on all passes leading to Kashmir valley, they said. The top security officials said the review of the first six months of the year shows an improvement in all security parameters. “There is a joint security forces effort to target the OGW (over-ground workers) network that sustains terrorism and a focused effort by the police has led to the apprehension of nearly 400 such persons,” they said. Referring to the local youths joining militant ranks, the officials said while the recruitment has been lower than the previous years, it continues to be a focus area for the security and intelligence agencies. The effort is to engage with the vulnerable youth and target the OGW network engaged in the recruitment process. The recruitment is higher in some pockets where synergised counter actions are being executed, they added. The officials said there is a continued focus on the vehicles of dubious antecedents as they are used for transportation of arms and contraband and also can be used for vehicle-based IEDs. The efforts of some 'tanzeems' (militant outfits) to use a variety of IEDs are being proactively countered. Reports of encroachments along the national highway are being checked as these can cause a security threat to the convoy movement on the highways, they said. The officials also discussed the issue of criminal acts being "done under the garb of a terrorist attack" and the need to differentiate between a terror attack and a criminal attack. “The shift of terrorist's modus operandi in targeting soft targets and counter-measures were also discussed,” they said. The security officials also deliberated on the “propaganda effort” by Pakistan and their “antagonistic information warfare tactics”. “Sadly, these efforts include propaganda to legitimise the killing of Kashmiri civilians by the terrorists. The use of social media to spread disinformation is widespread and needs to be countered proactively by a joint effort,” they said. The DGP and the Corps Commander commended the officials on the improved security indicators and a special mention was made on the measures taken to minimise collateral damage in the operations despite the risk to soldiers, the officials said. “They called upon all to continue efforts at better intelligence, better preventive security measures and effective intelligence-based counter-terror operations. They called for continued efforts along with the civil society to counter the separatist propaganda and break the cycle of violence for long-term peace in Kashmir,” an official said. During the meeting, the core group also discussed the "satisfactory" handling of Covid-19 in Kashmir. "It was appreciated that how the national and the state civil departments along with the security forces worked as a joint team and kept the pandemic under control when compared to the other parts of India during the peak of the second wave," the official said. A brief stock of preparedness for the likely third wave was also taken. The Divisional Commissioner shared details of development activities underway and the efforts to energise and operationalise the grassroots democratic structure, the officials said. He shared the plans for engaging youngsters which included setting up youth centers in all districts and to panchayat level, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-has-improved-in-jk-but-need-to-be-alert-along-loc-core-group-review-meeting-1000422.html
22-06-2021||North and Central||AAP, BJP engage in war of words over Covid-19 vaccination in Delhi||The BJP and the AAP Tuesday engaged in a war of words over the availability of Covid vaccines in the national capital, with Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri slamming Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for visiting Punjab "instead of focusing on health & welfare of people of Delhi". Senior AAP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia hit out at Puri, asking him to provide enough vaccine doses to Delhi rather than "abusing" Kejriwal. The Kejriwal government has been complaining of inadequate supply of vaccines for some time, all the while claiming it could administer vaccines to all Delhiites within three months if the Centre provides enough doses. The Centre Monday rolled out free vaccination for the eligible category of people with a record 86 lakh-plus beneficiaries getting inoculated on the inaugural day of the drive. Kejriwal was in poll-bound Punjab on the day where a prominent Sikh personality joined his Aam Aadmi Party. "On a day India vaccinated more than 84 lakh people, Delhi administered only 76,259 out of more than 11 lakh doses available. Why? Instead of focusing on health & welfare of people of Delhi, Kejriwal Ji is busy in Punjab searching for a Sikh CM face for his party," Puri tweeted, attacking the AAP national convener. On a day India vaccinated more than 84 lakh people, Delhi administered only 76,259 out of more than 11 lakh doses available.Why? Instead of focusing on health & welfare of people of Delhi, Kejriwal Ji is busy in Punjab searching for a Sikh CM face for his party. Responding to him, Sisodia tweeted, "Hardeep ji: pls focus on providing enough vaccines for the youth, rather than just abusing Arvind Kejriwal all the time. Central Govt’s vaccination flip-flops have created a crisis situation all over country." Hardeep ji: pls focus on providing enough vaccines for the youth, rather than just abusing Arvind Kejriwal all the time. Sisodia also addressed a press conference where he claimed no vaccine doses were to be provided to Delhi in the current month after June 21. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan joined the war of words, accusing Sisodia of lying. Citing a Ramcharit Manas verse, Vardhan tweeted, "Some people accept only lies, offer lies to others and feed and chew lies only. This Ramcharit Manas chaupai fits Arvind Kejriwal and his ministers." "झूठई लेना, झूठई देना, झूठई भोजन, झूठ चबेना”। यानि कुछ लोग झूठ ही स्वीकार करते हैं, झूठ ही दूसरों को देते हैं, झूठ का ही भोजन करते हैं व झूठ ही चबाते हैं। According to the Delhi government's daily bulletin, a total of 76,062 people received their vaccine doses on Monday. It also showed that as on June 22 morning, Delhi has a stock of 2.14 lakh doses for the 18-44 age group. A total of 14,34,730 doses have been provided to Delhi for 18-44 years age group so far, it showed. AAP MLA Atishi, who presents the daily vaccination bulletin of Kejriwal government, asked Puri to pay attention to the country's vaccination policy that she alleged proved to be a "failure" in different phases. "In the first phase when all countries in the world were busy procuring vaccines, BJP leaders were busy fighting elections in five states and no plan of vaccine procurement was made," she charged. Delhi BJP leaders in a press conference demanded an audit of the Kejriwal government's vaccine usage. "Despite having an adequate stock of over 11 lakh vaccines in Delhi why only 76,000 doses were administered yesterday. It raises a big question mark on intentions of the Kejriwal government," Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said. Party MLA and Leader of Opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said that work of vaccination should be handed over to BJP-ruled municipal corporations in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-bjp-engage-in-war-of-words-over-covid-19-vaccination-in-delhi-1000428.html
22-06-2021||Opinion||Data protection in EdTech is the need of the hour||Rohan (name changed) was apprehensive when the education website for IPMAT practice exams asked for his date of birth, email, phone number and address. It was the third website asking for the same data. An exasperated Rohan brushed aside his misgivings, punched in the data the portal required and started practising his mock tests. Rohan's experience is similar to that of thousands of students. The issue of education websites asking for such data gains importance. It is of concern in the context of the new Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, which took effect recently. Increased demand and diverse education systems have witnessed many new EdTech (Education Technology firms and start-ups) players. EdTech companies are capitalising on the current opportunities and making a fortune with customised products from self-learning materials, interactive educational contents, online classes, customised tuitions, student engagements and sample tests. While online education and EdTech companies are making learning more interesting, a significant area of concern is how user data is collected, stored, processed, used and potentially monetised. Malicious use of this sensitive data by unauthorised people and groups could result in social engineering, financial crimes and frauds, cyberbullying, user tracking, identity theft, or other means for targeting children. In May 2020, firewalls of one of the biggest EdTech companies of India was breached by cyber threat actors and threat groups, who put up personally identifiable information of the users for sale on the dark web. It is, therefore, imperative to take measures to protect, regulate, govern and control the insurmountable pile of personal data of the students, parents and end-users. As the user base of EdTech providers is growing exponentially, the need for strong governance and regulation from the government is essential to dispose of apprehensions about privacy concerns, lack of transparency and accountability on the educational contents delivered through these platforms. India's EdTech industry is growing exponentially, being the second biggest globally and is poised to touch $3.2 billion by 2022. Private equity and venture capital funding in EdTech are rising with approximate $1.5 billion funding as of September 2020, a four-times increase than 2019. EdTech enables scale and speed using a direct to the device model, breaks down geographical barriers helping students access high-quality education from top institutes. Teachers became facilitators and curators, managing remotely. The current K-12 school system in India is one of the largest in the world, with more than 1.4 million schools with 250+ million students. According to IBEF's Indian Education Sector Industry Report, August 2020, India is the second-largest market for e-learning after the US. Conversely, India is 115th in education in the Legatum Prosperity Index 2020, where Singapore is first and the US second; India was at 104 in 2018. The significant concerns go beyond content and frameworks. There is a need to swiftly address critical challenges like data security, privacy, social, and ethical issues. The privacy policies of the EdTech companies are indecisive and ambiguous and assume that consent and responsibility lie with the user. Most of the consumers of these EdTech platforms are neither briefed nor have the legal know-how. This disruption in the education domain raises ethical and social concerns. Some critical areas of concern in social and ethical aspects are biased content delivery, implicit influence on career decisions, minimal historical data availability for efficient data modelling and machine learning leading to inaccurate profiling of students, increased unemployment of conventional educators, less upskilling and reskilling of educators and standardisation and moderation of content without regulatory approvals. One fundamental perspective to look at is whether an EdTech organisation is based on a vision of learning and uses the power of technology to achieve its goal, or is it one with a technology-first approach and uses education to test their innovations and monetise? Role of the data protection bill in the education sector Section 16(2) of the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019, states that the data fiduciary shall, before processing any personal data of a student, verify their age and obtain the consent of their parent or guardian, in such manner as may be specified by regulations by the Authority under the Act. It is the responsibility and accountability of EdTech companies to ensure they deploy sophisticated systems, frameworks and programmes to defend against cyber-attacks, data breaches and data infringements proactively. The way forward and the need for measurable controls There is a need to educate, inform and increase awareness of end-users of the risks and challenges associated with app-based learning. Educational institutions and government education departments should facilitate awareness campaigns, conduct regular auditing and performance reviews of these Edtech programmes. Contact details of data privacy and legal offices of EdTech firms should be made available to end-users. There should be well-documented processes and policies on how the data is being collected, stored, processed, analysed and used. Additional due diligence, including the appointment of nodal and grievance officers, is another requirement with proper content review and moderation. There are no or minimal regulatory bodies in India today for controlling these concerns in the dynamic educational sector. A well-defined regulatory framework has to be in place to manage the ethical aspect of forced learning, behavioural and psychographic data drainage, content regulation, standards and compliances. Given the prolonged process of passing the data protection laws in India, the judiciary may oversee and provide necessary guidelines to ensure that EdTech companies implement systems and procedures to address concerns and challenges. There are progressive steps taken by many countries already on data privacy and data protection of its customers. GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) by the European Union is one prominent example of a robust regulatory framework addressing the data privacy management of its citizens. The pandemic created a watershed moment that transformed education, but technology in education opened up a gateway to students' privacy. Therefore, it is essential to scrutinise how education technology is paving and regulating the new path of learning. (Ranjana Mary Varghese is Deputy Director, Xavier Leadership Centre, XIME, Kochi and Philip Varughese is VP and Lead Cyber Defense and Security, Accenture.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/data-protection-in-edtech-is-the-need-of-the-hour-1000095.html
22-06-2021||Opinion||How Jyotiraditya Scindia and Shivraj Singh Chouhan's fates are tied||Dynamics in the Madhya Pradesh unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) could soon change. Jyotiraditya Scindia, a Rajya Sabha member, might get inducted into the Union cabinet. A hopeful Scindia has stepped up efforts to impress upon the BJP high command his willingness to work in tandem with the state leadership. He has also given signs of aligning himself with Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. Scindia's acclimatisation in the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) culture appears to have progressed well. However, Madhya Pradesh BJP leadership remains wary of his ambitions. There are already indications that there is growing affinity from the RSS towards the man who helped unseat the Kamal Nath government in March last year. It was evident in the composition of the new state BJP working committee that the BJP state unit chief Vishnu Datt Sharma announced on June 8 night.  The 403-member panel has accommodated an excellent number of Scindia supporters. It has also honoured him as a permanent invitee in the august company of party veterans, including Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and former Lok Sabha speaker Sumitra Mahajan. Sharma was reportedly not willing to oblige the scion of the erstwhile Gwalior State so generously but yielded under pressure from Nagpur. RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale had asked BJP president JP Nadda to ensure an honourable heeding of Scindia's wish list. This message was duly communicated to Sharma, himself a direct RSS appointee. Scindia's two-day Bhopal visit followed hectic closed-door meetings among the state's top BJP leaders, including general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Prahlad Patel, former vice president Prabhat Jha and number two in the Chouhan cabinet,  Narottam Mishra. They also had secret parleys with state BJP leaders. Except for Narendra Tomar, all the other top leaders are known Chouhan detractors. Vijayvargiya is without work there days post the West Bengal elections. The BJP general secretary might not be fancying the chief minister's post for himself after the West Bengal fiasco. Still, he is reported to be keen to see that Narottam Mishra replaces Chouhan. Number two in the cabinet, Mishra had played a key role under his mentor and Union Home Minister  Amit Shah's guidance in toppling the Kamal Nath government. He was at the forefront in most dealings with 22 MLAs who broke away from the Congress following their leader Scindia. All these leaders—Vijayvargiya, Mishra, Patel and Jha—had meetings among themselves and state-level BJP leaders in the first week of this month in Bhopal and Delhi. These confabulations have triggered speculation about their rallying together to oust Chouhan. Scindia holds the key to Chouhan's continuance. In turn, the chief minister also seems inclined to see Scindia gets an entry into the Union Cabinet. A week later, Scindia went to the Gwalior home of former state minister Jaibhan Singh Pavaiya, the bitterest critic of the royal family. His gesture is being interpreted as an attempt to win over detractors in the BJP. BJP insiders say Scindia might appear to have pleased the RSS leadership. However, he is yet to win over the prime minister to fulfil his dream of becoming a Union minister, a reward that was part of the deal he had struck while pledging support to the BJP for toppling the Kamal Nath government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-jyotiraditya-scindia-and-shivraj-singh-chouhans-fates-are-tied-1000276.html
22-06-2021||Panorama||The vexing technological challenge of fighting ransomware||By Jordan Robertson,115 milliseconds. As quick as a blink, that’s the amount of time a new technology — developed by researchers from Australia’s national science agency and a university in South Korea — takes to detect that ransomware has detonated on a computer and block it from causing further damage.  The finding seeks to address a vexing challenge that has stymied international efforts to stop such attacks. As hackers execute bolder attacks with bigger potential payouts, computer scientists are pushing the limits of software to make near-instantaneous decisions and save victims from ruin. A spree of recent ransomware attacks have focused attention on the issue and spurred booming growth for part of the cybersecurity industry — one that has benefited from a presidential endorsement of sorts.  Since 2016, spending on “endpoint protection” software has more than doubled to $9.11 billion last year, according to data from Gartner Inc. Those are cybersecurity tools that protect “end-user” devices such as laptops and desktop computers, which are vulnerable to being hacked through their users clicking on malicious links or phishing emails.   Last month, US President Joe Biden issued an executive order that will require civilian federal agencies to deploy a specific type of that technology, called endpoint detection and response software on their networks. Leading companies include SentinelOne Inc., Cybereason Inc., Microsoft Corp. and CrowdStrike Holdings Inc., according to Gartner.  The innovation of that software is that it blocks files deemed to be malicious — what traditional antivirus does — and goes a step further, automating the hunt for suspicious behaviour on users’ machines, aiming to identify poisoned code before it causes damage, according to Oliver Spence, co-founder of UK-based North Star Cyber Security. Still, Spence said the technical challenge remains daunting.   “Solving ransomware is magnitudes harder than solving spam and that isn’t solved yet,” he said. “How do you tell which email is legitimate or not? How do I tell if a process is legitimate or not? Solve either problem completely, and you are well on your way to being rich enough to retire.” Ransomware is a type of cyberattack that encrypts files on victims’ computers, rendering them useless until a ransom is paid. It can take just minutes to cripple an entire network. The recent hacks of Colonial Pipeline Co., which shut the biggest gasoline pipeline in the US for nearly a week, and of JBS SA, which temporarily shut all US beef plants for the largest meat producer globally, have exposed gaps in protection for critical industries. One of the few ways to get ahead of the problem is to have security software running deep inside a computer’s operating system. There, it can see each program — or process — running on the machine and have the best shot at distinguishing between legitimate and nefarious ones. “The technology exists to identify authorized processes versus unauthorised processes — that’s actually not that terribly hard,” said Lawrence Pingree, a managing vice president at Gartner. “The hard part is that ransomware, as a category, can use many hundreds of techniques including modifying or injecting authorised processes. Most security practitioners will tell you that it’s a race condition where defenders keep augmenting security to match the changing threats.” Hackers often trigger alarms as they move around victim networks, performing reconnaissance and manipulating accounts while staging ransomware attacks, said Jared Phipps, senior vice president of sales engineering for SentinelOne. Endpoint detection and response software automate the analysis of those behaviours to try and stop the hackers before they escalate, he said. “Executing the ransomware is the last thing they do,” Phipps said. “There are weeks and weeks or even months of lead time in the attack. There are going to be many different systems touched and in most cases, there are a lot of security alerts.” One challenge of staying ahead of the problem is that skilled hackers routinely test their code and techniques against the latest security software, adapting when needed to evade detection, said Andrew Howard, chief executive officer of Switzerland-based Kudelski Security.  “Ransomware attacks today are typically human-operated, meaning that a human is actively guiding the attack,” Howard said. “As the defences get better, this drives new offensive techniques, which drives better defences, which drives new offensive techniques, and so forth. There is not a 100% effective technical solution for this problem.” An executive at a leading cyber incident response firm, who asked not to be named discussing internal matters, said his company always recommends that ransomware victims it’s assisting buy some form of endpoint detection and response software and that about 70% do. He said his firm analyzed its deployments from one of the leading vendors and found that the software blocked almost all of the attacks. “The only three fails we have seen in three years were because of poor implementation by the client,” the person said.   The person noted that such technologies aren’t cheap, starting at about $12 per “endpoint” — or device — per month, with discounts for big deployments. For large organisations, that can mean millions of dollars per year. But to put that in perspective, Colonial paid a $4.4 million ransom, while JBS paid $11 million. One way that organisations are paying for the upgrade is by replacing their antivirus programs.  Gartner projects that within five years, more than 60% of large organisations will have replaced antivirus with endpoint detection and response and similar software. In the meantime, computer scientists are racing to improve the speed and accuracy of their code for handling the “response” part of the equation, trying to shave milliseconds off their times for blocking malicious actions.  In January, researchers from the digital arm of Australia’s national science agency — the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation’s Data61 unit — and from Sungkyunkwan University in South Korea published details of an experimental technology they developed to detect ransomware by looking at some of the lowest-level signals in a computer’s operating system. One result, the researchers said, was the ability to detect ransomware on average in about 115 milliseconds, after just one file was encrypted — saving the rest of the computer and its contents. Software makers generally haven’t disclosed specific performance metrics in this area, so it’s unknown how the researchers’ findings compare to commercial efforts to thwart the attacks. The paper’s lead author, Muhammad Ejaz Ahmed, wrote in an email that these results point to a goal that the security industry is urgently chasing. “Our approach can detect such activities at the early stages of a ransomware infection,” he said. This opens the door to “detect and give an early warning even before any damage is done.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-vexing-technological-challenge-of-fighting-ransomware-1000189.html
22-06-2021||Panorama||Covid-19 pandemic: From grief to rage||We have been battered and bruised by the extremely violent second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, which can be pictured with the death statistics, harrowing images of corpses floating on rivers, countless stories of the struggle for medical aid, texts pleading for help, workers in graveyards and crematoriums asking for rest and resources and people being forced to cremate many family members on the same pyre. With government apathy, the second wave brought down the survival chances of our loved ones to luck and our resourcefulness.  The dead were people, whose lives were cut short brutally. Reducing them to statistics, which an incompetent and apathetic government tweaks at will, robs them of the dignity they deserve in death and mocks at the grief the families have to cope with for the rest of their days. But what happens after the dead leave us? Insurmountable loss, grief and in many cases guilt overcome all other emotions. There is the agony of separation and the daunting feeling about braving the rest of life without the deceased. Often the living tend to think who was needed more, the deceased or the living? and who could trade places and go instead? Many families have lost their only wage earner to the pandemic. The surviving partner, usually a female, is at a complete loss of understanding of finances. Survivor’s grief of dealing with loss and having survived long enough to witness it is painful to say the very least.  Apart from this, there is the survivor’s guilt. Those who tried everything and did their best to get their kin the best medical care they could, but it just wasn’t enough. Privilege was the ugly reality of the second wave. The probability of one’s life being saved depended on how resourceful one could be. Those who were helping others and had the resources were forced to be frugal. We were forced to evaluate the level of favours we could ask for, keeping safe some vital resources for those we love the most lest the need arises. This constant calculation, re-evaluation of relationships in real-time, fighting off the guilt and plugging in each and every resource available takes its toll. Could one have helped more people? And then there is the post-loss trauma. The need for life to return to ‘normal’ when nothing is. We try to rally behind the closest family coping with loss, virtually. Rituals are telecast, cremations are seen on WhatsApp videos and calls. Obituaries written on Facebook dotted with RIP and ‘Om Shanti’. Meanwhile, the house where the deceased once lived remains just the same and the family alone ploughs with the loss and the absence. Condolences are endless phone calls during which the family is forced to recall every detail and the same questions and conversations emerge in every chat. Almost everyone we know has lost someone in the second wave. The pandemic came closer to us than ever— every day there was news of the loss of a loved one, a friend or an acquaintance. The sheer number and frequency of deaths have numbed us to the idea of loss and only an extremely brutal story can jolt us to rage. What does numbing towards a loss do to us as a culture? It wears us down. But also saps us of our rage. And with that, we let go of our questions: Was this avoidable? Why were we not better prepared? Why is universal healthcare not implemented in the country? Why were vaccines exported when there was a shortage for our own? Why weren’t there enough oxygen plants? Why were the lockdown lifts not staggered? And most importantly, what are we doing to be prepared for the next wave that threatens children? What we need to do is to turn the grief into a rage and ensure that those in power are answerable. (The writer is a poet, gender activist and ad-woman)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/covid-19-pandemic-from-grief-to-rage-1000196.html
22-06-2021||Panorama||Fear not, be strong||Swami Vivekananda's slogan, "arise, awake and stop not till the goal is reached" is relevant today as it was earlier. The source of this shloka can be found in Kathopanishad, an interesting narrative between a young boy and Lord Yama. Allured by the persona of its protagonist, the young Nachiketa, Swami Vivekananda wanted to see the youth become fearless, determined and tirelessly work towards achieving their goal.  At the behest of his father, Nachiketa undertakes an arduous journey to Yama’s abode and finds no one at the dwelling of the god of death. Nachiketa sat at Yama’s threshold for three whole days without food and water. Seeing the young boy sitting at his doorsill, Yama apologises and offers him three boons. Nachiketa’s first desire was to see that all differences between his father and him absolved when he gets back home. His next wish was to learn about the rituals of the fire and sacrifices leading to heaven. Both the boons were effortless for Yama to fulfil. His third request was to ascertain what happens after death and the path to immortality. The wish stumped the Dharmaraja as this was a mystery to gods as well. Yama lures Nachiketa with an abundance of wealth and long life in lieu of this third wish. Nachiketa, having understood that all worldly pleasures are temporary, was determined and his persistence leaves Yama with no option but to accede. He starts teaching Nachiketa about enlightening the soul. While the body feeds on desires and pleasures and loses to the soul which is eternal and enriched with knowledge. Therefore, with enlightened knowledge one connects with his own soul or 'atman' and becomes fearless. To perpetuate this wave of fearlessness Swami Vivekananda said “give me a dozen Nachiketas and I will reform the whole world.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/fear-not-be-strong-1000198.html
22-06-2021||Panorama||25 years ago: June 22, 1996||25-43% hike in power tariff BANGALORE, June 21 The Karnataka Electricity Board has announced a steep hike in power tariff for all categories of consumers ranging from 25 to 43% per unit of consumption with effect from July 1. Users of irrigation pump sets up to 10 HP, hitherto exempted from levy, have to pay a flat rate of Rs 300 per HP per annum. For domestic lighting, the hike ranges from 50 paise to Rs 1.50 from the existing slab of 55 paise to 75 paise per unit, for AEH consumers the increase is between 1.50 to Rs 3.25 from the present slab of 1.05 to Rs 2.50 per unit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/25-years-ago-june-22-1996-1000200.html
22-06-2021||Panorama||50 years ago: June 22, 1971||'UN refugee chief is pro-Pakistan' NEW DELHI, June 21 LABOUR MINISTER Khadilkar admitted in the Rajya Sabha today that certain utterances of Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan, UN High Commissioner for Refugees, during his visit to India and Pakistan, gave the impression that "he was not above bias". Mr Khadilkar told the agitated House that the Government had sent a detailed report to its permanent representative in the UN conveying "our assessment of his visit" and "our apprehensions". The Prince came in for strong denunciation from almost all sections of the House. He was branded as a stooge of "President Yahya Khan" and a "double talker".||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/50-years-ago-june-22-1971-1000201.html
22-06-2021||Right in the Middle||A bookworm's treasure||Nothing can be more disheartening to a book lover than seeing a bookshop shutdown or a loving bookshop owner passing away leaving behind a mountain of memories, as it happened with the demise of T S Shanbhag (Premier, which sadly shutdown in 2009), P U Srinivasan (PuVyaSri or bookseller Srinivasan) and, more recently, Suresh Shah (Sapna). Even more distressing was the news of a library going up in smoke, literally, in Mysore. I have been close to books and a library all my life, a quintessential bookworm to be frank. As a toddler in Bangalore, I remember my Appa’s small study area housing a mini-library of sorts. There were books of all sizes and shapes, stockpiled, not in any particular order, I learnt later, but according to its owner’s idiosyncrasies. Later in school, my class was the closest to the library and in college, the library was my favourite place to rejuvenate and relax, and, at times, nurse my heartburns. The magnificent public library building in Cubbon Park was the go-to place for minor research work. As we shifted abroad, the family library was of our baggage. It took a lot of time to first locate all of them, some forgotten in the toilet, a few under the mattress, not because of its content material, I can assure you, but due to sheer lack of will to keep them back at their designated places, and a few paperbacks long forgotten in coat pockets. Once assembled in the hall like a mini mountain, they were first dusted, the older ones wrapped and the odd dog-eared copy treated more delicately to extend its proverbial shelf life. They were then turned into pyramids depending on their sizes before placing them in cartons and packing them with reams of duct tape. At the airport, it was not Mamma’s hand luggage, with the family ‘heirloom’ in it, which was the centre of all the care and attention, but the cartons of books. Over the years, the size and weight of the consignments gradually increased. But the eye for detail in packing and unpacking remains the same. At times, Amma has grudgingly agreed to leave behind her favourite cooking ingredients (sambar items in particularly) to let us take our books without having to pay for excess baggage. Now, the family has spread itself and settled in different parts of the world and with our prime possessions— the books. Looking at my favourite Archie comics in the corner on my cluttered desk, in faraway Toronto, I eagerly await to visit Syed Ishaq’s new library in Mysore, the next time I’m back home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-bookworms-treasure-1000197.html
22-06-2021||Second Edit||More girls in higher education is good news||The most important takeaway from the 2019-20 report of the All India Survey on Higher Education (AISHE) is the progress of women in most classrooms, and achievement of near parity with men. The total enrolment in the country was put at 3.85 crore, with female students adding up to 1.89 crore against male students’ 1.9 crore. While the overall rate of growth of enrolment in the last years was 11.4%, female enrolment went up by 18.2%. There were more girls than boys doing BA, BSc and MBBS courses in 2019-20 and the numbers were equal in the B Com course. Girls were behind boys by some distance in engineering and law courses. But the overall message is clear. The enrolment in higher education after higher secondary increased from 24.5% in 2015 to 27% in 2020. A large part of this increase was accounted for by female students. The growing female representation is important not only for education but for society as such. According to popular wisdom, educating a girl brings more benefits to society than educating a boy. The growing trend in female education is a result of social change and it can lead to more social changes and changes in other areas of life. It shows that girls will also catch up with boys in areas where they lag now. Their share is lowest in institutes of national importance but there is no reason to believe that it will remain so. While the move toward gender parity is an important message from the report there are other good signs too. The growth in the overall numbers of students opting for higher education is one. The number of institutions of national importance has increased from 75 to 135. About 89% of universities and 92% of colleges maintain a playground and 94% of universities and 98% of colleges have library facilities. The report is about improvement in quantity and numbers. It does not say anything about the quality of education which is not known to be a matter to be proud of. But the logic that education has to be there before it can be improved is not all wrong and unsound. The bigger worry is the declining female labour force participation and the shrinking job and work opportunities for women even as they are getting more educated. More women lost work and jobs because of Covid. Even otherwise, at 23.3% India’s female labour participation rate is among the lowest in the world, with just nine countries, all African and Arab, having a lower rate. It is not a sustainable situation where there are more educated women and fewer jobs for them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/more-girls-in-higher-education-is-good-news-1000199.html
22-06-2021||South||SC directs TNSEC to hold local body elections in 9 new districts by September 15||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission (TNSEC) to conduct by September 15 the local body polls in nine new districts carved out of four existing ones. A vacation bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and Aniruddha Bose said that state poll panel will have to issue notification for the election to the local bodies, holding polls and declaring the results by September 15. It noted the order of the top court passed on December 11, 2019 and said that instead of four months given to hold the elections, the poll panel has taken 18 months. The bench also noted that the tenure of the local bodies has expired in 2018-19 and since then there are no new elected representatives. It said that if the order of the court is not complied with, then the poll body will be liable for contempt action. Senior advocate P S Narasimha, appearing for the Election Commission of India (ECI), said the 2019 order could not be implemented as priority was given to assembly elections in the state and later the focus shifted to West Bengal assembly election. The bench said local body polls are conducted by SECs and not by the ECI. Narasimha said that the state is still recording one of the highest figures of Covid infections and therefore some time be given to hold the elections in these nine districts. The bench said that Covid now-a-days has become an excuse in every other matter and elections can very well be held when the political parties want it. “It will be better if you hold the elections by September 15 or we will initiate contempt action for non-compliance,” the bench said. Narasimha said that they do not have any intention of non-compliance of order and the court may not record contempt part in the order. He said the state will first have to hold the delimitation exercise in these nine districts, then issue notification for elections and hold the polls for which it may need some more time. The bench, however, refused to give more time to state poll panel and asked it to comply with the order. On December 11, 2019, the top court had directed the Tamil Nadu government and the state poll panel to conduct upcoming local bodies' election by relying on 2011 census instead of the 1991 census as alleged by opposition party DMK. The court order had come on the plea of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), which had then sought quashing of the notification, issued by the state poll panel on December 7, 2019, for local body election alleging that it did not provide quota for women and SC and ST candidates as per the 2011 census and was using 1991 census for this purpose. The top court, on December 6, 2019, had put on hold the elections for the local bodies in nine new districts, carved out of four existing ones, in the state for complying with legal formalities such as delimitation and reservation in four months. The top court had modified its earlier order and asked the delimitation commission to conclude the delimitation exercise within three months instead of four months in nine districts. It had said however that TNSEC could proceed with the elections to all panchayats at village, intermediate and district levels in the remaining 31 revenue districts of the southern state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-directs-tnsec-to-hold-local-body-elections-in-9-new-districts-by-september-15-1000129.html
22-06-2021||South||Madras High Court calls for probe of Renault-Nissan plant's social distancing||Madras High Court on Tuesday asked the Tamil Nadu government to inspect a Renault-Nissan plant on July 3 to check whether social distancing norms are being followed. The Renault-Nissan workers union petitioned the Madras High court last month seeking to halt operations, saying that social distancing norms were being flouted and company-provided health benefits were outweighed by the risk to their lives. The call for an inspection from the Madras High Court follows a review of Ford, Hyundai and Renault-Nissan plants by Tamil Nadu government officials last week, which said the nature of work in assembly lines posed "challenges in maintaining social distancing". Nissan, which owns a majority stake in the Renault-Nissan plant near Chennai, did not immediately respond to a request for comment. A lawyer for Renault-Nissan India told the court the company would implement guidelines issued by officials from the state's Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health (DISH) ahead of the inspection next month. The guidelines apply to all carmakers including Ford and Hyundai. However, only the Renault-Nissan factory will be inspected as unions at other automakers have not raised objections, the court said. The DISH review last week had also found that three in four workers at the plants had not been vaccinated, one in seven workers had contracted the virus, and 21 had died. Workers at the three plants accounted for more than 4% of all active cases in the two districts where the plants are located. Renault-Nissan on Tuesday sought to discontinue the practice of deploying an empty slot on the conveyor belt - a change that would help the carmaker increase production - as it was found to be ineffective in maintaining social distancing. "I respectfully submit that this would be identical to the business operations adopted in all other similar car manufacturers like Hyundai and Ford," Renault-Nissan said in a court filing reviewed by Reuters. Production at the Renault-Nissan plant was nearly three-fifths of pre-lockdown levels on June 17, when DISH conducted the review. Renault-Nissan workers have been pushing for an empty slot for every slot on the conveyor belt with a car, and for the reduction in conveyor belt speed, saying it hindered maintenance of social distancing. "The non-availability of sufficient time in some stations leads to the carry-over of the unfinished job to the next station and causes overlapping," the union said in its court filing, citing the DISH report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-high-court-calls-for-probe-of-renault-nissan-plants-social-distancing-1000170.html
22-06-2021||South||Defence minister Rajnath Singh to visit CSL on June 25 to review progress of indigenous aircraft carrier||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will visit the Cochin Shipyard Limited on June 25 to review the progress of the Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC) being built there, official sources said on Tuesday. Singh, who will arrive here on Thursday, will visit the IAC on Friday, they said. The Defence Minister's two-day Kochi visit comes in the wake of delay in the IAC's sea trials.The trials were planned in the first half of this year but it got delayed due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the sources told PTI. The basin trials of the aircraft carrier were successfully conducted at CSL in December last year, marking entry into the final phase of the ambitious warship-building project. Basin trial is testing of the ship's machinery and equipment in floating conditions before the sea trials. A Defence spokesperson had earlier said the IAC project was a true example of Atmanirbhar Bharat with close to 75 per cent of the material and equipment onboard being indigenous. Over 50 Indian manufacturers have been directly involved in this project, which has provided significant employment opportunities for Indian citizens. Close to 2,000 Indians received direct employment onboard IAC on a daily basis and over 40,000 received indirect employment. In addition, about 80-85 per cent of the project cost of approximately Rs 20,000 Crore has been ploughed back into the Indian economy, according to the spokesperson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-to-visit-csl-on-june-25-to-review-progress-of-indigenous-aircraft-carrier-1000214.html
22-06-2021||South||Kerala HC stays Lakshadweep administration's orders on mid-day meal and dairy farms||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday issued an interim stay on the Lakshadweep administration's controversial orders removing meat from the mid-day meal for students and winding up government-run dairy farms. The stay order issued by the HC bench comprising Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly on a public interest petition assumes significance as many such controversial orders of the Praful Khoda Patel led Lakshadweep administration were likely to come up for judicial review in due course.  The people of the island are protesting against a series of decisions of the administration. The court asked the Lakshadweep administration to file its response to the petitions within two weeks. While considering the petition the court reportedly asked what was the logic for changing the foods habits being followed by the people of the region and shutting government-run dairy farms. The administration's lawyer responded that there was an inadequate facility to store meat on the island and the dairy firms were causing loss to the government. Advocate Ajmal Ahammed who moved the petitions alleged that the administration was planning to make the school diet totally vegetarian as well as to entrust the charge of noon meal to a Bengaluru based NGO. He also alleged that the decision to shut dairy farms on the island was aimed at helping private dairy farms to sell their products on the island. Meanwhile, Lakshadweep native actor Aisha Sultana was directed by the Kavaratti police to appear again on Wednesday for quizzing in connection with the sedition case registered against her. The police took her statement on Sunday and directed her not to leave the island. The Kerala HC had earlier directed that she should be given interim bail if she is arrested. BJP Lakshadweep president Abdulkhader Haji had petitioned the police citing a remark of Sultana in a TV channel discussion that Covid-19 surge in Lakshadweep due to decisions of administrator Praful Khoda Patel was a 'bio weapon' of the BJP. Sources said that the Lakshadweep authorities also initiated steps against Sultana accusing her of flouring Covid-19 quarantine norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-stays-lakshadweep-administrations-orders-on-mid-day-meal-and-dairy-farms-1000315.html
22-06-2021||South||Kerala detects three cases of Delta plus Covid-19 variant||Three persons in Kerala were so far found to be infected with the Delta plus variants of Covid-19. While one case was reported in a four-year-old child in Pathanamthitta, the other cases were found among two women in Palakkad district. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that even as chances of a third wave were still prevailing, experts said that the Delta plus variants detected so far did not trigger any concern of the beginning of a third wave. Meanwhile, the state government decided to allow worship centres to permit the entry of people at places where the test positivity rate is below 16 per cent. Only 15 persons would be allowed at a time. The state government also decided to carry out a vaccination drive for those in the 18-23 age group so as to reopen colleges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-detects-three-cases-of-delta-plus-covid-19-variant-1000339.html
22-06-2021||South||Gang steals Rs 48 lakh from SBI cash deposit machines in Tamil Nadu||Abusing technology that is meant to help customers, a gang has stolen Rs 48 lakh from various cash deposit machines of State Bank of India in Tamil Nadu, police said here on Tuesday. The government-owned top lender meanwhile said it has halted the facility to withdraw cash from these machines across the country, as an immediate preventive measure and these could be used only to deposit cash. According to police, a total of Rs 48 lakh has been stolen from Automated Cash Withdrawal and Deposit Machines also known as Cash Deposit Machines (CDM) located in various places including Velachery here. The CDMs provide a 20-second window to customers to take cash away and if it was not done, the cash went back into the machines. If cash was taken, the lid of the machine would slide and get closed. Probe indicated that the suspects first took the cash from the machines (using withdrawal option in such machines) and then prevented the lid from getting closed for a while by using their hands. The sensors appeared to have misread this action for "cash not being taken away" by customers and sent messages to servers that cash has not been withdrawn. Hence, the related bank accounts were not debited while cash was taken away from machines. Addressing reporters, Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal said the probe indicated that a small group of men from outside of Tamil Nadu are the suspects. There are leads on the crime and this is the first time cash has been stolen from CDMs using this modus operandi and only the SBI's CDMs were targeted, he said. "This will not happen again. There was a flaw and this has been blocked (by the bank) and such a thing cannot happen by (mis) using that flaw. In the past about one week, similar incidents have been reported from other states as well." The bank has suffered a loss of Rs 48 lakh and CCTV footages were being scrutinised and a special team has been assigned to crack the case, he said adding other banks should take preventive steps. SBI's Chief General Manager Radhakrishnan said as an immediate preventive measure, they have taken back the facility to withdraw cash from such deposit machines, all over the country. Answering a question, he told reporters that out of the two companies that supplied such machines, the fraud has been found to be committed on machines of a particular firm. Now, only cash can be deposited in all such machines, he said referring to the action taken. "Public has not lost money. It is the loss of the bank." Such crimes seem to have happened across the country lately but there is no specific information, the bank official said. Officials have also been directed to check if there has been a shortage of cash in such machines under their administrative ambit, the bank official said. The system has to be upgraded to prevent such things from happening in future, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gang-steals-rs-48-lakh-from-sbi-cash-deposit-machines-in-tamil-nadu-1000398.html
22-06-2021||South||CM Pinarayi Vijayan condemns dowry deaths in Kerala||Three young women died in Kerala in the last two days, two of which were suspected to be dowry deaths. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who condemned the incidents, urged society to reject the dowry system. He also said that stringent actions would be taken against the accused. A helpline for giving complaints of domestic violence was also started by the state police. The incidents also triggered heated debates in the state on the need to curb the dowry system and stringent action against domestic violence. In one of the incident at Kollam district, a 24-year-old Ayurveda medical student Vismaya was allegedly facing severe mental and physical torture from husband Kiran Kumar even as her parents reportedly gave over an acre of land, gold ornaments weighing over 100 sovereign and a car during their marriage about a year back. Kumar allegedly used to beat up her because the car was "not a costly one". She was found hanging in Kumar's house on Monday morning. Her relatives suspect that it was murder. Kumar, who is an assistant motor vehicles inspector, was suspended from service subsequent to his arrest. There were allegations that the local police was sitting on a domestic violence petition filed earlier.  In Thiruvananthapuram and Alappuzha districts, two young women aged around 20 died in suspicious circumstances on Monday night. While a newly married woman died after suffering burns at Venganoor in the suburbs of Thiruvananthapura, at Alappuzha newly married woman was found hanging in her husband's house. Dowry harassment was alleged in the incident in Thiruvananthapuram and the woman's husband was taken into police custody. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cm-pinarayi-vijayan-condemns-dowry-deaths-in-kerala-1000402.html
22-06-2021||South||Lakshadweep administration accuses Aisha Sultana of violating home quarantine rules||Accusing filmmaker Aisha Sultana, booked for sedition, of violating mandatory home quarantine rules, the Lakshadweep administration on Tuesday warned of stringent action against her if she repeated it. In a caution notice to Sultana, District Collector S Asker Ali, who is also chairman of the Disaster Management Authority, alleged that Sultana, who arrived at Kavaratti on June 19 after being summoned by police for questioning, moved out of the place of her stay,visited public places and mingled with other people, violating the seven-day mandatory home quarantine rule in force in the islands since May 12. Sultana, an islander, was booked by Lakshadweep police for sedition while she was in Kerala. She returned to the islands after being summoned by the Kavaratti police in connection with the case. The administration said Sultana was exempted from the mandatory quarantine provision only for the purpose of interrogation in the case against her. It alleged that she violated the home quarantine direction and roamed in public places, interacted with the public, visited a First Line Treatment Centre and interacted with Covid-19 positive patients. Terming these actions are "certainly illegal", the administration in its notice said, "Hence you are hereby cautioned that stringent actions will be taken against you if you are violating the quarantine rule again, which is specified as per the Standard Covid Protocol (SOP) that is in place in the Union Territory of Lakshadweep". She was booked by the Kavaratti police on June 9 for alleging that the Centre used biological weapons against the people of Lakshadweep. She made this allegation while participating in a debate telecast by a Malayalam news channel on June 7. The complaint was filed by a BJP leader on the islands. Sultana was allowed to leave after the initial round of interrogation on Sunday. A source close to her said she has been directed to appear before the police again on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lakshadweep-administration-accuses-aisha-sultana-of-violating-home-quarantine-rules-1000411.html
22-06-2021||State||ZyCov-D third phase trials satisfactory, could be approved for emergency use by DCGI||The results of the third phase trials of ZyCov-D vaccine for children in the age group of 12 to 18 years have been satisfactory. Children who volunteered for the trials have developed antibodies against the Covid-19 virus. Jeevan Rekha Hospital here has been conducting clinical trials of ZyCov-D vaccine on 20 children. The intradermal vaccine has given satisfactory results and the progress was good, informed Director Dr Amit Bhate. Dr Bhate told DH on Tuesday that vaccine trials was a continuous process. "We are conducting ZyCov-D trials on 20 volunteers aged between 12 to 18 years age group. Results of first two phases and initial results of third phase have been good and satisfactory. Zydus Cadilla makers of the vaccine have applied for emergency use of vaccine with Drug Controller General of India (DCGI). The third wave of Covid-19 was feared and children need to be inoculated. We hope to get approval," he said. Earlier, DCGI had given approval for emergency use of Covaxin developed by the Indian Council of Medical Research and Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad while clinical trials of the vaccine were in progress, he informed. Jeevan Rekha Hospital is the only health facility here that has been conducting clinical trials of ZyCov-D. It was only one in the state to conduct clinical trials of Covaxin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/zycov-d-third-phase-trials-satisfactory-could-be-approved-for-emergency-use-by-dcgi-1000103.html
22-06-2021||State||Vanishing hesitancy, walk-in, free vaccines: mantra for more jabs, say top districts with high coverage||Districts struggling with erratic supply of vaccines and paltry vaccination coverage received a shot in the arm by Monday's 'Maha Lasika Abhiyana', an aggressive vaccination drive where doses were supplied to match the district's vaccination potential. Belagavi district officials who administered 86,239 doses till 9.14 pm on Monday alone said the fear of the second wave that had ravaged the State had brought more people to the camps. "Previously, even when we had more than a lakh dose in hand, people did not come forward. Now vaccine hesitancy has vanished. We don't need to mobilise them anymore," said Belagavi District Health Officer Dr Shashikant Muniyal. There are 234 vaccination centres in Belagavi and 600 vaccinators. Officially, there are 12 private vaccination centres in the district. "We have administered more than 1,01,528 doses including in the peripheral areas. We're still updating data on Co-WIN as sub centres in villages have no good internet access. The vaccine supply was good. So we planned the drive in taluks, villages, rural and urban areas. Involvement of elected members also helped. Many volunteers also helped. Pre-registration wasn't required and people could walk-in with the government id proofs. Although, pre-registration helps in organising the session. Local NGOs helped in human resources too. By 5.30 we administered the entire stock of 1.2 lakh," he said. Ballari district officials administered 64,406 doses. District Health Officer Dr HL Janardhan said they had targeted 70,000 beneficiaries to be inoculated in 247 sites in all eight taluks. "Planning to deploy more than one team of vaccinators for vaccination made a difference. Adequate supply of vaccines, inter-departmental involvement, taluk and district administration and collective responsibility of tehsildars and elected representatives helped. If only the health department is involved, it becomes difficult to mobilise people," he said. Tumakuru district officials administered 51,552 vaccine doses and said the district had received 10,000 doses of Covaxin and 36,000 doses of Covishield apart from leftover doses from a previous consignment. Dr M B Nagendrappa, district health officer, said, "We have already prepared an action plan for the future too. Fear due to the second wave played a role in people coming forward at 300 of our vaccination centres. Almost 600 people were engaged in vaccination today. Acceptance of vaccines has increased in both urban and rural areas."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/vanishing-hesitancy-walk-in-free-vaccines-mantra-for-more-jabs-say-top-districts-with-high-coverage-1000140.html
22-06-2021||State||500 MT liquid oxygen reserved for medical care: Shettar||Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar on Tuesday stated that 500 MT of liquid oxygen has been reserved for medical purposes, mainly to treat Covid-19 patients in the State, while the remaining volume of oxygen is being allotted to industries. "With less Covid cases, demand for liquid medical oxygen has also come down by over 50 per cent compared to the previous month. Deputy commissioners are given the power to allocate liquid oxygen to industries in respective districts. Industrialists have not complained about shortage of oxygen at present," he said. New industries Shettar said proposals to set up new industries in Dharwad district were approved despite the Covid-19 situation. Construction works to set up a consumer durables and appliances cluster by Aequs SEZ Pvt Ltd on 358 acres of land near Dharwad would begin in a month. Work has already begun to develop a packaging material industry by UFlex Limited on 50 acres of land. 159 acres of land has also been provided for an electric vehicle and battery manufacturing plant of Rajesh Exports, he explained. These plants would also promote several ancillary units, and bring investments of over Rs 25,000 crore in a few years. A proposal to set up an FMCG cluster in Dharwad district has also been submitted before the Finance Department, he added. Shettar also lamented that Infosys was not ready to start operations from Hubballi immediately as its clients and employees were more Bengaluru-centric. "But, we are pursuing," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/500-mt-liquid-oxygen-reserved-for-medical-care-shettar-1000143.html
22-06-2021||State||Karnataka govt to launch 2,500 smart classrooms on June 23||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will launch 2,500 smart classrooms and distribute Tablet PCs to 1.55 lakh students of higher education on June 23. Yediyurappa will launch this ambitious programme which is being implemented under Karnataka LMS (Learning Management System) by the department of collegiate education, Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C N Ashwath Narayan's office said in a statement. It said the distribution of Tablet PCs will also take place simultaneously in different colleges of the state in presence of the respective elected representatives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-to-launch-2500-smart-classrooms-on-june-23-1000343.html
22-06-2021||State||4,755 students in Karnataka get seats under RTE in first round||As many as 4,755 students were allotted seats under the Right to Education (RTE) quota for 2021-22, in the first round of seat allotment on Tuesday. The selections were made on online draw of lots. The Department of Public Instructions had received 11,531 applications for 14,036 seats available under the RTE quota in 2,338 schools across the state. The students who have been allotted seats should report to the schools between June 25 and July 9, a press release from the department said. The department has instructed the schools not to demand any other documents or re-verify the documents submitted by parents during admissions, and also to consider the Aadhaar number, only to identify the child. At least 9,281 seats which have been left unfilled in the first round, will be considered for the second round.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/4755-students-in-karnataka-get-seats-under-rte-in-first-round-1000377.html
22-06-2021||State||Glitches with digital payments hit work in sub-registrar offices in Karnataka||While the Department of Stamps and Registration recently mandated that all transactions in sub-registrar’s offices have to be done through digital payments and bank transfers, the new system’s teething troubles have slowed down services. The department has banned transactions through demand drafts (DDs) and cash receipts. However, a week after the new system is put in place, officials in the sub-registrar offices say the system is ridden with much confusion and several glitches. Speaking to DH, a sub-registrar in Bengaluru explained, “Take for instance, property registration. Once you have entered your details and paid the money online, in case you have made any error in the information provided, your registration will not be complete and you have to wait for several days for refund of the money. District registrars are having a tough time dealing with such requests.” The other problem is that the public have to avail of the services in the same office - mentioned in the K-2 challan, while earlier they could go to any office in a particular zone, the sub-registrar added. A customer relations executive of a prominent real estate development company in Bengaluru concurred. “In the absence of guidance from banks or sub-registrar office, customers are asking builders for help to fill out forms.” Officials in the stamps and registration department said the rest of the state, save for Bengaluru, had already adopted the K-2 (treasury) challan system long ago. Nonetheless, the absence of cash transactions even for small services, has hit people hard in rural areas. One official at a sub-registrar office in Srirangapatna said, “People have to go to a cyber centre, get the form printed, go to a bank, make the payment and get an authorisation from the bank. The sub-registrar office will complete the process only after this. Even if there is a minute error, they have to run back to the bank to get it rectified. Farmers are spending hours together running between bank and sub-registrar offices.” However, K P Mohan Raj, Inspector-General of Registration and Commissioner of Stamps, was optimistic about the government’s move and said this would eventually streamline financial transactions. He said the government brought in the system to stop government money being mishandled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/glitches-with-digital-payments-hit-work-in-sub-registrar-offices-in-karnataka-1000378.html
22-06-2021||State||50% quota for farmers' children in agriculture varsities: B C Patil||Agriculture universities in Karnataka will henceforth reserve 50% of their seats to farmers' children, instead of the earlier 40%, Agriculture Minister B C Patil said. The minister recently held a meeting in this regard with agriculture universities. The proposal was later tabled before the Cabinet, which was approved in the Cabinet meeting on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/50-quota-for-farmers-children-in-agriculture-varsities-b-c-patil-1000417.html
22-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Deve Gowda ordered to pay Rs 2 crore to NICE for 'loss of reputation'||An Additional City Civil and Sessions Court has directed former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda to pay Rs 2 crore to Nandi Infrastructure Corridor Enterprise (NICE) Limited for the loss of reputation. The NICE had filed an original suit against the statements made by Deve Gowda in an interview to a vernacular news channel in 2011. The company claimed that it sustained loss to the reputation due to the statements made by Deve Gowda in the interview and claimed damages of Rs 10 crore. The court said that Deve Gowda has failed to substantiate the statements made by him in the interview. “Therefore, there is nothing on record to show that the allegations made by the defendant (Deve Gowda) against the plaintiff Company (NICE) in the questioned interview are supported with any cogent documentary proof,” the court said. Deve Gowda had made allegations against the NICE and the project taken up by it. The court noted that the project has been upheld by the Karnataka High Court and the Apex Court in many judgments. “Hence, if defamatory statements like the present one are allowed to be made in future, definitely implementation of such a massive project like the present one which is undertaken in the larger public interest of the State of Karnataka is going to be delayed,” the court said. The court has permanently restrained Deve Gowda from making any defamatory statements against NICE in any media, news channel or in any other means of mass communication in the future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/deve-gowda-ordered-to-pay-rs-2-crore-to-nice-for-loss-of-reputation-1000001.html
22-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Asana unlocked: Karnataka celebrates yoga day||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Health Minister K Sudhakar stretched and twisted into yoga positions at 7 am on Monday morning, even as thousands sweated out in virtual sessions and in stadia like Kanteerava. Although much of the city unlocked on World Yoga Day on Monday, Sudhakar urged citizens to stay at home and avoid large gatherings to perform yoga in the wake of the pandemic. Medical students pursuing any of the five streams of AYUSH had been asked to take part in the yoga day celebrations. Among those who observed yoga day were 143 cadets at Christ University, ABVP-Bengaluru, Nehru Yuva Kendra, Nada Veda Adhyayana Kendra, CRPF, Karnataka Police Training Centre, Swami Vivekananda Yoga Anusandhana Samsthana University, and the NSS Unit of KLE College of Pharmacy. Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda performed a few yoga asanas as part of his daily morning routine, while Bangalore University vice-chancellor Prof Venugopal K R also performed some asanas. ‘India’s gift to the world’ Sudhakar said yoga is good for both individual and societal health. “Yoga is India’s gift to the world, and it is a matter of pride that the whole world is celebrating yoga day every year on June 21, ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi proposed this at the UN General Assembly in September 2014,” he said. Yoga helps us maintain a sound and balanced mind that works in sync with the body. Pranayama makes the lungs strong and healthy, besides strengthening immunity, the minister said. Dr Manjunath Kanamadi, senior commercial manager-Mysuru Division, South Western Railway, said the division celebrated yoga day with the divisional railway manager outlining the benefits of yoga and exhorting railway employees and their families to regularly practise yoga. In addition, the Mysuru division organised a photo competition among its staffers to determine the best yoga pose. The day was also observed in several stations and depots of the division.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/asana-unlocked-karnataka-celebrates-yoga-day-1000031.html
22-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Late Kannada thespian Dr Rajkumar's photo in Tamil movie cast on Google search irks fans||A search for the cast of a Tamil movie on Google wrongly shows the photo of Kannada matinee idol late Dr Rajkumar following which his fans demanded that the "mismatch" be rectified. The thespian's picture appears for a character named 'Half Boil' played by another actor of the same name in the Tamil movie 'Vikram Vedha' starring R Madhavan and Vijay Sethupathi. Many fans of Dr Rajkumar including some Kannada actors have sought action to set the record straight. Actor Rishab Shetty in a tweet said, "On the Google page of Tamil movie 'Vikram Vedha' our Dr Rajkumar's photo has been put up in place of some one (Half Boil). I request everyone to report it to Google, let the mistake be rectified." Actor P D Sathish Chandra too, has made a similar appeal. A fan named Kashyap Jagadeesh in a tweet said it is "totally unacceptable" and asked Google to rectify soon, calling Dr Rajkumar "more than a legend". Kannada thespian Dr Rajkumar popularly known as "Annavru" is considered a cultural icon in Karnataka, and is a recipient of Padma Bhushan and Dadasaheb Phalke Award among several others. Kannada as answer to a query on Google on the ugliest language in India, sparked an outrage recently. The tech giant removed it and tendered an apology saying the search result did not reflect its opinion. A Google spokesperson had then said: "search isn't always perfect. Sometimes, the way content is described on the internet can yield surprising results to specific queries." "We know this is not ideal, but we take swift corrective action when we are made aware of an issue and are continually working to improve our algorithms. Naturally, these are not reflective of the opinions of Google, and we apologise for the misunderstanding and hurting any sentiments." Global ecommerce giant Amazon too had drawn ire of Kannadigas recently after users claimed that a bikini having colours of Karnataka flag and emblem was available for sale on its Canada site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/late-kannada-thespian-dr-rajkumars-photo-in-tamil-movie-cast-on-google-search-irks-fans-1000131.html
22-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to open engineering, medical colleges after total vaccination of students, teachers: CM||The state government-appointed task force, headed by eminent cardiologist Dr Devi Shetty, is preparing for the possible third wave of Covid-19. It submitted its interim report on Tuesday to Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa and held a detailed discussion on the recommendations. Soon after the discussion, CM Yediyurappa told mediapersons,  "The committee has made some important recommendations for safety measures of children in the third Covid wave. Establishment of paediatric high-dependency units, intensive care units in taluk and district hospitals is one of the recommendations."   "Oxygen availability during the third wave and post-Covid health issues were also discussed. Regarding the opening of schools and colleges, we decided that, in the first phase, higher education institutions will be opened after vaccinating students aged 18 years and above, and staff. Students and teachers will be given priority in vaccination," the CM said. "Clinical trials of vaccines that can be administered to children are underway. We did not discuss opening schools for students in Classes 1 to 10," he said. DCM Ashwatha Narayana said, "We need to prepare for the third wave by ramping up infrastructure at all levels, especially in terms of manpower, and more medicines should be procured. Along with this, there was a suggestion to start schools, so that there is a gap of two months between the reopening and the onset of the third wave, which is anticipated in September." It's been more than a year since children have been to schools. "Many countries have had a bad experience with reopening schools. So, we're contemplating if it can be opened for a shorter period," he said. "With regard to colleges, youngsters aged 18 years and above, and staff will be vaccinated first and then we will start colleges. We're planning to have a special vaccine drive in two days in all colleges, just like the Maha Lasika Abhiyana we had yesterday. Once all teachers and non-teaching staff, as well as students, are vaccinated, we can start colleges," he added further. Shortage of paediatricians "Existing doctors, general practitioners, nurses, and medical students will be trained in paediatric care. More so, in whichever taluk hospitals and district hospitals there's a shortage, it will be addressed by teleconsultations. In Covid-19, there are common treatment protocols which can be followed," Ashwath Narayan said. "The expert committee has taken a lot of risk by coming out with a statement on reopening schools. We have not taken a decision yet. In the interest of the society and children who have been cooped up at home, which is affecting them more than if they were in a class, we have to balance the challenges and risks involved," he said. "All teachers, whether they teach nursery or in a college, will be vaccinated," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-open-engineering-medical-colleges-after-total-vaccination-of-students-teachers-cm-1000211.html
22-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Chikkaballapur blast: Those undertaking hazardous activities for commercial gains are liable for loss, says NGT||The National Green Tribunal has directed six accused to pay penalty of Rs 1.25 crore in connection with a gelatin explosion at a quarry site in Chikkaballapur in Karnataka that left six people dead, saying a person undertaking hazardous activities for commercial gains is laible for any accident. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel warned that in case of failure, Karnataka government will have to recover the amount from the violators. "It is established law that liability of the person undertaking hazardous activities for commercial gains for any accident and loss is absolute," the tribunal said. Perusing a report filed by a committee formed by it, the NGT said it is clear that six persons have died and one injured on account of the blast due to unscientific handling of the explosive in violation of law.  “We also find that scale of compensation based on restitution principle needs to be awarded. Procedure of this Tribunal is summary and akin to public law remedy. Compensation can be assessed on reasonable basis guided by restitution principle at least at floor level, leaving other remedies of the victims open", it said. "We hold that if the compensation assessed is not paid by the violators within one month, the same has to be paid by the State of Karnataka through the District Magistrate with right to recover the same from the violators. Compliance will be responsibility of the Chief Secretary.  “Payment be ensured within one month from today. We request the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority to provide legal aid to ensure that payment is made to genuine heirs of the deceased,” the bench said. The NGT noted that the Committee has recommended measures for avoiding such occurrences in future mainly by strict enforcement of the Explosive Rules.  “We accept the recommendations of the Committee and direct that necessary steps to be taken by the Chief Controller of Explosives, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Nagpur and Director Mines, Karnataka to take further follow up action.  “They may also coordinate with other concerned authorities, including the District Magistrate and the police authorities in respect of action under the criminal law,” the bench said. Mechanism may be evolved to provide information to all concerned about the mine operators procuring explosives, the area where they will use store and handle and safety aspects which are to be followed, the tribunal said. “Substance of relevant part of this order and other regulatory measures be duly published in vernacular for information of the inhabitants and for better compliance. “For this purpose, we direct the Chief Secretary, Karnataka to monitor remedial action in terms of the above order in coordination with other concerned Authorities, including the District Magistrate, Chikkaballapur and Director of Mines,” the bench said. The Chief Secretary may oversee taking of safety measures in the light of the report to prevent such occurrences not only at the place of occurrence but also any other location of the State where there is possibility of such occurrences, the NGT said. It directed  the Chief Secretary to send a status of compliance report within three months by e-mail. The NGT had earlier formed a six-member committee and directed it to submit a report in connection with a gelatin explosion at a quarry site in Chikkaballapur in Karnataka that left six people dead. It had taken note of a media report and issued notices to the Central Pollution Control Board, state pollution control board, Director Mines Karnataka and the District Magistrate Chikkaballapur. “We constitute a six-member joint committee comprising the CPCB, State PCB, District Magistrate, Chikkaballapur, nominee of Director General, Mines, Chief Controller of Explosives, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Nagpur, and the Director, Mines, Karnataka to give a report to this tribunal,” the bench had said. The tribunal took cognisance of media report dated February 23, 2021 which reported that six people were killed in quarry blast in Hirenagavalli, Chikkaballapur on February 22. The blast occurred in a stone quarry unit situated in Hirenagavalli village. According to the preliminary information shared by the police, the quarrying work was stopped at the site on February 7 after local residents complained of rampant use of gelatin sticks. The work continued despite the ban, and another raid was conducted by the police, during which the contractor was warned not to use gelatin. The explosives went off when the men were trying to dispose them off, the NGT noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/chikkaballapur-blast-those-undertaking-hazardous-activities-for-commercial-gains-are-liable-for-loss-says-ngt-1000231.html
22-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa launches financial assistance for artists as part of Covid-19 second wave package||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday launched the Rs 6.23 crore financial assistance scheme to artists who are under distress due to Covid-19 induced lockdown, under the government's package announced for the second wave. The financial assistance of Rs 3,000 to each will be provided to more than 20,000 artists, and it will be credited through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT), the Chief Minister's office said in a release. The government has announced a Rs 2,050 crore package for the people of different sectors affected by Covid-19 second wave, and flower, fruit and vegetable growers, construction workers, street vendors have already received financial assistance directly to their accounts through DBT. "People belonging to other sectors will also receive benefits soon...Artists were given help during the first wave. This time too, the government has rushed to their help. Applications were invited through the Sevasindhu app and documents were reviewed," Yediyurappa said. The entire process was carried out transparently, and beneficiaries can get confirmation regarding the transfer of amount to their Aadhaar linked bank accounts through DBT app, he said. Pointing out restrictions that have been relaxed in some of the districts, the Chief Minister said artists will have to follow the precautions without fail. The CM advised artists to take care of their health and also to get vaccinated as the government has rolled out a free vaccination drive, the release said. Outdoor film shooting is among the relaxations announced by the government. Minister for Kannada and Culture Aravinda Limbavali said that more than 17 thousand artists were given assistance during the first wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-launches-financial-assistance-for-artists-as-part-of-covid-19-second-wave-package-1000300.html
22-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 3,709 new Covid-19 cases, 199 deaths||Karnataka reported 3,709 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday along with 139 deaths. This took the active case load to more than 1.18 lakh and toll to 34,164. The positivity rate for the day stood at 2.87% and the case fatality rate 3.74%. As many as 8,111 discharges took the total number of recoveries to 26.62 lakh. More than 28.15 lakh positive cases reported in the state so far.  Bengaluru Urban reported 803 cases followed by Mysuru (486), Dakshina Kannada (374), Hassan (309), and Shivamogga (169). Bagalkot and Bidar reported cases in single digits.  Bengaluru Urban reported 26 deaths followed by Dakshina Kannada (15) and Mysuru (11). Seven districts reported zero Covid-19 fatalities. Till 7.45 pm, as per the Co-WIN dashboard, 3,78,043 doses were administered. So far, 2,00,87,816 doses have been administered out of which 1,67,37,105 people received the first dose and 33,50,711 are fully vaccinated. The state tested 1,29,099 samples on Tuesday, taking the total samples tested so far to more than 3.3 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-3709-new-covid-19-cases-199-deaths-1000344.html
22-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka’s Delta Plus cases differ from those in other states||While most of the older Delta Plus cases found in India and around the world are of the AY.1 variety, scientific reports indicate that the mutant virus is further mutating into an even more dangerous form called AY.2. According to scientists and various genomic databases, Karnataka’s sole Delta Plus case is actually an AY.2 variant, which has two additional mutations than the baseline Delta Plus. This not only includes the K417N mutation in the spike protein which scientists have found to be resistant to the monoclonal antibody treatment, but also another mutation which was widely recorded in Europe last year. Known as A222V, this mutation was present in the 20A.EU1 variant, which dominated Europe last autumn. Lab tests last year found that human antibodies were slightly less effective at neutralising viruses with the A222V mutation. Nevertheless, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar sought to strike a reassuring tone on Tuesday. “There is no information that this variant is more severe or transmissible than the existing Delta variant. The variant is being studied further,” he said. According to Dr V Ravi of the Genomics Surveillance Committee, Karnataka’s one sequence originated from Mysuru and was reported to the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia (Insacog) on June 2. It is not yet clear how many of the new Delta Plus cases found in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu are of the AY.2 variety. A total of 30 Delta Plus cases are officially disclosed from India so far. Seven of the cases are of AY.1 variety.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-s-delta-plus-cases-differ-from-those-in-other-states-1000376.html
22-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Security Commission: Karnataka HC issues notice to govt||The High Court on Tuesday ordered notice to the state government in response to a PIL about the failure to set up the State Security Commission (SSC) governing the police administration in the state. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka also ordered notice to the DG and IGP. The petition is filed by city-based advocate S Umapathi. The petitioner claimed that SSC, a statutory board and performing certain functions as per Section 20A of the Karnataka Police Act 1963, was mandatory to facilitate efficient functioning of the police force, free from political interference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/security-commission-karnataka-hc-issues-notice-to-govt-1000381.html
22-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CD row: Karnataka HC dismisses petition filed by woman's father||The High Court has dismissed the petition filed by the father of the complainant in the CD case involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. The petition challenged the statement of the complainant under section 164 of CrPC. The petitioner sought direction quashing the statement of his daughter and claimed that upon inquiry, he found that at the time of recording the statement of his daughter before the magistrate on March 30, 2021, the general secretary of the legal cell of Congress Party by the name Suryamukund Raj, an advocate, was present. Thus, the recording of the statement of his daughter was contrary to the mandate of law, he argued. The prosecution submitted that the complainant had already stated that there was no coercion from anyone when she gave the statement before a magistrate. The special public prosecutor for the Special Investigation Team (SIT) told the court that in a habeas corpus petition the complainant has stated that she has been residing away from her parents. The prosecution also stated that the father has no locus standi to challenge the statement given by the complainant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cd-row-karnataka-hc-dismisses-petition-filed-by-womans-father-1000383.html
22-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC directs top cop to specify noise meters required for state||The High Court on Tuesday directed the state DG & IGP to file an affidavit specifying the number of noise meters required for the entire state, including specific requirements within BBMP limits. A division, bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, was hearing petitions mainly on the issue of implementation of the provisions of the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000. The court had asked the authorities concerned to submit details on the number of noise measuring equipment required in the state before passing a comprehensive interim direction regarding the implementation of the Rules. DG & IGP Praveen Sood had earlier filed an affidavit stating that since there are 143 DySPs and ACPs in the state, a total number of 143 noise meters are adequate. The bench said the stand taken by the DG&IGP is ridiculous since DySPs and ACPs will have jurisdiction over several police stations. “We direct the DGP and IGP to file an affidavit specifying the number of noise meters which are required for the entire state which will include specific requirements within BBMP. We direct the DGP to take note of the serious aspect that due to non-availability of noise meters, there is absolutely no implementation of the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000. We are sure the DGP will make a practical estimation of the number of meters required,” the bench said. The bench directed the office of Advocate General to immediately communicate the copy of the order to the DGP and posted the matter to July 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-directs-top-cop-to-specify-noise-meters-required-for-state-1000384.html
22-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka colleges may start vaccine drive in July first week||Students pursuing higher education courses in the state may start getting vaccines from the first week of July. Following a report submitted by the expert committee headed by Dr Devi Shetty recommending reopening of campuses for higher education courses, the Higher Education department has decided to provide vaccinations to all students, teachers and non-teaching staff at institutions across the state. Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayana said, "We have decided to conduct vaccination drives for students and staff at the institution level, probably in the first week of July." As per data available from the department, the total number will come to around 20 lakh, including students and staff. "The drive will begin after confirming the availability of vaccine stock," said a senior official from the department. It is thinking of reopening offline classes for undergraduate and postgraduate students a week after giving them the first dose of the vaccines. "The committee has also recommended the same and offline classes will open with all safety measures in place and by following Covid-appropriate behaviour," the official said. Soon after the committee report was submitted to the chief minister on Tuesday, several higher education institutions and schools started preparations to resume offline classes. A majority of the institutions are conducting vaccination drives for their students, staff and parents. D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said, "We want the government to ensure teachers, staff and parents are vaccinated on priority, to help resume physical classes." B N Yogananda, member of the Karnataka Private Schools Parents' Association Coordination Committee, said, "We urge the government to deliberate on the issue before reopening schools. It is not advisable to reopen physical classes without proper discussions and consultation."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-colleges-may-start-vaccine-drive-in-july-first-week-1000387.html
22-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||25 lakh rural households to get tap water this year in Karnataka||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday was informed by officials that 25 lakh rural households will be provided with functional tap water connections this year under the Jal Jeevan Mission, branded as 'Mane Manege Gange' in Karnataka. Yediyurappa reviewed the progress of the Jal Jeevan Mission in the state. Of the 91.19 lakh rural households, about 28 lakh have been covered with functional household tap connections, the officials said. “The chief minister directed the officials to achieve the target of providing 25.17 lakh tap water connections in rural areas of the state within the stipulated time in the current financial year,” Yediyurappa’s office said in a statement. “The CM also directed the officials to implement the scheme on priority wherever water is available from river sources in the state. The scheme is a flagship programme of our prime minister and has to be implemented within the given timelines,” the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/25-lakh-rural-households-to-get-tap-water-this-year-in-karnataka-1000393.html
22-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Concerns in Karnataka as Delta Plus cases rise in neighbouring states||As the number of people infected with Delta Plus variant of coronavirus is rising in neighbouring states, Karnataka’s efforts to contain the ongoing pandemic are once again challenged by interstate travellers. During the first and second waves, infected interstate travellers from Maharashtra, Kerala and Tamil Nadu drove the outbreak in Karnataka. On Monday, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope disclosed the presence of 20 cases of the Delta Plus variant in that state, adding to the one case found there weeks before.  Then, on Tuesday evening, Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar announced that the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) in Bengaluru, which handles genomic sequencing for Tamil Nadu in addition to augmenting sequencing in Karnataka, had found that a sample sent from a Tamil Nadu native was positive for Delta Plus. With a total of four official cases, Tamil Nadu now has the second highest number of Delta Plus infections in the country, after Maharashtra. While four cases may seem trivial, they represent 1% of all sequences from Tamil Nadu. The development raises concerns about the possible proliferation of this new variant, now that 22 Karnataka districts have seen an easing of restrictions as part of Unlock 2.0. One expert who did not want to be named said: "Short of halting all interstate movement, there is really no way to stop more cases of Delta Plus from popping up in Karnataka." The state may have to consider increasing surveillance at border areas, added Dr Thrilok Chandra, Commissioner (Health). "Already we are screening interstate road travelers, but additional guidance may be introduced in subsequent days to improve surveillance,” he said. Meanwhile, noted virologist and Chairman of the Genomics Surveillance Committee Dr V Ravi said there was nothing to panic about. "This mutation is a sublineage of the existing ‘Delta’ B.1.617.2 variant which is already present everywhere," he said.  As per data from the Department of Health and Family Welfare, the baseline “Delta” has been found in 27% of all 1,165 samples sequenced by Karnataka to date. Dr Ravi stressed that it was not possible to contain the variant from the point of restrictive border controls. “The only solution is that more people have to get vaccinated and wear masks,” he said. Another expert said that the appearance of these new mutants in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra may not harken a new surge of cases. “This mutant has come at a time when the number of Covid-19 cases have declined and so it may not matter,” he said. However, any increase in the pace of infections now could potentially see the Delta Plus gain traction. “This is why Covid appropriate behaviours are important to follow now,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/concerns-in-karnataka-as-delta-plus-cases-rise-in-neighbouring-states-1000404.html
22-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's Covid vaccine coverage plunges to 3.84 lakh doses||A day after administering a whopping 11.24 lakh doses of Covid vaccination on Monday, Karnataka's daily vaccination coverage fell by more than a half on Tuesday Yet, the state scripted a new history by completing 2 crore vaccinations and becoming the first state to achieve such a feat. Only 3.84 lakh doses of vaccine were administered on Tuesday including 83,594 in the Bengaluru Urban district as at 9 pm. The districts that performed exceptionally well on Monday had exhausted their vaccine supplies and were only making do with the leftover doses from Monday. Belagavi, the only district after Bengaluru to vaccinate more than a lakh people on Monday, could vaccinate a mere 8,319 people. Belagavi District Immunisation Officer Dr Iswar Gadad said, "We had vaccinated 1,01,528 people on Monday. We were left with 9,000 odd doses and administered those jabs on Tuesday. We had to turn away so many people. Only three taluks had vaccines," he said. Ballari district was also one of the top five districts on Monday to vaccinate the highest number of people. District Health Officer Dr HL Janardhan said, "Monday was an exception when we received 78,000 vaccine doses. Else, on an average, we receive 50,000 doses per week. We could vaccinate only 12,379 people on Tuesday." The BBMP, which vaccinated 1,71,566 people on Monday, administered vaccines to 75,043 on Tuesday. D Randeep, Special Commissioner, Health, BBMP, said, "On Monday, for the first time, our supply was excess of one lakh. We had actually planned it as a two-day drive. We have not gone for a target-based approach so far, but if the supplies are assured, we can."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-covid-vaccine-coverage-plunges-to-384-lakh-doses-1000413.html
22-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||52 kids in Karnataka orphaned during Covid-19 second wave: Minister||Women & Child Development Minister Shashikala Jolle informed that as many as 52 children in the state lost their parents during the second wave of Covid-19. More than one thousand children lost at least one parent. Presiding over a meeting convened to review the measures taken to protect children during the third wave of Covid-19 here on Tuesday, she said the government has implemented bala seva scheme and bala hitaishi scheme for the welfare of such children. The minister said she held discussions with relatives of such children and kids via video conference and gathered their opinions. Under bala seva scheme, each child would get Rs 3,500 per month and free education. Eligible children would get either a laptop or a tablet. It has been decided to provide a compensation of Rs 1 lakh to girls aged above 21 years. She said under the bala hitaishi scheme, the government would establish a link between children with a single parent or those lost parents with donors. Parents who don’t have kids would also be allowed to adopt a child legally. She said Davangere district has five children who lost parents due to other reasons, one child lost both parents due to Covid-19 and 125 children lost either their father or mother. She directed the officials concerned to upload the details of such children on the Bala Swaraj portal. She said the department is taking all measures to tackle the third wave of Covid-19 that is likely to hit kids. As many as 1,875 children aged below 18 years of age contracted the Covid-19 infection during the first wave. As many as 2,283 children were infected by it during the second wave. But there was no child who was seriously ill. District Health Officer Nagaraj said the district has seven lakh children aged below 19 years. It is estimated that 10 per cent children may contracted the viral infection during the third wave of Covid-19. In order to tackle the third wave of Covid-19, 68 pediatricians have been identified in the district. A children's ward with 68 beds will be set up in the district general hospital, while ten beds with oxygen facilities will be set up in each taluk general hospital. Each taluk will have two covid care centres for children. In total, 2,500 beds for children have been arranged. A proposal has been submitted to the government seeking 60 ventilators, medicine. Training programmes would be conducted for doctors, asha, anganwadi workers and nurses in the first week of July. MP G M Siddeshwara promised a 12-year old girl child from Honnali taluk who lost her parents due to Covid-19 that he would bear her higher education expenses. MLAs Ramachandrappa, SA Raveendranath, Linganna, Zilla Panchayat Executive Officer Vijay Mahantesh, Superintendent of Police C B Rishyanth were present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/52-kids-in-karnataka-orphaned-during-covid-19-second-wave-minister-1000427.html
22-06-2021||West||21 cases of Delta Plus Covid variant found in Maharashtra, says Rajesh Tope||Twenty one cases of the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19, considered highly infectious, have been found in Maharashtra so far, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope said. The highest nine cases were reported in Ratnagiri, followed by seven in Jalgaon, two in Mumbai, and one case each in Palghar, Thane and Sindhudurg districts, Tope told reporters on Monday. He said 7,500 samples from different parts of the state were collected and sent for laboratory testing. These samples were collected since May 15 and their genome sequencing was done, the minister said. Genome sequencing allows the tracking of small mutations in SARS-CoV2, the virus that causes Covid-19, meaning chains of transmission can be identified. The scientific process also assists in identifying missing links in the chain of transmission. Tope said complete information about the people detected with the Delta Plus variant is being sought, including their travel history, whether they were vaccinated or not, and if they were reinfected. Their contacts are being traced and tested, the minister said, adding that information on the mutation of Delta and Delta Plus variants is also being scrutinised. Last week, the Maharashtra health department made a presentation where it said the newly identified variant may trigger a third wave of the pandemic in the state. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, state Covid-19 task force members and health department officials had attended the presentation. The new Delta Plus variant has been formed due to a mutation in the Delta or B.1.617.2 variant, first identified in India and one of the drivers of the deadly second wave. Though there is no indication yet of the severity of the disease due to the new variant, Delta Plus is resistant to the monoclonal antibody cocktail treatment for Covid-19 recently authorised in India. On Monday, Maharashtra reported 6,270 new coronavirus cases, a four-month low daily count, taking its Covid-19 tally to 59,79,051, while 94 deaths pushed the toll to 1,18,313, as per the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/21-cases-of-delta-plus-covid-variant-found-in-maharashtra-says-rajesh-tope-1000096.html
22-06-2021||West||Protests brewing up over naming of Navi Mumbai airport||A major political issue is brewing up over the naming of the upcoming Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA) near Mumbai. While the Maha Vikas Agahdi plans to name it after late Shiv Sena founder Balasaheb Thackeray, a large number of locals and local BJP leaders want it to be named after late farmers’ leader DB Patil even as there is an online campaign to name it after JRD Tata, the father of civil aviation in India. The NMIA is an under construction greenfield international airport being built at Ulwe Kopar-Panvel in Raigad district of Maharashtra – the second international airport in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). The City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) is the nodal agency for NMIA, which would be developed through a PPP model. Recently, senior Shiv Sena leader and Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde said that the NMIA would be named after Balasaheb Thackeray. “The Board of Directors of CIDCO had already taken the decision to name the NMIA after late Balasaheb Thackeray. This was forwarded to the state government. Decision has been taken based on the resolution passed by CIDCO,” he said. On 10 June, several villagers from Raigad, Thane and Palghar districts under All Party Action Committee (APAC) and supported by political parties like BJP and AAP undertook a human chain demanding that the airport be named after DB Patil. The APAC have planned to gherao the CIDCO office in Belapur on 24 June, however, the Navi Mumbai police has denied the permission. Late DB Patil fought for the rights of Project Affected People (PAPs)  and is revered by locals. On the other hand, an online petition is gaining momentum to name the airport after JRD Tata. “After Mahatma Gandhi’s freedom struggle it was JRD Tata who pioneered the Indian economy to practically everything. No politician can ever match JRD Tata’s contribution to India. A man that has never been shown gratitude for his contributions to India is JRD Tata! All major landmarks are only named after politicians and their families,” an online petition said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/protests-brewing-up-over-naming-of-navi-mumbai-airport-1000110.html
22-06-2021||West||Gujarat BJP chief defends distributing Remdesivir from party office during Covid-19 peak||Defending himself and the BJP's move to distribute the critical Covid-19 drug Remdesivir to people from the party's office in Surat during the peak of the second wave of coronavirus in April, state unit president Chandrakant R Paatil said that "at no point were the injections kept for the purpose of hoarding at any place, including the party office". He also claimed that "availability and facilitation of injections was done strictly in accordance with the statutory provisions and guidelines issued by the competent authorities". "At no point in time, the subject matter injections, i.e, Remdesivir, were kept for the purpose of hoarding at any place, including the party office of Bharatiya Janata Party. Therefore, allegations regarding the "Hoarding" of the injection are thoroughly baseless," Paatil has said in an affidavit he filed in the Gujarat High Court in response to a Public Interest Litigation filed by Congress MLA and leader of Opposition in state assembly Paresh Dhanani. He has claimed in the affidavit that "...facilitation of the injections was done strictly in accordance with the statutory provisions and guidelines issued by the competent authorities". Dhanani filed the PIL, accusing Paatil and Surat MLA Harsh Sanghvi, among others, of violating provisions of Drugs and Cosmetics Act 1940, Pharmacy Act 1948 as well as Drug (Control) Act 1950, for "distributing Remdesivir injections" despite not having any legal rights of doing so under the acts. Last week, the state government filed an affidavit informing the court that its preliminary inquiry has given a "clean chit" to BJP leaders. The government has said that the inquiry is still on for recording of statements of other involved persons. "...at the relevant point of time when there was a huge demand of Remdesivir injection, Oxygen etc,. and patients as well as the general public were in dire need of the life-saving medicines and support. I, being a local resident of Navsari/Surat, had mobilized my senior party workers and duly elected public representatives (Members of Legislative Assembly as well as Local Municipal Corporators) to extend maximum help and assistance to those who were in acute need of Remdesivir Injections and other essential medical supplies," Paatil's affidavit stated. He added that his party workers and him did "whatever could have been done to provide ease to the suffering of the patients and the general public". Criticising Dhanani for filing the petition, Paatil has said that the PIL has been filed with a "view to ventilate political grudge and grievance" against him and the BJP, "since petitioner and his political party are rivals in the political scenario of state of Gujarat, therefore even on that count, the present public interest litigation is not maintainable".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-bjp-chief-defends-distributing-remdesivir-from-party-office-during-covid-19-peak-1000127.html
22-06-2021||West||Mumbai: Man's advocate claims 'Peter Pan Syndrome', gets bail in case of sexual assault of minor girl||A Mumbai court granted bail to a man whose advocate said he was suffering from 'Peter Pan Syndrome' in a case of kidnap and sexual assault of a 14-year-old girl. Special Judge S C Jadhav on Monday granted bail to the 23-year-old accused on a bond of Rs 25,000 and several other conditions. Appearing for the accused, advocate Sunil Pandey, stated that his client was suffering from 'Peter Pan Syndrome' - a term used to describe an adult male or female who is socially immature. "The victim's family knew about their relationship. But her family didn't like their relationship due to the boy's illness and poor background and also had a grudge against his family members," Pandey told the court. The lawyer further said the victim had the knowledge of what she was doing and got into the relationship voluntarily. Special public prosecutor Veena Shelar, however, opposed the plea and denied all the allegations made by the applicant. The prosecution contended that there was prima-facie sufficient material on record to show the involvement of the applicant in the commission of the offence. There is no material on record about the illness of the accused applicant, the prosecutor said. If the accused is released on bail, he may tamper with the evidence in the case. The court, after hearing the submissions, granted bail to the accused, saying his detention would serve no purpose as the probe into the matter was completed and nothing had to be recovered from him. The court noted that the victim's statement "prima facie shows she herself left her parents' house and joined the company of the accused". The court further observed: "The facts of the case indicate the girl (even though she is a minor) had sufficient knowledge and capacity to know the full import of what she was doing and only thereafter voluntarily joined the applicant."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-mans-advocate-claims-peter-pan-syndrome-gets-bail-in-case-of-sexual-assault-of-minor-girl-1000130.html
22-06-2021||West||HC asks MVA, BMC to form SOS policy to avoid fake Covid vaccination drives||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the Maharashtra government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation to form a policy on an "SOS basis" to avoid incidents of frauds or fake vaccination drives. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni took cognisance of news reports of one such incident at a housing society in Mumbai's Kandivali area where residents were inoculated with fake Covid vaccines at a camp organised by the housing society. The court said the state or municipal authorities must be a part of, or have information of all such private vaccination camps being organised by housing societies and offices to ensure citizens do not suffer. The bench also directed the state government to submit the progress report on the police investigation being carried out into the incident by June 24. "There has to be a policy. Some intimation or communication among housing societies, hospitals, civic body, so that such incidents do not happen," the HC said. "What is the most unfortunate thing here is that when the whole humanity is suffering, some people are still playing frauds of this kind," it said. The HC said the state authorities must not take such incidents lightly, and asked if the fraudsters were being booked under stringent provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, or the Disaster management Act. "See to it that the investigation is not delayed. Tell us what is the progress of the investigation. These are serious issues. Fraudsters are playing with the lives of innocent people," the HC said. "The state and the BMC must come up with a policy or guidelines on an SOS basis for private vaccination camps to avoid similar incidents in future," it said. The court made the observations while hearing a PIL filed by lawyer Anita Shekhar Castellino on problems faced by citizens in securing vaccination slots. It also took note of similar incidents of fraud, mentioned in the PIL, that had taken place at another housing society in suburban Borivali and a film production house in the western suburbs. The court said police must unearth the racket of such frauds. State's counsel Deepak Thakare told the HC that there were five persons accused in the Kandivali incident. Out of them, four had been arrested and an accused doctor was absconding. The HC said the police will have to take steps to arrest all accused persons. It will hear the plea further on June 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-asks-mva-bmc-to-form-sos-policy-to-avoid-fake-covid-vaccination-drives-1000137.html
22-06-2021||West||Thane to have its own cancer hospital||The Tata Memorial Hospital (TMH) is set to establish a cancer hospital in Thane city in collaboration with the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) and JITO Educational and Medical Trust. The Maharashtra government sanctioned the development of a cancer hospital in Thane district for Thane and the surrounding areas and reduce travel time for patients to Tata Memorial Hospital. TMC will undertake the initiative and it will be led by Thane Guardian Minister Eknath Shinde. TMC's general body meeting passed a resolution in this regard, approving the use of land acquired under the facility plot in the Rustomjee housing complex in Majiwada for this project. As a result, TMC asked the Urban Development Department to approve the plan. TMC has been granted permission by the department to lease this land for a term of 30 years at a nominal rent of Re 1. The next step would be taken swiftly following an agreement between Thane Municipal Corporation, Tata Memorial Center, and JITO Educational and Medical Trust, which is chaired by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Thane Guardian Minister Eknath Shinde has stated that the hospital's services and facilities will be of the highest level, and that it will also assist alleviate patient congestion at Mumbai's Tata Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thane-to-have-its-own-cancer-hospital-1000150.html
22-06-2021||West||Amit Shah calls to make Ahmedabad world's greenest city||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday planted tree saplings in Ahmedabad and appealed to citizens to make it the city with the largest green cover not just in India, but in the world. Shah planted three saplings on a plot of land of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Sindhu Bhavan road in Bodakdev area, that falls under the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency represented by him, in the presence of officials and representatives of the civic body. "I appeal to the entire team of the municipal corporation that it should target to make Ahmedabad the city with the largest green cover not just in India, but in the world, and this is possible," Shah said in his address after the event. He also appealed to the people of his constituency to plant those varieties of trees that could provide oxygen to three-four generations.R "It is our responsibility to save the earth, humanity, and the environment. Trees will give us oxygen as well as food to birds...there are also medicinal benefits of such trees," he said. Shah set the target of planting 11 lakh trees in the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency, and asked citizens to become stakeholders in the drive along with government agencies and departments. The senior BJP leader congratulated the AMC for taking the initiative of supplying tree saplings to people over a phone call, and said this will help make Ahmedabad the greenest city. "Upload a tree on the earth, and you will get hundreds of likes from the cloud," he said, while conveying what he said was a message from a young party worker from Uttar Pradesh who had requested him to do so. According to civic officials, the tree plantation drive was held to make Gandhinagar a "green constituency." The campaign is also being conducted in other parts of the Ahmedabad city falling under the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency, they said. On the occasion, Shah also launched a helpline number for the people of his constituency for assistance in vaccination against Covid-19 and free ration provided by the central government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amit-shah-calls-to-make-ahmedabad-worlds-greenest-city-1000156.html
22-06-2021||West||Decks clear for Virar-Alibaug multi-modal corridor||Decks are finally clear for the much-awaited Virar-Alibaug multi-modal corridor that would give a boost to the road infrastructure of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) ensuring seamless connectivity between Palghar, Thane and Raigad districts. The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) has received clearance from the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) for a part of the project. Initially, the project was planned by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Authority (MMRDA), however, later it was handed over to the MSRDC. The 126-km-long Virar-Alibaug Multi-Modal Corridor will connect NH-8, Bhiwandi Bypass, NH-3, NH-4, NH-4B, Mumbai-Pune Expressway and NH-17. The Multi-Modal Corridor will be a crucial step towards development, strengthening and creating job opportunities in seven growth centers in MMR such as Virar, Bhiwandi, Kalyan, Dombivali, Panvel, Taloja and Uran. The corridor will also be useful for the development of Navi Mumbai International Airport, Jawaharlal Nehru Port, Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link and Dedicated Freight Corridor. This corridor will carry all the traffic from JNPT towards Navi Mumbai and Thane outside the city and will help reduce traffic congestion within the city. The travel time between Virar to Alibaug required today will also be reduced by 50 per cent. The road would also help the Navi Mumbai Airport Influence Notified Area (NAINA) where a mega-township is being planned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/decks-clear-for-virar-alibaug-multi-modal-corridor-1000164.html
22-06-2021||West||Will finalise policy on door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination in one week: Maharashtra govt to HC||The Maharashtra government is working on a door-to-door vaccination policy for the elderly, disabled and bedridden people who cannot reach vaccination centres. It told the Bombay High Court that the plans would be finalised in a week. During a hearing, the state's counsel, Geeta Shastri, submitted a draft policy before a bench comprising Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni. While details of the policy could not be made public yet, the same will be finalised within a week and submitted before the court, she said. The bench accepted Shastri's submissions. It was hearing a bunch of PILs, including a plea filed by lawyer Dhruti Kapadia seeking door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination for people above 75 years of age and specially-abled or bedridden persons. During a previous hearing, the high court observed that the Centre had not imposed any prohibition on states from carrying out door-to-door vaccination for the elderly and disabled citizens. It had also said the Union government's policy or the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) on vaccination that did not provide for door-to-door drives was merely an advisory. On Tuesday, the bench said, "Prima facie, we are of the opinion that the task force is proceeding in the right direction. We, however, leave it to the task force to incorporate such measures which are beneficial for the health of the elderly and disabled citizens." "We hope that when we take up this PIL next, the state would be in a position to show us the approved guideline," the court said. The bench also directed the Maharashtra government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to submit municipal ward-wise details of vaccines administered to the mentally-ill and homeless people in the city. The direction came on another PIL filed by lawyer Sarosh Bharucha, seeking the court's intervention for ensuring greater access of vaccines to citizens. Bharucha pointed out that the existing state guidelines on Covid-19 vaccination did not take into account covering persons who were mentally ill and those without a legal guardian, and therefore, not in a position to give an informed consent for receiving the vaccine. The HC asked the state and the municipal authorities to respond to the issue by next week. "How many homeless or mentally ill persons have been taken care of in every ward in the city? We are talking of you (state) providing them food, shelter, vaccination, everything," the high court said. "Your affidavit is absolutely silent on this issue. We are a very complex society. No one can be ignored or neglected," the HC said. The court will hear the above PILs next on June 29.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-finalise-policy-on-door-to-door-covid-19-vaccination-in-one-week-maharashtra-govt-to-hc-1000175.html
22-06-2021||West||HC directs Mumbai top cop to inquire into woman's allegations against Sanjay Raut||The Bombay High Court has asked the Commissioner of Police in Mumbai to probe into the allegations of harassment and stalking made by a lady against Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut and the woman’s estranged husband. A division bench comprising Justice SS Shinde and Justice NJ Jamdar asked the Mumbai CP to submit its report by June 24. “We direct the Commissioner of Police to look into the grievances raised in the petition and take appropriate measures. The Commissioner of Police shall respond to us and submit a report on June 24," the judges said in its direction to Mumbai Police. The lady, who is a psychologist, filed the petition in February this year. In the plea, she had claimed that she was being stalked and harassed by unknown men at the behest of Raut and her estranged husband. The lady was represented by counsel Abha Singh, who informed the court that the lady was recently arrested in a non-cognisable case, where it has been alleged that she procured a fake PhD degree. "The petitioner has been in jail for ten days now. After she filed the petition in the High Court, the entire police machinery has been unleashed on her now. This is complete vindictiveness and malafide action," Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-directs-mumbai-top-cop-to-inquire-into-womans-allegations-against-sanjay-raut-1000179.html
22-06-2021||West||Arnab Goswami named in supplementary charge sheet of TRP scam case||Arnab Goswami, the Editor-in-Chief of Republic News Network, has been named in the supplementary charge sheet filed by the Mumbai Police in connection with the sensational TRP rigging scandal. Goswami was added as accused in the TRP scam and a first information report (FIR) was lodged last year. The investigations were launched during the tenure of former Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh, who is now the Commandant General of Home Guards.  The investigations were spearheaded by Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze, who is the main accused in twin cases of gelatin sticks-laden Scorpio near the home of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani and the killing of SUV owner Mansukh Hiran. Vaze, who was arrested by the NIA, has been dismissed by the Mumbai Police chief Hemant Nagrale. In the first charge sheet, the police have booked among others the ex-CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council Partho Dasgupta and Republic TV CEO Vikash Khanchandani.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/arnab-goswami-named-in-supplementary-charge-sheet-of-trp-scam-case-1000207.html
22-06-2021||West||Bombay High Court asks NIA for reply on Sudha Bharadwaj's bail plea in Elgar case||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the National Investigation Agency to file its affidavit by July 3 in response to the bail petition of activist Sudha Bharadwaj, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. Bharadwaj was arrested on August 28, 2018 and has been in jail since then. The case was registered against her and some other activists under provisions of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Bharadwaj had sought default bail, contending the trial judge was not authorised to take cognisance of the 2019 charge sheet filed against her, as the judge was at that time not designated as special judge under the NIA Act to hear matters pertaining to the UAPA. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar on Tuesday directed NIA's advocate Sandesh Patil to file an affidavit in response to the petition and posted the matter for further hearing on July 3. In her petition, Bharadwaj relied on documents received from the high court under the Right to Information (RTI) Act to demonstrate that the court of Additional Sessions Judge Kishor Vadane in Pune was not authorised to take cognisance of the 1,800-page supplementary charge sheet filed by the Pune police in February 2019. “This judge was not designated as a special NIA judge at the time and hence, could not have taken cognisance of the charge sheet. We are also challenging an earlier order passed by this judge in November 2018 granting the police time to file the charge sheet,” Bharadwaj's counsel Yug Chaudhry argued. The case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at the ''Elgar Parishad'' conclave, held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the city''s outskirts. The Pune police claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) later took over the probe into the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-asks-nia-for-reply-on-sudha-bharadwajs-bail-plea-in-elgar-case-1000243.html
22-06-2021||West||Gujarat government introduces subsidies of up to Rs 1.5 lakh on electric vehicles||The Vijay Rupani-led BJP government on Tuesday announced its "Gujarat Electric Vehicle Policy 2021," with an aim to make about two lakh electric vehicles ply on state roads in the next four years. The government estimates that 1.10 lakh two-wheelers, 70,000 three-wheelers and 20,000 four-wheelers will be on roads in the state in the next four years. Announcing the policy in Gandhinagar, Chief Minister Rupani said in a press conference that the government will provide a subsidy of Rs 10,000 per Kilowatt, compared to only Rs 5,000 by other states. He said that the government will bear the cost of a total of Rs 870 crore as subsidy for encouraging people to opt for electric vehicles under the policy in the next four years. Rupani informed that the government will extend Rs 20,000 subsidy for purchase of two-wheelers priced below Rs 1.5 lakh, Rs 50,000 for three-wheelers priced below Rs 5 lakh and Rs 1.5 lakh for four-wheelers having a price up to Rs 15 lakh. The subsidy amount will directly be transferred to the beneficiary's account. "In comparison to other vehicles, the per kilometer expenditure in e-vehicles is 30 to 50 percent less. It also helps in reducing air pollution and safeguarding the environment. We have estimated that if around two lakh electric vehicles come up in the state in next four years then it will help in saving fuel worth Rs 5 crore and reduce around 6 lakh tonnes of carbon dioxide emission," Rupani told reporters. He also added that under the new policy, any vehicle, private or commercial, approved by Gujarat RTO will get an exemption from the registration fee. He said the policy also includes providing battery charging infrastructure. He said that under FAME (Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and EV)-2 scheme, 278 charging stations have been approved and the government is aiming to increase 250 more stations. He said the petrol pumps will also be given approval for charging stations. Following the announcement, Shailesh Chandra, President, Passenger Vehicle Business, Tata Motors, said in a statement, “We welcome the move by the Gujarat Government, offering incentive support for all categories of electric vehicles. This clearly signals a strong resolve of the government towards a cleaner environment and a sustainable future for the country. Also, the support extended towards charging infrastructure will accelerate the ecosystem development and bring greater comfort for EV buyers. We compliment the Gujarat Government for introducing such a progressive policy."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-government-introduces-subsidies-of-up-to-rs-15-lakh-on-electric-vehicles-1000249.html
22-06-2021||West||Covid-19: Maharashtra guarded with third wave ahead||With the proverbial Sword of Damocles hanging in the form of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra government is taking guarded steps and has decided not to hasten the unlock process. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked the district administration and police officials to ensure that Covid-appropriate behavior is followed and the guard is not lowered. Besides, what has rattled the state is that 21 cases of Delta Plus variant have been reported across the state. The government has decided not to allow the general public in the suburban local trains of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) till the pandemic is over or Covid-19 cases are fully under control. At the Business Advisory Committee meeting of the Maharashtra legislature, the government curtailed the monsoon session, which would be only for two days on 5-6 July. On the two days preceding the session, RT-PCR of those needed to enter the Vidhan Bhavan complex would be done. However, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis lashed out at the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government for curtailing the session and boycotted the BAC meeting. “We are seeing a new trend... whenever the Vidhan Sabha session nears, there are news of rise in corona cases or similar position is taken by the government… Coronavirus is serious and all precautions are being taken... but it seems that the government wants to hide behind Covid-19 and curtail discussions on the floor of the House,” he said, adding that what is happening is unprecedented in democracy. Meanwhile, state Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope confirmed 21 cases of Delta Plus variant from the 7,500 samples sent for genome sequencing. The highest number of cases  have been detected in Ratnagiri (9) followed by Jalgaon (7), Mumbai (2) and one case each in Palghar, Thane and Sindhudurg districts. The admission comes a few days after the Public Health Department warned that the Delta plus variant could trigger the third wave in the state – and made a presentation to Thackeray. The CMO has said the number of active patients could reach up to eight lakh, while 10 per cent out of them could be children. During the second wave, public transportation was one of the causes for surge in cases and hence the government is going slow when it comes to local trains. “In Mumbai and MMR, locals will not be started (for the general public) till Covid-19 is over,” said  Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-guarded-with-third-wave-ahead-1000287.html
22-06-2021||West||Won't arrest Param Bir Singh till July 3, Maharashtra govt tells Bombay HC||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday told the Bombay High Court it would not arrest senior IPS officer Param Bir Singh till July 3 in a case registered against him under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Senior counsel Darius Khambata, appearing for the state government, said his earlier statement, that the police would not arrest the former Mumbai police commissioner, shall continue till July 3. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar posted a petition filed by Singh, seeking quashing of the FIR registered against him on a complaint of police inspector Bhimrao Ghadge, for hearing on July 2. On that day, the court would also hear another petition filed by the senior IPS officer challenging two enquiries set up against him by the state government. The first enquiry order of April 1 was passed by the then state home minister Anil Deshmukh for alleged violation of some All India Services (Conduct) Rules by the senior bureaucrat. The second order of April 20 was issued by the current home minister (Dilip Walse Patil) over allegations of corruption levelled against Singh. The FIR registered under the Atrocities Act against Singh is based on the complaint filed by police inspector Ghadge, currently posted at Akola in eastern Maharashtra. Ghadge made a series of allegations of corruption against Singh and other officers when the top cop was posted in Thane as police commissioner. In the FIR, now transferred to the Thane, Ghadge alleged that Singh pressured him to drop the names of some persons from a case and when he refused, the IPS officer framed him in false cases. The FIR was registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act (the complainant belongs to an SC community).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/wont-arrest-param-bir-singh-till-july-3-maharashtra-govt-tells-bombay-hc-1000288.html
22-06-2021||West||Mumbai vaccination scam accused doctor seeks pre-arrest bail||An anticipatory bail application was fielded before a court by one of the accused involved in cheating people of a Kandivali-based housing society at a Covid-19 vaccination camp. In a pre-arrest bail plea moved before the Dindoshi sessions court, Dr Manish Tripathi has stated that the main accused in the case is Shivam Hospital. The Mumbai police are trying to protect the powerful and politically well-connected owners of the hospital, stated the plea, moved through lawyer Adil Khatri. The plea further stated that the accused had cooperated during the investigation and had given his statement on June 15. In a complaint to the police, the housing society had alleged that it was apparently cheated by some persons, who had organised a Covid-19 vaccination camp for its members by claiming to represent a private hospital. The residents also expressed fear that the vaccine administered could be spurious. The court will hear the matter on June 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-vaccination-scam-accused-doctor-seeks-pre-arrest-bail-1000358.html
