23-06-2021||First Edit||Class 12 marks: Fair, reasonable formula||The finalisation of a formula by the CBSE to evaluate the Class 12 students who went without a board examination this year has put an end to the anxieties of lakhs of students and their parents. The Supreme Court, which had directed that an assessment scheme be found at the earliest, had accepted the formula. The court approved it again on Tuesday. The ICSE Council has also evolved a similar system. State school boards will soon follow suit. At least four states have not taken a decision on cancelling the examinations; they will have to do it soon. According to the present formula, students will be graded on a 30:30:40 ratio for theory. Class 10 marks and Class 11 marks will get 30% weightage each and Class 12 school tests will be given 40% weightage. Schools may have some leeway on how they reckon practicals or internal assessment. No formula can be considered perfect in assessing the merit of students. Even the examinations that could not be conducted could not have measured the students’ merit correctly, and there have been persistent demands for a change of the system. The relative weightage given to the marks in Class 10 and Class 11 examinations may be questioned on various grounds like their relevance and efficacy. It may be pointed out that the students did not take these examinations in the knowledge that their performance in them would count in judging their Class 12 performance. It is also true that the new scheme does not take into consideration the differences between schools in infrastructure, teaching and internal assessment systems. Uniformity may be affected because the school result committees that will decide on Class12 marks may take different factors into consideration. Many students may have been disadvantaged because of the lack of or poor access to study materials and online classes during the lockdown. But no formula would have satisfied everyone completely and there would always be some who would feel aggrieved. Overall, however, the formula seems to be fair in the given circumstances and there is no major criticism of it. The provision that students could take a Class 12 public examination at a later date, when the situation is conducive, to achieve a higher score is well thought out, as it gives students a second chance. The challenge now is to implement the scheme transparently and efficiently without giving rise to complaints. The results have to be declared by July 31. Issues related to admission for professional and other coursers will arise later. The plan to conduct entrance tests for some courses will again present another set of problems, especially because there are fears about a third wave of the pandemic occurring in a few weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/class-12-marks-fair-reasonable-formula-1000456.html
23-06-2021||First Edit||Laws must conform to constitutional values||Union Information Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who has led the campaign for implementation of the government’s new IT rules, has warned social media companies that they will have to follow Indian laws if they have to operate in the country. A tussle has been going on between the government and some of these companies over the demands made on them under the IT rules which were introduced in February and came into effect last month. The rules are intended to regulate the use of content in social media intermediaries and streaming and digital news portals and to bring them under some government supervision. The basic issue involved in such regulation and supervision is that they affect freedom of speech and expression. Though the companies are foreign, they provide a platform for expression of the right to free speech of the citizens of this country. So, regulation of their content can easily become checks on the rights of Indian citizens. The minister told the social media companies not to lecture the country on “freedom of speech’’ and “democracy’’ and that they will have to “follow the Indian Constitution and Indian laws’’ if they have to do business in the country. Of course, foreign companies have to follow Indian laws and they should not give lessons on freedom of speech and democracy, but the country needs to be concerned when FIRs are lodged for tweeting on social media on toolkits or attacks on people or for reporting on events. The companies should follow the Indian Constitution and laws. But the laws and rules based on them have to be made in accordance with the Constitution. Else, they can be challenged in the courts. It has been pointed out that the demand for identification of the “first originator’’ of a message would violate the right to privacy granted by the Constitution. It has also been held that the IT rules of 2021 are beyond the scope of the IT Act and do not have legislative support. Some of these issues are before the courts, and the minister should await a judicial decision.  The minister said: “India has free and fair elections, an independent judiciary, media, civil society. Here I am talking to students and taking questions, and this is true democracy.’’ These are rhetorical assertions and the validity of some of them are today under question. Such general assertions cannot be used to support and justify specific actions and demands, which themselves violate the spirit of those assertions, made on individuals and entities. The minister’s claim that the new IT rules deal with only the “abuse and misuse’' of social media is not credible. They might turn out to be more about abuse and misuse of power by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/laws-must-conform-to-constitutional-values-1000784.html
23-06-2021||In Perspective||Fertiliser subsidy policy is skewing crop yields, soil health||A major factor fuelling resentment among farmers is the spiralling prices of fertilisers that are critical in the production of agricultural products. There are two types of fertilisers: Urea— the predominant source of nitrogen or ‘N’ nutrient supply— and phosphate and potash fertilisers— the source of ‘P’ nutrient and ‘K’ nutrient; there are 22 grades of such fertilisers and the most widely used are Di-Ammonium Phosphate (DAP) and Muriate of Potash (MOP).  The Maximum Retail Price (MRP) of urea is controlled by the Centre at a low level and is unrelated to the cost of production and distribution which is higher (the excess amount is reimbursed to the manufacturers via the subsidy on a ‘unit-specific’ basis under the New Pricing Scheme or NPS). This price has remained unchanged— today’s price is the same as in 2002— as all cost escalations are absorbed by increasing the subsidy. But, the worry is with regard to ‘P’ and ‘K’ fertilisers.  For these fertilisers, the Centre fixes a ‘uniform’ subsidy on a per-nutrient basis for all manufacturers under the Nutrient-Based Subsidy (NBS) Scheme. The latter are free to fix the MRP but are expected to reflect the subsidy. Unlike urea, where increasing subsidy helps in keeping MRP immune from cost hikes, the government is not prone to adjust subsidy on P&K fertilisers, generally—this means cost escalations lead to an ever-increasing price.  During 2020-21, the cost of production and distribution of a bag (50 kg) of DAP was Rs 1,700. Then, the subsidy was Rs 500, the manufacturers fixed MRP at Rs 1,200. In April 2021, due to the increase in international prices of phosphoric acid and ammonia (raw materials used in making DAP) by 60% to 70%, the cost of supply increased to Rs 2,400. This led them to increase the MRP to Rs 1,900 but the subsidy was kept unchanged at Rs 500. This infuriated farmers whom the Centre is trying to calm down by announcing on May 19, 2021, a hike in subsidy to Rs 1,200. This may have helped in restoring the price to last year’s level of Rs 1,200, it is still 4.5 times the price of urea (Rs 268 per bag). P&K fertilisers face discrimination in other respects as well. On these, freight cost is reimbursed only towards primary movement (from the plant site to the unloading rake point) whereas, on urea, secondary movement cost up to the retail point is also given under a ‘uniform freight policy’. Moreover, while urea producers get priority in the allocation of domestic gas (key fuel used to make ammonia), P&K manufacturers are left to fend for themselves. The policy tilt in favour of urea is at the root of its excessive use and results in an imbalance in fertiliser use. On an all-India basis, currently, the NPK use ratio is 6.7:2.4:1 against an ideal 4:2:1 with the attendant adverse effect on crop yield, health of soil and people. Meanwhile, the steep hike in subsidy rates on P&K fertilisers will impose a huge cost on the exchequer. On sales during Kharif season (April to September) alone, this will increase the Centre’s subsidy bill by about Rs 15,000 crore. And if the raw material prices continue to stay at the current elevated level, forcing it to maintain higher subsidy even during Rabi season (October to March), it will have to shell out about Rs 30,000 crore. This will be over and above Rs 80,000 crore (urea: Rs 59,000 crore; P&K fertilisers: Rs 21,000 crore) provided for fertiliser subsidy in the Budget for 2021-22. This will be the second consecutive year when subsidy will cross the Rs 1,00,000 crore mark (during 2020-21, it was Rs 1,34,000 crore). This is unsustainable.   There is a dire need to adopt a policy that corrects the discrimination against P&K fertilisers and brings down the subsidy to a sustainable level. The objectives can be achieved by aligning the policy for urea with that of P&K. This will require dismantling the existing unit-wise NPS for urea and fixing a uniform subsidy for all manufacturers. Furthermore, the subsidy on urea should be drastically reduced and subsidy on DAP increased (likewise for other P&K fertilisers) in a way that the MRP of the latter is no more than 2 times that of the former (today, it is 4.5 times). P&K fertilisers should also be brought under a ‘uniform freight policy’ to provide for reimbursement of both primary and secondary movement cost— as is applicable to urea. For allocating domestic gas, all fertilisers should be treated on par. However, this is far from optimum as the sheer act of routing subsidy through manufacturers brings in ‘control raj’ and maladies such as misuse and diversion, benefit to undeserving (albeit large) farmers etc. There won’t be much gain in subsidy outgo either. All these maladies will buzz off if only the government removes all controls on fertilisers and gives subsidy directly to small and marginal farmers only.  (The writer is a policy analyst)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/fertiliser-subsidy-policy-is-skewing-crop-yields-soil-health-1000459.html
23-06-2021||In Perspective||India, recognise your 'Mongoloid' face and own it||What makes an average Mongoloid-featured face of a North Easterner 'foreign' to mainland Indians, who are largely of Aryan/Dravidian origins? The question shows up a cultural, historical and political anomaly in the larger national project of developing a mutually respectful and common 'Indian-ness' that must be addressed. Why did the popular young YouTuber from Punjab feel that the face of an Arunachal man, Ninong Ering, a former Union Minister of India and a sitting MLA in the state no less, didn't "look Indian" and why indeed did Arunachal itself, distant and too close to the border with China perhaps, did not seem to him to be part of India? Would he have made those comments, which raised a Twitter storm from the youth of the North East, had he been exposed to the history and culture of the region and its peoples? The Twitter storm raised a demand that at least 10% of the NCERT curriculum for schoolchildren must include the history of the North East's role in the Indian freedom struggle, hoping that that would help bridge the divide between mainland India and the people of the North East that goes back to British machinations in the colonial era. Indeed, there has been little or no representation of the North East in the narrative of India's freedom struggle, a betrayal of the contribution made by the region. The ineffective role of the NCERT and other Delhi-based education boards in this regard is one reason why the psychological and cultural distance between mainland and mainstream India and the North East has not been bridged. The history of the sacrifices of each of the North Eastern states remains an unsung saga, and the region mostly neglected in the national discourse. The Twitter storm, organised by the youth of the region and supported by public figures across India, aimed to remove the bias and misidentification of North Easterners through the demand for the inclusion of the North East's role in the anti-colonial struggle. The people of the North East played a significant part in the struggle, helping create independent India, and expressed their loyalty and belongingness to the country, rising above race differentiation. Stories of the freedom struggle from the country's North Eastern periphery will surely open up a new idea of India. While a large number of anti-British revolutionaries from Assam, East Bengal and other parts of undivided India adorn the list of names of inmates in the infamous cellular jails, most of them seem to be forgotten. In Meghalaya, U Tirot Sing, U Kiang Nangbah and Pa Togan Nengminja Sangma were among the many who sacrificed their lives while facing British bullets, custodial torture and repression. The Nagas, who had been part of Subhas Chandra Bose's Indian National Army (INA), laid down their lives on the battlefields of East and South-East Asia. The illustrious Naga nationalist Angami Zapfu Phizo was a member of INA. Stories of patriotism of Veer Tikendrajit, Jadonang, Oja Irabat Singh and Rani Gaidinliu from Manipur and Nagaland are illuminating. There are similar sagas of the courage of freedom fighters like Darthawma Renthlei, Ropuiliani and others from Mizoram. Arunachal Pradesh's Matmur Jamoh killed a British officer and fought valiantly against the imperial forces. The spread of the freedom movement under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi, Bose and the Communists in Brahmaputra Valley and Surma Valley of undivided Assam is an important chapter in the struggle for independence. Assam's hall of martyrs includes the glorious sacrifices of Gandhians and revolutionaries like Kanaklata Barua, Kushal Konwar, Mukunda Kakati, Bhogeswari Phukanani, Ullaskar Dutta and Asit Ranjan Bhattacharya. The impact of the freedom struggle in the North East was such that the British administration declared the hill areas like Nagaland, Arunachal, Mizoram, Manipur and parts of Assam and Chittagong as 'excluded' and 'partially excluded'. The British created a colonial concept of the Bengal frontier to keep the North Eastern region away from the national mainstream, and it has remained that way since independence. Seemingly, India does not recognise itself beyond Bengal.    Although the Bezbaruah Committee in 2014 created penal provisions against anyone abusing North Easterners in racial or gender terms, mainland India is yet to accept the region as part of its mainstream. Cultural fests and exhibitions presenting insignia and symbols from the ethnic cultures of the region are a usual sight, but the complex history of the North East is yet to be appropriated as part of national history. The country needs to recognise its 'Mongoloid' face and develop a sense of ownership of it. Mainland India needs to be more sensitive to its remote North East. (The writer is Associate Professor of Philosophy, North-Eastern Hill University, Shillong)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/india-recognise-your-mongoloid-face-and-own-it-1000775.html
23-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Detection of Delta Plus variant of Covid creates anxiety in Mysuru||Even as the number of Covid-19 cases reported per day is on a decline in Mysuru district, the report that Delta Plus variant was found in a patient, who was treated earlier at KR Hospital, has created anxiety among the officials of the District Administration, healthcare professionals and also people. However, the patient was treated in the month of May and he was asymptomatic. It has to be noted that the daily reports of Covid positive cases is in three digits since June 14 in Mysuru district. With new 546 cases on Sunday (June 21), the number of active cases were 6,892. The positivity rate was still 9.95% and thus lockdown is in force up to July 5. Now the detection of the Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus has come as a big challenge. There is suspicion that the variant would have been prevalent in the month of May itself and it might have spread to other people. Dean and Director of Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute (MMC & RI) Dr C P Nanjaraj said, following the directions of the Union government samples of 40 patients were sent to the Virology Laboratory of National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Sciences (NIMHANS) in Bengaluru for tests. “Now, the authorities concerned have confirmed that one of the samples tested for the Delta Plus variant. However, the patient was discharged long back and he was asymptomatic,” he said. Delta plus variant (B.1.617.2.1 or AY.1) has been formed due to a mutation in the Delta, or B.1.617.2, variant. Delta plus has a K417N mutation, alongside the earlier Delta mutation in N501Y. Both of these two mutations could make the virus more transmissible as well as help it evade antibodies such as Casirivimab and Imdevimab, monoclonal antibody cocktails currently used for emergency Covid treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/detection-of-delta-plus-variant-of-covid-creates-anxiety-in-mysuru-1000444.html
23-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Davangere reports suspected MIS-C case||Davangere has reported suspected Multisystem Inflammatory syndrome (MIS-C) in a kid, but the district administration has not yet confirmed it. According to officials of health department, the kid is undergoing treatment in SS hi-tech hospital in the city and paediatrician Kalappanavar is providing much-needed treatment to the child. Deputy Commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi informed Women & Child Development Minister Shashikala Jolle that though the kid has such symptom, doctors have not yet confirmed it. According to paediatricians, it is a serious condition that appears to be linked to the coronavirus. Most children who become infected with the Covid-19 virus have only a mild illness. But in children who go on to develop MIS-C, some organs and tissues — such as the heart, lungs, blood vessels, kidneys, digestive system, brain, skin or eyes — become severely inflamed. Signs and symptoms depend on which areas of the body are affected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/davangere-reports-suspected-mis-c-case-1000449.html
23-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Davangere records India's second ANEC case||Davangere has reported India's second Acute Necrotizing Encephalopathy in Childhood (ANEC) case. The 13-year old boy from Huvinahadagali in Vijayanagar district, is undergoing treatment in SS Hi-tech hospital in the city and he is responding to the treatment. The first case was reported at the All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi. Speaking to DH, SS hi-tech hospital Director and pediatrician Kalappanavar, said the boy was admitted to the hospital ten days ago. The medical examination revealed that boy's brain was inactive and he was treated in ventilator for three days. There are signs of improvement and he is out of ventilator now. He requires one more week treatment. "We have to see how severely his brain is damaged. Though he is out of ventilator, he is unable to respond to verbal comments. We are hopeful that he would recover completely." Explaining it, he said ANEC is a rare brain disorder that occurs after viral infection. He was tested positive for Covid-19 and he had recovered from it. He was suffering from fever and altered sensorium. It is a medical condition characterised by the inability to think clearly or concentrate. He was screaming for no reason when he was brought to the hospital. He was diagnosed with ANEC. The boy's brain was affected by it. It is a rare type of encephalopathy, characterised by multiple bilateral brain lesions. Earlier, there was no hope of recovery. Now, the boy is responding to the treatment. Hemoglobin injection is being given to the boy based on his body weight. He said ANEC is similar to Multisystem Inflammatory syndrome (MIS-C). But brain will be affected in kids. There were six MIS-C cases in the hospital now and all are recovering from it. ANEC is very rare brain disorder found in kids.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/davangere-records-indias-second-anec-case-1000768.html
23-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka government launches first-of-its-kind war room for animal welfare||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday launched the first-of-its-kind animal welfare war room here to reach out to dairy farmers, cattle-breeders and increase the health and productivity of livestock. The war room has been set up at the Commissionerate of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services (CAHVS). An animal welfare helpline number has been set up at the CAHVS at an expense of Rs 45 lakh. The helpline, which would be available round the clock, would work to protect livestock against disease, natural disasters and human-caused harm and cruelty. The welfare helpline would receive complaints, queries or suggestions through telephone, WhatsApp, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, e-mail and publish the daily statistics on the department website. Underlining the importance of cattle, the Chief Minister said, "Animal husbandry has a huge contribution to the country's GDP." Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chavan said the war room would be a boon to the dairy farmers and cattle-breeders as it would address their concerns. According to him, the Animal Husbandry Department has taken animal welfare service to the farmers' doorstep. Chavan said the department is working hard to maintain the health of the livestock and he urged the farmers to make use of the helpline.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-government-launches-first-of-its-kind-war-room-for-animal-welfare-1000728.html
23-06-2021||Main Article||Tax system must become less iniquitous||Next month, we will celebrate 30 years of the launch of economic reforms. On June 21, 1991, P V Narasimha Rao was sworn in as India’s ninth Prime Minister, and his tenure would turn out to be historic in delivering economic reforms to modern India. A month later, on July 24, 1991, his Finance Minister, Manmohan Singh, presented his maiden and landmark Budget. Quoting Victor Hugo in Parliament, Singh said, “...no power on earth can stop an idea whose time has come. I suggest to this august House that the emergence of India as a major economic power in the world happens to be one such idea.” That Budget was revolutionary for many reasons, the foremost being the end of the ‘licence-permit Raj’. It also paved the way for opening up the economy to foreign investment. Many other reforms were indicated, and in the subsequent years, India witnessed reforms and deregulation in banking, trade and capital markets. But an equally important element of the 1991 Budget speech was a shift in the taxation stance. One newspaper editorial commented the next day that “the Budget marks a major shift in revenue raising from indirect to direct taxes and should gladden the advocates of equity." In the past 30 years, the mix of tax revenue raising for the central government has gone away from indirect taxes towards direct taxes. The ratio was 80:20 then and is now roughly 50:50. Indirect taxes, such as a consumption tax or import tariffs, are regressive and hurt the poor much more than the rich, relatively speaking. GST is an indirect tax and does not depend on the income of the payer. The tax on a soap, or toothpaste or a dosa is the same whether you are rich or poor. Hence, indirect taxes are fundamentally iniquitous and regressive. The maturity of an economy and tax administration can be measured by how large a share is that of direct taxes. The purists among tax experts say that income is earned by human beings, so the unit of taxation should be human beings, and not inanimate things, like a corporation or a bar of soap. In other words, we should be ideally only taxing income that accrues to each individual, not the price tag of an item, goods or a service. But the income of individuals is notoriously difficult to track, and human beings will not voluntarily disclose incomes fully and honestly. Hence, indirect taxation is used since it is easier to administer, and more difficult to evade. But the signs of progress are when the share of taxes collected are more from direct taxes, such as income, dividends, capital gains and inheritance. As income-tracking becomes more sophisticated, with electronic tagging of PAN numbers and tax deduction at source (TDS), it is now possible to track even dividend payments and capital gains in the stock market. That is why we recently abolished the dividend distribution tax, and now tax the dividend directly in the hands of the receiver. Technology makes it possible to shift from indirect to direct taxes. But that progress we made toward a greater share of direct taxes in the total tax kitty has received a setback. The share of direct taxes has fallen below the share of indirect taxes in the fiscal year ending March 2021. This is only the second time it has happened in the past 13 years. And if this trend continues, it means losing the progress we have made in making our tax system less iniquitous. One of the main culprits for the rise in indirect taxes is the huge increase in excise on petrol and diesel, both by Centre and the states. This is a trend not just of the last year, but over a longer period. The excise collection on petrol and diesel by the Centre since 2014-15 has nearly doubled from Rs 1.7 lakh crore to Rs 3.4 lakh crore in recent years. For the states, too, it has gone up by nearly 40% in the past five years. The excise tax collected on petro products now accounts for one fifth of all gross tax revenue. It was only 11% in the previous fiscal year, and just 8% in 2015. Ironically, the consumption of petrol and diesel was down by 10% during 2020-21, thanks to the lockdown. But excise collection went up hugely by 63% to nearly Rs 3.9 lakh crore by the Centre alone, since excise rates in rupee terms were increased both for diesel and petrol. The increased fuel cost will spill over into the general cost of transport and logistics, and may soon affect prices of fruits, vegetables, cement, steel, fertilisers and many other items, leading to consumer inflation. Since the price of crude oil internationally has risen by 45% over the previous nine months, that too is causing petrol and diesel to become dearer. Excise on fuels and GST aggravate the problem of a skewed tax mix and of iniquity. But we must also remember that India has one of the lowest tax-to-GDP ratios as compared to its peers. The average for OECD is 34%, whereas for India, the Centre’s tax collection is barely 10% of GDP. For 2019-20, it slipped to a 10-year low of 9.88%. That was because of the reduction in corporate tax rates to 25% in September 2019. It is imperative to firstly expand the GST net to a much greater share of the economy. It barely covers one third of the GDP. The base rate must be brought down to 15%, if not 12%, And the share of direct taxes must go up. This includes all forms of income. We have huge unrealised capital gains sitting in the exuberant stock markets. The booming stock market represents a further worsening of the wealth inequality. But how does one tax unrealised gains? This is a challenge for taxation policy. But surely, it is possible to reverse the ominous trend, a trend that has allowed the share of indirect taxes to overtake the share of direct taxes. We need efficiency as well as equity, i.e., a higher tax-to-GDP ratio, with a mix that is definitely aimed more toward collecting direct taxes. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution)(Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/tax-system-must-become-less-iniquitous-1000460.html
23-06-2021||Main Article||Lacunae in anti-defection law||The anti-defection law was enacted to eliminate political defections. Crossing the floor by legislators looking for greener pastures had created political instability in many states. Governments were toppled with the help of defectors, and governments were formed with their help, sometimes only to be brought down by the same defectors moving out in search of still better opportunities! This display of the extraordinary mobility of legislators had made Indian democracy a laughing stock in the world. So, in 1985, the Rajiv Gandhi government brought in the anti-defection law to curb this unseemly practice. Thirty-six years later, defections continue. There are examples of the entire legislature group of a party and its leader defecting to another party, which becomes the ruling party overnight. Retail defections have been taking place in the state Assemblies and even in Parliament. But wholesale defections, where an entire unit of a national party defects, are a new trend. The law on defection contained in the 10th Schedule of the Constitution disqualifies a member of the legislature if he voluntarily gives up his party's membership or votes in the House contrary to the direction of his party. The direction issued by a party to its members is called a whip, which members need to obey. However, whether one has given up party membership voluntarily or not is tricky since it has to be determined based on the facts and circumstances of each case. In Jagjit Singh v. State of Haryana (2006) and Rajendra Singh Rana v. Swami Prasad Maurya (2007), the Supreme Court held that the voluntary nature, or otherwise, of one’s giving up of party membership is to be decided based on the conduct of the legislator. Voting against the whip of a party is a straightforward case that does not require much interpretation. It can be decided based on the evidence of recorded votes. But most cases that have come up for the decision of the Speakers come under the 'voluntarily giving up' category. Decisions on this category of cases have given rise to many controversies. An analysis of the administration of the law on defection reveals many lacunae. The Speaker/Chairman is the tribunal that decides the issue of disqualification. The complaint is that they are not impartial and invariably take decisions to suit their party's interest. The Speaker's impartiality was raised as an issue in the Kihoto Hollohan case in the Supreme Court, where the constitutionality of the anti-defection law was challenged. The Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court had expressed great confidence in the impartiality of the Speaker, who is a high constitutional authority. The political class is also vehemently opposed to handing over the adjudication of defection to any other authority. A severe problem in anti-defection cases is the abnormal delay in their adjudication. The 10th Schedule does not fix any timeframe within which to determine a disqualification case. This is a defect that some Speakers have very successfully exploited. For years, no decision is taken, and the defectors continue to enjoy the fruits of defection. Finally, the Supreme Court has now fixed a timeframe of three months within which the Speaker is required to dispose of the case (Keisham Megha Chandra Singh v. Speaker, Manipur Legislative Assembly, Supreme Court, 2020). With this decision, it is hoped that deliberate delays in the disposal of disqualification cases will stop. Another problem is the misinterpretation of the term 'merger', used in para 4 of the 10th Schedule. All the defectors who claimed protection under this, and their benefactors, have invariably misinterpreted it to their benefit. This para says that a defector can plead a merger of his political party with another party to defend against the charge of defection. However, a merger can be pleaded only when the original political party merges with another party and not less than two-thirds of the legislature party members have agreed to such a merger. Interestingly, the defecting members often take the plea that if two-thirds of the legislature party members merge with another party, then the merger is complete. Para 4 makes it abundantly clear that the merger has to occur first between the original political party of the defectors and another party. The legislature party members can only agree to the merger of their original political party. This would mean that unless the original political party merges with another party, there can be no merger under para 4 of the 10th Schedule. Further, if the original political party is a national party, then the decision to merge has to be taken by the national party. Its state unit has no authority to decide on the merger. The Supreme Court has clarified this point in Jagjit Singh's case. Several legislators have defected during the past five years, mistakenly believing that theirs is a valid merger. They are safe only so long as the presiding officers delay their decisions. Another lacuna is that the law does not disqualify a defector from contesting election during the remainder of the term of the House. So, a defector can come back to the same House within six months. A defection is politically an immoral act. A person elected by the people because of his ideology or public stand on issues or his commitment to certain causes leaves all that and joins another party making a mockery of the people's choice. He should face certain punishment. The best punishment would be disqualification from contesting again during the term of that House. This may act as a deterrent against defection. But the defection of legislators reflects a more profound affliction of Indian politics. The sight of legislators being transported like cattle to a friendly state and put up in luxury hotels under surveillance whenever there is a political crisis in a state shows the fragility of political loyalty of our politicians. Political parties have no moral framework. So, they will always try to circumvent legislative restrictions on them. In the circumstances, what is the future of the anti-defection law is anybody's guess. (The writer is a former Secretary General of the Lok Sabha)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/lacunae-in-anti-defection-law-1000777.html
23-06-2021||Mysuru||Person infected with Delta Plus Covid-19 variant recovered last month: Mysuru DC||Mysureans heaved a sigh of relief as the Deputy Commissioner informed that a person, who was infected with a ‘Delta Plus’ variant of Covid-19, had recovered last month. Deputy Commissioner Dr Bagadi Gautham said the person has recovered and he is healthy now. Assuring that the district administration and the Health Department are taking all the possible measures, Gautham asked the people not to panic in this regard. District Health Officer Dr K H Prasad said a sample of the person was collected on May 4 and he recovered last month itself. The person and his family members are healthy. The people of Mysuru need not worry about the new variant. The DHO denied revealing additional details of the infected. The DHO said the process of identifying the primary and secondary contacts of the infected person is on and samples will be sent to Bengaluru for sequencing, DHO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/person-infected-with-delta-plus-covid-19-variant-recovered-last-month-mysuru-dc-1000763.html
23-06-2021||National||Eastern Ladakh row: India, China likely to hold another round of diplomatic talks this week||India and China are likely to hold another round of diplomatic talks this week on eastern Ladakh with a focus on moving forward in disengagement of troops in the remaining friction points, people familiar with the development said on Tuesday. They said the talks under the framework of Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC) are expected to focus on broad principles to bring down tensions between the militaries of the two countries in eastern Ladakh. The talks may take place on June 24, said one of the people cited above. The last round of WMCC talks took place on March 12. It is learnt that another round of Corps Commander-level talks will be held following the diplomatic dialogue. India and China were locked in a military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year. However, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. India has been particularly pressing for the disengagement of troops in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. According to military officials, each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control in the sensitive sector. There was no visible forward movement in disengagement of troops in the remaining friction points as the Chinese side did not show flexibility in their approach on it at the 11th round of military talks. Last month, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane said that there can be no de-escalation without complete disengagement at all friction points in eastern Ladakh and that the Indian Army is prepared for all contingencies in the region. Gen Naravane also said that India is dealing with China in a "firm" and "non-escalatory" manner to ensure the sanctity of its claims in eastern Ladakh, and that it was even open to initiating confidence-building measures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eastern-ladakh-row-india-china-likely-to-hold-another-round-of-diplomatic-talks-this-week-1000438.html
23-06-2021||National||DH Toon | A third front laid to rest?||A meeting of opposition leaders from many anti-BJP parties, all except the Left being regional forces, hosted by the veteran leader and NCP president Sharad Pawar on Tuesday is being seen by political pundits as a beginning of an exercise by them to join forces to put up a more cohesive challenge to the saffron party. The meeting participants were, however, at pains to downplay its political import, more so as such attempts of unity among regional parties have often come unstuck, and projected it as an interaction among "like-minded people" under the aegis of Yashwant Singh's Rashtra Manch, an apolitical grouping with distinct anti-BJP views. However, no one can overlook the fact that it was hosted by Pawar at his residence and comes close on the heels of the astute politician's recent meetings with political strategist Prashant Kishor, including one just a day before, political watchers feel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-a-third-front-laid-to-rest-1000455.html
23-06-2021||National||Speak Out: June 23, 2021||A meeting of opposition leaders from many anti-BJP parties, all except the Left being regional forces, hosted by the veteran leader and NCP president Sharad Pawar on Tuesday is being seen by political pundits as a beginning of an exercise by them to join forces to put up a more cohesive challenge to the saffron party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/speak-out-june-23-2021-1000458.html
23-06-2021||National||No conclusive evidence on Mehul Choksi's abduction: Antigua & Barbuda PM||Antigua and Barbuda Prime Minister Gaston Browne has said he is not aware of "any conclusive evidence" but there is information in public domain that diamantaire Mehul Choksi was abducted and law enforcement agencies may be having some "persons of interest" after their research. Choksi, wanted in Rs 13,500 crore bank fraud case in India, had mysteriously gone missing on May 23 from Antigua and Barbuda where he has been staying since 2018 as a citizen. Browne was responding to questions of opposition MP in the Parliament there who asked him whether the Scotland Yard or any other investigative body found any evidence that Choksi was taken to Dominica by "involuntary means". "Mr Speaker, I am not aware of evidence but this information is in public domain that Mehul Choksi was abducted. And, I am aware that law enforcement here would have done some research and perhaps may have some individuals of interest but as far as evidence is concerned I am not aware that there is any such conclusive evidence," Browne said, according to a clip of Parliamentary proceedings shared by media outlet Antigua News Room. He also replied in the negative when asked if the Scotland Yard or any other agency has contacted his government about the alleged abduction of Choksi. Choksi was detained in neighbouring island country of Dominica for illegal entry after a possible romantic escapade with his rumoured girlfriend. His lawyers alleged that he was abducted from Jolly Harbour in Antigua on May 23 by policemen looking like Antiguan and Indian and brought to Dominica on a boat. Legal team of fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi in London had approached the Metropolitan Police under the "universal jurisdiction" provision to investigate his alleged kidnapping from Antigua and Barbuda to neighbouring Dominica. His lawyer Michael Polak had said Choksi was removed from Antigua and Barbuda, where as a citizen he enjoys rights to approach the British Privy Council as last resort in cases on his citizenship and extradition, to Dominica where these rights are not available to him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-conclusive-evidence-on-mehul-choksis-abduction-antigua-barbuda-pm-1000464.html
23-06-2021||National||India's daily Covid cases above 50K; total tally of infections crosses 3 cr||India's total tally of Covid-19 cases crossed the three crore mark with one crore infections being added in 50 days. The total tally mounted to 3,00,28,709 with 50,848 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 3,90,660 with 1,358 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. India' total Covid-19 infections had surpassed the one crore mark on December 19 after which it took around 136 days to cross the two crore mark on May 4. According to the data published at 7 am, India administered 54.24 lakh vaccine doses in the last 24 hours taking the cumulative doses to 29.46 crore The active cases further declined to 6,43,194 comprising 2.14 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.56 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed.    A net decline of 19,327 cases has been recorded in the Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 19,01,056 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 39,59,73,198. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.67 per cent . It has been less than five per cent for 16 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 3.12 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 41st consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,89,94,855, while the case fatality rate  stands at 1.30 per cent, the data stated.    India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh  on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on  November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 1,358 new fatalities include 482 from Maharashtra, 194 from Tamil Nadu, 141 from Kerala  and 139 from  Karnataka. A total of 3,90,660 deaths have been reported so far in the country including  1,18,795 from Maharashtra, 34,164 from Karnataka, 31,580 from Tamil Nadu, 24,933 from Delhi, 22,282 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,437 from West Bengal, 15,888 from Punjab and 13,402 from Chhattisgarh. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-daily-covid-cases-above-50k-total-tally-of-infections-crosses-3-cr-1000517.html
23-06-2021||National||India proud of its Olympians' contributions to sports: PM Modi||On the occasion of Olympic Day on Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India is proud of the contributions made to sports by athletes who have represented the country at the Olympics over the years. He also offered his best wishes to the Indian contingent for the Tokyo Olympics that will begin on July 23 and noted that it consists of the country's finest athletes. Olympic Day is a global celebration of the founding of the International Olympic Committee and the modern Olympic movement, encouraging participation in sports. In a tweet, Modi said, "Today, on Olympic Day, I appreciate all those who have represented India in various Olympics over the years. Our nation is proud of their contributions to sports and their efforts towards motivating other athletes." "In a few weeks, @Tokyo2020 begins. Wishing the very best to our contingent, which consists of our finest athletes. In the run-up to the games, here is an interesting quiz on MyGov. I urge you all, specially my young friends to take part," he said in another tweet, sharing a link to the quiz. Today, on Olympic Day, I appreciate all those who have represented India in various Olympics over the years. Our nation is proud of their contributions to sports and their efforts towards motivating other athletes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-proud-of-its-olympians-contributions-to-sports-pm-modi-1000524.html
23-06-2021||National||PM Modi, other BJP leaders pay tributes to Mookerjee on death anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi led BJP leaders on Wednesday in paying tributes to party ideologue Syama Prasad Mookerjee, who founded its progenitor Jana Sangh, on his 68th death anniversary. "Remembering Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee on his Punya Tithi. His noble ideals, rich thoughts and commitment to serve people will continue to inspire us. His efforts towards national integration will never be forgotten," Modi tweeted. Remembering Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee on his Punya Tithi. His noble ideals, rich thoughts and commitment to serve people will continue to inspire us. His efforts towards national integration will never be forgotten. Home Minister Amit Shah said Mookerjee sacrificed himself to safeguard India's identity and integrity, and saved the country from another division. His sacrifice, dedication and ideals will guide the coming generations, he said, adding that Mookerjee was an architect of cultural nationalism who favoured making mother tongue the medium of education. He founded Jana Sangh not due to greed for power but for national reconstruction, Shah said. Paying tributes, BJP president J P Nadda said Mookerjee dedicated his life to the country's unity and integrity while living for cultural nationalism. Mookerjee was a strident critic of the special status granted to Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 by the then Congress government and was arrested after he entered the state to protest the requirement for a permit to do so. He died under detention. While the government then said his death was due to health reasons, Jana Sangh and later the BJP have often questioned the claim. Revocation of Article 370 had been a foundational credo of the BJP, and the Modi government fulfilled it in 2019 after coming to power for a second term.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-other-bjp-leaders-pay-tributes-to-mookerjee-on-death-anniversary-1000530.html
23-06-2021||National||India reports 40 cases of Delta Plus Covid-19 variant||India has reported 40 cases of the Delta Plus coronavirus variant. Most of these cases have originated from Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. It is still a variant of interest, reports news agency ANI quoting sources. Earlier, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare issued an advisory on the variant and termed it a variant of concern. It also said that 3 State Chief Secretaries were advised to take up immediate containment measures in identified districts and clusters. 3 State Chief Secretaries advised to take up immediate containment measures in identified districts & clusters, including: Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-40-cases-of-delta-plus-covid-19-variant-1000533.html
23-06-2021||National||Heartening to note 3 out of 5 people vaccinated on June 21 were from rural areas: VP Naidu||According to the government, of the record 88.09 lakh vaccine doses administered on June 21, when the revised guidelines for Covid-19 vaccination came into effect, nearly 64 per cent of the jabs were given in rural areas. "It is heartening to note that 3/5 persons vaccinated in the stepped-up drive on Monday were from rural areas, where the majority of population resides. My compliments to the Centre and various states for working in a coordinated manner in a truly 'Team India' spirit," the Vice President Secretariat quoted Naidu as saying in a tweet on Wednesday. States that have done extremely well must share their best practices with others to achieve optimal results.I also urge people to proactively come forward & get themselves vaccinated. States that have done extremely well must share their best practices with others to achieve optimal results, he said. "I also urge people to proactively come forward and get themselves vaccinated," he added. As of Tuesday, India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage had crossed the 29-crore mark, according to the Union health ministry. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heartening-to-note-3-out-of-5-people-vaccinated-on-june-21-were-from-rural-areas-vp-naidu-1000545.html
23-06-2021||National||ED seizes Rs 18,170 cr assets of Mallya, Nirav Modi, Choksi; transfers Rs 9,041.5 cr to PSBs||Around 38 per cent or Rs 9041.5 crore of the Rs 22,585.83 crore defrauded by millionaires Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi has been returned to banks via sale of shares seized by the Enforcement Directorate under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The Debts Recovery Tribunal (DRT), on behalf of an SBI-led consortium that lent money to Mallya, on Wednesday sold shares worth over Rs 5,800 crore of United Breweries Limited (UBL) that were earlier attached by the agency under provisions of the PMLA, , the Enforcement Directorate said on Wednesday. Of the Rs 22,585.83 crore siphoned off from the public sector banks by the trio in separate cases, the ED has so far attached assets worth Rs 18,170.02 crore or 80.45 per cent of the total scam after "unearthing myriad web of domestic and international transactions and stashing of assets abroad". The investigation by the ED has proved that substantial part of these assets were held in the names of dummy entities, trusts, third persons, relatives of accused and these entities were proxies to hold these assets, the ED said in a statement. The seized assets also include those worth Rs 969 crore located in foreign countries. According to the ED, it has already transferred shares attached by it worth around Rs 6,600 crore to SBI-led consortium as per order of PMLA Special Court in Mumbai. Of this, the DRT sold shares of United Breweries Limited. "Further realisation of Rs 800 crore by sale of shares is expected by June...Due to the cooperation and help extended by ED, Public Sector Banks have already recovered Rs 1,357 crore by selling the shares earlier. Thus, the banks shall be realising a total amount of Rs 9041.5 crore through sale of a part of assets attached/seized by ED under the provisions of PMLA," the statement said. Mallya, declared as a fugitive economic offender, is wanted in connection with the loan fraud involving Kingfisher Airlines. The extradition of Vijay Mallya has been ordered by the Westminster Magistrates Court and confirmed by the UK High Court. The Westminster Magistrates Court has also ordered the extradition of Nirav, who was also declared a fugitive economic offender, to India. He has been in London Jail for the last two years and three months on the basis of an extradition request by India. India is also trying to get Choksi, who has taken the citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda, deported from Domincan Republic where he is currently in custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-seizes-rs-18170-cr-assets-of-mallya-nirav-modi-choksi-transfers-rs-90415-cr-to-psbs-1000552.html
23-06-2021||National||Delhi High Court refuses to stay CCI notice to Facebook, WhatsApp in privacy policy matter||The Delhi High Court has refused to stay a notice issued by the Competition Commission of India, asking Facebook's owned WhatsApp to furnish certain information in relation to the probe being ordered in March on the instant messaging app's new updated privacy policy. A vacation bench of Justices Anup J Bhambhani and Jasmeet Singh noted that Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi has "fairly" stated that the issuance of notice on June 4 was perfectly in line with the procedure contemplated under the statute for taking forward an ongoing investigation. "The notice has not been stayed by the division bench, and it would take substantial time for preparation of a report pursuant to the receipt of the information called-for by way of the impugned notice; which report would thereafter be forwarded to the Competition Commission of India," it said.  Lekhi also submitted that preparation of the report would not be completed at least before the next date of hearing before the regular bench on July 9. The court said since the investigation against the appellant was under judicial consideration before a division bench, the matter would be taken by the regular bench. While reserving its order, the court had said that it would not like to go into the merits of the case as the regular bench led by the Chief Justice was scheduled to hear the main petitions on July 9.  Facebook and WhatsApp challenged a single judge's April order dismissing their pleas against the CCI probe.  The CCI had on March 24 ordered a probe into the updated privacy policy of WhatsApp for breaching the antitrust law. “CCI is of prima facie opinion that the ‘take-it-or-leave-it’ nature of privacy policy and terms of service of WhatsApp and the information-sharing stipulations mentioned therein, merit a detailed investigation in view of the market position and market power enjoyed by WhatsApp,” the CCI order stated. The CCI in January had on its own decided to look into WhatsApp's new privacy policy on the basis of news reports. Facebook and WhatsApp in their fresh applications on Monday urged the High Court to put on hold the CCI’s June 4 notice asking them to furnish certain information requiring during the probe ordered by it into the instant messaging app's new privacy policy. Senior counsel Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for WhatsApp and Facebook, respectively, had then requested the bench to stay the June notice on the grounds that the last date to respond was on Monday itself.   Salve argued that the instant messaging services’ privacy policy was already under challenge in the Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court and the anti-trust regulator should not have intervened in the issue. Besides, the government was also looking into it, they contended. They also claimed the CCI's decision was an abuse of its suo motu jurisdiction. The Commission had drifted far away from the competition issue and was looking into privacy issues which were already before the apex court and the Delhi High Court, they submitted. Additional Solicitor Generals Aman Lekhi and Balbir Singh, representing CCI, opposed any stay, saying no threat was looming over the head of WhatsApp till the report on the inquiry was submitted with the competition watchdog.  "The whole process of investigations is a lengthy process and the Director General after investigations will have to submit its report to CCI and this furnishing of information will not precipitate any action against them," they added. Singh also said that since there was a statutory order against Facebook and WhatsApp, they should not use the High Court’s order to argue that they will not furnish the information sought by CCI at this stage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-high-court-refuses-to-stay-cci-notice-to-facebook-whatsapp-in-privacy-policy-matter-1000561.html
23-06-2021||National||No vaccine, no salary: Ujjain collector tells government staff||In a bid to achieve the target of 100 per cent vaccination against Covid-19, the Ujjain district administration in Madhya Pradesh has issued an order saying government employees will not get their salaries from next month if they are not inoculated. District Collector Ashish Singh issued an order to this effect on Tuesday. The order said salaries of government employees will not be disbursed, if they fail to get vaccinated till July 31. The salaries of employees for July will be disbursed only after producing the vaccination certificate, a district official said. "We are making all possible efforts to achieve the target of cent per cent vaccination in the district. Several steps have been taken in this direction," Singh told PTI on Wednesday while confirming the order. The order also said the district treasury officer has been directed to collect vaccination certificates along with the disbursement of salaries for June, and compile the information about the inoculation of government employees against the coronavirus infection. Heads of various departments in the district were also directed to submit information about vaccination among the daily wage and contractual employees. As per the order, during the review of deaths of government employees due to Covid-19 in the district, it was found they were not vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-vaccine-no-salary-ujjain-collector-tells-government-staff-1000566.html
23-06-2021||National||Education important for youth to face challenges: Gangwar||Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar on Wednesday acknowledged the importance of education system and the labour market to prepare our young generation to face the upcoming challenges of the world of work. Gangwar was addressing the G20 Labour and Employment Ministers’ Meeting on Joint Education and Labour & Employment Ministers’ Declaration here on Wednesday, a labour ministry statement said. The meeting was held under the Italian presidency. While supporting the adoption of the Joint Ministerial Declaration, the Minister emphasised that such an initiative by the member countries shall be very helpful for the overall development and capacity building of the entire young generation, which is rapidly evolving and has now become more challenging due to the pandemic. "India is strengthening its educational and skilling efforts to ensure quality education from pre-school to senior secondary stage. New National Education Policy, 2020 in India, also aims for reforms in school and higher education systems," he stated. He also informed that the government has taken several initiatives for capacity building and skilling of our youth and for employment generation. The National Skill Development Mission is resulting in convergence of skilling efforts across all sectors. The Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana, enables the youth to take up industry related skill training to assist them in securing better opportunities. For employment generation in the country, the government is paying up to 24 per cent of wages towards EPF contributions under the Aatma-Nirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana for new employees as well as those who lost their jobs in the pandemic and are being re-employed. Gangwar also stated that the government is sustaining employment and livelihoods by way of its various schemes of employment generation and social security benefits through Employees' State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) and expansion of ESIC coverage. He also informed that India has provided new definitions for Gig and Platform workers for providing them social security and also to the workers in the unorganised sector. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/education-important-for-youth-to-face-challenges-gangwar-1000567.html
23-06-2021||National||No I-T scrutiny on cash deposits up to Rs 2.5 lakh by housewives post Demo: ITAT||Cash deposits of up to Rs 2.5 lakh by housewives post demonetisation will not come under I-T scrutiny as the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) has held that such deposits cannot be treated as income of the assessee. Ruling on an appeal filed by an individual, the Agra bench of ITAT said the order would act as a precedent for all similar cases. The appellant, a housewife Uma Agrawal of Gwalior, had declared total income of Rs 1,30,810 in her income tax return filed for fiscal 2016-17. However, post demonetisation, the assessee deposited the Rs 2,11,500 cash in her bank account. The case was selected for scrutiny assessment, during which the assessee was asked to explain the cash deposit of over Rs 2.11 lakh. The assessee had explained that she had collected/saved the above sum from her previous saving, given by her husband, son, relatives for herself and her family. The CIT (Appeals) did not accept the explanation and confirmed the Assessing officer's order treating the cash deposit of Rs 2,11,500 as unexplained money. Following this, the appellant approached the ITAT. The Tribunal, after going through all the facts and arguments, said "we are of the opinion that the amount deposited by the assessee during the demonetisation cannot be treated as income of the assessee. Hence the appeal of the assessee is allowed." Observing that housewife's contribution in the family is "immeasurable", the Tribunal said quoting an order by the Supreme Court, which mentioned that, in India, nearly 159.85 million women stated that 'household work' was their main occupation compared to only 5.79 million men, as per 2011 Census. "Women all over the country, had been accumulating cash that they had saved for themselves from household budgets, by haggling with vegetable sellers, tailors, grocers and assorted traders... "Years of stashing in whatever little cash gifts they received from relatives during festival times and years of tucking away the change they found in the pants that they washed every day, however, suddenly they were left with no option but to deposit the amount in the denomination of Rs 500 and Rs 1000 notes in the banks on account of Demonetisation scheme 2016, (as) these notes were no more legal tenders," the tribunal added. Exempting women who deposited less than Rs 2.50 lakh during the demonetisation period, the ITAT said "we may clarify that this decision may be treated as precedent in respect to proceedings arising out of the cash deposit made by the housewives during the demonetisation scheme 2016, only up to the limit of Rs 2.5 lakhs only." Usually, ITAT ruling is binding on the applicant and the jurisdiction tax officer and is used as reference in similar matters. Post demonetisation in November 2016, the income tax department had in 2017 said no questions will be asked about cash deposits of up to Rs 2.5 lakh and only those accounts will be probed that do not match the tax returns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-i-t-scrutiny-on-cash-deposits-up-to-rs-25-lakh-by-housewives-post-demo-itat-1000591.html
23-06-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Concerns over Delta Plus variant keep health officials on their toes||Even as India is witnessing a sharp decline in new Covid-19 cases and deaths with the ebbing of the second wave, concerns around a new 'highly transmissible' Delta Plus variant of SARS-CoV-2 have put health department officials on alert.   This not only includes the K417N mutation in the spike protein which scientists have found to be resistant to the monoclonal antibody treatment, but also another mutation which was widely recorded in Europe last year. Known as A222V, this mutation was present in the 20A.EU1 variant, which dominated Europe last autumn. India's total Covid-19 infections had surpassed the one crore mark on December 19 after which it took around 136 days to cross the two crore mark on May 4. Meanwhile, Moody's Investors Service on Wednesday slashed India's growth projection to 9.6 per cent for 2021 calendar year, from its earlier estimate of 13.9 per cent, and said faster vaccination progress will be paramount in restricting economic losses to the June quarter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-concerns-over-delta-plus-variant-keep-health-officials-on-their-toes-1000595.html
23-06-2021||National||NCB arrests Dawood Ibrahim's brother Iqbal Kaskar in drugs case||Notorious underworld don and global terrorist Dawood Ibrahim’s younger brother Iqbal Kaskar was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday. Kaskar’s name cropped up during the investigations of recent seizures of contraband by the federal anti-narcotics agency. Kaskar is accused of running the operations of Dawood Ibrahim in Mumbai for the past couple of decades. The NCB has found Kaskar's involvement in connection with the seizure of 15 kg of hashish. It may be recalled that Kaskar was deported from the UAE in 2003 along with underworld gangster Ejaz Patha, the latter was recently sentenced to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment by a TADA court in 1993 Mumbai serial blasts case (he died while undergoing sentence). Kaskar was booked for the murder of a Customs Department informer. He was also accused in the Sara-Sahara case - an illegal shopping complex that came up in Crawford Market, very near to the Mumbai police headquarters. He was booked under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) but was acquitted in both cases. In February 2015, he was arrested by the Anti-Extortion Cell of the Thane police in a case of extortion – and he had been lodged in the jail in that case as an undertrial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncb-arrests-dawood-ibrahims-brother-iqbal-kaskar-in-drugs-case-1000605.html
23-06-2021||National||India pushing for comprehensive ceasefire in Afghanistan amid reports of its contact withTaliban||India is pushing for a comprehensive ceasefire in Afghanistan amid a massive spike in violence in that country and reports of its contact with the Taliban for the first time in the backdrop of a renewed push for the Afghan peace process. The reports of India reaching out to the Taliban emerged as the US looked to complete the withdrawal of its forces from Afghanistan by September 11, ending a nearly two-decade of its military presence in the war-ravaged country. In the midst of fast-paced developments relating to the Afghan peace process, a senior Qatari diplomat said at a webinar organised by the Arab Center in Washington DC on Monday that he believed the Indian side was engaging with the Taliban as the group could be a key component in the future of Afghanistan. The Taliban and the Afghan government are holding direct talks in the Qatari capital city Doha to end 19 years of war that has killed tens of thousands of people and ravaged various parts of the country. Qatar has been playing a role in the Afghan peace process. "I understand that there has been a quiet visit by Indian officials...to speak with the Talibans. Why? Because not everybody is believing that the Taliban will dominate and take over, because Taliban is a key component of, or should be or is going to be a key component of the future of Afghanistan," said Mutlaq bin Majed al-Qahtani, Qatar's envoy for counter-terrorism and conflict resolution. He made the remarks while replying to a question during a discussion on the theme "Looking towards peace in Afghanistan after the US-NATO withdrawal." "I see the reason behind having a dialogue or talks or reaching out to all parties in Afghanistan but it is important to keep in mind that we are in a critical stage at this time, and I think if any meeting is going to take place, it should be for a major or main reason, which is to encourage the parties to solve their differences by peaceful means," al-Qahtani said. There was no official reaction to the comments by the senior Qatari diplomat. Indian officials said India is concerned over the spike in violence in Afghanistan and has been strongly pressing for a comprehensive ceasefire to take forward the peace process. Recently, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar made two stop-overs in Doha during his visits to Kuwait and Kenya. In his talks with senior Qatari leaders in Doha, the issue of Afghanistan was discussed as the Gulf country is involved in the Afghan peace process. Jaishankar also held talks on the issue with US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad in the Qatari capital. Earlier this month, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said that India is in touch with various stakeholders in Afghanistan in pursuance of its long-term commitment towards peace, development and reconstruction of that country. His response had come when asked about a media report that said India reached out to certain Taliban factions that are perceived to be outside the sphere of influence of Pakistan and Iran. Last week, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said that the Taliban's relentless pursuit of power through violence has created an uncertain environment in Afghanistan and the situation in the country is "fluid" at this point in time. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested close to USD three billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process which is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. In March, Afghan foreign minister Mohammad Haneef Atmar visited India during which Jaishankar conveyed to him India's long-term commitment towards a peaceful, sovereign and stable Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pushing-for-comprehensive-ceasefire-in-afghanistan-amid-reports-of-its-contact-withtaliban-1000607.html
23-06-2021||National||Gujarat: Hospital HR manager, supervisor held for seeking sexual favours from woman attendant||An HR manager and a supervisor of a government hospital in Gujarat's Jamnagar city were arrested on Wednesday for allegedly making advances and demanding sexual favours from a woman attendant of the facility, police said. An FIR was registered against the duo following a complaint lodged by a woman attendant, Assistant Superintendent of Police Nitesh Pandey said. A week ago, some contractual women attendants of the hospital had complained of sexual harassment by some of their superiors following which Chief Minister Vijay Rupani ordered a probe into their allegations. "We arrested the hospital's HR (human resources) manager and the supervisor after their names were disclosed in the FIR, which was registered at Jamnagar 'B' division police station on Tuesday. Further probe into the case is underway," Pandey said. The duo has been booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 354 (use of criminal force to outrage a woman's modesty, 354-A (demanding sexual favours), 354-B (use of criminal force to disrobe a woman) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman), the official said. On June 16, some contractual women attendants employed at the hospital alleged that their supervisors had removed them from service for rejecting their "sexual advances". One of the women attendants had told reporters that the supervisors would send "offers of friendship" through ward boys, and those who rejected such advances were sacked without being paid any salary for around three months. Following the allegations, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani had ordered an inquiry into the charges through a three-member committee, comprising a sub-divisional magistrate, Jamnagar's assistant superintendent of police and dean of the Jamnagar medical college. The Gujarat State Commission for Women had also asked the district superintendent of police to submit within three days a detailed report about these allegations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-hospital-hr-manager-supervisor-held-for-seeking-sexual-favours-from-woman-attendant-1000619.html
23-06-2021||National||States, UTs allocated additional 61,120 vials of Amphotericin-B: Sadananda Gowda||An additional 61,120 vials of Amphotericin-B have been allocated to states, Union Territories and central institutions, Union Minister Sadananda Gowda said on Wednesday. Amphotericin-B is used to treat mucormycosis, also known as 'black fungus', which damages the nose, eyes, sinuses, and sometimes even the brain. "Additional 61,120 vials of #LiposomalAmphotericinB have been allocated to all States/UTs & Central Institutions today," the Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers said in a tweet. So far, around 7.9 lakh vials have been allocated across the country, maintaining adequate availability to patients of mucormycosis, he added. Mucormycosis affects the sinuses, brain and lungs, and can be life-threatening in diabetic or severely immuno-compromised individuals such as cancer patients or people with HIV/AIDS. Doctors in India are documenting an alarming number of cases of mucormycosis among patients with Covid-19 and those who have recently recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-uts-allocated-additional-61120-vials-of-amphotericin-b-sadananda-gowda-1000620.html
23-06-2021||National||Singaporean national gets 4-week jail term for making racial comments against Indian-origin woman||A 40-year-old Singaporean woman on Wednesday was sentenced to four weeks of imprisonment for making racial comments against another woman of Indian descent while they were both travelling in a bus, according to media reports. The incident occurred on September 3 last year. Siti Ai’sha Jaffar called the 33-year-old victim a “stupid Indian” during her tirade, which the court heard was unprovoked, The Straits Times reported. According to court documents quoted by the Channel News Asia, the victim was listening to music on her earpiece, when she observed that Siti Ai’sha was staring and pointing at her “multiple times”. "The victim then switched off her music and heard the accused shouting remarks towards her, calling her an Indian with dark skin," it said. The victim took out her mobile phone and recorded the incident "discreetly", the report said. In the two clips played in court, Siti Ai'sha can be seen gesturing and shouting at the woman, calling her a "minority". In the video clips, she was heard saying to the victim, "You and your black magic face". "Your heart is also black... everything is black." Siti Ai’sha also told the victim, who is a Singaporean national, that “your native country is India, not Singapore” and added that she should go back there. "Stupid Indians...you are an Indian, so black... I hate your skin... I don't like your face." While pronouncing his judgement, District Judge Tan Jen Tse said Siti Ai’sha's offence was “serious”. “Your tirade was prolonged and occurred in a public place,” the judge said, adding that such offences where people abuse others racially cannot be condoned in society. For her offence, Siti Ai’sha could have been jailed for up to three years, fined or both.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/singaporean-national-gets-4-week-jail-term-for-making-racial-comments-against-indian-origin-woman-1000629.html
23-06-2021||National||Cabinet approves extension of PMGKAY for five months till November||The Cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal to extend the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) to provide free ration to over 80 crore people, mostly poor, by five more months till November-end. The PMGKAY was reintroduced for two months till June this year in order to minimise the economic hardships being faced by the poor PDS (public distribution system) beneficiaries during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Early this month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi while addressing the nation had announced that the Centre's free food programme PMGKAY will be extended for five months till Diwali. The same proposal was approved in the Cabinet meeting, chaired by Modi, on Wednesday. "The Union Cabinet has approved the allocation of additional foodgrain under PMGKAY (Phase IV) – for another period of five months i.e. July to November 2021...," said an official statement. The free supply of grains will ameliorate the hardships faced by the poor due to economic disruption caused by the coronavirus, it added. No poor family will suffer on account of the non-availability of foodgrains due to disruption in the next five months, the statement said. Five-kilo foodgrains per person per month is provided free of cost under the PMGKAY to 81.35 crore beneficiaries covered under National Food Security Act (NFSA), it noted. This is over and above distribution of highly monthly subsidised foodgrains of 5 kg per person given at Rs 1-3 per kg via ration shops to poor beneficiaries covered under the NFSA. The government said the sanction of additional food grains under the PMGKAY for five more months would entail an estimated food subsidy of Rs 64,031 crore. As the central government is bearing the entire expenditure towards this scheme without any contribution by states, an additional expenditure of about Rs 3,234.85 crore would be required to be met towards transportation and handling and ration shop dealers' margins, etc by the government, the statement said. "Thus, the total estimated expenditure to be borne by the Government of India will be Rs 67,266.44 crore," it added. The foodgrains outgo will be 204 lakh tonne for five months distribution under the PMGKAY. The Food Ministry will decide on the allocation of wheat and rice. It may also decide on the extension of the lifting/distribution period under Phase III and Phase IV of the PMGKAY as per operational requirements, arising out of adverse weather conditions like monsoon, snowfall, etc. and supply chain and Covid-induced constraints, according to the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-extension-of-pmgkay-for-five-months-till-november-1000631.html
23-06-2021||National||India, US kick off mega wargame in Indian Ocean with eye on China||India and the US on Wednesday kicked off a two-day multi-domain wargame in the Indian Ocean involving an array of air defence platforms to further consolidate their operational synergy in the face of China's increasing military presence in the region. The US has deployed its naval carrier strike group, led by the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier USS Ronald Reagan, as well as a fleet of F-18 fighter jets and E-2C Hawkeye all-weather aircraft for the exercise, officials said. The Indian assets at the exercise included Jaguar and Sukhoi-30MKI fighter jets, IL-78 air-to-air refuelling tanker aircraft, AWACS (Airborne Warning and Control System) aircraft and warships Kochi and Teg. The Indian Navy has also deployed a fleet of P8I maritime surveillance aircraft and MiG 29K jets, apart from other platforms. The US Carrier Strike Group (CSG) is currently deployed in the Indian Ocean region. A carrier battle group or carrier strike group is a mega naval fleet comprising an aircraft carrier, accompanied by a large number of destroyers, frigates and other ships. "The Indian naval warships, along with aircraft from the Indian Navy and the Indian Air Force will be engaged in the joint multi-domain operations with the carrier strike group comprising Nimitz-class aircraft carrier Ronald Reagan, Arleigh Burke-class guided-missile destroyer USS Halsey and Ticonderoga-class guided-missile cruiser USS Shiloh," Indian Navy's spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said on Tuesday. He said the two-day exercise aims to strengthen the bilateral relationship and cooperation by demonstrating the ability to integrate and coordinate comprehensively in maritime operations. Officials said the high-tempo exercise will include advanced air-defence drills, cross-deck helicopter operations and anti-submarine manoeuvres with an aim to hone the war-fighting skills and enhance interoperability between the two sides. The exercise is being carried out south of Thiruvananthapuram, on the western seaboard. The officials said the exercise is focussing on multiple areas, including enhancing the aspects of interoperability, nuances of international integrated maritime search-and-rescue operations and exchange of best practices in the maritime airpower domain. The Indo-US defence ties have been on an upswing in the last few years. In June 2016, the US had designated India as a "Major Defence Partner". The two countries have also inked key defence and security pacts over the last few years, including the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016 that allows their militaries to use each other's bases for repair and replenishment of supplies as well as provides for deeper cooperation. The two sides have also signed the Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement (COMCASA) in 2018 that provides for interoperability between the two militaries and the sale of high-end technology from the US to India. In October last year, India and the US sealed the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) to further boost the bilateral defence ties. The pact provides for the sharing of high-end military technology, logistics and geospatial maps between the two countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-kick-off-mega-wargame-in-indian-ocean-with-eye-on-china-1000635.html
23-06-2021||National||Media reports on homeless people barred from registering for Covid vaccination baseless: Govt||The health ministry on Wednesday dismissed media reports alleging that homeless people have been "barred" from registering for Covid-19 vaccination due to unavailability of technical requirements as "baseless". There have been some media reports alleging that homeless people have been "barred and conspicuously left out" from registering for Covid-19 vaccination due to unavailability of technical requirements, the ministry said in a statement. The reports have further stated that the "requirement to register digitally", "knowledge of English and access to a computer or a smartphone connected to the internet" are some of the factors depriving people of vaccination, it added. "These claims are baseless and not based on facts," the ministry said while clarifying that the ownership of a mobile phone is not a prerequisite for Covid vaccination, production of address proof is also not compulsory and it is not mandatory to pre-register online on Co-WIN for availing vaccination. It further said that for an easy understanding of the users, Co-Win is now available in 12 languages -- Hindi, Malayalam, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Marathi, Gujarati, Odia, Bengali, Assamese, Gurumukhi (Punjabi) and English. The Co-WIN platform is an inclusive IT system that provides a flexible framework with all the necessary features to facilitate vaccination coverage in the remotest parts of the country as well as for those who are the most vulnerable, the statement said. While one of the nine identity cards, including Aadhar, voter ID card, ration card with photo, disability ID card, is required for vaccination, special provisions have been made by the government for organising vaccination sessions for those who may not have any of the nine specified identity cards or own a mobile phone, it added. Taking full benefit of such provisions, more than two lakh such beneficiaries have been vaccinated so far, the statement said. It added that the government has issued an advisory on May 27 for near-to-home vaccination centre services for the elderly and differently-abled persons. For those who may not have access to the internet or smartphones or even mobile phones, free of cost on-site registration (also popularly called walk-in) and vaccination is available at all government vaccination centres. Eighty per cent of all the vaccine doses administered so far were through the on-site-vaccination mode, the ministry said. In on-site vaccination, all the data recording for registration, vaccination and generation of vaccination certificates is done by the vaccinator and the beneficiary himself or herself is only required to provide the basic minimum necessary information. Furthermore, the Covid-19 vaccination coverage is found to be better in tribal districts than the national average. Data also shows that over 70 per cent of the vaccination centres are located in rural areas, including more than 26,000 at the primary health centres and 26,000 at the sub-health centres, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/media-reports-on-homeless-people-barred-from-registering-for-covid-vaccination-baseless-govt-1000637.html
23-06-2021||National||UK High Court rejects Nirav Modi's extradition plea||Wanted diamond merchant Nirav Modi, whose extradition to India was ordered in April by UK Home Secretary Priti Patel in the estimated $2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, has lost the first stage of his extradition appeal in the High Court here. The appeal was before a High Court judge for a decision “on the papers” submitted for the appeal to determine if there are any grounds for an appeal against the Home Secretary’s decision or the Westminster Magistrates Court February ruling in favour of Nirav Modi’s extradition to India to face charges of fraud and money laundering. A High Court official confirmed that the permission to appeal was "rejected on paper" on Tuesday, which leaves the 50-year-old jeweller with a chance to make his case at a brief oral hearing in the High Court with a renewed “leave to appeal” application for a judge to determine if it can proceed to a full appeal hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-high-court-rejects-nirav-modis-extradition-plea-1000638.html
23-06-2021||National||Unlock in Indian states not prudent as Covid-19 vaccination coverage remains low: Oxford Economics||States' re-opening strategy in the wake of a decline in Covid cases is not "prudent" and might even result in a rise in infections as vaccine coverage remains low in many states, global forecasting firm Oxford Economics said on Wednesday. In a report, it also said, "we remain cautious and maintain our 2021 growth forecast at 9.1 per cent," citing that economic data does not support an upward revision at this point. The rapid decline in Covid cases and test positivity rates has prompted many states to relax restrictions that are in place to curb the spreading of coronavirus infections. Against this backdrop, Oxford Economics also said vaccination rates are far below the levels deemed to be safe for easing social distancing measures substantially in the more populous and economically important states. While partial restrictions are likely to be extended into the third quarter of the calendar year 2021, the re-opening has started at a faster pace than it had expected, it noted. "... we think this reopening strategy is not prudent and may result in a renewed rise in infections and re-tightening of restrictions in the future," Oxford Economics said. From a daily case count of over 4 lakh during the peak of the second Covid wave, the numbers have been hovering around 50,000 in the last few days and the unlock process is underway across cities. According to the report, re-opening has commenced at a faster pace than it had anticipated as states have focused on declining test positivity rates as the guiding factor for easing measures rather than the share of population vaccinated. "This strategy could create a challenge going forward if infections increase again, especially as we head towards the festive months, and vaccine coverage remains low in many states, including the more populous ones," it said. Oxford Economics noted that while high frequency indicators for June have improved as states have relaxed restrictions, the hit to activity in May appears to be larger than its initial assessment. "This may lead us to lower our Q2 2021 growth forecast once we have greater clarity on economic progress through June," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unlock-in-indian-states-not-prudent-as-covid-19-vaccination-coverage-remains-low-oxford-economics-1000647.html
23-06-2021||National||12-year-old leaves home after being scolded by mother, united later with help of Delhi Police||Fed up with being scolded constantly by her mother over studies, a 12-year-old wannabe TikTok star left from home in south Delhi, but was later reunited with her family with the help of Delhi Police. According to the police, the minor girl took a train from Delhi and reached Etawah in Uttar Pradesh. The matter came to light after the girl's mother visited Sangam Vihar police station on June 18 and stated that her daughter was allegedly kidnapped. He informed that her daughter was carrying a mobile phone but the device was not active, the police said. The next day, the girl's mother informed ASI Jai Singh that she received a call from a woman, named Shanti Devi, who stated that her daughter was found sitting at Etawah railway station, a senior police officer said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said, "Our team reached Etawah but the phone of the woman was found to be switched off. With the help of technical assistance and locals, our team located Shanti Devi." The team reached finally located Shanti Devi's house and recovered the missing girl from there on June 20, he said. When interrogated, Devi revealed that the girl was found sitting at Etawah railway station. Hence, she took the girl with her to her house and informed her mother. But her mobile phone got switched off as it was an old phone, Thakur said. "The girl said she left her home because she wanted to be a TikTok star and her mother used to scold her about studies. She then took a train from Delhi and reached Etawah but got scared and went with Devi to her house," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/12-year-old-leaves-home-after-being-scolded-by-mother-united-later-with-help-of-delhi-police-1000649.html
23-06-2021||National||Yoga guru Ramdev moves SC against FIRs filed by Indian medical Association on allopathy remarks||Yoga guru Baba Ramdev has approached the Supreme Court for staying proceedings in multiple FIRs lodged against him for his remarks against the use of Allopathic medicine during the Covid-19 pandemic. In his plea, he sought transfer of FIRs lodged against him by the Indian Medical Association in Patna and Raipur to Delhi. The voluntary body of doctors accused him of spreading false information. He has been booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of the IPC and other provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. However, on May 23, Baba Ramdev withdrew his statements on allopathic medicine after receiving a strong-worded letter from Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, who called his remarks "inappropriate."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-guru-ramdev-moves-sc-against-firs-filed-by-indian-medical-association-on-allopathy-remarks-1000651.html
23-06-2021||National||All students in Karnataka degree colleges to be vaccinated against Covid-19 in July||All students in degree colleges in Karnataka will be vaccinated against Covid-19 in the first or second week of July, after which the institutions would reopen for classes, Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said here on Wednesday. "A committee headed by Dr Devi Prasad Shetty has submitted a report covering all aspects, including the third wave. It has recommended opening degree colleges first. Students will be vaccinated in July, after which the classes will begin," Narayan, who heads the Covid-19 Task Force, told reporters on the sidelines of a function.  In a bid to get students to return to colleges, the government has coined the slogan 'Marali College Ge' (Back to colleges), he said. The Deputy Chief Minister said the government is awaiting the central government guidelines on reopening colleges. He said vaccination for all those aged over 18 in the state is already underway on a priority basis. To a question on the Delta Plus variant, classified as a Variant of Concern (VOC), Narayan said no mutant of the virus can cause harm to those people who have been vaccinated. He said vaccines are the only way forward and everyone should get inoculated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-students-in-karnataka-degree-colleges-to-be-vaccinated-against-covid-19-in-july-1000668.html
23-06-2021||National||Bharat Biotech plans to increase Covaxin supply for private sector||Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech is likely to increase its Covid-19 vaccine supply to the private sector from 10 per cent to 25 per cent next month, according to a top representative of the company. On June 7, the central government announced a price cap on service charges for Covid-19 vaccines at private hospitals. With a cap of Rs 150, Covaxin is sold to private hospitals at Rs 1,200. The company has requested the government to revise Covaxin’s price for the public sector, saying a service charge of Rs 150 per dose is non-competitive and unsustainable in the long run. “There are future orders that the central government is discussing with us. We are looking at requesting a better price. It is not just the cost of vaccines, but also the distribution cost of supplies to states that we have to take care of... that increases the overall cost... there needs to be a better price,” he said. No change is expected in the price of Covaxin for the private sector as of now. Earlier, Bharat Biotech defended the high cost of its vaccine due to several expenses of vaccine production. The company also plans to increase its production capacity in a step-wise manner in the coming four to five months and produce 60-70 million doses every month by November-December. “The current production capacity is 25 million doses per month, and this is likely to be maintained till August-September this year, after which more supplies will happen. In the next two months, we will be starting production at two of our facilities in Ankleshwar, Gujarat, and Bengaluru, Karnataka. These facilities are being re-purposed and the production is likely to start in the next two months,” the executive said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-plans-to-increase-covaxin-supply-for-private-sector-1000669.html
23-06-2021||National||Vistadome coach in Mumbai-Pune Deccan Express Special Train for the first time||The prestigious Mumbai-Pune Express now has a Vistadome coach that will allow passengers to enjoy unhindered views of the river, valley and waterfalls of the Sahyadri ranges. Railways have decided to restore the services of the Mumbai-Pune Deccan Express Special train from June 26.  This train will run with Vistadome coach for the first time on this route, according to the Central Railway. The views of the Western Ghats while travelling in Vistadome coach in Mumbai-Goa route can now be experienced on Mumbai-Pune route also.  At present, the Vistadome coach is running in Mumbai-Madgaon Jan Shatabdi Special train. Now, passengers on the Mumbai- Pune route can enjoy the scenic beauty and experience being with nature while passing through Matheran Hill (Near Neral), Songir Hill (near Palasdhari), Ulhas River (near Jambrung), Ulhas Valley, areas of Khandala, Lonavala, etc. and the waterfalls, tunnels on the South East Ghat section.  The basic special features include wide window panes and glass rooftop, rotatable seats, and pushback chairs. Deccan Express special train (01007) will leave Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus at 07.00 hours daily with effect from 26.6.2021 and arrive Pune at 11.05 hours the same day. Deccan Express special train (01008) will leave Pune at 15.15 hours daily with effect from 26.6.2021 and arrive at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus at 19.05 hours the same day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vistadome-coach-in-mumbai-pune-deccan-express-special-train-for-the-first-time-1000684.html
23-06-2021||National||Arnab Goswami had conspired with BARC CEO to boost Republic TRP: Mumbai Police||Senior television journalist Arnab Goswami illegally tampered with the TRPs in connivance of the then CEO of the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) Partho Dasgupta to improve ratings of Republic TV channels and paid him for his help, as per the supplementary charge sheet filed by the Mumbai Police who cited Whatsapp chats between the duo as a "crucial evidence". The Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Mumbai Police on Tuesday filed a third charge sheet before a magistrate's court here in the alleged fake Television Ratings Points (TRP) scam. Besides Goswami, the Editor-in-Chief of Republic TV, and ARG Outlier Media that runs Republic TV channels, the police also named six other accused including some employees of Republic group channels in the latest charge sheet. "We have found evidence to show they (Goswami and Dasgupta) had exchanged confidential information about the BARC repeatedly to benefit Goswami's channels," the charge sheet said. During the period between June 2017 and March 2018 when Dasgupta was working with the BARC, the TRP ratings of an English news channel were illegally manipulated so that they fall below the TRPs of Republic TV channels, which resulted in Rs 431 crore loss to that channel, police said, citing the statement of an executive of the news channel.  Police further said they possess the evidence to show that Goswami had paid Dasgupta in return for the latter's assistance in manipulating the TRPs, "which was evident from the jewellery and expensive items seized from Dasgupta's residence", the charge sheet said. Dasgupta, who had been named as accused in the previous charge sheet, was arrested in December last year. He is currently out on bail. The first charge sheet in the TRP rigging case, filed in November last year, had named Dasgupta and Republic TV CEO Vikash Khanchandani. The alleged fake TRP scam came to light in October last year when the rating agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Group (HRG), alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers. The HRG had been tasked with installing barometers for recording channel viewership data at sample households. Police had arrested dozens of people, including the top officials of BARC and Republic TV. Most of them are currently out on bail. In March this year, the Bombay High Court had asked the Mumbai police why Republic TV and Goswami had not been named as accused in the case if the investigators believed to possess adequate evidence against them. The ARG Outlier Media and Goswami had approached the high court last year, filing a bunch of petitions seeking several reliefs in the alleged TRP scam. They had alleged that the whole case was malafide and they had been targeted for Republic TV's reportage in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and the Palghar lynching case last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arnab-goswami-had-conspired-with-barc-ceo-to-boost-republic-trp-mumbai-police-1000686.html
23-06-2021||National||Mask compliance still remains low in India despite most lethal Covid-19 wave: Survey||Mask wearing compliance still remains low in India despite it being one of the worst hit by the second wave of Covid-19, according to findings of a survey. The mask compliance at vaccination centres also remains low, as per the survey conducted by online social media platform LocalCircles. "Despite the most lethal Covid-19 wave that any country in the world has experienced so far, India's mask compliance is still low as indicated by the survey finding where 67 per cent of citizens say there is limited or no mask compliance in their area, district, or city," it said. The survey received over 33,000 responses from citizens located in 312 districts of the country. According to the survey findings, only 32 per cent of citizens in the survey note that there was limited mask compliance at the vaccination centre they recently visited. Many respondents noted that their family members have gotten Covid-19 a few days after receiving vaccination at centres, citing the high possibility of some vaccination centres being superspreaders as some people were not even following masking protocols. It is a major concern that requires an immediate action to make sure that such centres do not become superspreaders, as per the findings of the survey. The survey tried to find out how people in cities and districts, including at the vaccination centres, are complying with wearing a face mask. It also sought to find out if people are wearing the right masks that give them protection, or are they wearing any mask just for the sake of it. Lastly, the survey sought to gather citizens' pulse if the state governments should make the wearing of masks outside home mandatory in districts with active Covid-19 cases. It found that only 44 per cent of the Indians were wearing cloth masks which may not provide them with the needed protection against the highly transmissible variants like Delta. The findings of the survey indicate that one in two Indians were  wearing cloth masks that provide limited protection from Covid, it added. Many Indians since 2020 have been using cloth masks, some even using ones made at home, assuming that they will provide the necessary protection from Covid-19 while that may not be the case with the new Delta variant, it said. On the question whether the state governments should make wearing of masks outside home mandatory if a district has any covered cases, 91 per cent of the respondents okayed the proposal while 8 per cent decided against it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mask-compliance-still-remains-low-in-india-despite-most-lethal-covid-19-wave-survey-1000687.html
23-06-2021||National||Don't link border issue to bilateral relations, China tells India||China on Wednesday said the prolonged border issue with India should be addressed through peaceful negotiations and not be linked to bilateral relations. Asked for his reaction to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's comments at the Qatar Economic Forum on Tuesday that China's military deployment along the disputed border with India and uncertainty over whether Beijing will fulfill its promise on troop reductions remains a challenge for relations between the two neighbours, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said the border issue should not be linked to the bilateral relations.  "We advocate that we should address the boundary issue through peaceful negotiations and we don’t think that the border issue should be linked up to our bilateral ties,” he said at a media briefing here. Zhao said the military deployment by China in the Western sector along the border is a "normal defensive arrangement.” “It is meant to prevent the encroachment or threat against China's territory by the relevant country,” he said. In his remarks, Jaishankar said that the larger issue relating to the border row in eastern Ladakh is whether India and China can build a relationship based on mutual sensitivity and respect and whether Beijing would live up to the written commitments about both sides not deploying a large armed force along the frontier.       It has been more than a year since the military standoff between China and India erupted in eastern Ladakh on May 5, 2020 during which there were fatalities on both sides for the first time in 45 years. They have made limited progress in achieving disengagement at the Pangong Lake area.  The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. India has been particularly pressing for the disengagement of troops in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. Last month, Indian Army Chief Gen. MM Naravane said that there can be no de-escalation without complete disengagement at all friction points in eastern Ladakh and that the Indian Army is prepared for all contingencies in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-link-border-issue-to-bilateral-relations-china-tells-india-1000706.html
23-06-2021||National||40 cases of Delta Plus variant have been detected in India over the last two months||Forty cases of Delta Plus variant of SARS-CoV-2, a new “variant of concern” seen during the second wave of the Covid-19 epidemic, have been detected in India over the last two months since the detection of the first such case in April, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. The variant has been seen sporadically in Maharashtra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh. In addition, a few cases have been reported from Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Odisha and Gujarat. But even as the emerging variant's role in the immune escape, disease severity and increased transmissibility are being studied by the scientists, there is a growing sense of concern among the officials because of a specific mutation or genetic change that the new variant is carrying. It allows the virus to evade immunity.  Currently, the number of Delta plus variants in India are only a few. But since it is present in some of the states since April, the Centre has asked the administrations in those states to enhance their public health response by focusing on surveillance, enhanced testing, quick contact-tracing and priority vaccination in defined geographies where such a strain has been detected. The ministry has also begun to inform the states of the new variant. While Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala on Tuesday, Tamil Nadu has been informed about one case on Wednesday. "We have been informed that one sample which was tested in Chennai is now identified as Delta Plus variant. We had sent a set of samples for genomic sequencing. This is a variant of concern as per the Union Government. We will collect the details of the person whose samples returned positive for the variant. We are not letting our guard down anyway," J Radhakrishnan, Principal Secretary (Health), said. Indian scientists carried out a retrospective analysis of genome sequences to identify the index case after the UK public health authorities reported the first globally known case on June 11. A retrospective analysis of samples revealed the first occurrence of Delta Plus from a sample collected from Maharashtra on April 5.   Quoting the World Health Organisation, the ministry said all Delta variants, as well as all Delta sub-lineages including Delta Plus, have been classified as "variant of concern". This means the strain needs to be watched because of its potential to trigger a public health crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/40-cases-of-delta-plus-variant-have-been-detected-in-india-over-the-last-two-months-1000727.html
23-06-2021||National||Eastern Ladakh row: Indian, Chinese diplomats to hold virtual talks to resolve standoff||Senior diplomats of India and China will soon hold a video conference and make an attempt to break the deadlock in talks between the military commanders of the two sides to resolve the 14-month-long stand-off along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. India’s delegation for the video-conference will be led by Naveen Srivastava, the Additional Secretary at the East Asia Division of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). Hong Liang, the Director General of the Boundary and Ocean Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, will lead the delegation of the communist country. A source in New Delhi said that India would convey to China that early completion of disengagement or withdrawal of front-line troops from all the face-off points along the LAC could pave the way for both sides to consider de-escalation or thinning out forces in the respective “depth areas” on both sides of the de facto boundary. The video conference is going to be the 22nd round of consultation within the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC), which the two nations set up in 2012 as an institutional mechanism to deal with flashpoints along the disputed boundary between the neighbouring nations. The two sides activated the mechanism to resolve the stand-off along the LAC exactly a year ago with a similar video conference on June 24, 2020. The diplomats of the two nations have since held seven such virtual consultations and the next one would be the eighth between them. The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) last month withdrew front-line troops from the northern and the southern banks of Pangong Tso. The mutual disengagement from both banks of the lake raised hope for an early end to the military stand-off, which had started in late April and early May last year and taken the bilateral relations to a new low over the past few months. After the two sides completed withdrawal of troops from Pangong Tso areas, the senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had a meeting on February 20 last and started a discussion on disengagement from other face-off points along the LAC, like Hot Springs, Depsang and Gogra Post. The military commanders, however, could not make any headway over the past four months. They last met on April 9 and held the 11th round of consultation since the stand-off started.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eastern-ladakh-row-indian-chinese-diplomats-to-hold-virtual-talks-to-resolve-standoff-1000747.html
23-06-2021||National||Senior officials of India, France and Australia hold talks on G20 meet||Senior officials of India, France and Australia on Wednesday held talks as part of the preparation for a crucial meeting of the G20 in Italy next week. The meeting of the G20 foreign ministers is likely to deliberate on ways to effectively deal with the coronavirus crisis as well as reviving the global economy that has been reeling under the adverse impact of the pandemic. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is expected to travel to Italy to attend the meeting. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi are also likely to participate in the in-person meeting. French Ambassador to India Emmanuel Lenain tweeted about the virtual deliberations among the senior officials of India, France and Australia to prepare for the G20 meet. He said the "trilateral dialogue" among the three countries now expands to coordination at the G20. "Today, Senior Officials from the three countries met virtually to jointly prepare for next week's #G20 ministerial on key priorities, such as #digital issues, #ClimateAction, & global fight against the #pandemic," he said. The G20 summit is scheduled to be held in Italy in October. India is expected to hold the presidency of the G20 in 2022. The G20 is an influential bloc that brings together the world's major economies. The G20 member countries collectively account for more than 80 per cent of world GDP, 75 per cent of the global trade and 60 per cent of the population of the planet. The G20 member countries are Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, Japan, India, Indonesia, Italy, Mexico, Russia, South Africa, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Turkey, the United Kingdom, the United States, and the European Union.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senior-officials-of-india-france-and-australia-hold-talks-on-g20-meet-1000748.html
23-06-2021||National||More than 63 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses administered on Wednesday||India on Wednesday administered more than 63 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines, which is still 30 per cent lower than the record-breaking Monday but an improvement over the past 24 hours. Till 9 pm, in excess of 63 lakh shots were given at more than 59,000 sites, of which 57,000 are government-run centres. This is almost 27 lakh less than 90.86 lakh doses (updated data on the CoWIN platform) administered on Monday, but a betterment over Tuesday’s 54.22 lakhs. Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Rajasthan that recorded a dip in vaccination number on Tuesday, after the Monday record, upped their performance, but still could not come close to their highest mark. Karnataka and Haryana, on the other hand, are far away from their Monday performance. Karnataka gave 11.59 lakh doses on Monday but struggled the next two days with less than 4 lakh doses. Similarly, Haryana which administered 5.45 lakh doses on Monday, could give less than 80,000 doses in the subsequent two days. “Look at the numbers for Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Haryana on Sunday to Tuesday. BJP governments pulling a rabbit out of a hat! Pure magic for a day!” tweeted veteran Congress leader P Chidambaram. After administering 17.5 lakh doses on Monday, Madhya Pradesh registered the biggest slide with only 4,842 cases on Tuesday. A day later, the central state improved with 11.17 lakh vaccination till evening. “Hoard on Sunday, vaccinate on Monday, and go back to limping on Tuesday. That is the secret behind the world “record” of vaccinations on a “single day”. I am sure the “feat” will find a place in the Guinness book of records!” added Chidambaram. Overall, Covid-19 vaccination crossed a milestone with more than 30 crore people receiving at least a single dose of the vaccine. This is nearly one-third of the targeted population of 95 crore that needs to be vaccinated. The government needs to administer more than 80 lakh jabs for each of the remaining days of 2021 in order to inoculate the target population with two doses of the vaccine by December 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-than-63-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-on-wednesday-1000756.html
23-06-2021||National||DH Toon | 'People complain they are not being heard'||After days of suspense, the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) on Tuesday announced that they will attend the Prime Minister’s all-party meeting on Jammu and Kashmir on June 24 in New Delhi, but “there will be no compromise on the Article 370 issue.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-people-complain-they-are-not-being-heard-1000780.html
23-06-2021||National||Speak Out: June 24, 2021||West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh launched an attack on TMC MP Nursat Jahan over her marital status, saying she had 'brought shame' to Indian culture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/speak-out-june-24-2021-1000783.html
23-06-2021||National||Make sure Covaxin accepted globally, people facing travel restrictions: Mamata to Centre||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday urged the Centre to immediately take steps to ensure that people vaccinated with Covaxin are not restricted from travelling to foreign countries. Speaking to reporters at state secretariat Nabanna, Banerjee claimed that Covaxin has also created problems with neighbouring Bangladesh and Brazil. "Covaxin has not been authorised by foreign countries and not accepted there. Several students, aspiring for higher studies abroad, are facing difficulties in travelling because they have taken the Covaxin doses," she said. "Covaxin is the brainchild of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and it has even created problems with Brazil and Bangladesh," Banerjee claimed. The chief minister said that those who have taken Covishield doses are not facing any problem. "Either immediately get Covaxin authenticated by the World Health Organisation (WHO) or take other steps so that Covaxin is accepted globally," she said. Banerjee also asked Chief Secretary HK Dwidevi to write to the Union Health Secretary and Cabinet Secretary regarding the matter. She said that her government procured and provided Covishield doses to the people of the state. Most of the countries are seeking complete vaccination certificates from visitors to allow them entry. Banerjee also took on the Centre, pointing out the gap between PM's announcement of the universal vaccination programme and the implementation of it on June 21. "Fifteen days were lost... Can you imagine! Who is responsible for this? Why will the opposition play with a disease? I think BJP is a big disease for everybody. They cannot digest the people's verdict, nor can they accept people's agitation. Don't you think they should be ashamed?" she said. The chief minister also slammed BJP national president JP Nadda for alleging that the opposition is playing politics with the vaccination process. "I don't understand why Nadda is saying this. Is he aware of the facts? "They (BJP) were just interested in Bengal elections and after the polls they wanted to divide Bengal. To implement that policy they did not allow people to take precautions before the second wave. They did not do anything for six to eight months," she alleged. Banerjee alleged that the BJP-led central government was responsible for the second wave. "They did not give vaccines to West Bengal properly. However, there are some BJP states that are getting a good number of vaccines. In Gujarat, there are BJP party offices from where vaccines are being distributed," she claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/make-sure-covaxin-accepted-globally-people-facing-travel-restrictions-mamata-to-centre-1000790.html
23-06-2021||National Politics||Poll strategist Prashant Kishor meets Sharad Pawar, third time in a fortnight||Political strategist Prashant Kishor met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar here on Wednesday, a day after leaders of eight opposition parties gathered at Pawar's residence and discussed various issues facing the country. According to sources, the closed-door discussions between Kishor and Pawar, held at the latter's residence in Delhi, lasted for about an hour. This was their third meeting within a fortnight. Kishor, who was instrumental in the thumping victory of the Trinamool Congress in the West Bengal Assembly polls, had met Pawar over lunch at his residence in Mumbai on June 11. He again called on the NCP chief at his residence in Delhi on Monday.  These meetings with Pawar have fuelled speculations about the possibility of opposition parties coming together to form a third front against the BJP. Pawar on Tuesday hosted a meeting of the leaders of eight opposition parties including the Trinamool Congress, the Samajwadi Party, the Aam Aadmi Party, the Rashtriya Lok Dal and the Left at his residence in Delhi. However, leaders who took part in that discussions asserted that it was a "non-political" meeting of like-minded individuals by Rashtriya Manch that was floated by former finance minister and TMC vice-president Yashwant Sinha along with others. Before the opposition leaders' meeting on Tuesday, Pawar also chaired NCP's national executive meeting the same day and had "a detailed discussion" with his party leaders on its "future policies", its role in the next Lok Sabha polls and current national issues." The opposition party leaders' meet at Pawar's residence was attended by National Conference's leader Omar Abdullah, SP's Ghanshyam Tiwari, RLD president Jayant Chaudhary, Sushil Gupta from the AAP, Binoy Viswam from the CPI, Nilotpal Basu from CPI-M and TMC vice-president Yashwant Sinha among others. Former Congress leader Sanjay Jha and Janata Dal-United's (JD-U) ex-leader Pavan Verma also participated in the meeting. Besides politicians, several eminent personalities such as Javed Akhtar, former ambassador KC Singh and Justice (retd) A P Shah were also present at Tuesday's meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/poll-strategist-prashant-kishor-meets-sharad-pawar-third-time-in-a-fortnight-1000599.html
23-06-2021||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi 'captain' of Congress in UP, party will emerge as principal challenger soon: Khurshid||Senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid has said it is up to AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to decide the manner in which she will present herself to the voters in the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls but asserted that she is a "great face" and the "captain" leading the party's charge in the state. He also asserted that Congress will emerge as the principal challenger to the BJP before the assembly elections and Priyanka Gandhi is determined to ensure that the party fights the polls with all its might. In an interview with PTI, Khurshid said the Congress would not keep waiting for alliances but was determined to fight the polls hard with everything "we have got". Asked if Priyanka Gandhi was the party's best bet to be the chief ministerial face, the former Union minister said, "I am not going to answer that till such time as she does not give us an indication. But she is a wonderful, great face."  "All you have to do is to put the picture of (UP Chief Minister) Yogi (Adityanath) in front of you and Priyanka Gandhi's picture and you won't need to ask any more questions," said Khurshid, who is the chief of the party's manifesto committee for the state. But the manner in which she will present herself, offer herself to the voters in UP will be her decision, he stressed. "I hope that she will take a decision and let us know. As far as we are concerned she is the captain and she is leading us," Khurshid said of the Congress general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh. On the Congress still not being the principal challenger in UP despite efforts by Priyanka Gandhi, Khurshid admitted that the party was not the principal challenger as of now but expressed confidence that it would be before the polls in 2022. He asserted that the party is going to fight the assembly elections "real hard", highlighting that Priyanka Gandhi is determined to ensure that the party fights with all its might in the polls. On whether the Congress has the capacity to go it alone, Khurshid asked if there is any alliance on the cards, and added that "nobody has specifically talked to us about an alliance as I understand". There is no point in hypotheticals being discussed, the 68-year-old leader said. Pressed further on whether the party has the bandwidth to go it alone in the assembly polls, Khurshid said the party would have to fight on its own but added a caveat on alliances -- if something happens and leadership takes a call then it may be different. "But let us not forget the last time we fought in an alliance we did not do well. I am not even sure if the two who got into the alliance -- the Congress and the Samajwadi Party -- have figured out why they did not do well. We did not spend any time on that at all," Khurshid said. He said that for any alliances to happen with anybody, its ground rules must be known as to what might or might not work. "So if someone wants to talk about alliances, I think we will have to first figure this out. Do alliances work in UP, can they work in UP? What was lacking in the last alliance and what we need to do?" he said. Khurshid, however, added that all this will not hold the party back on preparing itself for the polls. "So we are preparing ourselves for the job (elections), we are not going to keep waiting, we are not going to be expecting, we are not going to have any excuses. Everyday we have to work towards the elections and we will work towards the election," he said. "We are determined to fight it hard, we are determined to fight it with everything we have got," the senior Congress leader asserted. The Congress won just seven seats while its alliance partner Samajwadi Party (SP) bagged 47 seats in the 403-member assembly in the 2017 assembly polls. The BJP won a thumping mandate with 312 seats and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) bagged 19 seats. SP supremo Akhilesh Yadav, during an interview last week, had said his party will not enter into any alliance with big parties and will go together in the election with smaller parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-captain-of-congress-in-up-party-will-emerge-as-principal-challenger-soon-khurshid-1000601.html
23-06-2021||National Politics||Bid to form Opposition front without Congress will help BJP: Nana Patole||Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole on Wednesday said any attempt to form an 'anti-BJP front' without his party will indirectly help the BJP. Talking to reporters at Faizpur in Jalgaon district, he also said elections were three years away and Covid-19 management was the priority of his party. Amid speculations about the formation of an 'anti-BJP front', Patole said such a front was not possible without Congress. "Any attempt to do so will indirectly help the BJP," he said. In 2019, Congress tied up with the Shiv Sena and NCP to form a government in Maharashtra under the leadership of Uddhav Thackeray. Last week, Patole caused a flutter in the ruling alliance in Maharashtra by saying the Congress will contest future elections on its own. All India Congress Committee's Maharashtra in-charge H K Patil recently asked the state party unit to focus on strengthening the organisation and leave the decision on alliances or going solo in future polls to the party high command. On Wednesday, Patole said the welfare of farmers and youth, who are facing the "crisis of unemployment", was Congress's priority. "I have already spoken about elections and the message has reached the party workers. Elections are three years away and I will not speak on it. We will highlight misdeeds of the Narendra Modi government in handling the Covid-19 pandemic and the neglect of farmers," he said. In a veiled jibe at the Congress, Chief Minister and Sena president Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said people would "beat with footwear" those who only talk about contesting elections alone without offering solutions to people's problems. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' recently said there is no harm in contesting polls independently, but everyone should check the ground beneath. Patole said, "Today we symbolically buried three (controversial) farm laws of the Centre. A Congress meeting in Faizpur led by (former prime minister) Jawaharlal Nehru and other senior leaders of the freedom movement had deliberated on how farmers' policies should be framed, and the need of the hour is the revisit that."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bid-to-form-opposition-front-without-congress-will-help-bjp-nana-patole-1000632.html
23-06-2021||National Politics||In jungle raj, safety of women in God's hands: Priyanka Gandhi slams Uttar Pradesh govt||Hitting out at the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over the issue of crime against women, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday said that in "'jungle raj' women's safety is in God's hands". The Congress general secretary alleged that such crimes are being committed against women in Uttar Pradesh which would make "one's soul tremble", but the government is "sleeping". "In Mathura, goons who had been harassing a girl for a year entered her house and threw her from the terrace. A girl, troubled over being teased, ended her own life in Hamirpur," she said in a tweet in Hindi. "In jungle raj, the safety of women is in God's hands," Priyanka Gandhi added. उप्र में महिलाओं के खिलाफ ऐसे अपराध हो रहे हैं कि रूह कांप जाए, लेकिन सरकार सो रही है। मथुरा में एक साल से लड़की को परेशान कर रहे गुंडों ने घर में घुसकर उसे छत से फेंक दिया। हमीरपुर में छेड़खानी से परेशान युवती ने आत्महत्या कर ली। जंगलराज में महिलाओं की सुरक्षा भगवान भरोसे है। Her attack on the government came after three men barged into the house of a 17-year-old girl on Tuesday and allegedly threw her off the second floor of the building. The girl is battling for life in a hospital. The district police has lodged an FIR in the case and arrested two of the three accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/in-jungle-raj-safety-of-women-in-gods-hands-priyanka-gandhi-slams-uttar-pradesh-govt-1000648.html
23-06-2021||National Politics||BJP received Rs 276.45 crore from electoral trusts in 2019-20, Congress Rs 58 crore: ADR||The BJP received Rs 276.45 crore or 76.17 per cent of total donations given to all political parties from electoral trusts in 2019-20, according to a report by poll rights group Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR). The BJP was followed by the Congress which received Rs 58 crore or 15.98 per cent of total donations received by all parties from all seven electoral trusts, it said. The report that analysed contribution reports of electoral trusts for financial year 2019-20 said top donors to the electoral trusts included JSW, Apollo Tyres, Indiabulls, Delhi International Airport and DLF groups. JSW Steel Ltd contributed the highest amount worth Rs 39.10 crore among all donors of electoral trusts, followed by Apollo Tyres Ltd with Rs 30 crore and Indiabulls Infraestate Ltd which contributed Rs 25 crore to various trusts.  Eighteen individuals contributed to electoral trusts in 2019-20. Ten individuals contributed Rs 2.87 crore to Prudent Electoral Trust, four individuals contributed Rs 5.50 lakhs to Small Donations Electoral Trust and four individuals gave a total of Rs 1 lakh to Swadeshi Electoral Trust, the report said. "BJP received Rs 276.45 crore or 76.17 per cent of the total donations received by all political parties from electoral trusts followed by Congress which received Rs 58 crore or 15.98 per cent of the total donations received by all parties from all seven electoral Trusts. Other 12 political parties including AAP, SHS, SP, Yuva Jan Jagriti Party, Jannayak Party, JDU, JMM, LJP, SAD, INLD, JKNC and RLD received a total of Rs 25.4652 crore collectively," the report said. The Election Commission had circulated guidelines for submission of contribution reports of electoral trusts to submit an annual report containing details of contributions received by the electoral trusts and disbursed by them to political parties in the interest of transparency. These guidelines were issued to seven electoral trusts formed after January 2013 -- Satya Electoral Trust, Pratinidhi Electoral Trust, People's Electoral Trust, Progressive Electoral Trust, Janhit Electoral Trust, Bajaj Electoral Trust and Janpragati Electoral Trust. Fourteen out of the 21 electoral trusts, registered with the Central Board of Direct Taxes, submitted their contribution details in 2019-20 to the EC of which only seven declared to have received any donations during that year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-received-rs-27645-crore-from-electoral-trusts-in-2019-20-congress-rs-58-crore-adr-1000661.html
23-06-2021||National Politics||BJP reaches out to Mallahs to sail through choppy waters in Uttar Pradesh||When Nishad Party leader Sanjay Nishad on Thursday demanded Deputy Chief Ministership in the next BJP government in the state or talked about contesting 160 seats, many, even within the BJP, felt he was punching above his weight. But as Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections near, the ruling party is gearing up to tackle such pulls and pressures from small caste groups, which are so crucial to its electoral script in the caste-ridden politics of the Hindi heartland state. The non-Yadav backward castes have been the bedrock of BJP's support base in Uttar Pradesh over the last seven years and wooing them back now is crucial as the impression gathers that the caste calculus the Modi-Shah built assiduously in Uttar Pradesh is now under strain. Other backward castes (OBCs) constitute roughly 44 per cent of Uttar Pradesh’s electorate, out of which the numerically most dominant, Yadavs, stand solidly behind the Samajwadi Party. The BJP's hopes hinge on making the maximum from the block of the 200-odd non-Yadav backward castes. Mallahs, or the boatmen community, constituting roughly 5 per cent of total electorates, divided into 27 sub-castes known as Kevat, Nishad, Kashyap and spread across nearly 125 assembly seats on the banks of river Ganga and Yamuna in the state, have off late warmed up to the BJP, which is not tired of referring to the mythological relationship between Lord Ram and the Kevat in the epic Ramayana. Nishad votes in these seats range between 15,000 to 70,000. Nishad Party led by Sanjay Nishad has one MLA, while its leader's son Praveen Kumar Nishad is a BJP MP from Sant Kabir Nagar. Sanjay Nishad met Amit Shah and J P Nadda this month. On Tuesday, he said that he has demanded 160 seats for his party candidates in 2022 state polls, claiming that the community's population in 70 seats is over 75,000. In what may not be music to the BJP's ears, the ally leader said, "If not chief minister, then going into the elections with me as the deputy chief minister face would benefit the BJP." In May 2017, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had reached out to the community, launching 11 solar-powered “e-boats” in Varanasi and telling them how India’s new satellite had been named NAVIC (Navigation with Indian Constellation) to honour the contribution of the “courageous boatmen (naavik) to the nation. The community has currently no leader with pan-state acceptance after the killing of ‘Bandit Queen’ Phoolan Devi in 2001. She had risen in the community's expectations after becoming a Samajwadi Party MP, and had formed the Eklavya Sena. With political ambitions rising, the community, which has switched its support to parties across the spectrum in the last few years, had organised a protest meeting in Delhi to seek proper representation for itself. The demands included a sub-quota within 27 per cent OBC reservation and ultimately Scheduled Caste status. In June 2019, the Yogi Adityanath government even included Mallahs among 17 castes in the list of Scheduled Castes, a decision which was stayed by the Allahabad High Court.  In the last few years, while the BJP inducted a number of Nishad leaders from parties including the BSP in its fold, the party has made a concerted bid to rope in the community, whose support in Assembly seats close to the river bank may help the BJP undo the damages to its prospects in local seats due to the massive Opposition campaign around the images of bodies floating in the Ganga during the pandemic. In August 2020, BJP nominated a leader from the community Jay Prakash Nishad for Rajya Sabha. In the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the then BJP president Amit Shah promised to build an 80-feet tall statue of Nishadraj in Allahabad. In 2016, the BJP had inducted former Rajya Sabha MP from BSP Narendra Kashyap from the Nishad community. In 2017 polls, BSP had its MLC Suresh Kashyap to woo the Kashyap-Nishad caste group. Before this, the Congress had in the run-up to 2012 Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh highlighted the contribution of Nishad icons of the freedom struggle like Lochan Mallah and Samadhan Nishad while organising an "ati-pichchra" (most backward) rally in the state. In the neighbouring Bihar, the 'son of Mallah' Mukesh Sahni, currently, a minister in Nitish Kumar government and founder of Vikassheel Insaan Party, was first spotted by the BJP in 2014 Lok Sabha polls. He later migrated to the Opposition-led grand alliance before coming back to the NDA fold and winning four Assembly seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-reaches-out-to-mallahs-to-sail-through-choppy-waters-in-uttar-pradesh-1000703.html
23-06-2021||National Politics||Digvijaya Singh faces BJP fire over Taliban meet remarks||Congress Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh faced the BJP fire on Wednesday over his tweet about an alleged meeting between Indian officials and Taliban leaders with Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan saying he has "Talibani mentality". Slamming the Congress veteran, BJP General Secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, speaking separately, claimed that "contacts" of the former CM are under the scanner. Sharing news reports, quoting a Qatar official, about a meeting between Indian government officials and Taliban leaders, Singh, in a tweet on Wednesday, said, “This is a very serious issue. The Government of India should make an immediate statement on this subject. Will BJP IT Cell take cognisance of this and put this into the category of sedition?”  Asked about the tweet, Vijayvargiya told reporters at the State BJP office here, “Right now, an investigation against Digvijaya Singh is underway to find out with whom he has been in contact.” However, Vijayvargiya did not elaborate on the nature of the investigation against Singh and the agency which is conducting it. Reacting to the Congress leader's tweet, Chouhan told reporters, “His (Digvijaya Singh's) mentality is Talibani.” Earlier this month, the Madhya Pradesh BJP had demanded a probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) against Singh after the Congress leader, in a clubhouse chat, was purportedly heard saying that his party "would certainly have a re-look at the decision to revoke Article 370" (which provided special status to in Jammu and Kashmir). Asked about the meeting of opposition leaders at the house of NCP president Sharad Pawar in Delhi, Vijayvargiya said there is "panic" among them because of the "towering" personality of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “There is no one in the opposition who can even reach the knee height of Narendra Modi,” the BJP leader said, seeking to downplay the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/digvijaya-singh-faces-bjp-fire-over-taliban-meet-remarks-1000711.html
23-06-2021||National Politics||Political front against BJP not possible without support of Muslims: Imtiaz Jaleel||Any political front against the ruling BJP is not possible without the participation of Muslims, AIMIM leader Imtiaz Jaleel said here on Wednesday and took a swipe at NCP chief Sharad Pawar who hosted a meeting of Opposition leaders in Delhi the previous day. Addressing reporters, Jaleel said the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) will contest the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. "If an alliance is being formed against the Bhartiya Janta Party, it cannot materialise without Muslims. Muslims in the country are standing with the AIMIM. If Sharad Pawar thinks Muslims are with the NCP, he should come to Aurangabad and see how many Muslims are with him," the Aurangabad MP said. He said the alliance of the NCP with the National Conference will not work out. Jaleel said the AIMIM will contest the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. "The BJP and the Samajwadi Party have finished Muslim leaderships in Uttar Pradesh. When Azam Khan was sent to jail, Muslim leaders left him. The decision on allying in Uttar Pradesh and the number of seats to be contested will be taken by AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi," he said. Jaleel alleged that "Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal are two sides of the same coin." "Last time we thought that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) would speak for us (Muslims) but Delhi riots disclosed that Narendra Modi and Arvind Kejariwal are two sides of the same coin. People of Delhi know this," he added. While talking about the local governing body elections in Aurangabad, Jaleel said the AIMIM was planning to contest from non-Muslim areas also. "Our rival Shiv Sena is also talking about an alliance while they claim the Aurangabad district as their fortress," he added. Meanwhile, Jaleel alleged "misplaced priorities" on part of Central agencies in allotting infrastructure projects. "Central agencies are providing infrastructure projects where common people and public representatives in Aurangabad don't want them. If flyovers are not built at the spots where people want, we will oppose the work," he said. He said a flyover is proposed in the airport area though it is more needed at Akashwani or Amarpreet chowk. "Rather, Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari should grant us a flyover which would directly take vehicles out of the city on Aurangabad-Jalna road. This will help for industrial growth in the region," the MP said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/political-front-against-bjp-not-possible-without-support-of-muslims-imtiaz-jaleel-1000719.html
23-06-2021||National Politics||Mamata Banerjee flays Centre for 'victimising' ex-WB chief secy Alapan Bandyopadhyay||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday slammed the Centre for "victimising" her former top bureaucrat Alapan Bandyopadhyay, against whom the union government has initiated penalty proceedings that could deprive him of post-retirement benefits. Banerjee said that IAS and IPS officers of the country are in solidarity with the former West Bengal chief secretary, as it is the "battle of every bureaucrat". "The Centre must realise it is victimising an official who lost his brother, nephew and mother within a span of 15-20 days... and he is in mental agony because he has worked for the country all his life, and now he is being treated in such a manner... This is irresponsible behaviour and we will not allow this," she told reporters.  The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) has sent Bandyopadhyay, now an advisor to the chief minister, a "memorandum" mentioning the charges and giving him 30 days to reply, officials had said on Monday. He has been warned of major penalty proceedings, which allows the central government to withhold pension or gratuity, or both, either in full or in part. The CM said Bandyopadhyay, a 1987-batch IAS officer (retired), has always worked with dedication, determination and devotion, and he is authorised to take any action as part of his response to the Centre. "Our government will give him full support," Banerjee asserted. She also said the union government is not abiding by the law in its actions against Bandyopadhyay. "You cannot forcibly change rules because the country has a Constitution. It (central government) is turning into a selfish giant... Former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi and the Congress party, too, had a massive majority, but even he had never done something like this," Banerjee said. The Centre had on May 28 sought services of Bandyopadhyay, barely a few days after he was given a three-month extension beyond the date of his superannuation (May 31), and asked the state government to relieve him immediately with a direction to him to report at DoPT, New Delhi. The DoPT had sent him a reminder after he failed to report in response to its May 28th order. As the tussle between the Centre and the state continued over the order, Mamata Banerjee on May 31 said that Bandyopadhyay has "retired" and been appointed as her advisor for three years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-banerjee-flays-centre-for-victimising-ex-wb-chief-secy-alapan-bandyopadhyay-1000723.html
23-06-2021||National Politics||Tejashwi Yadav asks Chirag Paswan to quit NDA; blames JD(U) for split in LJP||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Wednesday held out an olive branch to Chirag Paswan, saying the beleaguered LJP leader must reconsider his continuance in the NDA, led by the BJP which swore by the RSS ideology instead of the Constitution. The leader of the opposition also charged the ruling JD(U) in Bihar with being the "mastermind" behind the split in the LJP, which has left Chirag cornered within the party headed by him till recently and founded by his late father Ram Vilas Paswan. Yadav, who was talking to reporters at the airport here upon his return from New Delhi after a long stay, also sought to remind Chirag that in 2005 and 2010 similar splits had been engineered by the JD(U) in the LJP while his father and RJD supremo Lalu Prasad had "helped Ram Vilas get a Rajya Sabha berth when he had lost his own Lok Sabha seat". "Chirag Paswan must now decide whom he wants to stand with - those abiding by the Bunch of Thoughts (a famous polemical work by RSS ideologue M S Golwalkar), or those for whom the Constitution drafted by B R Ambedkar is supreme", said Yadav. When pointed out that the JD(U), controlled by its de facto leader Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, claimed that it knew "nothing" about the crisis in the LJP which witnessed a revolt by Chirag's uncle and former state minister Pashupati Kumar Paras, Yadav responded mordantly. "Nitish Kumar never knows anything. Perhaps he does not even read the papers. He must be unaware that in 27 out of 38 districts of Bihar, the price of petrol has crossed Rs 100 per litre", Yadav remarked. When asked about the ruling party's criticism of his protracted absence from Bihar, Yadav, who led the RJD to an impressive performance in the last assembly polls, asserted that he had been away to look after his ailing father. "The ruling dispensation must be aware that I am a beta (son) besides being a neta (leader). Moreover, what would I have been able to do for the people here when even those in power had been forbidden from venturing out", Yadav said, in an oblique reference to a circular issued by the state cabinet secretariat whereby ministers had been asked to refrain from undertaking tours during the Covid lockdown. He also said doctors attending his father, one of the most colourful and keenly-watched politicians of the state, have hinted that he might be able to come to Patna "very soon". Prasad, convicted in many fodder scam cases, has been staying in the national capital upon his release from jail following bail granted by Jharkhand High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tejashwi-yadav-asks-chirag-paswan-to-quit-nda-blames-jdu-for-split-in-ljp-1000766.html
23-06-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh's daily Covid-19 vaccinations fell by 99% after record high on Day 1 of new vaccination drive||A day after Madhya Pradesh recorded the highest daily Covid-19 vaccinations, the state's numbers witnessed a free fall, plummeting to a mere 4,842 doses on Tuesday, from a whopping high of 17.4 lakh doses on Monday.  India achieved a record 89 lakh vaccinations on June 21, the inaugural day of the new vaccine policy where the Centre procures the doses to be distributed to states. Various states across the country ramped up vaccinations, however, Madhya Pradesh topped the table with 17 lakh doses administered on a single day.  On Sunday, a day before the new drive came into force, MP had administered meagre 692 doses. While vaccinations usually drop on Sunday, the state administered 43,783 doses the previous Sunday, June 13, and over 1.2 lakh on the first Sunday of June, according to data available on Co-WIN. By a massive margin, MP's feat on Monday remains an anomaly. In Indore, for instance, the doses administered went from 212 doses on Sunday to 2.27 lakh the next day. However, on Tuesday, the number plummeted to 447. Elsewhere, daily vaccinations of Karnataka, the second state on the record day after MP, also witnessed a substantial fall on Tuesday -- from 11.95 lakh to 3.95 lakh. However, the state's Tuesday numbers are not a large deviation from June's average. Bengaluru's vaccinations also plummet Vaccinations in Bengaluru Urban, the district to administer the highest number of doses on Monday, also fell steeply to 84,743 on Tuesday from over 2.16 lakh at its highest on June 21. On June 20, ths district administered merely 28,464 doses, the lowest in at least the last 30 days. In some states, such as Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, Tuesday's numbers were higher than their Monday records. Across the country, vaccinations fell 40 per cent on Tuesday in contrast with Monday figures. Centre, however, rubbished the claim that 89 lakh vaccinations were a one-time event.  “The increase in vaccinations yesterday wasn't sudden. The average number of vaccinations was nearly 34 lakh per day from June 1 to June 21. To go from there to 88 lakh is possible, when vaccines and capacity is available. This was a result of coordinated planning between States and Centre and is expected to continue,” Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary, Ministry of Health, said on Tuesday. Senior Congress Jairam Ramesh voiced doubt over Madhya Pradesh's Monday vaccinations and wrote, "Who are we trying to fool here?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradeshs-daily-covid-19-vaccinations-fell-by-99-after-record-high-on-day-1-of-new-vaccination-drive-1000532.html
23-06-2021||North and Central||Narcotics smuggler shot dead by BSF along IB in J&K||A narcotics smuggler was shot dead by the BSF along the International Border in Jammu and Kashmir's Kathua district on Wednesday and 27 kg of heroin worth crores of rupees recovered from his possession, an official said. The incident took place in the border outpost (BOP) Pansar area of Hiranagar sector, a spokesperson of the Border Security Force (BSF) said. BSF personnel noticed the smuggler attempting to sneak into Indian territory from the other side of the border. They shot him after he ignored their warnings and tried to flee, he said. The identity of the smuggler is being ascertained. The spokesperson pointed out that earlier on January 23, the BSF had detected a 150-metre underground tunnel, which was meant to facilitate the infiltration of terrorists from Pakistan for carrying out subversive activities, in the BOP Pansar area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/narcotics-smuggler-shot-dead-by-bsf-along-ib-in-jk-1000544.html
23-06-2021||North and Central||BSF recovers heroin worth Rs 135 cr along J&K border||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Sunday recovered a consignment of 27 kg of heroin worth crores of rupees after a narcotics smuggler was shot dead along the International Border (IB) in Jammu and Kashmir's Kathua district. The attempt to smuggle the narcotics was scuttled by BSF personnel during the wee hours, in the Pansar area of Hiranagar sector in Kathua, leading to the recovery of 27 packets of heroin - each packet weighing one kilogram, a BSF spokesperson said. “The troops noticed some suspicious movement on the IB from the Pakistan side and alerted its troops. When Pakistani smugglers entered the IB towards Indian side, they were challenged and fired upon. During a search of the area, 27 packets of heroin were found near the fence,” he said and added that an unidentified smuggler was also killed in the incident. The approximate value of this narco consignment is about Rs 135 crores, the spokesperson said. “With this recovery, BSF has once again exposed the nefarious designs of Pak authorities to smuggle narcotics consignment to India through the International border.” The BSF has not ruled out the narco-terrorism angle in the latest recovery. Last Saturday J&K police busted a narco-terror module in north Kashmir's Baramulla district and arrested 10 people with a huge quantity of heroin, worth Rs 45 crore, along with arms and ammunition. Earlier on May 23, J&K police had busted another Pakistan sponsored narco-terror module and recovered eight kilograms of heroin worth 50 crore in market from frontier Kupwara district. On April 14, security forces recovered 10 kilograms of narcotics with approximate value at Rs 50 crore in the international market along the LoC in the Kupwara district. A similar consignment of deadly heroin, whose estimated market value, as per the police, is somewhere between Rs 50-60 crores, was seized on April 8 along the LoC in the same district. These recoveries, police say, have clearly shown that the cross border narco-terror threat has become a major area of concern in Kashmir. “In the wake of serious crackdown by the law enforcement agencies against the Hawala operators, Pakistan based agencies use LoC route to send narcotics to fund the terrorism and unrest in J&K. Since early 2019 when the cross LoC trade was shut down, narco-trade has become the exclusive route to finance terrorism and unrest,” a senior police officer told DH. Due to the huge influx of these deadly drugs from Pakistan, thousands of people, mostly youth, from Kashmir are slipping into the dark alleys of drug addiction. The data at drug de-addiction centre of Institute of Mental health & Neurosciences (IMHANS) in Srinagar reveals that there has been more than 1500% increase in patients approaching the hospital seeking treatment for substance abuse in four years. Dr Yasir Rather, in-charge of the de-addiction center of IMHANS, says the pattern of drug abuse in Kashmir has changed over the years. “Most of the patients we have been receiving since 2018 are heroin addicts and there is a drastic increase in their numbers now,” he told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-recovers-heroin-worth-rs-135-cr-along-jk-border-1000565.html
23-06-2021||North and Central||Explained | Delimitation in Jammu and Kashmir||A meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and 14 political leaders from the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir slated for Thursday has sparked speculations of a possible discussion on the issue of holding Assembly elections in the state for the first time since it was divested of its special status. A major sticking point would be the question of delimitation, a necessary precondition for elections to proceed. National Conference leaders Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah, PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti, and the Congress’s Ghulam Nabi Azad have been invited for the meeting, among others. What is delimitation? Delimitation is the act of redrawing the boundaries of a constituency that votes for a Lok Sabha seat on the basis of population change over a period of time. Delimitation is intended to level the playing field for political parties or candidates contesting elections and give every Assembly seat a fair share of votes. The process can also lead to a change in the overall number of seats that a state or union territory has in its Assembly or in the Lok Sabha. The exercise is usually carried out every few years after a census to even out the number of voters for a seat. However, Jammu and Kashmir has not carried out a delimitation in over two decades, in accordance with a law passed by its state Assembly. The loss of the erstwhile state’s special status has changed that equation. How is delimitation likely to be conducted in J&K? Under the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019, the number of constituencies in the union territory are to be raised from 107 to 114, including 24 seats for Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) that remain vacant. In effect, excluding the PoK seats, the strength of the Assembly would become 90 as compared to 83 earlier. What are the concerns? A major concern for one faction is that the increase in the number of seats would dilute the political dominance of Muslim-majority Kashmir in favour of offering up more seats to Jammu. Others argue that Jammu has been underrepresented in the state for a long time. A meeting was held in February this year, which three of the Delimitation Commission’s associate members—National Conference MPs Farooq Abdullah, Mohammad Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi—did not attend on grounds that the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act’s constitutionality was yet to be decided by the Supreme Court. However, there have been signs that the National Conference has slackened its stance and may be open to participate in the delimitation exercise and discuss the impending elections in the union territory. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/explained-delimitation-in-jammu-and-kashmir-1000589.html
23-06-2021||North and Central||Nishad Party demands deputy CM post from BJP if alliance wins 2022 UP Assembly polls||Amid reports of internal dissent in BJP party before polls in Uttar Pradesh, one of the key alliance partners of the saffron party has now upped the ante by demanding the post of deputy chief minister in the event of BJP forming the next government in the state. Sanjay Nishad, the chief of Nishad Party, which wields considerable influence among the fishermen community in some eastern UP districts, has threatened to walk out of the alliance if it was not assured of the Dy CM's post after elections. ''If the BJP wants to return to power in UP after the 2022 assembly polls, then it must project me as deputy CM face,'' Sanjay Nishad told reporters on Wednesday. Nishad said that he has placed the demand before the senior national BJP leaders also. Nishad was in Delhi a few days ago where he had met BJP national president J P Nadda. He claimed that the 'Nishad' community formed 18 per cent of the total electorate in UP and is in a position to influence the outcome of the polls in as many as 152 assembly constituencies.  Incidentally, Sanjay Nishad's son Praveen Nishad, as a candidate of the Samajwadi Party(SP), had defeated the BJP candidate from Gorakhpur Lok Sabha seat in a bypoll in 2018 after chief minister Yogi Adityanath resigned from there, following his appointment as the CM. In 2019 LS polls, however, Praveen contested on BJP ticket from Sant Kabir Nagar seat and emerged victorious. Since then, Nishad Party has been an ally of the saffron party. Reacting to the demand, senior BJP leader and UP deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya said that the central leadership of the party would take a call on it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nishad-party-demands-deputy-cm-post-from-bjp-if-alliance-wins-2022-up-assembly-polls-1000590.html
23-06-2021||North and Central||As Covid recedes, Kashmir prepares to welcome tourists again||As Covid-19 cases and deaths continue to recede in Jammu and Kashmir, tourism authorities have chalked out a meticulous plan to woo back tourists to the valley. As soon as the tourist arrivals to Kashmir started picking up in March this year, the first time since August 2019, the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic played spoilsport with advance bookings getting cancelled from mid-April. Over 1,25,000 domestic and foreign tourists - the highest in more than 17 months - arrived in Kashmir in the first four months of 2021. However, after the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic peaked in the Valley in May, the numbers again dipped sharply. From a peak of  5,443 Covid cases on May 7, the number came down to 428 cases on June 22. J&K Secretary of Tourism, Sarmad Hafeez, said there are no restrictions for tourists to visit the valley and a two-pronged strategy has been developed to ensure that tourists feel safe visiting Kashmir.  “The plan includes vaccinating priority groups and holding training sessions so that tourism stakeholders can adhere to safety protocols,” he said. However, Hafeez said, there are already Covid guidelines and SOPs in place which everyone has to follow and 85% of the people associated with the tourism industry have been already vaccinated. Thousands of families that rely on tourism and allied sectors have been out of work and struggling to stay afloat since 2019. The tourism sector is a significant contributor to Jammu and Kashmir’s economy and accounts for around seven per cent of the region’s gross domestic product, according to Jammu and Kashmir government’s estimates. However, since late last year, the J&K government took several initiatives to bring tourists back which had started yielding positive results. The aggressive campaigning by the Tourism Department had also attracted several filmmakers to shoot their films here. The hotel bookings also went up in the first four months of 2021 with direct flight services to Srinagar from various cities like Ahmedabad and Bengaluru making travel to Kashmir easier. However, the second wave of Covid-19 cases across the country again played spoilsport with Kashmir tourism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/as-covid-recedes-kashmir-prepares-to-welcome-tourists-again-1000592.html
23-06-2021||North and Central||UP Police to use drones to spot illegal liquor dens near Nepal border||Drone cameras will be used to find illicit liquor dens in forest areas near the Indo-Nepal border here, an official said on Wednesday. Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and the excise department will carry out a joint operation to check the smuggling and trade of spurious liquor, Bahraich District Magistrate Dinesh Chandra said. Instructions have been issued to identify illegal liquor manufacturing and selling bases with the help of drone cameras, especially in the forests of Mihinpurwa area of the district, he said. Police, excise and administrative machinery have been asked to develop an effective informer network in this direction, the DM said, adding the Gangsters Act will be invoked against those involved in the trade. After reports of deaths following consumption of spurious liquor in Aligarh, Pratapgarh and other districts, the state government issued instructions of taking strict action against those involved in the trade, especially in the rural areas. In Bahraich, police have arrested many in connection with it by raiding forest and rural areas near the Indo-Nepal border. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-police-to-use-drones-to-spot-illegal-liquor-dens-near-nepal-border-1000593.html
23-06-2021||North and Central||Khattar seeks Jaishankar's intervention for release of Haryana youth from Australian jail||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has spoken to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, seeking his intervention to secure the release of a state youth from a prison in Australia. According to media reports, 24-year-old Vishal Jood is lodged in an Australian prison for an alleged hand in a series of hate attacks on suspected pro-Khalistan Sikhs in Sydney this year. There have been protests for his release in Karnal and Haryana districts from the Ror community, to which he belongs. “Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal spoke to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar seeking his intervention to secure release of Haryanvi youth Vishal Jood, who is currently lodged in a prison in Australia,” said a tweet from the state’s Directorate of Information, Public Relations and Languages Department. “For the honour of the Tricolour in Sydney, Haryana's young Vishal Jood fought firmly with anti-national forces and did not allow the Tricolour to be insulted,” the tweet further said. “There are also a lot of demonstrations taking place in Australia in support of Vishal. Vishal's supporters claim that some anti-national forces beat him up and later implicated him in a false case after which he was sent to jail,” it said, adding Jaishankar has assured Khattar of taking steps to secure the youth's release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/khattar-seeks-jaishankars-intervention-for-release-of-haryana-youth-from-australian-jail-1000633.html
23-06-2021||North and Central||Never seen such a quarrelsome PM in last 75 years: Manish Sisodia accuses Modi of 'picking fights with states'||The AAP government here on Wednesday said the Centre "rejected" its doorstep ration delivery scheme on "funny excuses", with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal asking how the country will progress amid so much dispute and politics. Addressing a press briefing, senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said a letter from the Centre on Tuesday informed that the Delhi government's proposal of the scheme has been rejected. The deputy chief minister blamed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for it. Later in a series of tweets, Kejriwal charged the BJP-led Centre of indulging in disputes with the states. "A letter from the Centre has come. It is very painful. The doorstep ration delivery scheme was rejected on grounds such as what will happen if ration delivery vans break down or get stuck in traffic, how will rations reach beneficiaries living on third floors of a building (India of 21st century has reached the moon and here you are stuck on third floor), and how will rations will be delivered to beneficiaries who live in narrow lanes," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Sisodia too raised the same points, blaming Modi for rejecting of the scheme. In another tweet, Kejriwal said having disputes with everyone was not right. "Fighting with everyone all the time is not right - Twitter, Lakshadweep, Mamta didi, Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Delhi government, farmers, traders, and even the Chief Secretary of West Bengal," he said. "How will the country progress amid so much dispute and politics? Do not fight over doorstep ration delivery scheme. It is in the interest of the nation," the Delhi chief minister added. Sisodia, however, claimed that the Delhi government never sent any proposal regarding the scheme to the Centre. "Ration distribution under the public distribution system (PDS) is the responsibility of the state. They had objection over the scheme for having 'Mukhya Mantri' in its title, which we removed. What proposal did they reject when none was sent to them," he asked. The AAP leader asserted that the doorstep delivery of ration scheme has to be implemented and accused Prime Minister Modi of picking fights with everyone. "Why are you always in a quarrelsome mood? The country has never seen such a quarrellous prime minister in 75 years," Sisodia charged, citing clashes of the Modi government with different states. "If people can have pizza, clothes and other consumables delivered to their homes, why can't ration be delivered to their doorstep," he asked. A copy of a letter by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, dated June 22, shared by Sisodia raised various objections on ration delivery, administrative and financial aspects of the scheme. "Therefore, in view of the above observations and concerns, it is clarified that the proposal of Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi does not meet the statutory and functional requirements of the National Food Security Act and therefore, the proposal made by GNCTD can not be accepted," it read. The Delhi government planned to launch the scheme for the doorstep delivery of ration in June. The launch was halted after the lieutenant governor returned the file on the scheme stating that it could not be implemented, according to a statement from the Chief Minister's Office. According to the Delhi government, if implemented, the scheme would benefit 72 lakh ration cardholders in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/never-seen-such-a-quarrelsome-pm-in-last-75-years-manish-sisodia-accuses-modi-of-picking-fights-with-states-1000634.html
23-06-2021||North and Central||Farooq Abdullah holds consultations with NC leaders from Jammu over meet with PM Modi||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah on Wednesday held consultations with his party leaders from Jammu over the Centre's invite to mainstream political parties in the union territory for talks. The NC leaders from the Jammu region said they stand for a single Jammu and Kashmir by maintaining its unity and integrity and by respecting the wishes and aspirations of its people. The delegation was led by NC's provincial president for Jammu Devender Singh Rana. Speaking to reporters outside Abdullah's residence, Rana said, "Our only stand is a single J&K, to maintain its unity and integrity and respecting the wishes and aspirations of the people of J&K." He said dialogue and inclusiveness is an important and vital essence of democracy. "Any dialogue that can take us out of this morass and which will lead to the welfare of the state of J&K and its people, we are all for it," he said. Fourteen leaders from Jammu and Kashmir, including Abdullah, have been invited to the meeting on Thursday to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the future course of action for the union territory. The meeting is the first such exercise since the Centre announced the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status under Article 370 of the Constitution and its bifurcation into union territories on August 5, 2019. Rana said the party leaders from Jammu have reposed faith in Abdullah as he is not only the president of the NC but also the tallest leader of J&K. "He (Abdullah) has assured us that he will represent us and the people of J&K with his wisdom and he alone and alone can take this dialogue forward for welfare of the people of J&K and anything that is for the welfare of the people of J&K,” he said.  Rana said as far as the pluralistic Jammu is concerned, it has its own aspirations and its own desires. "We are for singular J&K, have always stood for the unity of J&K and equitable justice to all regions and sub-regions of J&K and we will always hold the aspirations of all the people of J&K as much as for Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh,” he said.    Asked if the leader from Jammu region want dialogue with Pakistan as was pitched by PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday, Rana said he “will not get into the intricacies”.  "Abdullah is going for a dialogue, it is a dialogue with the PM of India and it is an inclusive dialogue and we are very hopeful that it will lead to the betterment of the state of J&K, peace, progress and prosperity of J&K.  "We are for J&K, for the people of J&K. We are not here for any power politics, we are here for the people of J&K and we will always stand for the people of J&K, for their welfare, their growth, their development,” he said. Asked if they expected the PM's meeting will pave the way for holding Assembly elections in the Union Territory, Rana said everything is not about elections. "Right now, we are at the crossroads of history in J&K and dialogue is the only way forward. There is no reason to sabotage the dialogue. We are going with an open mind. Abdullah is the tallest of the tall leaders of J&K...whether somebody likes it or not, he is the best person suited to represent J&K and represent the aspirations of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh,” he said. He added that the NC president has assured them that all three regions will be represented by him equitably and properly. Rana also said the people want that the aspirations of Jammu and Kashmir, as well as Ladakh, should be respected.  Asked if he wanted the restoration of statehood with special status, he said, “Who does not want the state and of course, our own identity, our job protections and land protections."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farooq-abdullah-holds-consultations-with-nc-leaders-from-jammu-over-meet-with-pm-modi-1000644.html
23-06-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh BJP state executive committee meeting on June 24||A resolution on the current political situation and other issues will be discussed in the Madhya Pradesh BJP's state executive meeting here on Thursday which will be virtually inaugurated by the party president JP Nadda from New Delhi, a BJP functionary said on Wednesday. “The BJP president will inaugurate the day-long state executive meeting from Delhi in a virtual mode at 11 AM,” Madhya Pradesh BJP general secretary Ranvir Singh Rawat told reporters. He said four sessions will be held during the meeting including paying tributes to BJP leaders, workers and other persons who died recently. A resolution discussing the current political situation and the work done by the state government during the coronavirus pandemic will also be discussed. The other two sessions will be devoted to discussions on the BJP's policies and programmes, Rawat said. Besides Nadda, Union ministers Thawar Chand Gehlot, Faggan Singh Kulaste, Narendra Singh Tomar, Dharmendra Pradhan, Prahlad Patel, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijaywargiya and MP Jyotiraditya Scindia will take part in the meeting virtually, Rawat said. Madhya Pradesh BJP president Vishnu Dutt Sharma and Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will address the concluding session of the BJP executive meeting. The members of the state executive committee will participate in the meeting via video links from their respective district offices, Rawat added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-bjp-state-executive-committee-meeting-on-june-24-1000670.html
23-06-2021||North and Central||Agra vet gets 'abusive call' from Maneka Gandhi, colleagues protest||Veterinarians protested here on Wednesday after BJP MP and animal rights activist Maneka Gandhi allegedly hurled abuses at a city vet, accusing him of botching a surgery on a dog and threatening to get his licence scrapped. The protest was triggered after an audio clip surfaced on social media, in which Gandhi is purportedly heard asking vet N L Gupta to return the money he has taken from a client after performing the surgery. The voice in the audio clip could not be independently confirmed but the vet alleged that he got a call from the Sitapur MP. The Indian Veterinary Association (IVA) members of Agra raised slogans against Gandhi. During the course of the purported conversation, Gandhi uses expletives in Hindi against the doctor who addresses her as “‘ma’am”. The MP says that another vet to which the dog was taken after the sutures came undone had called the original surgery a shoddy job. She also questioned Gupta’s qualification to carry out surgeries. Using expletives, she then gives him an “option” -- he should return the amount he charged or face the suspension of his licence. She also told him that she will get in touch with the police and the district magistrate. Gandhi is also heard warning him that he should not perform any more surgeries. The vet’s defence was that the sutures ruptured because the dog was “hyperactive”. “I got a call from Member of Parliament Maneka Gandhi on June 21 regarding the surgery of the dog. I was shocked when she asked me to pay a compensation of Rs 70,000 to the owner of the dog or else she would get my license cancelled,” Gupta told PTI. “Besides, she insulted my profession, my father and my eligibility and used abusive language,” he alleged. Gupta said he had informed the dog owner about the post-operative care, but the animal was not looked after properly. “Due to mismanagement in post-operative care by the owner and improper antibodies treatment, the stitches came undone," he said. "I have apprised the Indian Veterinary Association about the call," he added. Recently, in another audio that surfaced on social media, Gandhi was purportedly heard telling a police officer in Sitapur to register a case and slap a man for breaking a dog's leg. Meanwhile, Chief Veterinary Doctor, V S Tomar, said, "The incident is in his notice and investigation is being done in this regard whether the doctor has a valid degree and his clinic has proper amenities as well." Dr A K Doneria, a member of the IVA and former Chief Veterinary Officer in Agra told PTI, “A doctor gives his best and cannot do injustice with any patient. We condemn the incident that happened with the veterinarian doctor in Agra.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/agra-vet-gets-abusive-call-from-maneka-gandhi-colleagues-protest-1000744.html
23-06-2021||North and Central||Hizbul Mujahideen militant killed in encounter with security forces in J&K's Shopian||A Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) militant was killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian district on Wednesday, police said. A police spokesperson said acting on a specific input regarding the presence of militants in the orchards of the Shirmal area in south Kashmir's Shopian, a cordon-and-search operation was launched by the security forces. As the presence of the militants was ascertained, they were given an opportunity to surrender, he said. However, the spokesperson said the militants opened fire at the forces, which was retaliated. In the ensuing gunbattle, one militant was killed and his body was retrieved from the encounter site, he said. The spokesperson identified the slain militant as Sajad Ahmad Bhat, a resident of the Badigam Aishmuqam area in Anantnag district. Bhat had links with the HM terror outfit. According to police records, he was active since September last year and was involved in several terror crime cases, the spokesperson said. Arms and ammunition, including a pistol with a magazine and a grenade, and other incriminating materials were recovered from the encounter site, he added. During the search operation, a militant hideout was busted and subsequently destroyed, the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hizbul-mujahideen-militant-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jks-shopian-1000753.html
23-06-2021||North and Central||J&K reports first case of Delta Plus Covid-19 variant||Jammu and Kashmir reported its first case of Delta Plus variant of Covid-19, now classified as a variant of concern The case was found in the Katra township of Reasi district. Katra serves as the base camp for the pilgrims visiting the Shri Vaishno Devi shrine atop Trikuta hills. Principal Government Medical College (GMC) Jammu, Dr Shashi Sudhan Sharma said Delta Plus or variant of interest has been detected in some parts of the country and one such case has been detected from Katra. “It was a health care worker but he has recovered now. He had tested positive for the Delta Plus variant, but he has recovered completely,” she said. The 39-year-old patient, reportedly an employee of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, was posted at Himkoti en route to the cave shrine. “He was on leave and before resuming his duties, he was tested for Covid-19. His reports returned positive,” an official of the Board said. In addition to India, the Delta Plus variant has been found in the US, UK, Portugal, Switzerland, Japan, Poland, Nepal, China and Russia. So far, a total of 40 cases of Delta Plus variant have been detected in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-reports-first-case-of-delta-plus-covid-19-variant-1000754.html
23-06-2021||North and Central||Central Vista: CPWD extends deadline to submit bids for three new office buildings to July 14||The CPWD has extended till July 14 the last date to submit bids for the three new office buildings under the Common Central Secretariat being built as part of the government's ambitious Central Vista redevelopment project. Earlier, the last date to submit bids was June 23. According to the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), technical bids can be submitted till July 14 and they will be opened on the same day. It said the last date for submission of bids and opening of technical bids has been extended due to "administrative reason". Last month, the CPWD had invited bids for three new office buildings under the Common Central Secretariat along Rajpath at a cost of Rs 3,269 crore and Rs 139 crore was set aside for five year's maintenance. These new buildings will come on the plot where the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts is currently located. Meanwhile, the Union Cabinet was on Wednesday apprised of development in projects being executed under the Centra Vista redevelopment plan, sources said. The redevelopment of the Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a new parliament building, a common central secretariat, revamping of the 3 km Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, new office and residence of the prime minister, and a new vice president enclave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/central-vista-cpwd-extends-deadline-to-submit-bids-for-three-new-office-buildings-to-july-14-1000769.html
23-06-2021||Oasis||Truth and knowledge||The so-called scientific tradition of the West has done the world a huge disservice with its own version of what constitutes science and scientific investigation. In the West, the search for knowledge is often confused with the search for truth. The two are not the same. Science is broadly the study of forms of matter and motion. It is the search for knowledge because its scope is the outer world. The scientist studies the reality outside him in a way where he considers himself to be beyond the study's purview. He studies everything but himself. Ignorant of the truth that lies inside him, he investigates the world outside. It is objective and he takes pride in the fact that it is objective. He thinks he is clinical, unemotional and focussed. Perhaps he is. The entire gamut of what Marx called “sensuous human activity” is dismissed as "unscientific" and remains beyond the pale of his investigation. It is laughable. Spirituality, on the contrary, is the search for the truth of our real identity. There is nothing objective about truth since if you examine the matter more closely, you will discover all truth is subjective. The Gita declares that a person is defined by his faith, something that the Western tradition of science cannot approve and dismisses as unscientific. Unlike knowledge, truth has to be experienced. It is not limited or restrained by memory (like science) but is ever-present, ever new and firmly rooted in the here and now. There is a presence in us that transcends the three states of wakefulness, dream and deep sleep. This insight constitutes the core of Hindu scriptures. To awaken to this awareness is self-realisation. But this must be experienced and should not remain intellectual conviction alone. Knowledge is of little use in understanding the truth of the spirit. If the truth is told, it is of no use at all and is actually a positive hindrance to spiritual progress. It bloats the head and diminishes the heart, the one quality that makes us genuinely human. Ramana once said: “illiteracy is ignorance; education is learned ignorance.” It took the sage one line to dismiss all that we have been taught to revere. The implication is clear: An innocent childlike heart is preferable to a refined intellect in the spiritual domain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/truth-and-knowledge-1000448.html
23-06-2021||Oasis||Vengeance can be self-destructive||When we are wronged, we react in three different ways. The confident lot points out the injustice meted out to them and clarify the matter then and there. Then there is the timid sort who are scared to articulate and wait for some external support to vindicate themselves. The third variety seethes from within and nurse hot embers buried within seemingly cold ashes, waiting for an opportunity to avenge. The first two categories of people are only being human; however, the third group happens to be inflicting a deep psychological wound on themselves by choosing to stay on guard all the time to settle scores.  An episode from the Mahabharata elucidates the futility of waiting in vengeance which eventually wastes away life. When Arjuna burnt down the Khandava forest, thousands of snakes perished. One of them who managed to escape vowed to kill Arjuna. Several years passed, the snake could not do much. Once the war of Kurukshetra was declared, the serpent approached Karna, the archrival of Arjuna, and sought to become his ally during the Great War. The reptile metamorphosed into an arrow and found a place in Karna’s quiver and waited for the red-lettered day of his life. It was towards the last leg of the eighteen-day war, the two mortal enemies confronted each other. When Karna poised himself to discharge the Nagastra, Krishna realised the gravity of the situation. Since there was hardly any time to apprise Arjuna of what could follow, he simply used his capability as the charioteer. When Karna’s well-aimed arrow reached Arjuna, the Nagastra could only whisk the prince’s crown. The devastated serpent returned to Karna and requested to be propelled again, but Karna rejected the plea because he had vowed never to use the same weapon for the second time.  The incident is an instance of a wasted life of the serpent who spent it in ill will and resentment and it ended in utter failure when matters could have been sorted out at the first instance. On the other hand, the serpent could have adopted the policy of 'forgive and forget' and moved on. So, the next time, we are aggrieved, we must act pronto or simply let go instead of wasting our precious life away.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/vengeance-can-be-self-destructive-1000772.html
23-06-2021||Opinion||Online learning has changed the way students work — we need to change definitions of ‘cheating’ too||By Linda Rowan and Fiona Murray As university students wait on their mid-year exam results, some will no doubt be thinking about more than just passing. Since Covid-19 pushed teaching and testing online last year, the issue of cheating has come into sharper focus. Recent reports of University of Auckland students allegedly cheating in online exams highlighted the potential for dishonesty in a trust-based system. But the problem also highlights a tension between cultures: the increasingly online world of higher education, and the everyday world of students. This has made “cheating” in exams a more complex and evolving question than it once was. It also has implications for the credibility and value of university education and how we perceive student learning. Traditionally, entry to university exams was controlled using student identity card photo checks. Set in large rooms, exams were invigilated to ensure students couldn’t communicate with each other in order to cheat. Everyone had their place, and what students could take into the room was described and restricted. Teachers set the exams, the students sat them, exams were marked and final grades given — simple enough. Covid-19 changed all that. For institutions where “blended” (face-to-face and online) learning had already been integrated, the digital switch was not so dramatic. But teachers and students who relied on paper-based or face-to-face teaching and learning faced something of a crisis: how to integrate existing practices with new technology. A rushed revolution Of course, the adjustment wasn’t equal. While some teachers and many students could quickly grab the latest device, connect to wi-fi and carry on, others struggled to access workable devices and internet connections. Universities, teachers and students had to engage with software that couldn’t cope. Meanwhile, new software was evolving as fast as Covid. We shouldn’t be surprised if the university behemoth struggled to adapt or change fast enough. Often, paper-based exams were simply transferred into online learning systems with little restructuring to suit the changed circumstances. Incidences of cheating didn’t appear as prevalent at the end of 2020’s first trimester/semester — possibly because everyone was caught on the hop by what was happening. However, students have shown they can cope with rapid change. Resourceful and adaptable, they have created their own ways of working and systems for information exchange. They form remote and close study groups, work collaboratively and draw on each other’s strengths. Essentially, they are demonstrating the innovative, adaptable learning skills our education system and future employers expect of them. So why should we be surprised if students apply the same approach to online examinations? Encouraging collaboration Universities often struggle to explain to students why academic integrity is important (the University of Otago being an exception). Unfortunately, most university policies conflate academic integrity and academic misconduct. We would argue that definitions of collusion as “working with others when it is not a group assignment” and “providing information to other students” are out of step with the new teaching and learning environment and its expectations. Furthermore, we know learning collaboratively encourages higher-order understanding — yet the current environment continues to require individual assessment of students. If education systems and teachers can’t provide specific guidance about preparing for and sitting online exams, what are the grounds for accusations of cheating? These grey areas reflect the generally opaque nature of the post-Covid world. Specifically, what exactly is wrong with students discussing problems, proposing solutions and presenting their own interpretation as their answer? Exams must evolve In the networked world, the line between what is original and what is adapted is more blurred every day. It isn’t always possible to decide what is original and unique in order to give it individual credit. If exams are designed to assess higher-order cognitive development – demonstrating individual ability to synthesise and apply knowledge – surely collaboration can be the vehicle for what educationalist John Biggs calls deeper learning. Can’t examination practices change to capture this? Rather than universities continuing to define student activities via traditional regulation, perhaps instead educators need to think strategically to tap into this new student energy. University exams need to check for individual (or collective) application, evaluation and synthesis of knowledge, not just rote learning and recall of study notes. It is evident the tertiary environment is evolving and students have demonstrated their creativity in banding together to solve problems in a modern way. Now is the time for examiners and exams to get smarter, too. Traditional ways of operating are behind us. We need to keep moving forward — away from the comfortable and into the confusing jungle of synthesised, regenerated and expanding knowledge. (The authors are with Massey University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/online-learning-has-changed-the-way-students-work-we-need-to-change-definitions-of-cheating-too-1000559.html
23-06-2021||Opinion||Future Tense: Online education in schools||Educational inequality already exists in many forms in the country. The recent push for online learning in schools raises further questions. If out of nearly 320 million students, only fifteen-twenty per cent get the benefits of online classes, then what should be done? Access to technology to only a select few creates a new power relationship in the learning community. Inequality has its politics, and the structure of education and the distribution of resources is no exception. In a pandemic situation like this, the safety of students is more important before the world gets a vaccine trial. But EduTech companies were quick to prepare their vision documents seeing vast potential in school education. In his book, Distrusting Educational Technology, Neil Selwyn estimates that the global digital market could amount to $5 trillion annually. Suddenly, online learning has become the mantra, sidelining complex issues like vacancies in teaching and financial resources required to improve the quality of learning in government schools. But is education through an online mode leading towards the objectives of education? Or is it creating a hierarchy among the learners? Global technology companies have offered partnerships with schools in many countries. For instance, in the UK, under the terms of the partnership, the company will provide free training and technical support to teachers in conducting online classes and managing students' assignments. Several other companies have collaborated with education foundations working in the education sector. Some EduTech companies are even imparting free tablets and Wi-Fi connectivity to vulnerable students. Their eyes are on the consumers of the future and, of course, on the multi-billion market. In India, Smart Class has already begun in several schools, with EduTech companies providing grants to merge education with technology. A big tech company has recently brought out a vision paper titled Re-imagining Education: The Future of Learning. They are calling for a paradigm shift due to Covid-19. This paper tells us the level of preparedness at the end of EduTech companies. Where is the vision paper from academic institutions? EduTech groups are promoting their ideas in association with organizations working in the social sector. You may have observed the sudden influx of statements and advertisements advocating the importance of online education has intensified. The products of several companies have been coming into the market for school education. Some celebrities have joined the troops to promote these firms. Is online school education a solution, or does it create a new challenge for a country like India? Schools are physically closed right now. Yet, many teachers employed in government schools have tried to teach their students through WhatsApp, YouTube, loudspeakers, etc. Some teachers have been attempting to maintain the learning cycle for the children in villages by carrying whiteboards, books on their scooters and motorcycles. These teachers deserve praise for their efforts, but it also has to be seen whether these efforts reduce the new educational divide created by technology. In educational discourse, there are discussions that technology will change the traditional form of the education system. The National Education Policy-2020 also favours the use of technology in education. According to an estimate, out of about thirty-two crore students in India, less than four crore students can resume their studies on online platforms. Generally, we see that new technology saves time and labour. Technology in the form of a product undoubtedly offers a solution to a particular problem. But at the same time creates new ones. As soon as schools were closed in March 2020, students across the country got divided into two categories. For those schools and students who have the option of online education, their new academic session started this month, i.e. June. They are learning at home. But there is another group of students who are dependent on government textbooks, uniforms and mid-day meals. They are waiting for schools to open in the second consecutive year. Having access to their complete set of textbooks by the end of the academic year is a remarkable achievement for students in this category. One can envisage flying high while attending school. This is why social scientists trust the usefulness of schooling for promoting social mobility. Schools and students with economic means for gadgets and the internet have continuity in their formal learning process. But how to make up for the academic drought of students neither holding tablets nor access to the internet? The discourse about technology, its impact, and constraints in the learning process could not go beyond the needed gadgets and internet speed. In pedagogy, the content, quality of interactions, and constructing knowledge are more prominent issues than the gadget. Should we not discuss the efficacy of technology in accomplishing the goals of education? There have been exhibited models of education technology, but carrying them to a larger scale has always been a challenge. The Head-Start, a computer-based learning intervention of Rajya Shiksha Kendra of Madhya Pradesh, is one example. The research studies done on this subject do not affirm that online mediums can become an alternative to school. Technology can have a supportive and efficient role in children's learning. But for that to happen, technology has to be used with an instructional design. Is there a strategy consisting of instructional design for the online model?   Due to the increased economic shocks and ambiguity on school opening, thousands of small schools have shut down forever. Thousands of children have withdrawn their names from private schools since March 2020. Millions of enrolled students in government schools may not join back the schools. Several girls and children with disabilities would not be coming back to school after two years. Sitting at home for girls is a more challenging option. Some of them may get trapped in child marriage. A large number of young children have joined the workforce. In the last two decades, India has achieved meaningful progress in the education sector due to the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, the Right to Education Act, 2009, Millennium Development Goals, and other affirmative schemes for girls and special groups. In 2021, the country is on the brink of losing the mileage gained with the participation of children and parents from disadvantaged sections. Discontinued education has a direct link with social mobility, hampering other aspects of life. The big question at this juncture is – Who gets the benefits of education technology? The EduTech companies or the children dependent on the state? (Sanjeev Rai, PhD, is an educationist and author of the book, Conflict, Education and the People's War in Nepal)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/future-tense-online-education-in-schools-1000564.html
23-06-2021||Opinion||Party vs politics: Shiv Sena's compulsions in Maharashtra||Ever since the unlikely trio of the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), along with the Shiv Sena, formed the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), and assumed power in Maharashtra in 2019, there is speculation whether it will last its five-year term. Amid this uncertainty, Sena's three-time MLA Pratap Sarnaik's letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is an unwelcome reality check for the party. While Sarnaik has couched his two-page letter of June 9 in fulsome praise for Thackeray's sterling leadership qualities, he has sneaked in many grouses. He has said the Congress and NCP MLAs get their work done quickly, but the Sena MLAs get short shrift despite having a chief minister from the party. Since November 2020, Sarnaik is under investigation by the Enforcement Directorate in a Rs 175 crore money laundering scam. In the letter, he says there is talk that the Sena got the chief minister's post because of the Congress and the NCP. However, now the Congress wants to go alone in the forthcoming municipal elections to Mumbai, Thane and other cities. He blamed the Congress-NCP for undermining the Sena. He said, under the circumstances, it is better to work things out with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. This way, at least the harassment meted out to Sarnaik, Sena transport minister Anil Parab and MLA Ravindra Waikar will end, which many Sena workers believe, Sarnaik pleaded. In addition to Sarnaik, other Sena leaders have faced a slew of accusations. For example, former BJP MP Kirti Somaiya has accused Waikar and Thackeray of buying property by "misusing their position". Waikar filed a Rs 100 crore defamation suit in April against Somaiya. Parab was accused of extortion by now dismissed policeman Sachin Waze and by Somaiya over a hotel he allegedly built in Dapoli, violating environmental norms and forging documents to legalize that construction. Allegations of extortion and corruption have already claimed two ministers in the MVA - Sanjay Rathod quit over actor Pooja Chavan's death and Anil Deshmukh, who was home minister. The police department is in disarray over the role of former Mumbai commissioner Parambir Singh, Sachin Waze and other police officers in the Antilla case. While not all of this reeks of rivalry and power games, certainly the MVA seems to be fending off attempts to dislodge it from power. Uneasy lies the head that wears the crown, and Thackeray, who steered Maharashtra through the worst Covid crisis in the country, needs to pay more attention to his party. Over the years, dissenting Shiv Sainiks have had to leave - notably Chhagan Bhujbal and Narayan Rane. There have always been power struggles in this party. The MVA needs to contend with all of this as also the attempts to discredit this government. The NCP and the Sena go a long way back, and there is speculation that they may contest future elections in tandem. That is why, perhaps, thenew Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole felt he had to say that the party will contest alone in the next Assembly elections, a decision evidently not endorsed by the high command. But the Congress, which has its internal leadership issues, does seem the odd person out in this opportunistic menage a trois! The NCP has not favoured 'going solo'. On the party foundation day on June 10, party chief Sharad Pawar placed his trust in the Sena. He reportedly said that the three parties would do well together in the next state and general elections. Politicians often say and do things that can have little rationale but not Pawar. He has the reputation of playing the game with a seasoned eyeon the future. The Third Front has been Pawar's pet project, and it perhaps has something to do with his attending Tuesday's (June 22) meeting involving various leaders from political parties, called by the Rashtra Manch. There is a buzz over his meeting political strategist PrashantKishore twice recently, but Kishore has since dispelled the assumption that a third front can tackle the current dispensation. However, for the Sena, at the moment, it is not the Assembly or Lok Sabha polls that are of concern. The major challenge for the party is retaining power in the Brihanmumbai municipal corporation (BMC), which it has controlled since 1985. It scraped past the BJP precariously in the last elections in 2017 with 84 seats. The elections to the BMC  are due next year and this time, the fact that the BJP is not its ally, has complicated matters. The Sena may not be able to win the municipal corporation on its strength. That could also be why Thackeray played it safe at the June 19 meeting of his party's foundation day. He dismissed talk of going solo in future elections and focused on regional pride. He spoke of the TMC win in West Bengal and working for the poor, and using power to work for the people. More than 15 municipal corporations (including Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Thane), 29 of 36 district councils and over 90 municipal councils willgo to polls in Maharashtra over the next 20 months. The Sena is aware of the need to keep Mumbai, its primary constituency happy, and it hasbeen focusing on protecting the Aarey Colony, and creating a reservation for the forest area, speeding up the metro and other projects. Also, therecould be more than state finances and cyclone assistance to meeting Modi recently in New Delhi, even if the Sena said it had always givenimportance to personal relations above politics. The BJP threw the gauntlet in November 2020 when former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said the party would end the Sena's long innings at the BMC. In 2017, the BJP won a record 82 seats (from a mere 30 in 2012) in the 227-member BMC house. There was a tussle over the mayor's post, which finally went to the Sena. The Congress had won 31 seats and the NCP 9. So, the Congress and the NCP are not at an advantage in the city of Mumbai, and the big fight will be between the two Hindutva parties and their allies. Preparing for battle will require Thackeray to pay close attention to the ground realities of a municipal election not only in Mumbai but elsewhere, and it is within his party that perhaps he will face the most dissension and issues, as is evident from Sarnaik's letter. The game's afoot!Ends (Meena Menon is an independent journalist and author, and currently a post-graduate researcher, School of History, University of Leeds, UK)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/party-vs-politics-shiv-senas-compulsions-in-maharashtra-1000568.html
23-06-2021||Panorama||What’s in store for wildlife?||India received laurels for Project Tiger, launched in 1973 to protect the national animal the Royal Bengal tiger. After its success, many more projects to conserve endangered animals were started. The projects not only aim to protect wildlife but also help vegetation of Protected Areas (PA) to flourish. In its initial days, wildlife management faced severe problems in controlling poaching. With support from organisations like the Convention of International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora and the World Wide Fund for Nature, some degree of success was achieved. With successive amendments to the Wildlife Act that prescribe severe punishments and the formation of the National Tiger Conservation Authority in 2005, it is safe to say that the poaching problem is under control now. Also, the deployment of locals in Anti-Poaching Camps has added to the decline in poaching activities. With all these measures in place, as time passes, the task to protect the wildlife continues to face new challenges. Vast tracts of forest land have been released unabated to encroachers and beneficiaries of  Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006 (FRA)— for which the onus lies on states— and for development projects including highways, railways, mines and dams— onus lies on NBWL and SBWL. This has resulted in the fragmentation and shrinking of wildlife habitats outside PAs. Also, the release of forest land disrupts the traditional wildlife corridors that animals use to move to their seasonal foraging and breeding grounds. In search of migratory routes to these grounds, the animals move into human settlements, trample crops, damage property and kill people and cattle— the result is a severe Man-Animal Conflict (MAC). The wildlife management spends a huge amount to resolve MACs by building barriers along the boundaries between the PAs and the farmlands with different models but animals are smarter; they find ways to overcome them. The management also spends money to control poaching and forest fires and to meet water scarcity in summer. They don’t look into the problems that have caused the wild animals to migrate. Another issue is the continuation of age-old practices of wildlife management. Since 1973, the practice has been to not interfere with the vegetation in PAs. Silviculture is not followed. This non-interference has resulted in greying of forests with matured trees and the accumulation of dead fuelwood loads in PAs, inviting frequent fires, especially in deciduous forest regions. These fires open PAs to exotic invasive weeds, like Lantana camara, Eupatorium odorata and Parthenium hysterophorus, that do not allow grass or trees to regenerate in their thickets and obstruct the movement of wild animals. The exotic weeds are estimated to have occupied more than 75-80 % of the forest floors of PAs like Bandipur, Nagarahole and BR hills (Karnataka); Wayanad (Kerala) and Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (Tamil Nadu). The weed invasion and forest fires cause a dearth of fodder for the herbivores, forcing them to move out in search of food. The animals like the big cats that have assured protection in PAs have multiplied in number. With increased competition for resources, they naturally move out of PAs in search of food and to breed. The animals, both herbivores and carnivores, cross over the barriers like cattle-proof trenches, old rail fences, solar fences and rubble and stone walls etc built along PAs’ boundary and create havoc in adjoining farms. PA management is forced to capture and relocate the animals. Although these mostly include elephants, tigers and leopards, there are incidents where bison, bears, monkeys and pea-fowls, too, have done the damage, but it is the wild boar that the farming communities fear the most. Hundreds of boars raid the crops at night and terrorise the farmers. There have been fewer efforts to stop the shrinking and fragmentation of the wildlife habitats outside PAs— Onus on NBWL, SBWL and the states. The management is not in a hurry to improve the fodder resources of PAs by removing the exotic weeds. There is no plan to analyse the Carrying Capacity of the wildlife habitats to limit the animal population within the PA’s capacity— no habitat can support an unlimited population of wild animals and the onus to do this lies on PAs. All these are the root causes for all the present MACs.  The questions that need to be asked are: For how long can wildlife management contain animals in PAs with barriers? What and where can the herbivores feed on, when the forest floors no longer hold fodder because of the invasion by exotic weeds? Where should the ever-increasing number of wild animals have to move when forests are fragmented and corridors disrupted? And for how long or how many animals will the authorities translocate? The million-dollar question for wildlife management in India, given the present scenario, is: What is in store for the wildlife? (The writer is a retired Indian Forest Service officer)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/what-s-in-store-for-wildlife-1000450.html
23-06-2021||Panorama||Corporates, governments are on notice for climate action||The road to sustainability is undoubtedly going to be long and strenuous. International climate negotiations are stumbling along, with hurdles and barriers on many themes such as reaching net-zero emissions, addressing loss and damage from climate impacts, and assuring support for developing countries. The lines of dispute between rich and developing countries in climate negotiations appear impregnable mainly because they are organised around a lopsided world economic order. Nevertheless, the month of May brought several small but consequential victories for climate change action. Decisions In two separate lawsuits, outcomes were in favour of plaintiffs who sued governments or multinationals. The first was a landmark ruling in Australia where eight teens filed a suit against Environment Minister Susan Ley, seeking to block the expansion of the Vickery coal mine in New South Wales. The judge ruled that Minister Ley had a “duty of care”, an obligation to protect the youth and the environment from the adverse effects of climate change. Even though the court did not issue an injunction, it recognised that the government had the responsibility to protect young people from the catastrophic harms of climate change, the first time a court had done so. The second case was a historic win in The Hague where the District Court ordered Royal Dutch Shell to slash the company’s direct and indirect carbon dioxide emissions. In 2030, these must be 45% lower globally relative to 2019 levels. Friends of the Earth (Milieudefensie) and several other organisations had brought the suit against the oil major because Shell continued to invest in fossil fuels with the knowledge that its actions cause global warming. Both verdicts set precedents for similar cases against polluting multinationals and governments around the world. There were two more reasons to rejoice. Shareholder activism led to success in chastening two oil majors over the same period. The climate activist group, Follow This, led a rebellion in Chevron. In the preliminary count, the group managed to sway 61% of shareholders at Chevron to vote, over objections of the management, to demand that the company make substantial emissions cuts from the end use of its products (Scope 3 emissions). A small hedge fund, Engine No. 1, pushed for green business strategies by ExxonMobil. After persuading pension funds from California and New York to join the faceoff, it was able to appoint two of its people to the board of ExxonMobil. These changes took place despite the hedge fund’s small stake ($50 million) in a company worth $250 billion. The ‘Little Engine That Could’ thus forced a reckoning in the oil industry. Fossil fuel companies might not see the folly of their ways right away. Still, the wins have shown that as frustration regarding inaction on climate change deepens, board activism, like court action, can successfully put corporations and governments on notice to take climate change and future generations more seriously. Implications Since 1986, there have been more than 1,500 cases relating to climate change that have been filed worldwide. These are predominantly in the US, Australia, UK and Europe, but a few are also in developing countries such as Colombia, Pakistan and India. In 2020, the International Bar Association published a guide for litigation to challenge government failure to act on climate change. They covered issues of standing and jurisdiction, redressability and forms of evidence needed for successful suits. Several of the recent cases have been significant and relate to implementing national policies on climate change. In these, courts have generally agreed with plaintiffs that climate change is a grave problem warranting effective action by governments and fossil fuel companies. Their rulings have, however, differed with the local context. In 2020, the construction of a third runway at Heathrow airport was blocked by a ruling where the court agreed that the action would jeopardise UK’s commitment to the Paris Agreement. Another suit brought by young climate activists in Germany charged that a law passed in 2019 only went as far as 2030 and did not develop long-term plans leading to net-zero emissions. The litigants claimed that in postponing or delaying strategies for future action, the country was merely kicking the can down the road, and the court agreed. In 2015, 21 youth raised a legal challenge in a federal court against the US government for failing to act on climate change. The well-known suit, Juliana v. the United States, is part of a movement of “atmospheric trust litigation.” This type of lawsuit applies the public trust doctrine to the climate system. The lawsuit alleges that the government encouraged activities that burned fossil fuels and deprived the plaintiffs of a safe and stable climate system and, ultimately, their “constitutional rights to life, liberty, property and public trust resources.” The Ninth Circuit dismissed the case in 2020. In his majority opinion, Judge Horowitz agreed with the charges made by the plaintiffs but wrote: “Reluctantly, we conclude that such relief is beyond our constitutional power. Rather, the plaintiffs’ impressive case for redress must be presented to the political branches of government”. In her strong dissent, Judge Staton wrote that there was sufficient reason for the court to force the government towards remedial action. In closing, she asked, “When the seas envelop our coastal cities, fires and droughts haunt our interiors, and storms ravage everything between, those remaining will ask: Why did so many do so little?” Ultimately, the fate of climate change policy lies with people’s movements for action and the policies enacted by their elected representatives. Courts can, however, instruct and coerce responsible government action. Similarly, shareholders in polluting companies have a fiduciary responsibility to ensure that they too are able to answer Judge Staton’s question resolutely: What did you do to address climate change? (The writer is a scientist whose interests are science, technology and policy)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/corporates-governments-are-on-notice-for-climate-action-1000461.html
23-06-2021||Panorama||A 'Digital India' that fails on access to online education||The coronavirus pandemic has erected innumerable challenges before the country. It has resulted in an overburdened and exhausted healthcare system, a crippled economy with amplified unemployment and loss of livelihoods and a crumbled education system that has impacted millions of schoolchildren. School education has been impacted across the world. According to Unesco, the pandemic resulted in the prolonged closure of schools affecting the educational prospects of more than 290 million children— this at a time when six million children were already out of school. In developing nations like India, the situation is grave as there are unprecedented levels of economic contraction, unparalleled unemployment rates and excessive fiscal burden on families. This hampers especially those who belong to the economically marginalised groups in both rural and urban areas to access education. There are numerous reports that suggest that the pandemic has had a far-reaching impact on India’s school education. There are worrisome trends showing a steady increase in dropout rates mainly of students in Classes 6-10. and this has largely been attributed to heavy debts, financial strains and unemployment due to the pandemic. Financially strained families are likely to compel children to become extra earning members. A large number of Indian children today work alongside their parents and take up odd jobs to add to the family’s already meagre income pool. These worrisome trends raise a concern about the possibilities of these children ever returning back to classrooms. The scale and magnanimity of the crisis can be understood by a Unicef data, according to which 1.5 million schools across the country closed down due to the pandemic and the ‘new normal’ saw the widespread emphasis and assertion on digital technologies and online teaching-learning as the solution to fill the educational void. But the truth at the ground level is different. This transition has only brought about exclusivist access to learning, erected walls of separation and hierarchy and has become a solution of the few rather than a democratic, shared solution of the masses. According to a 2019 survey conducted by the National Statistical Office, only 24% of urban households have access to smartphones, electronic devices and internet connectivity and only 4% have access to such resources in rural India. The extent to which technology-driven education is a far-fetched reality in India and is inaccessible for a majority of Indian children can be estimated from the fact that a 2018 Niti Aayog report tells us that 55,000 villages in India didn’t yet have mobile connectivity, moreover a study conducted by the Ministry of Rural Development in 2017-18 documents that more than 36% of schools don’t have access to electricity even today and only 4% of those living in rural areas use a mobile phone with an internet connection. How then can we expect a smooth transition to an education premised on access to technology? It is ironic that despite the lack of infrastructure and adequate preparedness, we have begun seeing technology-driven education as an answer to the educational challenges brought by the pandemic, negating and overlooking the harsh truth that such a paradigm shift is alienating, humiliating and is discriminatory towards millions of children, especially those who come from the financially weaker sections of the society. Are we laughing at their economic vulnerabilities, mocking their marginalisation and social decadence and telling them that even though we call ourselves a welfare state, their education is never a priority? With a mere 3% of the GDP spending on education, it is impossible to democratise access to education especially at a time when the digital divide has deepened the cleavages in an already hierarchical and unequal educational paradigm. If a country that prides itself in being a welfare state doesn’t do anything, we must hang our heads in shame. Education in this country is a Constitutional right after all, and every child must have access to it. (The writer is founder-editor of 'The New Leam', an independent media organisation)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-digital-india-that-fails-on-access-to-online-education-1000774.html
23-06-2021||Panorama||Covid surge in Africa raises fears of a calamity like India’s||By Abdi Latif Dahir, Before Kenya’s president and other leaders arrived in late May to mark a major public holiday, health officials in Kisumu on Lake Victoria saw disaster brewing. Coronavirus infections were spiking, hospital isolation units were filling up and the highly contagious Delta variant had been found in Kenya for the first time— in Kisumu County. Dr Boaz Otieno Nyunya, the county executive for health and sanitation, said he and other health specialists argued and pleaded for the politicians to hold a virtual celebration and skip the mass, in-person events that can supercharge an outbreak. Just weeks earlier, huge political rallies had helped fuel the catastrophic Covid-19 wave in India, where the Delta variant first emerged and became dominant. Their objections were waved away, the health officials said. President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto, former prime minister Raila Odinga and others descended on Kisumu, drawing large and mostly unmasked crowds who thronged the streets to watch their slow-moving motorcades through the city and gathered to hear them at marketplaces and parking lots. In the weeks since, all reports show an alarming surge in infections and deaths in the county of just over 1.1 million people, with the virus sickening mostly young people. Dr Patrick Amoth, acting director-general of Kenya’s health ministry, said the Delta variant was driving the upswing. With medical supplies depleted, vaccines scarce, doctors lamenting physical and mental fatigue and hospitals turning away patients for lack of beds or oxygen, health officials say they fear a wave like the one that ripped through India in April and May could be looming over Kisumu. “The India example is not lost to us,” Nyunya said. Though data on infections and deaths is spotty, more than 23% of the people tested for the virus in Kisumu last week were positive — more than double the national rate. Kenya’s overall positivity rate is similar to that of the United States when the pandemic peaked there in January. But the Delta variant was still rare then, the American health system is far more robust than Kenya’s and the US government was ramping up vaccination on a grand scale. All of Africa is vulnerable, as the latest wave of the pandemic sweeps the continent, driven in part by more transmissible variants. Fewer than 1% of Africa’s people have been even partially vaccinated, by far the lowest rate for any continent. “I think the greatest risk in Africa is to look at what happened in Italy earlier on and what happened in India and start thinking we are safe— to say it’s very far away from us and that we may not go the same way,” said Dr Mark Nanyingi, an infectious disease epidemiologist at the University of Liverpool in Britain. He called the surge in western Kenya a “storm on the horizon.” Covid-related deaths in Africa climbed by nearly 15% last week compared to the previous one, based on available data from almost 40 nations, the World Health Organisation (WHO) said. But experts say the true scale of the pandemic far exceeds reported figures in Africa, where testing and tracing remain a challenge for many countries, and many nations do not collect mortality data. To forestall the ongoing crisis, Kenya’s Ministry of Health last week imposed a restriction on gatherings and extended a dusk-to-dawn curfew in Kisumu and more than a dozen surrounding counties. But the measures were too late for Nyunya, who said that thinking back on the deliberations — which involved county Governor Peter Anyang’ Nyong’o, a former national health minister — over the celebrations last month, “It makes you feel impotent.” In Uganda, which borders Kenya near Kisumu and has announced record cases and deaths, President Yoweri Museveni has imposed a strict 42-day lockdown. Just weeks ago, Rwanda hosted the Basketball Africa League and other big sporting events, raising the possibility for a full reopening. But after a spike in cases, the government introduced new lockdown measures on Monday. Congo — where the virus has claimed the lives of more than 5% of lawmakers — is grappling with a third wave as it falters in rolling out vaccines. South Africa, the continent’s worst-hit nation, has reported new infections doubling in just two weeks’ time, with the sharpest increases in major urban centres. Tunisia, where hospitals are full and oxygen supplies are low, is enduring a fourth wave. “New, higher transmitting variants create a precarious situation in many countries that have weak health systems,” said Dr Ngozi Erondu, a senior health scholar at the O’Neill Institute at Georgetown University. The WHO attributes the surge in Africa to lack of vaccination, insufficient adherence to precautionary measures like mask-wearing and social distancing and the Delta and other variants. In Kisumu, health officials first detected the Delta variant in early May, in factory workers who had arrived from India. Since then, it has spread to neighbouring counties, with doctors saying patients were presenting more severe symptoms than they encountered earlier in the pandemic. The increase in infections has stretched both public and private hospitals, with many saying they have turned patients away or referred them to hospitals as distant as Nairobi, the capital, more than 220 miles away. The private Aga Khan Hospital in Kisumu typically saw two or three Covid patients at a time early this year. But during a recent visit, the hospital had 18 such patients, with only 12 beds designated specifically for Covid treatment. The Kisumu County Hospital had only one bed available out of 13 in its isolation unit, said Salome Situma, the supervising nurse of the Covid-19 unit. The hospital doesn’t have piped oxygen and all five portable cylinders were in use, she said. Musa Ismail, the chairman of the Kisumu Muslim Association, said the Muslim community was at times burying two to three people a day in recent weeks, where they used to bury just one every few months. Zablon Awange, executive secretary of a county teachers union, said it had buried several teachers in recent weeks. Sally Okudo, a member of the county assembly, said there was a sudden spike of deaths among her constituents. For now, families who have lost loved ones are adjusting to a new reality. Edward Onditi, 33, lost both his brother and his mother to Covid-19 this month. He said he left Nairobi to come and assist his family after his brother, Herbert, whom he regarded as a best friend and mentor, fell ill. For weeks, the family transported Herbert, 43, between three hospitals in two counties — a distance of 70 miles in total — so that he could get high-flow oxygen. On the day before Herbert died, Edward had fish, his brother’s favorite meal, delivered to his isolation ward and promised to take him on a holiday once he was out. “I’m so touched,” his brother said in a text message sent on June 2. Barely 12 hours later, he was gone. A few days later, their mother, Naomi, who had been ailing, succumbed to complications from Covid-19, too. “It’s one of the toughest moments of my life,” Edward Onditi said on a recent afternoon, his eyes welling with tears. “Things are just not working. They are not adding up.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/covid-surge-in-africa-raises-fears-of-a-calamity-like-india-s-1000782.html
23-06-2021||Panorama||Did Congress prescribe the right medicine for its Kerala unit’s ailment?||The revamp of Congress’ Kerala unit leadership, which came close on the heels of the setback faced by the grand old party in the recent Assembly election, was meant to be a strong message from the party high command against the factionalism in the party's state unit. But in political circles, the question that is doing the rounds is whether the revamp is helping revive the Congress or is the party unit on its way to becoming more fractious, with new power centres adding to the problem of groupism. Kerala, the Congress central leadership is well aware, is one of the few states in which the party is still a contender for power, although in the April poll this year, it lost a second consecutive election for the first time in decades. And this despite the party having 15 of the 20 Lok Sabha seats in the states under its belt.  Factionalism has been the Congress’ bugbear in Kerala for decades. Indeed, the current prominent groups led by former chief minister Oommen Chandy and former leader of the opposition Ramesh Chennithala are descendants of groups that were led by former chief ministers A K Antony and K Karunakaran. Over the years, the party’s national leadership has made attempts to rid the state unit of factionalism, but in vain. In 2014, it appointed V M Sudheeran to succeed Chennithala as state party president. Sudheeran was seen as belonging to no camp and was therefore expected to pull along all groups and leaders. In 2018, it appointed Mullappally Ramachandran to the post for the same reason. Instead of the party pulling together under their leadership, however, the factional leaders saw their appointments as an embarrassment to themselves. Groupism only intensified. In the run up to the April elections, the groups once again fell out over ticket allotment, with each side vying for tickets for their own loyalists. This resulted in the formation of jumbo committees of 12 vice presidents, 42 general secretaries and around 100 secretaries for the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee. Not without reason is the Congress often mocked as a party with more leaders than workers. When the party lost the polls, its national leadership made the same diagnosis of the state unit’s illness and prescribed the same medicine for its cure: Appoint a leader who is not with any of the factions in the hope that s/he will remain neutral and thus be able to pull along all sides. K Sudhakaran was appointed the new Kerala PCC president and V D Satheesan the new leader of opposition in the Assembly. They have been tasked with reviving the party following two consecutive Assembly poll losses. Satheesan and Sudhakaran have made the proforma statement – that they will take all leaders along. This is a challenging task, as they have started to find out. As in the past, the existing camps have felt hurt by the high command's decision to change the state leadership without taking them into confidence. They continue to further factionalism and it's already evident. Recently, after an official Congress delegation visited a place where trees were felled illegally, Chennithala made a separate visit, saying that the others had ditched him. Congress insiders say that new groups could be formed in the party, whose organisational structure continues to be weak, as a new set of party workers are eager to become leaders. While the factional leaders have all welcomed the appointment of Sudhakaran and Satheesan in public, the two are not seen to have grown into leadership positions but are seen as having been thrust on the factions by the party high command without taking them into confidence, says veteran journalist and political commentator Jacob George, adding that the resentment over this is evident. A senior Congress leader and former Kerala minister told DH on condition of anonymity that the central leadership’s diagnosis of the problem is way off the mark, and so its solution for it, too. It was not the groupism in the party that was affecting the party adversely but ‘orchestrated’ social media campaigns that were having undue influence on the high command’s decision-making, he said. He was referring to the recent social media campaigns calling for a leadership change in favour of Sudhakaran and Satheesan. “Prescribing medicines without properly diagnosing a disease will only worsen the patient’s condition,” he warned, adding that the Congress had in the past won elections with comfortable majorities even when it was riven with severe factionalism. “The Congress lost the April elections not due to groupism but due to other factors. While the pandemic affected the political activities of opposition parties in reaching out to voters, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had turned it into an opportunity to reach out to the people through his daily press conferences. Social and communal equations, too, helped the Left front retain power," he said. Satheesan, a five-time legislator, is seen to have performed well as leader of opposition during the just-concluded session of the Assembly. Sudhakaran, known for his plain-speaking, had fought the CPM in its citadel, Kannur, and also duelled with the Chief Minister, defending his party in the matter of its internal feuds. But a section of party leaders is sceptical about his ability to perform as state unit president. Sudhakaran could give energy to the party through his oratory, George said, adding that no one would benefit by raising concern over Sudhakaran’s abilities either. What the party needs is to strengthen itself from the grassroots. Political observers are keen to see if the new leaders move to dissolve the jumbo committees and revamp the party’s organisational structure or let things be, and whether perceived merit will count in appointments or will loyalty trump it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/did-congress-prescribe-the-right-medicine-for-its-kerala-unit-s-ailment-1000787.html
23-06-2021||Right in the Middle||The days of letters||The old inland letters, postcards and birthday greetings that were exchanged between our ancestors open up a trove of memories. Stamped and postmarked, they have pursued us while moving from one town to another. My family and I exchanged letters whenever I was out of town, either on official duty or touring as a player with the State Bank of India Bengaluru circle hockey team. In the pre-mobile phone era, exchanging handwritten notes was the most inexpensive way to keep in touch. It was a time when we savoured the written word, and the thrill of receiving a letter was unmatched. The snail mail took its own sweet time to arrive and one waited for them patiently. In a unique case of being both sender and receiver, I became the recipient of my very own letter posted from Kanpur to my parents in Bengaluru sometime in the early eighties. On reaching Bengaluru, the letter zeroed in on me like a well-guided missile with the postman delivering it to me just before I stepped into my house. My brothers and I wrote extensively while away on tour. The telegram was still around but expensive. Making calls from the public call office (PCO), besides being exorbitant, also meant biding your time and standing in serpentine queues in front of the booth. The humble postcard came for an unbelievable five paise while the inland letter also sold for a steal— fifteen paise. Posting a letter was akin to showing up personally at someone's door. It was an obsession of many literate people. I recall using every inch of space on the card or paper to convey my thoughts. A single reading of the narrative would seldom satisfy the receiver, and one would tend to reread the post before tucking it into the drawer. Saved letters or journals written by ancestors generations ago have become a part of the family heirloom. For others, it is the love letters sent back and forth while the father or grandfather was away at war that is the most special. The wife holds the letters I wrote to her during our early marriage years dear to her heart. Letters exchanged by people featured accounts of successes and troubles or family news of babies, marriages and deaths. They held documented history, reflections and dreams. Significantly, the stack of precious old letters is a labour of love and inheriting them could also be the key to extracting the information about the family tree. Writing letters is a discarded art and a part of me grieves the loss. People prefer texting through emails, SMSs and WhatsApp. Every generation mourns something they value that the next generation does not know well. Preserving memories in the form of old family letters is one of the best things you can do to ensure their content is available for future generations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-days-of-letters-1000451.html
23-06-2021||Right in the Middle||'Charpoy' tales||Back in the early seventies, for many Delhiites, a 'charpoy' meant something far more than a four-legged cot made of ropes. Memories of our childhood were entwined with it. From sleeping to playing board games to hiding under it— the 'charpoy' has seen us grow. The 'charpoy' came in all sizes and could be made to order unlike the standard king and queen size beds found today. We rejoiced whenever the ropes got a little loose as the 'charpoy' became cosier like a hammock. It was gutted tight again. The best summer nights were spent lying under the starry skies on the 'charpoy'. I can still recall many nights of star gazing filled with fun and laughter. Each night, the earthy smell from a small 'surahi' filled with water and the cool breeze blowing through the 'Rangoon malli' climber caressed us to a good sleep.  With the first rays of sun, the 'charpoys' were stacked back closely in a small verandah for the lack of space. Come winters, again the 'charpoys' were dusted and brought out, but this time it was during the day.  Post breakfast, as if it were a routine, all would head to the verandah to pick up the 'charpoy' and place it where the sun was strong. A 'rajai' alongside would surely provide that extra comfort. Later, the peddlers like 'moongphali-wala', 'alootiki-wala' or 'chikki-wala' could be heard shouting their usual slogans. This sticky round jaggery disc filled with the warm goodness of the peanuts would be handed over on a newspaper for a small amount and that was shared by every member of the family.  Afternoon lunches were mostly stuffed parathas with homemade pickle and curd that would be laid out on one 'charpoy'— it would be turned into a dining table lined with newspapers.  Under a thin muslin covering, we could see the new batch of carrots, cauliflowers and turnips drying themselves on another 'charpoy'. The pots for pickling would also be lined close by for drying. After lunch, steaming hot ginger tea accompanied with yummy atta biscuits from local ration shop was a bliss.  As all good things come to an end, couple of years later we came to hear of a theft in our neighbouring block. Despite our loyal 'Gorkha ' whistling, banging the stick on the road and shouting ‘jagte raho’ throughout the night, a decision had been made by the elders in the house that it was henceforth unsafe to sit or sleep outside in the open. Times changed and the 'charpoys' made their slow exit. Only the sturdy ones stayed back for other purposes and the verandah saw some new flowerpots lined along the walls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/charpoy-tales-1000773.html
23-06-2021||Second Edit||An ultra-conservative at Iran’s helm||Ebrahim Raisi’s victory in Iran’s presidential elections was a foregone conclusion. The entire election process was engineered to propel him to the presidency. A Shia Muslim cleric who heads Iran’s judiciary, Raisi is known for his ultra-conservative views. He is said to be close to Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Raisi won a landslide victory, securing 62% of the votes cast in Friday’s presidential election. However, this cannot be interpreted as indicative of his popularity or of the support conservatives enjoy among Iranians. The conservative Guardian Council, which vets all potential candidates, disqualified most reformists aspiring to contest the presidential election, leaving Raisi as the only prominent candidate in the list. With just two lacklustre reformists in the fray, moderate voters were left without much of a choice. They preferred to not vote. Voter turnout in Friday’s election was just 48.8%, a historic low. Thanks to the support he received from Iran’s centres of power, Raisi has risen to the presidency. With this, all of Iran’s institutions are once again in the hands of ultra-conservatives. Raisi allegedly had a hand in the extrajudicial mass execution of political prisoners in 1988. In 2018, he reportedly called the massacre “one of the proud achievements of the system.” Iranians can expect his presidency to be more puritanical than the one under his predecessor, Hassan Rouhani, a reformist. Raisi will impose more restrictions on social activity, personal freedoms and women’s rights. He is slated to succeed Khamenei. An ambitious man, he will avoid pursuing policies that could ruffle the feathers of the conservative establishment, whose support he needs to propel him to the Supreme Leader’s chair. Raisi’s victory puts the United States in a spot. Former President Donald Trump imposed sanctions on him in 2019 via an executive order. Already, the US has no formal ties with Iran; ongoing talks between the two sides on revival of the 2015 nuclear deal are being conducted in Vienna with the help of intermediaries. It will be embarrassing for the Joe Biden administration to have to strike a deal with a country that is helmed by a sanctioned individual. Yet, while Raisi may be a rigid ultra-conservative on domestic policy, the state of Iran’s economy, which is in crisis, may force him to be pragmatic in foreign policy. While he will look to China and Russia for economic support, he will need to get the US to lift the economic sanctions. That will require him to reach an agreement with the US on the nuclear deal. The possibility of Raisi making compromises must not be ruled out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/an-ultra-conservative-at-iran-s-helm-1000457.html
23-06-2021||Second Edit||Prepare for the third Covid-19 wave||While the second wave of the pandemic is receding, curbs are being relaxed across the country and society, the economy and offices are slowly opening up, there are already intimations of an aggravation of the situation in the near future. The country’s average positivity rate has remained below 5% for several days now, active cases have fallen below 7 lakh and daily new infections are a little over 50,000, the lowest in about three months. Recoveries have gone up. All other indicators are turning more benign, and they have given rise to hope. But many experts consider this to be the lull before the next storm. AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria has warned of another wave striking in six to eight weeks. Maharashtra’s Covid task force has said it might hit the state earlier and the death toll could be twice that in the second wave. The situation may not be different in other states. The country still does not have much control over the measures needed to prevent or reduce the severity of a third wave. The foremost need is for vaccinations, which have till now covered less than 4% of the population. At the present pace, even with new vaccines and with a longer gap between the first and second doses, they will not have covered substantially more numbers of people in the next few weeks. A new variant of the virus, which has mutated from its Delta variant, is causing concern as it is feared to be more infectious. Other variants may also arise and there is the need for more genome sequencing. Better and more transparent statistics are needed, rather than hiding facts and figures. Without correct data, we are fighting in the dark. It is important not to waste this lean period with self-congratulation and in making false and exaggerated claims. Capacities should be built up in every respect. Apart from vaccines, the availability of medical oxygen, medicines, equipment and hospital beds for both adults and children have to be increased. The strength of medical and paramedical staff should be enhanced. Some states have done well to launch a programme to train volunteers as community nursing assistants. Surveillance programmes should be extended to more areas, especially villages, for early detection and management of the infection. The more vulnerable sections of the population should receive special attention. Income support and compensations should be considered as part of Covid management. Most importantly, there should not be any laxity in following the Covid-19 protocol. The virus has not gone away, and it should not be given another opportunity to come back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/prepare-for-the-third-covid-19-wave-1000785.html
23-06-2021||South||Kerala HC suspends govt order allowing private hospitals to fix rates for rooms availed by Covid patients||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday suspended a Kerala government order allowing private hospitals to fix rates for rooms and suites availed by Covid-19-19 patients. The bench headed by Justice Devan Ramachandran observed that the government order diluted the spirit of HC's earlier directives to fix tariff for Covid-19-19 treatment at private hospitals. "The state government seems to be protecting the interests of private hospitals," the bench said. It was following the HC's intervention that the state government issued an order in May fixing rates for Covid-19 treatment at private hospitals. But the government recently issued an order allowing private hospitals to fix rates for rooms and suite rooms availed by Covid-19 patients. The matter came to the HC's notice while considering a petition of private hospitals regarding the cap on Covid-19 treatment rates. The state government sought one week time for rectifying the flaws in the order. The relaxations to the private hospital were learnt to be given after the court directed the government to look into the plight of private hospital managements. The court also directed to consider fixing rates for post-Covid-19 ailments. The HC had earlier welcomed the Kerala government's decision in May to fix rates for Covid-19 treatment at a private hospital. As per the earlier order, the maximum daily rates for Covid-19 treatment at general wards in non-NABH accredited and NABH accredited hospitals was fixed at Rs. 2,645 and Rs. 2,910 respectively. Rates for ICU-Ventilators are fixed at Rs. 13,800 and Rs. 15,180 respectively and medicines and PPE Kits should be charged within the maximum retail prices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-suspends-govt-order-allowing-private-hospitals-to-fix-rates-for-rooms-availed-by-covid-patients-1000663.html
23-06-2021||South||Govt liberalises guidelines for voice BPO industry||Aimed at making India a leading global destination for voice BPOs, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology on Wednesday announced the liberalisation of guidelines for other service providers (OSPs). "We have today extensively liberalised OSP guidelines. This revolutionary step will make India a global destination for BPOs," Communications Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told reporters while announcing new guidelines. According to the government, India’s IT-BPM industry stood at $37.6 billion (approx. Rs 2.8 lakh crores) in 2019-20. The industry can witness double-digit growth of up to $55.5 billion (approx. Rs 3.9 lakh crores) by 2025. The BPM industry’s revenues grew from $37.6 billion in 2019-20 to $38.5 billion in 2020-21. He also said the distinction between domestic and international OSPs has been removed and relaxed norms for how they store and share data amongst their units. A BPO centre with common telecom resources will now be able to serve customers located worldwide including in India. This allows interconnectivity between all kinds of OSPs, which means firms can offload traffic amongst different centres, or to each other. A small operator situated in rural areas will be able to work with larger operations, said a statement from the Ministry. With the removal of the distinction between domestic and international OSP centres, the interconnectivity between all types of OSP centres, is now permitted. EPABX (Electronic Private Automatic Branch Exchange) of the OSP can be located anywhere in the world. OSPs apart from utilising EPABX services of the Telecom Service Providers can also locate their EPABX at third Party Data Centres in India, said the statement. Remote Agents of OSP can now connect directly with the Centralised EPABX/ EPABX of the OSP/ EPABX of the customer using any technology including Broadband over wireline/ wireless.No restriction for data interconnectivity between any OSP centres of the same company or group company or any unrelated company. In addition, the regulations exempted OSPs from the requirement of any registration.  Also, no Bank Guarantees were to be furnished. Work from Home and Work from Anywhere was also permitted. Penalties for violations were removed altogether,  said the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/govt-liberalises-guidelines-for-voice-bpo-industry-1000676.html
23-06-2021||South||47-year-old farmer dies after being attacked by policeman in Tamil Nadu||In yet another case of police brutality, a 47-year-old farmer in Salem district on Wednesday succumbed to injuries inflicted on him by a policeman, who allegedly trashed him with a lathi in full public view Periyasamy, the Special Sub-inspector (SSI), who is accused of assaulting the farmer, Murugesan, is now in police custody after a criminal case was registered against him. The Salem District Police has also placed Periyasamy under suspension. The incident took place at the Pappinaickenpatti check-post in Salem district on Tuesday evening when Murugesan and two others were returning from neighbouring Kallakurichi district. Police sources said the trio were returning after consuming liquor at a TASMAC shop as the outlets in their district are still closed due to Covid-19 lockdown.  A video that has now gone viral shows Murugesan pleading with the SSI not to trash him. However, the fervent pleas of the hapless farmers fell in the deaf ears of the policeman who continued to trash Murugesan till he crashed. The video also showed three other policemen were on duty. Police sources said the preliminary inquiry points to an argument between Murugesan and Periyasamy who was manning the check-post. Since Murugesan was in an inebriated state, the sources said, he picked up a fight with a policeman, and the argument culminated in an assault. The trio was riding a motorcycle. “The policeman who is accused (of trashing the farmer) has been picked up. He is being questioned. We have already placed him under suspension,” M Sree Abhinav, Superintendent of Police, Salem District, told DH. Annakali, the dead farmer’s wife, wanted action against all four policemen who were manning the checkpost. After the incident, she said, the family took her husband to Attur Government Hospital from where he was referred to the government facility in Salem where he breathed his last on Wednesday morning. The incident led to an uproar with many seeking strict action against policemen who take the law into their hands. DMK MP Kanimozhi said policemen should change from the pre-May 7 mindset taking a dig at the previous AIADMK Government. “They (policemen) should realise that DMK government is for the people,” she tweeted. The State Human Rights Commission (SRHC) also took suo moto cognizance of the incident and asked authorities to submit a report within four weeks. Opposition Leader Edappadi K Palaniswami and PMK founder S Ramadoss condemned the incident and demanded Rs 1 crore as compensation to the family. The police brutality came on the first death anniversary of a father and son duo who were killed in police custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/47-year-old-farmer-dies-after-being-attacked-by-policeman-in-tamil-nadu-1000691.html
23-06-2021||South||Will continue to address Centre as 'Union Government': Tamil Nadu CM Stalin||Referring to the Centre as Union Government is not a “social crime” as being portrayed by a few, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin said on Wednesday asserting that his administration will continue to use the term as it signifies principles of federalism. “There is no need for anyone to fear the word Ondriyam (Union). The word signifies federalist principles. That is the reason we use the term, we will use, and we will continue to use,” Stalin told the Assembly. He was responding to a question raised by BJP MLA ‘Nainar’ Nagendran on the use of the term Union Government. After assuming office on May 7, Stalin and his cabinet colleagues have been referring to the Centre as Union Government or Ondriya Arasu instead of Madhiya Arasu which was being used before the DMK won the April 6 assembly elections. The state BJP has taken exception to the usage of the term by asking Stalin to revert to using the old nomenclature. In his speech in the Assembly, Stalin said some people feel that using the term Union Government was a “social crime” and added that his administration was going only by the rule book. “The first line of our Constitution says ‘India, that is Bharat, shall be a Union of States’. We are simply following what is written in the Constitution and let me clarify Ondriyam (Union) is not a wrong usage or word,” Stalin said. The Chief Minister also punched holes in statements that the incumbent DMK government had resorted to using the term which had never been used by party founder C N Annadurai and M Karunanidhi, saying ‘Indian Union’ was used in the party’s election manifesto in 1957 when it entered electoral politics. He also referred to speeches by Annadurai and late Congress veteran Rajaji on federalism to drive home his point. The new DMK government has almost normalized usage of the word Ondriya Arasu in the past month with official press releases and ministers using the term.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-continue-to-address-centre-as-union-government-tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-1000693.html
23-06-2021||South||KCR government notifies Covid-19 treatment charges in private hospitals after the second wave recedes||The K Chandrashekar Rao government has finally notified the Covid-19 treatment rates in the private hospitals after the second wave intensity has receded in the state. The Telangana high court which has been reviewing the Covid-19 pandemic in the state and the government's management of the same, had earlier this month questioned the health department over the delay and gave two weeks to set the treatment fee ceilings. The state government had announced these rates in June last year, capping the charges in the private health care facilities at Rs 4000 per day for isolation ward, Rs 7500 in ICU without ventilator support and Rs 9000 with ventilator use. But in the absence of such orders this year, several hospitals especially in Hyderabad have fleeced the patients charging over Rs one lakh per day. The lack of clarity has left the patients and their families helpless at the height of the second wave in April-May when beds in corporate hospitals were in high demand. According to Tuesday's government orders, the health and family welfare department has retained last year's hospitalization charges like the per day charges for ICU treatment with a ventilator facility limited to Rs 9000. Charges for routine ward and isolation is Rs 4000 and for ICU without ventilator is Rs 7500. “The charges include monitoring and investigations like CBC, Urine routine, HIV spot, Anti HCV, Hbs Ag, Sérum Créatinine, USG, 2D ECHO, XRay, ECG, Drugs, consultations, bed charge, meals and procedures like Ryle's Tube insertion, urinary tract catheterization,” the GO stated. The exclusions are “interventional procedures like, but not limited to, central line insertion, Chemoport insertion, bronchoscopic procedures, biopsies, ascitic/pleural tapping, etc, which may be charged at a rack rate as on 31 December 2019.” The exceptions also include high-end drugs like Immunoglobulins, Meropenem, Parentéral nutrition, Tocilizumab to be charged at MRP. PPE kit charges are fixed at Rs.273 per kit. With regards to investigations about Covid-19, the government has fixed the ceilings at Rs 1995 for HRCT, Rs 1,300 for IL-6, digital X-Ray for Rs 300, D-Dimer – Rs 800, CRP – Rs 500. Ambulance charges are also fixed this year at Rs 75 per KM for vehicles with basic life-supporting systems and Rs 125 for those with advanced systems. The private hospitals are asked to refrain from the experimental treatment. “Unnecessary investigations, repeated HRCTs and inflammatory markers are to be avoided. Admissions and discharge protocols shall be followed scrupulously. Non-compliance of the orders shall attract action as per the law,” the orders stated. The Rao government has lifted the Covid-19 lock down completely from Sunday, after declaring that “the virus is now under control in the state.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kcr-government-notifies-covid-19-treatment-charges-in-private-hospitals-after-the-second-wave-recedes-1000704.html
23-06-2021||South||N R Congress, BJP arrive at agreement on Puducherry Cabinet formation; CM N Rangasamy submits list to Lieutenant Governor||Over 45 days after he was sworn in, Puducherry Chief Minister N Rangasamy on Wednesday submitted the list of his Cabinet members to Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. With this, the BJP will be part of a government in the tiny Union Territory for the first time. Sources said the Cabinet is likely to have six members including the Chief Minister. While the BJP will get two berths, the N R Congress will have three representatives in the Cabinet, the sources added. From the BJP, former Congress minister A Namasivayam, and Sai Saravanan are likely to be ministers, while another former Congress leader A John Kumar may have to wait for his turn. The BJP took over a week to finalise its representatives in the Cabinet. With this, the logjam between AINRC and BJP over Cabinet formation has come to an end. The cold war between the two parties led to an inordinate delay in the formation of the Cabinet.  BJP’s “unilateral” decision to nominate three party leaders to the Assembly without consulting him – the appointments were made when the Chief Minister was being treated for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Chennai – is said to be one of the reasons behind Rangasamy’s adamant stand vis-à-vis the saffron party. The AINRC won 10 seats, while the BJP emerged victorious in six seats and its strength in the Assembly now stands at nine, thanks to the Centre’s power to appoint three nominated members. The DMK won six, Congress two, and Independents six. The BJP, which lost all seats it contested in the 2016 Assembly polls, allied with AINRC, and AIADMK for the April 6 elections. The party which lacked a toehold in the Union Territory till a few months ago poached a few senior Congress leaders and gave them seats to contest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/n-r-congress-bjp-arrive-at-agreement-on-puducherry-cabinet-formation-cm-n-rangasamy-submits-list-to-lieutenant-governor-1000726.html
23-06-2021||South||Kerala Congress to dissolve jumbo committees, bring in cadre system||The first meeting of the Congress political affairs committee in Kerala after the new leadership took over has reached a consensus on doing away with the jumbo committees of Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee and instead bring in a cadre system. While at present there are 12 vice presidents, 42 general secretaries and around 100 secretaries in the Kerala PCC, new state Congress chief K Sudhakaran said that it would be replaced with a 51-member committee which will have three working presidents, three vice presidents, 15 general secretaries and around 15 secretaries. Selection will be based only on the basis of merit and the committee members should be those willing to work full-time for the party, he said. Sudhakaran said that all leaders were unanimous that a total revamp of the party was required by dissolving 'jumbo committees'. In order to strengthen the party's connect down to the grassroots level, micro-level committees, also known as neighbourhood committees, would be constituted. It was also decided to form five regional committees to evaluate reasons for its setback in the Assembly election. Disciplinary committees would be formed at state and district levels to sternly deal with indiscipline. Sudhakaran said that the revamp would bring in a semi-cadre structure to the party and it would be implemented in a time-bound manner. Though there were reports that senior Congress leader and Lok Sabha MP K Muraleedharan kept off the meeting owing to the displeasure of a meeting of top leaders held ahead of the parliamentary affairs committee meeting, Sudhakaran denied it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-congress-to-dissolve-jumbo-committees-bring-in-cadre-system-1000743.html
23-06-2021||South||Telangana asks Krishna River Board to stop Lift Irrigation project in Andhra Pradesh||The K Chandrashekar Rao government has escalated its objections over the works on the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme of Andhra Pradesh. On Tuesday, Telangana irrigation officials reportedly wrote to the Krishna River Management Board to stop “the illegal construction activity,” to protect the legitimate claims of the Telangana people over the Krishna waters. The Jagan Mohan Reddy government had in May last year initiated the project intended to draw three TMC per day from the Pothireddypadu Head Regulator on the Srisailam reservoir and had allocated Rs 6,829 crore for the scheme and supporting canal system. While Rao depicted RLIS as an “attempt to usurp Telangana's water rights,” Reddy said the lift is essential to provide water for the chronically drought-prone areas of Rayalaseema and Nellore, Prakasam districts. The TRS government had approached the National Green Tribunal and the Supreme Court over the water issues with AP. In its meeting on Saturday, the  Telangana Cabinet has “condemned the AP government for not paying heed to the instructions of the NGT and the Centre.” Meanwhile, the Andhra Pradesh government is preparing an action plan for the construction of the Neradi barrage over the Vamsadhara river near the AP-Odisha border in Srikakulam district, after the Vamsadhara water disputes tribunal approved the project earlier this week. Welcoming the judgment, CM Reddy on Tuesday said he would invite Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik for the foundation ceremony. “Our policy is to move forward with cooperation (with the neighbouring states),” Reddy said, adding that the tribunal verdict is beneficial to both AP and Odisha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-asks-krishna-river-board-to-stop-lift-irrigation-project-in-andhra-pradesh-1000761.html
23-06-2021||South||EC disqualifies ex-Union Minister Balaram Naik from contesting polls for three years||Former Union Minister Balaram Naik Porika has been disqualified by the Election Commission from contesting elections for a period of three years over allegedly failing to submit his election expense details as Congress candidate in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Naik, who had served as a Minister of State in the UPA government, unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Mahabubabad (ST) constituency in Telangana. According to an order issued by the Election Commission on June 10, Naik has failed to submit the accounts though a showcause notice was also issued to him. The EC's order was published in the Telangana Gazette dated June 18, 2021. "..on the basis of facts and available records, the Commission is satisfied that Shri Balaram Naik Porika has failed to lodge his accounts of election expenses and has no good reason or justification for the failure to do so," the order said. Naik has been disqualified from contesting elections to the Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha, Legislative Assembly, Legislative Council, and Union Territory for a period of three years from the date of the order. In a video message, Naik claimed he had submitted all papers with regard to his contest in the Lok Sabha elections. He also said he would send to the authorities concerned all relevant papers either through court or by requesting the election officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ec-disqualifies-ex-union-minister-balaram-naik-from-contesting-polls-for-three-years-1000765.html
23-06-2021||South||Lakshadweep police to continue quizzing Aisha Sultana||Lakshadweep-native actor Aisha Sultana was quizzed by the Kavaratti police for the second time on Wednesday in connection with the sedition case and asked her to turn up for quizzing again on Thursday. Sources said that the quizzing began at around 10.30 am and lasted till 6.30 pm. The police were learnt to have verified her social media accounts, her contacts and foreign trips. Her statement was recorded earlier on Sunday also and she was also directed to not leave the island. The Kavaratti police registered the case on the basis of a petition given by BJP Lakshadweep president Abdulkhader Haji citing a remark of Sultana in a TV channel discussion that Covid surge in Lakshadweep due to decisions of administrator Praful Khoda Patel was a 'bio weapon' of the BJP. The Kerala HC had earlier directed that she should be given interim bail if she is arrested. Meanwhile, the Lakshadweep administration issued a notice to Sultana accusing her of flouting Covid-19 quarantine norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lakshadweep-police-to-continue-quizzing-aisha-sultana-1000781.html
23-06-2021||State||Two cases of Delta Plus variant detected in Karnataka||Two cases of Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 have been detected in Karnataka, state Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Wednesday. Apart from them, one sample sent from Tamil Nadu to the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) here too was found to be a Delta Plus variant. "As of June 23, another Covid-19 Delta Plus variant has been found in Karnataka. One case was found in Mysuru yesterday and today another case in Bengaluru has been found. This makes it a total of two cases in Karnataka," Sudhakar said. The patient in Bengaluru is isolated and being treated, he added.  Regarding Mysuru patient, he said, "In Mysuru, one patient is infected with Delta Plus variant, whom we have isolated but he is asymptomatic and none of his primary and secondary contacts has it. That is a good sign," Sudhakar told reporters. The minister said the state government is carefully monitoring the emergence of new variants and it has decided to set up six genome labs in the state. "Wherever we have a suspicion, we are doing genome sequencing. We are doing random checks of five per cent of the total samples checked," Sudhakar said. According to Sudhakar, Karnataka is conducting about 1.5 lakh to two lakh Covid-19 tests daily. He said the government is sending vaccines to all the districts wherever there is suspicion of Delta Plus sequencing. On the preparedness to deal with the possible third Covid-19 wave, which is believed to affect children, Sudhakar said preparations are afoot to set up paediatric wards with ICU and appoint doctors and nurses within 45 days in all the districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-cases-of-delta-plus-variant-detected-in-karnataka-1000722.html
23-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||COMEDK-UGET: Grading for PUC 2 may hit aspirants||Students seeking admissions to engineering courses through the Consortium of Medical Engineering and Dental Colleges of Karnataka (COMED-K) might be in a spot if the Department of Pre-University Education decides to award only grades for PUC 2. As per the eligibility criteria set by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) for undergraduate engineering courses, an aspirant should secure 45% in PUC 2/Class 12 to get a ranking in the entrance test conducted by COMED-K. This year, as the department declared all PUC 2 students as "pass" and announced to allot grades, COMED-K authorities said the students will be in trouble during the score-based rank allocation. Application have already been invited from students across the nation for COMEDK-UGET 2021 scheduled to be held on September 14 in 150 cities. The last date to submit applications is July 31. S Kumar, executive secretary of COMED-K, said, "As of now, there is no problem for students to submit applications and appear for the test. But while allotting ranks, we will not consider grading until and unless AICTE modifies the eligibility criteria." Every year, as many as one lakh students apply for COMEDK-UGET for over 21,000 engineering seats available in member colleges across the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/comedk-uget-grading-for-puc-2-may-hit-aspirants-1000443.html
23-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Rap song spreads awareness on Covid-19||The ongoing efforts to spread awareness on Covid vaccination has received a boost by a rap song by Karnataka Pulmonologists' Association. The 1.40-minute rap connects the audience caught in the throes of the pandemic with a familiar language and encourages Covid-appropriate behaviour. Well-known singers, film actors, cricket stars and doctors have come together to make the song, which seeks to remind people about the need to wear mask, sanitise hands and maintain social distance even as the state relaxes lockdown rules. The song also warns that ignorance will lead to paying of heavy price.  Along with rapper Alok Kumar, Rajesh Ramaswamy and Deepak Alexander have received appreciations for their lyrics and music, respectively. Actors Sai Kumar, Ashwithi Shetty and Adviti Shetty, cricketer Krishnappa Gautam, RJ Shraddha, singer Suhana Syed have appeared in the video along with doctors K S Satish, Vivek Padegal, Suma P Kumar and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rap-song-spreads-awareness-on-covid-19-1000467.html
23-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Additional 5,240 vials of Amphotericin B allocated to Karnataka||Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers D V Sadananda Gowda on Wednesday said additional 5,240 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin B, which is used in the treatment of black fungus, has been allocated to Karnataka. "In Karnataka, additional 5,240 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin B have been allocated today," Gowda said in a tweet. The Minister, who is an MP from Bengaluru North said, a total of 60,350 vials have been allocated to the state till now ensuring its smooth supply to patients. The government has been taking various steps to enhance the availability of Amphotericin B in the country to cater to the sudden increase in demand for the medication, including giving a boost to domestic manufacturing. Gowda also said, additional 61,120 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin B have been allocated to all States, UTs and Central Institutions today. So far, approximately 7.9 Lakh vials have been allocated across the country, maintaining adequate availability to patients of Mucormycosis, he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/additional-5240-vials-of-amphotericin-b-allocated-to-karnataka-1000617.html
23-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government launches 2,500 smart classrooms, provides tablet PCs to 1.55 lakh students||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday rolled out initiatives to promote digital learning and bridge the digital divide in higher education at a cost of about Rs 195 crore. The initiatives include distributing Tablet PCs to 1.55 lakh students amounting to Rs 163 crore; creation of 2,500 smart classrooms at Rs 27.77 crore; and development of a learning management system (LMS) at Rs 4.04 crore, an official release said. "The programme is beneficial in moulding the future of the students. Smart classes will include projectors, white board, Android box, UPS and internet facility which will facilitate both teaching and learning," the Chief Minister was quoted as saying by his office in a release. Despite the impediment caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, he said the government has made efforts to scientifically implement the digital learning programme in government higher education institutions thereby bring about a complete change in the higher education sector in the State. The release quoted Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, who holds the Higher Education portfolio, as saying that the Tablet PCs would be given to first-year students of 430 government first grade colleges, 1st and 2nd year students of 87 government polytechnic colleges, 1st, 2nd, and 3rd year students of 14 engineering colleges. Classrooms in government higher education institutions are being upgraded to ICT smart classrooms, the release said. The learning management system is for providing a platform to a unique and modern teaching and learning process which is ideal to conduct both online and offline classes, said Narayan. In the year 2021-22, all students admitted to government higher education institutions would be provided Tablet PCs, the release said, adding that 6,500 classrooms would be upgraded to smart classrooms this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-launches-2500-smart-classrooms-provides-tablet-pcs-to-155-lakh-students-1000701.html
23-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 4,436 new Covid-19 cases, 123 deaths||Karnataka reported 4,436 new Covid-19 cases and 123 deaths on Wednesday. While the positivity rate stood at 2.59%, the case fatality rate was 2.77%. Of new cases reported, 1,008 were from Bengaluru Urban. Dakshina Kannada and Mysuru districts continued to see fresh infections in three figures with 538 and 499 respectively. Hassan saw 301 new cases. Bengaluru Urban reported 24 deaths, followed by Mysuru (18). The total number of active cases in the state stood at 1,16,450. While the positivity rate stood at 2.59 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 2.77 per cent. Out of 123 deaths reported on Wednesday, 24 were from Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru (18), Dakshina Kannada (13), Ballari (10), Dharwad (9), followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 1,008, Dakshina Kannada 538, Mysuru 499, Hassan 301, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district headed the list of positive cases with a total of 12,08,104, followed by Mysuru 1,63,614 and Tumakuru 1,14,137. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 11,23,323, followed by Mysuru 1,55,385 and Tumakuru 1,10,278. Cumulatively a total of 3,31,89,023 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,70,654 were done on Wednesday alone. With PTI inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-4436-new-covid-19-cases-123-deaths-1000702.html
23-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah vs D K Shivakumar: Factionalism within Karnataka Congress over CM face comes to the fore||Factionalism in the Congress Karnataka unit on the issue of its Chief Ministerial face for the 2023 Assembly polls, has come out in the open, with party state chief D K Shivakumar saying legislature leader Siddaramaiah will look into such open statements by some MLAs and the latter maintaining that he was not concerned. Two more legislators on Wednesday proposed Siddaramaiah's name as the CM's face for the Assembly polls. Ramappa and R Akhanda Srinivas Murthy openly proposed his name despite the diktat from the leadership against making such statements. Four other legislators had earlier backed projecting Siddaramaiah as the CM's face. Returning from New Delhi after meeting party leaders, Congress state chief D K Shivakumar said legislature party leader Siddaramaiah will look into such open statements by some MLAs on the matter, even as the latter maintained that he was not concerned. While a section of party leaders are pitching for Siddaramaiah, who is currently the leader of the opposition, for the CM post if Congress comes to power in 2023, some within the party want to see Shivakumar in the coveted post. Reacting to the developments, Shivakumar said the party high command has said what it has to, and the legislature party leader will look into comments made by legislators. "There is no seat vacant for any race in the party now... the race is to defeat the BJP and bring the Congress to power. We have to devote our time for this, if not, we will be wasting time," he told reporters. To a question on statements that the party can come to power only under Siddaramaih's leadership and Shivakumar has age on his side to become CM later, Shivakumar said his only goal was to bring the party to power. "...am I in urgency (to become CM)? Have I ever said I want to become CM? My only goal is to bring the party to power. I have said use me as a stepping stone to enter Vidhana Soudha," he said. Shivakumar had visited Delhi and met party's central leaders, including former AICC president Rahul Gandhi and general secretary in-charge of the State, Randeep Singh Surjewala, during which he is said to have held discussions on developments in the state, organisational matters and open statements by MLAs loyal to Siddaramaiah on leadership issue. Siddaramaiah, who has played down repeated statements by his aides projecting him as the next CM, maintaining it as their personal views, today said he was not concerned about it.  Asked about MLAs making open statements projecting him as the next CM, he said, "I can't do anything about it. I'm not concerned about it." According to party sources, Siddaramaiah is likely to visit Delhi soon to meet the party's central leaders. After Congress legislator B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan (Chamarajpet), Raghavendra Hitnal (Koppal), Ganesh (Kampli) and Bhima Naik (Hagaribommanahalli), two more MLAs Harihar's Ramappa and R Akhanda Srinivas Murthy of Pulakeshinagar today openly expressed their opinion in favour of Siddaramaiah as the next CM. "Let Siddaramaiah become (CM), D K Shivakumar still has age on his side. Public opinion is also that Siddaramaiah should become the Chief Minister, you ask youths anywhere they are saying the same.So in 2023 let Siddaramaiah become CM, D K (Shivakumar) can get the chance later," Ramappa said. Akhanda Srinivas Murthy too echoed similar views. "Once he is declared the CM face, Congress will be guaranteed with 130 to 150 seats in the 224-member Assembly." "People of the state want to see Siddaramaiah as CM once again as he had given good programmes and administration from 2013 to 2018. We are with him, it is my opinion too that Siddaramaiah should become CM, many legislators too are of this opinion," he said. The statements have come despite Surjewala and Shivakumar's diktat to party legislators and leaders not to make such open remarks. Shivakumar's brother and Bengaluru Rural MP, D K Suresh on Wednesday said such statements are being made by those who have come to party for the sake of power and no disciplined party workers will indulge in such things. "The election is far away. We are in Opposition now. We should work to strengthen the party. Such statements create confusion among people and workers. They are doing it for publicity," he said. Reacting to Zameer Ahmed Khan's repeated statements projecting Siddaramaiah as the "next chief minister", Shivakumar had recently said the party will go to polls under a collective leadership, and everyone has been asked to "stay within limits". While coming out in defence of Shivakumar, former KPCC president G Parameshwara has said the Congress leadership would decide on the chief minister candidate if the party comes to power. Khan, who has been openly referring to Siddaramaiah as the "future CM", has even offered to vacate his Chamarajpet seat in the city in favour of the former CM, who currently represents the Badami segment in north Karnataka. The move by Siddaramaiah's loyalists is said to have gained momentum following a tweet from Karnataka Congress' official Twitter handle, last month, stating that the Covid- 19 pandemic would have been under control if Shivakumar was the CM. The tweet was immediately deleted, but not before enraging the Siddaramaiah camp. With growing political one-upmanship between the two leaders, the issue may become contentious in the days to come for the Congress, party sources said. Siddaramaiah had earlier headed the Congress government between 2013-18, in which Shivakumar, who is often referred to as the party's troubleshooter, was a Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-vs-d-k-shivakumar-factionalism-within-karnataka-congress-over-cm-face-comes-to-the-fore-1000720.html
23-06-2021||West||Maharashtra: Zilla Parishad teacher conducts free online classes for poor kids||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic when underprivileged children are deprived of proper education due to the closure of schools, a 45-year-old teacher of a Zilla Parishad school in Latur has taken the initiative of conducting free online classes for them. Nearly 150 students of Classes 5 to 9 from various districts in Maharashtra are now regularly attending Sainath Mane's online session which he has been conducting along with other teachers since seven months at Bujrugwadi village in Nilanga tehsil. "Many poor students were worried about their education after the schools were closed. I initially started online classes for students of our school only. These children told other students also about the initiative. Now, students from various districts like Nanded, Beed, Nashik, Sindhudurg, Pune and Mumbai join my classes regularly," Mane told PTI. The classes are held for about three and a half hours every day. A half-an-hour session is dedicated only to teach them the English language, he said. "Within a short span, the students have now started speaking fluent English," Mane said. To make the learning process interesting, Mane has included a yoga class, a value education class and multiple subjects study during the online sessions. "The parents of my students are happy. They even urged us to accept fees, but want the classes to continue. We don't expect anything from them as our aim is ensure overall development of the students," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-zilla-parishad-teacher-conducts-free-online-classes-for-poor-kids-1000537.html
23-06-2021||West||Kids in Maharashtra village deprived of nutritional food due to poor road connectivity||A tempo carrying nutritional food for children of Maher village in Maharashtra had to return mid-way last week due to poor road connectivity in the area. The village, located in Parbhani district, about 250 km from here, often loses contact with the outside world during rains as it does not have a proper connecting road, its sarpanch Vishal Bhosle told PTI. Maher, having a population of around 500, lies three km away from Tadkalas-Palam road in Purna taluka and it never had an all-weather road, he said. "This year, the road condition worsened so much that a tempo carrying nutritional food from an anganwadi (government-run women and child care centre) for children of the village had to return mid-way as it couldn't move on this road. Kids were deprived of their nutritional supplements," Bhosle rued. Even teachers coming from outside to a primary school in Maher have to walk a long way at times as it is difficult to commute on two-wheelers on the muddy road, he said. When it rains too much, the path gets inundated and some times teachers have to carry students on their shoulders to the school, he said. "Since five years, I have been trying to follow up with authorities for the construction of a road on this three-km-long stretch connecting the village to Tadkalas-Palam road. Some years back, a tar road was laid on about 500-metre stretch, but we never got a complete all-weather road since independence," the village head said. Local resident Motiram Paol said when it rains continuously, they get stuck in the village. "Even when the rain stops, we are able to move out only after two-three days," he said. When contacted, Purna tehsildar (revenue officer) Pallavi Temkar told PTI that she was unaware of the road condition in Maher village. "I will speak to the sarpanch and see under what scheme we can provide them a better road," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kids-in-maharashtra-village-deprived-of-nutritional-food-due-to-poor-road-connectivity-1000546.html
23-06-2021||West||Maharashtra CM stays allotment of 100 flats in MHADA buildings to Tata cancer hospital||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has stayed the transfer of 100 MHADA flats here to the Tata Memorial Hospital for providing temporary accommodation to cancer patients undergoing treatment there. State Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad on Wednesday confirmed the decision. Shiv Sena MLA Ajay Chaudhary told reporters that the decision to stay the transfer order was taken after he complained to the CM about objections to it from local residents. Notably, Awhad had taken the decision to allot 100 flats in buildings of the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) to the hospital. The keys of the flats were handed over to the hospital authorities in May by NCP president Sharad Pawar, whose party shares power with the Shiv Sena and Congress in the state. Chaudhary, who is an MLA from Sewri in Mumbai, said over 1,000 families living in the vicinity objected to the disturbance created by outsiders arriving there on a temporary basis. "My repeated pleas to the housing minister to hear the grievances of locals went unheard. So, I had to petition the chief minister, he said. Chaudhary said the MHADA can allot an entire building to the hospital, so that it is easy for the hospital authorities to maintain it. But, the decision to allot flats for temporary accommodation in different buildings where people are already staying was not acceptable to locals, he said. "We have no objection to tenements in transit camps being given to the hospital. There are MHADA tenements in the Bandra-Kurla Complex. One entire building can be given to the hospital, but not where locals are residing," he said. Chaudhary also said his wife succumbed to cancer four years ago, and he set up a trust in her name with his own money and is helping the needy cancer patients to get medical treatment. "Nobody should tell me the agony of cancer patients as me and my family have undergone the trauma," he said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-stays-allotment-of-100-flats-in-mhada-buildings-to-tata-cancer-hospital-1000555.html
23-06-2021||West||Air Force Corporal faces dismissal for not taking Covid-19 vaccine, moves Gujarat HC||A corporal in the Air Force has moved the Gujarat High Court against a show-cause notice issued to him by his superiors asking why he should not be dismissed for not taking the Covid-19 vaccine. The high court after hearing his grievances issued notice to Air Officer Commanding-in-chief, South Western Air Command, Gandhinagar and directed not to take any "coercive" action against the petitioner. The division bench of justices A J Desai and AP Thaker issued the notice on Tuesday and sought response from the Air Force authority by July 1. The bench also ordered, "Till then, no coercive action shall be taken against the petitioner, who is at present not willing to take the vaccine." The petitioner Yogendra Kumar, currently posted in Jamnagar, has moved the court through advocates Shree M Kotwal and Aum M Kotwal. The petition states that Kumar wrote to his commanding officer in February, showing his "unwillingness for vaccination". A show-cause notice was issued to him, asking him "as to why no action should be taken against for his unwillingness to immunisation" in accordance with Air Force regulations. Kumar responded that the vaccine is "fully approved by administration and has been given Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA). Hence, it should not be considered as the only option in order for prevention against Covid-19." In May, he received another show-cause notice for his dismissal under "Air Force Act, 1950 read with Air Force Rules, 1969 for unwilling to get vaccinated for Covid-19." In the special civil application, the petitioner Kumar has argued that since he has the right to receive treatment of his choice, "vaccination can't be forced upon him." "Making vaccines mandatory and forcing upon an individual (petitioner herein) will be contrary to the judgment of the Supreme Court in Common Cause Case, where Supreme Court has held that an individual has right over his/her own body and the right to decide the medical treatment for themselves." Kumar has cited many reasons behind his "unwillingness", including his belief in Ayurvedic treatment, his "inner consciousness" that doesn't allow him to get jabbed, Adverse Effects Following Immunisation (AEFI), among others. He has said, "I am not in favour of demotivating others for vaccinations and I am also observing that others apparently have no major side effects of vaccines but still I have some hesitations and my inner consciousness does not allow to get vaccinated instead of using ayurvedic methods."   Kumar has cited various RTI replies from the Union government claiming that "vaccination is voluntary" and not mandatory. Therefore, he has said in the petition that "terminating from job due to unwillingness of taking Covid-19 vaccine is completely illegal, unconstitutional and arbitrary."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/air-force-corporal-faces-dismissal-for-not-taking-covid-19-vaccine-moves-gujarat-hc-1000588.html
23-06-2021||West||No sufficient data to be alarmed about Delta Plus variant: Maharashtra Covid-19 task force member||Maharashtra Covid-19 task force member Dr Shashank Joshi on Wednesday said there is no sufficient data available to be alarmed about the 'Delta Plus' variant of coronavirus. He also said people need to adhere to Covid-19 prevention guidelines and wear masks, avoid crowds and get vaccinated. Notably, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said 21 cases of the Delta Plus variant, considered highly infectious, have been found in the state so far, including nine in Ratnagiri, seven in Jalgaon, two in Mumbai, and one case each in Palghar, Thane and Sindhudurg districts. Dr Joshi in a tweet on Wednesday said, "Variant of concern, vaccine and Panic. Delta plus variant of concern does not have sufficient data to be alarmed except that we must continue our strict Covid appropriate behaviour with double mask, avoid crowds and continue vaccination.” “Delta plus virulence unknown, transmission may be more,” he added. The new Delta Plus variant has been formed due to a mutation in the Delta or B.1.617.2 variant, first identified in India and one of the drivers of the deadly second wave. Though there is no indication yet of the severity of the disease due to the new variant, Delta Plus is resistant to the monoclonal antibody cocktail treatment for Covid-19 recently authorised in India. Some cases of the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 have also been found in Madhya Pradesh and Kerala. India is among the 10 countries where the Delta Plus mutation has been found so far, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday. According to a statement issued by the Union Health Ministry, INSACOG had informed that the Delta Plus variant, "currently a variant of concern (VOC)", has these characteristics -- increased transmissibility, stronger binding to receptors of lung cells and potential reduction in monoclonal antibody response. Besides India, the Delta Plus variant has been found in the US, UK, Portugal, Switzerland, Japan, Poland, Nepal, China and Russia. The Delta variant is found in 80 countries around the world, including India, and it is a variant of concern, Bhushan had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-sufficient-data-to-be-alarmed-about-delta-plus-variant-maharashtra-covid-19-task-force-member-1000596.html
23-06-2021||West||Differences within Maha Vikas Aghadi widen, CM Uddhav Thackeray stays NCP minister’s decision to transfer 100 flats||The differences within the Maha Vikas Aghadi seems to be widening with Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray temporarily staying the decision of an NCP minister’s decision to transfer 100 flats of MHADA for the accommodation of cancer patients and their relatives. In May, state Housing Minister Dr Jitendra Ahwad decided to transfer 100 flats of Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) to the Tata Memorial Hospital (TMC) at Parel. The MHADA flats, each measuring 300 square feet, in the Haji Kasam Chawl redevelopment project in Lalbaug were made available to the hospital for a 30-year period at a nominal rate of Rs 1 per year. These flats were being given to cancer patients/relatives on rent-basis – and TMC manages it.  NCP supremo Sharad Pawar had handed over the keys to TMC Director Dr Rajendra Badwe. Thackeray took the decision after Shiv Sena MLA from Sewree Ajay Chaudhary wrote to him. “Principal Secretary (Housing) will investigate and submit report. Till then it is stayed,” Thackeray noted in the file. Chaudhary in his plea to Thackeray said: "700 Maharashtrian families staying in the vicinity objected to the disturbance created by outsiders arriving there temporarily.” According to him, since the patients/relatives moved in during the time of the Covid-19 pandemic, there is a fear among the relatives of neighbouring buildings. "We have no objection to tenements in transit camps being given to the hospital,'' he said, pointing out that there are MHADA tenements in the Bandra-Kurla Complex. "One entire building can be given to the hospital, but not where locals are residing," he said. Chaudhary also said his wife succumbed to cancer four years ago, and he set up a trust in her name with his own money and is helping the needy cancer patients to get medical treatment. Dr Awhad said the doubt that Chaudhary has his own interest needs to be cleared. “There is no vested interest. The decision was taken so that the relatives get some relief,” he said. The decision was taken by Dr Awhad as he was moved by patients spending days and nights on the footpaths and below the flyover.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/differences-within-maha-vikas-aghadi-widen-cm-uddhav-thackeray-stays-ncp-minister-s-decision-to-transfer-100-flats-1000597.html
23-06-2021||West||Delta Plus variant: Goa steps up vigil along Maharashtra border||The state government has stepped up vigil across its road and rail borders with Maharashtra, in wake of a Delta plus Covid variant case being detected in the Sindhudurg district bordering Goa. "In the nearby districts in Sindhudurg, the Delta plus variant has been found, so screening at the borders is going on," Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday.Sawant also said that 26 Covid samples had tested positive for the Detla variant in Goa, not a single case of a Delta plus variant had been detected in the state yet. The Chief Minister also said that the Goa government was encouraging private companies to set up testing centres along the state's road borders, which he said would improve the screening process and help test samples in quick time. "We have also approached some two, three private labs. If we get suspected cases, we can keep them insolation and test them right there as well. Right now we are concentrating on Sindhudurg," Sawant said, adding that the state government had already given necessary permissions to private labs to set up testing labs at the Goa-Maharashtra border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/delta-plus-variant-goa-steps-up-vigil-along-maharashtra-border-1000609.html
23-06-2021||West||Gehlot to 'de-saffronise' government school uniforms in Rajasthan: Report||The state government has formed a committee to decide the colour of the new uniform for nearly 80 lakh students of the state schools. The school uniform of Rajasthan’s government schools was changed to brown colour trousers and light brown shirts in 2017 by then Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje. The move drew criticism from the Congress party as it resembled RSS’s khaki uniform. It had alleged that it was the BJP's move to "saffronise" the state. Gehlot has announced that the school uniforms will be provided to the students free of cost, to avoid any additional expense for the parents. It is estimated that the move will cost over Rs 400 crore. The Gehlot government’s proposal to change the uniform was put down last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gehlot-to-de-saffronise-government-school-uniforms-in-rajasthan-report-1000622.html
23-06-2021||West||Book on bariatric recipes for first time||Bariatric/metabolic surgery brings about a sea-change in diet and lifestyle. Patients who embrace this change fare much better in terms of weight maintenance and overall health in the long run. The Bariatric Recipes, a global cookbook from India compiled by renowned bariatric surgeon Dr Aparna Govil Bhasker, along with her two dieticians Mariam Lakdawala and Miloni Shah Sancheti, will aid patients in their weight loss journey. The first-of-its-kind book gives a variety of meal options for every phase after the surgery. The book aims to make the post-bariatric surgery journey easier, healthier, and comfortable. Obesity is a silent killer and a precursor of many diseases like diabetes, high blood pressure, heart disease, cholesterol-related issues, PCOD, joint-related problems, lung and liver disease. “Bariatric surgery is the only effective treatment option for patients with severe obesity. With rising levels of obesity, there is an increase in the number of bariatric operations across the world and India. A healthy diet is an integral part of post-bariatric surgery management,” said Dr Aparna. Food and diet are an integral part of any culture and the aim of bariatric surgery is not to take away the joy from the diet. There are some very interesting recipes in this book such as gram dal and cabbage pancakes, ragi tikkis, healthy sliders, and so on. “When it comes to post-bariatric surgery diet, a lot of recipe books are available in the western world that can help patients. However, till now, no such dietary resource was available for Indian patients. Indian diet is unique and very different from the Western diet and the recipes in this book will go a long way to help patients to cope up with post-surgery requirements,” said Dr Aparna. Additionally, macro-nutrient calculations (protein, carbohydrate, and fats) are listed for each recipe along with its nutritional benefits. The recipes are contributed by qualified nutritionists from India as well as countries like the USA, UK, Peru, Ukraine, Spain, Jordan, Dominican Republic, and so on. Hence this cookbook is truly global in nature. “Getting bariatric surgery done does not mean that it takes away the joy from food and life in general. One can eat healthily and yet enjoy food. As a bariatric team committed to the well-being of our patients, this is our endeavour to make their post-bariatric surgery journey easier,” adds Dr Aparna.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/book-on-bariatric-recipes-for-first-time-1000626.html
23-06-2021||West||Deshmukh says corruption allegations against him caused 'heartburn' in Maharashtra police force||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, who is facing a CBI probe over charges of corruption and misconduct, told the Bombay High Court on Wednesday that the allegations against him had caused "heartburn" in the entire state police machinery. Deshmukh's counsel, senior advocate Amit Desai, told a bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that Deshmukh had been publicly shamed because of being subjected to the probe, even though there did not exist any adverse material against him in the CBI's FIR. Desai was making submissions in support of a plea filed by Deshmukh, seeking that the FIR registered against him by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) be quashed. The CBI is probing a case of corruption and misconduct on part of Deshmukh in the aftermath of such allegations levelled against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh in a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. "Not a single person has come to say he was asked for money. There is no victim in the case," Desai claimed. He said contents of Singh's letter could at the most generate "some suspicion, or whispers" in the corridors of the police commissioner's office. The same certainly did not warrant an inquiry, he said. "Deshmukh is definitely the devil here without anything in the FIR against him. He has been shamed, but without any proper material. There is nothing against him in the FIR," Desai said. "Transfers and postings are policy issues. They (CBI) are getting into the whole process. The allegations have created a heartburn within the entire police force," he said. The HC will continue hearing Deshmukh's plea next week. The probe was initiated after a high court bench led by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta directed the CBI to initiate a preliminary enquiry against Deshmukh, based on a criminal complaint lodged at a local police station by lawyer Jaishri Patil. The lawyer had moved a PIL in the HC, seeking action on the complaint filed by her. She had referred to the allegations made by Singh against Deshmukh in her plea, and also attached a copy of a letter written by the IPS officer to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, wherein he had made the allegations against the NCP leader. Among other things, the CBI's FIR says Deshmukh had knowledge of the reinstatement of former assistant police inspector Sachin Waze, and the then minister exercised undue influence on the transfers and postings of state police officials. The Maharashtra government had also filed a plea in the HC, seeking that two paragraphs from the said FIR be deleted. These paragraphs, numbered 4 and 5, deal with Waze's reinstatement and Deshmukh's influence on the transfers and postings. Waze, arrested by the NIA in the case of an explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in February and the subsequent murder of businessman Mansukh Hiren, was dismissed from police service last month. The state's counsel, senior advocate Rafique Dada, argued in the HC that by delving into the issues of Waze's reinstatement and Deshmukh's influence on transfers and postings, the CBI went beyond the scope of the high court's order. Dada earlier also said the CBI was using the inquiry against Deshmukh to gain backdoor entry into the cases of Waze and IPS officer Rashmi Shukla, that the Maharashtra government was already probing. On the other hand, the CBI's counsel, Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta, maintained that the investigating agency had been well within the law in probing all issues of corruption related to Deshmukh. On Wednesday, the HC closed all arguments on the state's plea and reserved its verdict on the same. It then began hearing Deshmukh's plea that seeks quashing of the entire FIR. While Dada had earlier told the HC that the Maharashtra government was not opposed to the CBI inquiry per se, and it was only objecting to the two paragraphs, Desai said the CBI had been wrong in carrying out its probe without the Maharashtra government's consent. Desai said mere allegations made by Param Bir Singh did not warrant a probe against Deshmukh. Singh had also claimed in his letter that Deshmukh asked several police officers, including Waze, to extort money from bars and other establishments. "The court will have to consider whether Param Bir Singh's letter, which is attached to Patil's complaint, required any directions by the court," Desai said. The CBI, meanwhile, said it will not ask the Maharashtra government for papers related to the case of IPS officer Rashmi Shukla until the HC pronounces its verdict on the state's plea challenging the two paragraphs in its FIR. The Mumbai cyber police last month recorded the statement of Shukla in connection with a case of illegal phone tapping and alleged leaking of sensitive documents related to police postings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/deshmukh-says-corruption-allegations-against-him-caused-heartburn-in-maharashtra-police-force-1000659.html
23-06-2021||West||Construction of road should not result in destruction of biodiversity: NGT on Goa highway||The National Green Tribunal on Wednesday observed that the building of roads should not result in the destruction of biodiversity.  The NGT principal bench headed by its chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said the construction of the road in question should be consistent with the principle of sustainable development, that is, adopting safeguards for protection of wetlands, water bodies, and other environmental resources. The NGT made this observation while hearing a plea alleging violations of environmental norms in the construction of the balance stretch of Margao National Highway Western Bypass Road in Goa. “There can be no doubt that water bodies, wetlands, mangroves and other natural resources need to be protected. While construction of a road may be a necessity, such construction should not result in the destruction of biodiversity and other environmental resources, including water bodies and wetlands. Flood plains of river Sal also need to be protected. The studies referred to in the application support the need for such protection,” the bench said. The NGT also formed a  joint committee comprising experts to take stock of the situation and submit a report. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Royla C Fernandes against violations of environmental norms in the construction of balance stretch of Margao National Highway Western Bypass Road through the villages Seraulim to Benaulim, which is 2.75 km from wholesale fish market road Seraulim to Varca road. The road is being constructed by the PWD, Goa, through private contractors. According to the plea, the Margao National Highway Western Bypass has already been constructed from Nuvem village up to the Seraulim fish market through Khanzan lands/wetlands and agricultural lands. It is further to be constructed from wholesale fish market road Seraulim to Varca road (Ch. 31/900 to Ch.34/650), south Goa by destroying the large wetlands/khazan lands, agricultural lands, and water bodies, the plea stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/construction-of-road-should-not-result-in-destruction-of-biodiversity-ngt-on-goa-highway-1000662.html
23-06-2021||West||Dates announced for Maharashtra bypolls to seats in local bodies post quashing of OBC quota by SC||The Maharashtra State Election Commission has decided to hold elections to five Zilla Parishads and bypolls to the seats in 33 Panchayat Samitis that were rendered vacant and converted into general category following the Supreme Court's verdict of quashing OBC reservation in local bodes on July 19. Maharashtra State Election Commissioner UPS Madan issued a statement stating that Dhule, Nandurbar, Akola, Washim and Nagpur Zilla Parishads will vote on July 19. The counting of votes will be taken up on July 20. By-elections to the seats rendered vacant in the 33 Panchayat Samitis falling under the jurisdiction of these five Zilla Parishads will also be held on the same day (July 19), it said. Polling for the Palghar Zilla Parishad and by-elections for the vacant seats in the panchayat samiti will be held after the improvement in the pandemic situation. Recently, Maharashtra Rural Development Minister Hasan Mushrif had said elections will not be held for local bodies unless 70 per cent of the population is vaccinated against Covid-19. Madan said elections to Dhule, Nandurbar, Akola, Washim, Nagpur and Palghar ZPs and 44 Panchayat Samitis under their jurisdiction were held in January 2020. However, the top court in its order dated March 4, 2021 stated that the quota in favour of OBCs in local bodies shouldn't result in breaching the overall 50 per cent ceiling on the reservation. The Supreme Court also directed the Maharashtra government to set up a commission to gather empirical data for fixing the reservation percentage. The top court had observed that the reservation if fixed, shall not exceed the aggregate of 50 per cent of the total seats reserved for SC, ST and OBCs. Madan said the Supreme Court had directed to hold elections in these local bodies in Maharashtra through the general category by vacating the OBC seats||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dates-announced-for-maharashtra-bypolls-to-seats-in-local-bodies-post-quashing-of-obc-quota-by-sc-1000672.html
23-06-2021||West||ED attaches chopper, over 100 land parcels in Mumbai in PMLA case against Unitech group||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached a helicopter and over 100 land parcels in Mumbai worth a total of Rs 81 crore in connection with a money-laundering probe against realty firm Unitech Group, the agency said on Wednesday. It said a provisional order for attachment of these properties owned by the Shivalik Group and its associates has been issued under criminal sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The total value of the helicopter, owned by King Rotors Air Charters Pvt Limited, and the 101 land parcels located in Mumbai's Santa Cruz area is Rs 81.10 crore, the ED said in a statement. The action has been taken "in relation to the investigation being conducted against Unitech Group", the probe agency said. While the plots of land are owned by the Shivalik Group, the company that owns the chopper is its associate firm, it said. The probe has "revealed that Unitech Group had diverted proceeds of crime to the tune of Rs 574 crore to Shivalik Group and, in turn, the entities of Shivalik Group purchased the said land parcels and helicopter from these proceeds of crime," the ED alleged. The Enforcement Directorate, early this year, filed a criminal case under various sections of the PMLA against the Unitech Group and its promoters over allegations that the owners -- Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra — illegally diverted over Rs 2,000 crore to Cyprus and Cayman Island. The case was booked after the ED studied some FIRs filed by the Delhi Police's Economic Offences Wing (EOW) against these promoters and the company, including an instance where they allegedly failed to complete a housing project on time in Gurgaon.  On March 4, the ED also carried out raids at 35 locations of the Shivalik Group, Trikar Group, Unitech Group and Carnoustie Group in Mumbai and at the national capital region after the registration of the case. "After analysis of the seized records followed by the disclosures of various persons, the above diversion of proceeds of crime has been unearthed," it alleged. The total attachment in this case now stands at Rs 431 crore as two similar orders were earlier issued that froze assets worth Rs 349.82 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-attaches-chopper-over-100-land-parcels-in-mumbai-in-pmla-case-against-unitech-group-1000683.html
23-06-2021||West||Sisodia to induct known Surat businessman into AAP on Thursday||After bringing a popular vernacular news anchor in its fold, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which has aggressively been expanding its base in Gujarat ahead of the 2022 Assembly polls, is set to induct a well-known Surat-based businessman from the Patidar community into the party. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia will be landing in Surat on Thursday to formally induct the businessman who is popular for his philanthropic works in the city. Last week, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal arrived in Ahmedabad to announce former news anchor Isudan Gadhvi was joining the AAP, and on Thursday his deputy Sisodia will announce the name of the businessman joining the party. The identification of the businessman hasn't been announced officially yet but sources said that he has been part of the Patidar Anamat Anandolan Samiti (PAAS), which led the Patidar agitation for reservation in 2015. Party officials said that they are not disclosing the name of the businessman fearing pressure from the BJP. The event (induction) will be organised at a private school. Surat, also known as "diamond city", is the first city in the state, which provided the Delhi-based party a foot in the door in state's electoral politics earlier this year, when it won 27 out of 120 seats in the Surat Municipal Corporation. AAP's performance was spurred largely due to support from the Patidar community, ousting Congress from the local body and replacing AAP as the principal opposition party. "The Aam Aadmi Party is getting stronger day by day in Gujarat, which is a matter of pride for all of us. To meet you all once again and to give you good news, tomorrow I am coming to Garvi Gujarat!" Sisodia informed in a tweet. Rahul Gandhi to attend court proceeding in Surat Meanwhile, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is also slated to arrive in Surat on Thursday to attend a court hearing in connection with a defamation case filed against him for his alleged remarks against "Modi community." Several senior party leaders from the state including president Amit Chavda, leader of opposition in the assembly Paresh Dhanani, among others, are camping in Surat to receive Gandhi. He will be arriving at around 10 am and will return by 12:30 pm after his appearance. Gandhi is facing the defamation case for his speech during the Lok Sabha poll campaign in 2019 in Karnataka, where he reportedly remarked while referring to Nirav Modi, Lalit Modi and Narendra Modi "how come all the thieves have Modi as thier surname." The defamation case has been filed by Purnesh Modi, a BJP MLA in Surat, alleging that Rahul Gandhi's remarks are defamatory against the "Modi community".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sisodia-to-induct-known-surat-businessman-into-aap-on-thursday-1000721.html
23-06-2021||West||NCB to get custody of Dawood's brother Iqbal Kaskar on June 23 for questioning in drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) will get the custody of fugitive underworld don Dawood Ibrahim's jailed brother Iqbal Kaskar on Thursday for questioning in a drugs case, an official said on Wednesday. Kaskar's alleged involvement in the case surfaced following the recent seizure of 27 kg of hashish, he said. NCB officials had sought his custody for examination in the case, the official said. The NCB recently arrested seven persons in two cases in which 27 kg of hashish were recovered, he said. During investigation, it came to light that the narcotics drug was sourced from Jammu and Kashmir, he said. Also, the alleged role of Kaskar, currently lodged in a Thane jail, surfaced in the case following which his custody was sought through a production warrant and he will be examined on Thursday, the official said. Earlier in the day, the official had said Kaskar has been apprehended by the NCB in the drugs case. Later in the day, he clarified that Kaskar will be taken into custody by the NCB for examination in the case on Thursday. Kaskar was arrested by the Anti-Extortion Cell of the Thane police by a team led by former encounter specialist cop Pradeep Sharma in connection with an extortion case. Kaskar was deported from the United Arab Emirates in 2003. He was said to be operating his brother's real estate business in Mumbai. The Thane police had earlier booked him under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime (MCOCA) Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-to-get-custody-of-dawoods-brother-iqbal-kaskar-on-june-23-for-questioning-in-drugs-case-1000751.html
23-06-2021||West||Manish Sisodia cancels Surat visit due to 'ill health'||Nearly four hours after Delhi's Deputy Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party leader Manish Sisodia announced on Twitter that he will be visiting Surat to meet party workers and hold an "important press conference" there, he cancelled the trip citing ill health. He informed this in another tweet, stating that "due to ill health I have to cancel tomorrow's program as per the doctor's advice." કાલે સવારે ગુજરાત જવાનું હતું પરંતુ તબિયત થોડી ખરાબ થવાના કારણે ડૉક્ટરની સલાહ મુજબ હવે આવતીકાલનો કાર્યક્રમ કેન્સલ કરવો પડશે. કાલે હું ગુજરાત નહિ આવી શકું તેનો ખેદ છે પરંતુ સ્વસ્થ થયા પછી તરત જ ગુજરાતને મળવા જલ્દી આવીશ. Local AAP leaders maintained that the visit was canceled purely on health grounds, however, the turn of events has not gone down well in the party. "If it's not just the health, the event should have been continued by some other leaders as it won't send the right message in the party," said a party leader. When contacted, AAP's state president Gopal Italia told DH over phone, "The event was postponed purely on health grounds. There is no other reason behind it. We are going to do what we have already decided very soon. There is no change of plan." Sisodia was scheduled to land in Surat on Thursday morning for the formal induction of the businessman popular for his philanthropic works in the city. Last week, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal arrived in Ahmedabad to announce former news anchor Isudan Gadhvi joining the AAP, and on Thursday his deputy Sisodia will announce the name of the businessman joining the party. The identity of the businessman hasn't been announced officially yet but sources said that he has been part of the Patidar Anamat Anandolan Samiti (PAAS), which led the Patidar agitation for reservation in 2015. Party officials said that they are not disclosing the name of the businessman fearing pressure from the BJP. The event (induction) has been organised at a private school. Surat, also known as "diamond city", is the first place in the state which has provided the Delhi-based party a foot in the door in state's electoral politics earlier this year, when it won 27 seats, out of 120, in Surat Municipal Corporation. The AAP's performance was largely due to support from the Patidar community, which also ousted the Congress from the local body and replaced AAP as the principal opposition party. "The Aam Aadmi Party is getting stronger day by day in Gujarat, which is a matter of pride for all of us. To meet you all once again and to give you good news, tomorrow I am coming to Garvi Gujarat!" Sisodia informed in a tweet. Rahul Gandhi to attend court proceeding in Surat Meanwhile, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is also slated to arrive in Surat on Thursday to attend a court hearing in connection with a defamation case filed against him for his alleged remarks against "Modi community." Several senior party leaders from the state including president Amit Chavda, leader of opposition in the assembly Paresh Dhanani, among others, are camping in Surat to receive Gandhi. He will be arriving at around 10 AM and will return by 12:30 PM after his appearance. Gandhi is facing the defamation case for his speech during the Lok Sabha poll campaign in 2019 in Karnataka, where he reportedly ramarked while referring to "Nirav Modi, Lalit Modi, Narendra Modi" that "how come all the thieves have Modi as surname." The defamation case has been filed by Purnesh Modi, a BJP MLA in Surat, alleging that Rahul Gandhi's remarks are defamatory against "Modi community".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/manish-sisodia-cancels-surat-visit-due-to-ill-health-1000759.html
23-06-2021||West||Maharashtra's Covid cases cross 10,000 mark after a week||The total 24-hour Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra crossed the 10,000-mark on Wednesday after a week. During the day, 10,066 fresh cases and 163 deaths were reported, according to the Public Health Department. The progressive total now stands at 59,97,587 and 1,19,903. On 16 June, the state reported 10,017 cases. However, from 17-22 June, it reported under 10,000 cases. In the weekly Cabinet meeting presided over by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, a presentation was made on the Covid-19 situation. The possible third wave and the preparations were discussed at the meeting. State public health minister Rajesh Tope said that the cases should remain at the level of 7,000-8,000 and decline. Tope said that 100 samples of each district would be taken and analysed through genome sequencing to get a fair idea on the spread of the Delta Plus variant. “So far 21 cases have been reported from the 7,500 samples that were sent for analysis,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-covid-cases-cross-10000-mark-after-a-week-1000760.html
23-06-2021||West||Maharashtra Covid-19 cases cross 10,000-mark after a week||Raising concerns, the total 24-hour Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra crossed the 10,000-mark on Wednesday. During the day, 10,066 fresh cases and 163 deaths were reported, according to the Public Health Department. The progressive total number of cases now stands at 59,97,587. On June 16, the state had reported 10,017 cases, however, from June 17-22, the state witnessed below 10,000 cases. In the weekly Cabinet meeting presided over by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, a presentation was made on the Covid-19 situation. A possible third wave and the preparations were discussed at the meeting. State public health minister Rajesh Tope said that the cases should not exceed 7,000-8,000 and should continue to decline gradually. Tope said that 100 samples of each district would be taken and analysed through genome sequencing to get a fair idea on the spread of the Delta Plus variant. “So far, 21 cases have been reported from the 7,500 samples that were sent for analysis,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-cases-cross-10000-mark-after-a-week-1000762.html
