24-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||PIL in Karnataka HC seeks underground sewage lines in Channapatna||The High Court has ordered notice to the government in response to a PIL seeking direction for providing underground sewage lines and sewage treatment plants in Channapatna town. The petition is filed by M K Chandrashekar and others. The petitioners contended that the authorities have failed to clear encroachments of the storm water drains and to prevent the silk reeling and twisting industries from releasing effluents into the open drains. The petitioners said despite several representations, no steps have been taken to prevent the sewage from flowing through open drains. The untreated sewage is let out into water tanks around the town, including Kanva river, they said. The petitioners contended that open sewers have become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. They said that the municipal council had failed to perform its duties as prescribed under the Karnataka Municipalities Act. The petitioners said if immediate steps are not taken, the day is not far when the Kanva river will meet the fate of Vrishabhavati river in Bengaluru. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka also ordered notice to the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board and the Lake Conservation and Development Authority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pil-in-karnataka-hc-seeks-underground-sewage-lines-in-channapatna-1000811.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||New office-bearers for NIE Society in Mysuru||New office-bearers of the National Institute of Engineering (NIE) Society, president Dr M S Ranganath, honorary secretary S B Uday Shankar and honorary treasurer R Datta Kumar took charge, in Mysuru recently. According to a press note from N V Raghavendra, principal, The National Institute of Engineering, Mysuru, Dr Ranganath is a chief urologist and transplant surgeon, Uday Shankar is a business consultant and Datta Kumar is head-operations, EhhanzED Education. Both Uday Shankar and Datta Kumar are the alumni of NIE. Besides, G S Ramachandra, present director of NIE Society, has been elected as the president of NIE Foundation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/new-office-bearers-for-nie-society-in-mysuru-1000814.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Zoo Authority of Karnataka plans RAT for visitors, says Mahadevaswamy||The authorities of the Zoo Authority of Karnataka (ZAK) are planning to allow the visitors to enter the zoo only after conducting the Rapid Antigen Test (RAT). In a press conference, here, ZAK chairman L R Mahadevaswamy on Wednesday said that measures will be taken to conduct test at all the nine zoos in the state. The matter will be discussed with the Health department authorities. Zoos in Hampi, Belagavi and Gadag are open for public, he said. The ZAK has collected Rs 2.92 crore from July 29, 2020, to June 21, 2021. While Rs 1.94 crore has been received through mobile application, Rs 97.99 crore was received directly. The chairman said Darshan Thoogudeepa’s call to contribute towards the zoo has received an overwhelming response. After his call on June 5, the ZAK has received Rs 1.76 crore, he said. In 2018-19, the ZAK has received Rs 58.84 lakh and in 2019-20, the ZAK received Rs 66.49 lakh. However, in 2020-21, the ZAK has received only Rs 24.26 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/zoo-authority-of-karnataka-plans-rat-for-visitors-says-mahadevaswamy-1000819.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 hampers KRS dam crest gate replacement work||The Covid-19 pandemic has turned into a hurdle to replace the three-decade-old crest gates of Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district. The process of replacing all 134 gates of the reservoir is commissioned with the support of the World Bank, under the ‘Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project’ (DRIP) at a cost of Rs 59 crore. The fabricating process had begun and it was approved by the Central Water Commission (CWC). Gujarat-based Hardware Tools Company, which had obtained the contract to replace the gates, had assured of completing the works in two years. The works have been suspended since March 2020 and the supply of industrial oxygen has been stopped. There is no supply of materials from West Bengal and Jaipur in Rajasthan and there is also shortage for man power and technology, said an officer. Inevitable to replace All the 48 automated crest gates that were installed when the dam was constructed are defunct and 40 other gates are operated using a single crane. It is difficult to open the gates, if the inflow increases to two lakh cusec or above. It is inevitable to replace the gates but, it is also not possible to replace them until next summer as a large quantum of water is being stored in the dam, said an officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-hampers-krs-dam-crest-gate-replacement-work-1000821.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Don't lease out MySugar, demands Raitha Hitarakshana Samiti||Mandya Jilla Raitha Hitarakshana Samiti members staged a protest demanding that the state government not lease out Mysuru Sugar (MySugar) factory, but operate it. The members, also farmers, staged a protest near the deputy commissioner’s office, here. They said that the ministers have opposed leasing out the sugar factory for 40 years, as per the plan. Even Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has assured of reconsidering the matter. The previous JD(S)-Congress coalition government had announced funds in the budget to run the factory. But, the BJP government is planning to lease the factory and the tender process is under progress, the protestors said. According to the protestors, the factory is not under loss, but the government stopped crushing of sugarcane. They suspect a conspiracy to loot the assets of the factory. The protestors also alleged rampant corruption in the Mandya Milk Union Ltd (Manmul) and demanded a high-level committee probe. According to them, in nearly 15 scams, Rs 300 crore has been looted. The government is trying to close the case, they alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dont-lease-out-mysugar-demands-raitha-hitarakshana-samiti-1000822.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||EO defends PDO, audio goes viral||An audio clipping, said to be that of Nanjangud Taluk Panchayat Executive Officer (EO) Srinivas, defending a Panchayat Development Officer (PDO), who allegedly demanded a bribe from unorganised labourers, to release Covid relief fund has gone viral. The audio clipping of the EO with a person, a former gram panchayat member, has gone viral. The EO is heard defending Hedatale PDO Nirmala, who is allegedly collecting Rs 50 from labourers of the unorganised sector for approving their application to get Rs 2,000 from the State government, due to Covid lockdown. The EO is heard saying that the money goes to the panchayat. But, the man alleges that the PDO is collecting a bribe to approve benefits and no receipt is issued. It has to be noted that a video clipping of a person, arguing with the PDO, had gone viral earlier. According to him, the PDO has to approve the application of the unorganised labourers and she was collecting Rs 50 from each applicant and is not giving any receipt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/eo-defends-pdo-audio-goes-viral-1000823.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 pushes sugarcane farmers to shift towards short-term crops||The ongoing health emergency, Covid-19, has put sugarcane growers in a fix and several farmers of the region are giving up sugarcane cultivation and diverting towards vegetables. Following heavy loss and other problems, and they are shifting towards short-term crops, like vegetables. As per the study, ‘Lockdown and Its Implications on Sugarcane Farmers’, conducted by Economics professor, University of Mysore, D V Gopalappa and research scholar P Nethravathi, farmers could earn up to Rs 1,32,600 against cost of production Rs 45,000, per acre, before the pandemic. The net gain was Rs 87,600 per acre. But, the Covid-19 crisis had severely affected the farmers. The cost of production has increased several folds. Without proper crushing sources, several farmers did not harvest their crops in April-May, resulting in loss of Rs 55,000 per acre. As per the study, the pandemic has forced many sugarcane growers to give up farming, which may result in overall decline in sugar production. Gopalappa said, despite a few relaxations to farmers during lockdowns, sugarcane growers in Mysuru and Mandya districts are facing many obstacles to reap the benefits. Sugarcane can be harvested, depending on the variety and sowing time, about 10 to 12 months. Farmers usually wait for a year, hoping to get handsome price. But, a majority of the farmers suffered heavy loss, due to the lockdown, the study states. Lack of transportation and labour mobility, crop harvesting has become difficult. Cost of labour grew and fertiliser shops were shut. Inefficacious maintenance of fertilisers to crops resulted in low yields and poor quality. The professor said unlike paddy and ragi, sugarcane cannot be stored beyond two weeks. Due to lockdown, sugarcane factories were not crushing sugarcane. An acre of land can yield an average of 52 tonnes of sugarcane. But lockdown has reduced the demand. A few farmers who harvested sugarcane are making jaggery in traditional ‘alemane’, hoping to recover the investment. According to some village heads in Pandavapura taluk of Mandya district, farmers are diverting from sugarcane cultivation towards animal husbandry. The farmers are now dependent on savings, debts, mortgaging of assets, and surrendering of financial bonds to survive. All this has resulted in the deterioration in the standard of living of these households, as per the study. The study recommends the government to encourage sugar factories to operate to full capacity and to ensure sufficient distribution of fertilisers to farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-pushes-sugarcane-farmers-to-shift-towards-short-term-crops-1000824.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cultural orgainsation hosting online music concert on Friday||Ganabharathi, a Mysuru-based cultural orgainsation, is hosting an online veena concert by R K Padmanabha on June 25 at 6 pm. He would be accompanied by P S Sridhar on mridanga and V S Ramesh on ghata. The concert will be streamed live on both YouTube channel and Facebook page of Ganabharathi, said A Radhesh, executive committee member. Padmanabha is the son and disciple of R S Keshavamurthy. He has performed in many sabhas and cultural gatherings in both India and abroad. He is honoured with titles like Vainika Ratna, Koodali Shringeri Asthana Vidwan and Puranda Anugraha award.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cultural-orgainsation-hosting-online-music-concert-on-friday-1000826.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Forest department on lookout for woman who fed monkeys||The Forest department personnel are on a lookout for a woman as her photo and video of feeding monkeys on the road to Malemahadeshwara Hill in Hanur taluk of Chamarajanagar district has gone viral on the social media. The personnel also found a video showing some persons throwing bananas and tomatoes from Anethaledimbam to Tallubetta under the same Malemahadeshwara Sanctuary. Another person, Bhuvan, appealed on the social media asking people to donate fruits and vegetables to be fed to monkeys and other animals in the forests as the number of visitors to Malemahadeshwara temple is restricted in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. Action would be initiated against Bhuvan, said officials. Deputy Conservator of Forests V Yedukondalu said that feeding wild animals or birds in any form was a crime. “Boards have been already installed to create awareness among visitors and devotees of Malemahadeshwara temple on this issue. Fine is imposed on those who violate the rules. The violators will be traced and penalised based on the social media posts, photos and videos,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/forest-department-on-lookout-for-woman-who-fed-monkeys-1000827.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man murders friend in a drunken brawl||A drunken brawl led to the murder of a man at Bommanagadde village, in Hanur taluk, Chamarajanagar district, on Wednesday night. The deceased was identified as Krishnanayaka (55). The accused, Rangappa (40), is absconding. Krishnanayaka and Rangappa were friends for several years. They used to frequently drink together. They were under the influence of liquor on Wednesday evening, when they picked up a quarrel. In a fit of rage, Rangappa allegedly attacked Krishnanayaka with a lethal weapon. The exact reason for the murder is not known. Ramapura police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-murders-friend-in-a-drunken-brawl-1001035.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sugar Town in Mandya turns haven for thefts||A series of thefts have been reported at Sugar Town that was constructed for the labourers of Mysugar Factory. Iron rods and wooden materials used for construction of houses have gone missing in the area. Sugar Town was once popular among the employees and they were proud to live in the colony. All facilities were provided for the employees of Mysugar factory. The layout was complete with a swimming pool, park, school, hospital, choultry, bank, post office, cooperative societies, clubs and others. There were more than 400 houses in the colony. After the Mysugar factory turned a sick unit, the employees started leaving the houses which are now in dilapidated conditions. With the factory announcing Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS) recently, around 200 employees opted for VRS and have vacated the houses. The layout now has only 30 employees living here. The whole area plunges into darkness without occupants. A few miscreants have made use of the situation and are stealing available materials, it is alleged. A few houses are in totally dilapidated conditions and are being demolished. The sheets and wooden materials are being stolen. There is an officer and a security personnel to guard the Sugar Town premises, but are not able to avert the robbery. There is no proper police security to the area and it has become difficult for the residents to monitor the movement of suspicious persons, according to sources. It is alleged that a few living in the quarters are hand in glove with the robbers. A retired employee said that the thefts would not happen without their support. "Truth will come out if the police conduct an inquiry. The miscreants do not even spare the coconuts. There are more than 400 coconut trees in the area. There is no protection to government property," he complained. Besides, it has become a haven for illegal activities. Liquor bottles, sachets and plastic materials can be seen disposed of on the premises. Mysugar president Shivalingegowda said, "We are aware of the thefts and a police complaint has been lodged. Four people have been arrested in connection with the thefts. Ten additional security personnel will be deputed soon", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sugar-town-in-mandya-turns-haven-for-thefts-1001036.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three contract, recover from Delta variant in Mysuru||Three persons have tested positive for the Delta variant of coronavirus in the district. However, the Health department officials claimed that all the three have recovered from the infection and are healthy. District Health Officer Dr K H Prasad on Thursday said that a total of 20 samples were sent to the laboratory for testing on May 28 and three people tested positive for Delta and not Delta plus which was more dangerous than Delta variant. All the three people recovered and were healthy. According to the DHO there was no special treatment or vaccine for Delta. "Covid vaccination and treatment procedures will be followed. As there is a decline in the spread of Covid virus, there is no need to worry,” he said. The DHO said that the authorities concerned were tracing out the sources of Delta virus and the primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons. He said that the two persons recovered while being under home isolation and one was treated at a Covid care centre. All the necessary measures would be taken to ensure the safety of the people. One person tested positive for Delta plus virus and he has recovered from the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-contract-recover-from-delta-variant-in-mysuru-1001041.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Former Mysuru mayor opposes Vivekananda Memorial at NTM school premises||Former mayor K Purushottam on Thursday said he would not allow demolition of the century-old Maharani's New Type Model (NTM) Primary School for the proposed Swami Vivekananda's Memorial by Ramakrishna Ashrama. In a press conference here, Purushottam said," The NTM School has its own glory, history and significance. Why do the Ashrama authorities want to construct the memorial in front of Ambedkar Bhavan? We have to protect the Kannada school which was dedicated for girls.” The Karnataka High Court in its recent order directed to hand over the possession of century-old NTM Primary School premises to Ramakrishna Ashrama to develop Vivekananda Memorial. He took exception to a few pro-Kannada organisations and writers supporting the construction of the memorial after demolishing the school. “Writers and thinkers have been supporting the memorial. It is very unfortunate,” he said. "The Ramakrishna Ashrama can get 50 acres of land at some other place. But, the authorities are eyeing the piece of land near NTMS. What is the need to construct the memorial after demolishing the school building?" he asked. The government had allotted the land to the Ashrama to start the Vivekananda Cultural Youth Centre to mark the 150th birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda in 2013.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/former-mysuru-mayor-opposes-vivekananda-memorial-at-ntm-school-premises-1001051.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rohini Sindhuri writes to RC to probe land encroachment in Mysuru||IAS officer Rohini Sindhuri, who served as the deputy commissioner of Mysuru, has written to Regional Commissioner G C Prakash to initiate inquiry into the irregularities related to land encroachment in the district. In the letter, Sindhuri mentioned that she had taken action against multiple irregularities and illegalities over land encroachment. She has levelled allegations against JD(S) MLA Sa Ra Mahesh and Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) Chairman H V Rajeev. Mahesh had levelled a series of allegations against Sindhuri when she was serving as DC, including misuse of power to construct a swimming pool and gym at the official residence of DC, a heritage structure. Sindhuri has stated that SaRa Choultry on survey number 123 of Dattagalli village in Kasaba Hobli in Mysuru taluk is a gomala land and no proper documents of land grant are available. An inquiry into the loss of gomala land and how it landed with MLA Sa Ra Mahesh should be probed and the matter should be taken into logical conclusion. In addition, the land conversion obtained by Mahesh on survey number 124/2, Lingambudhi Village at Kasaba hobli in Mysuru taluk for 1.39 acres was contrary to the Comprehensive Development Plan (CDP) of Mysuru City and hence has been cancelled. The cancellation has to be taken to its logical conclusion, she has recommended. In survey number 10 next to Lingabuddhi lake Mahesh with Mysuru Urban Development Authority Chairman H V Rajeev has obtained approval for a resort in violation of Supreme Court orders and the government. As per the norms no such constructions are allowed up to 75 meters from any lake. Further, there are allegations of lake encroachment and it needs to be verified by actual independent survey on the spot, she has stated. The officer also has mentioned that there are allegations that Kalyan Mantap of Mahesh located on survey number 130 Lingabuddhi village at Kasaba hobli in Mysuru taluk has encroached MUDA layout.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rohini-sindhuri-writes-to-rc-to-probe-land-encroachment-in-mysuru-1001059.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||132 children suffer from severe acute malnutrition in Mysuru: N Jayaram||District in-Charge Secretary N Jayaram expressed displeasure over the reports of several children in the district suffering from Severe Acute Malnutrition (SAM). He chaired a progress review meeting at Zilla Panchayat auditorium here. Deputy Director for Women and Child Development K Padma brought the issue to the notice during the meeting that 132 children in the district had been identified as suffering from SAM. The Secretary suggested measures to control malnutrition and directed the officials concerned to keep a close watch on the children suffering from SAM. Out of 9,383 children suffering from malnutrition, 1,500 are from H D Kote taluk. The officer blasted the officials for not taking care of tribal children and also inquired about the supply of nutritious food for them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/132-children-suffer-from-severe-acute-malnutrition-in-mysuru-n-jayaram-1001075.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kodagu: Two years on, flood victims still live in sheds||The apathy towards flood victims in the district seems to be not ending. The district is reeling under the effect of flood and landslide for the last three years. Hundreds of people lost their property to the flood and landslide in 2019. Among them, 650 victims were provided rehabilitation at Jamburu, Karnangeri, Made and Biligiri villages, under Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation. The others, affected by the flood, are still waiting for rehabilitation. The construction of houses at K Nidugane village is in progress. Two hundred houses are being constructed by Infosys Foundation at Jamburu village and the work is almost complete. The beneficiaries are expecting rehabilitation soon. More than 250 families, affected by the flood in Nelyahudikeri and Siddapura jurisdiction, are still living in sheds on the banks of River Cauvery. Some others are living in rented houses. The victims said that neither they have not been allocated houses nor provided with rent allowance even after two years of floods. Though eight-acre land in Arekadu in Abhyatmangala village was reserved for rehabilitation after clearing encroachments, there has been no progress. The homeless people said that the district administration had earlier assured them of providing rehabilitation after they staged protests multiple times. It was told that the houses will be allocated before the rainy season. But, there is no sign of progress. If the temporary sheds collapse during rains, we have nowhere to go, they added. Niveshana Horata Samiti convener M A Krishna said that many people lost their houses to the flood at Karadigodu village too. The people have given in writing that they will move from the river bank to the alternative place if are rehabilitated. Now, they have to go back to the relief centres, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kodagu-two-years-on-flood-victims-still-live-in-sheds-1001126.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Woman, 2 kids drown in open well while plucking guava in Tumakuru||In a heart-rending incident a woman and her two kids accidentally fell into an open well while plucking guava fruit and drowned at Tirumalapalya near Kora in the taluk on Thursday. Hemalatha Kumar (34) and her two daughters Manasa (6) and Poorvika (3) are the victims. The woman had taken her kids to their farmland to perform a ritual as part of Kar Hunnime (Pournami). Manasa and Poorvika fell into the well while plucking guava and drowned. The woman, who jumped into the well to save her kids, also met a watery grave, the police said. Superintendent of Police Rahulkumar Shahapurwad and staff visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/woman-2-kids-drown-in-open-well-while-plucking-guava-in-tumakuru-1001135.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Murughamutt pontiff gets Rs 55 lakh||Large and Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar handed over a cheque for Rs 55 lakh to pontiff Mallikarjuna Swami of Murughamutt. The fund has been sanctioned by the state government for the development of the Mutt. On the occasion, the members of MLA Amrut Desai Geleyara Balaga felicitated the Anganwadi and Asha workers, who had served as Covid warriors, by presenting them Rs 2,000 each. Five hundred persons were vaccinated for Covid-19 on the occasion. MLA Amrut Desai, Iresh Anchatageri, T S Patil, Rajeshwari Alagawadi, and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/murughamutt-pontiff-gets-rs-55-lakh-1001137.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Belagavi Police to destroy seized drugs worth Rs 61 lakh on June 26||Belagavi District Police with permission from District Drugs Disbursal Committee has decided to destroy drugs, worth Rs 61 lakh, weighing 786.67 kg seized in 129 cases in the premises of Green Management Private Limited factory in Harugopp village of Savadatti taluk on June 26. Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbargi informed on Thursday that 'ganja' weighing 755.270 kg seized in 126 cases worth Rs 58,28,088 and poppy weighing 31.400 kg seized in three cases worth Rs 2,73,500 will be destroyed in the factory located in the jurisdiction of Murgod police station. Contrabands had been seized in different parts of the district during illegal cultivation, sale and transport. It will be destroyed during International Anti Drugs Day on June 26, at 11 am, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/belagavi-police-to-destroy-seized-drugs-worth-rs-61-lakh-on-june-26-1001147.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Revanna involved in milk union scams, alleges Manju||Former minister A Manju said that JD(S) leader H D Revanna is involved in scams reported in Hassan and Mandya milk unions and he will be caught this time. At a press conference here on Wednesday, Manju said, the milk unions were under the control of JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda’s family. “When I was the minister, the unions were brought out of their control but Revanna took them into his control," he said. Manju said Revanna is involved in milk adulteration scam that was reported in Mandya. He also alleged a similar scam in Hassan milk union. It has to be noted that the irregularities, amounting to crores of rupees, were being done allegedly with the help of Manmul employees. One lakh litres of adulterated milk were supplied to Manmul every day. The adulterated milk was packed and sold to gullible customers under Nandini brand name.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/revanna-involved-in-milk-union-scams-alleges-manju-1000812.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah slams B S Yediyurappa at his native taluk||Opposition party leader Siddaramaiah on Wednesday criticised Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa at his native taluk K R Pet and also questioned his moral right to continue as the CM despite opposition and allegation from his own party legislators. Siddaramaiah took Yediyurappa to task at a programme organised to distribute food kits to Covid-19 warriors in K R Pet. BJP leaders have been alleging that Yediyurappa’s son B Y Vijayendra has received kick back of Rs 2,000 crore in the tender of Rs 20,000 crore in Irrigation department. “What moral right do you have to continue in the position,” he asked Yediyurappa. “I am not levelling the allegation but, your part leaders A H Vishwanath, Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, Arvind Bellad and Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwara are levelling the allegation,” Siddaramaiah said and asked the CM why no probe is ordered. “Yediyurappa has come from a farming family in the taluk. When he has failed to understand the problems of the farmers, how your Cabinet colleagues will understand it,” he commented. Neighbouring Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh have been introducing series of pro-people programmes during the pandemic, Siddaramaiah questioned about Karnataka government’s contribution towards the people of the state during the health emergency. BJP won by-polls in K R Pet and others Assembly segments utilising money collected unethically. “It is not important to have 56 inch chest but there should be humanity,” he criticised Prime Minster Narendra Modi. Former minister N Cheluvarayaswamy, K Rahman Khan, R Dhruvanarayan and others were present. However, KPCC president D K Shivakumar remained absent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-slams-b-s-yediyurappa-at-his-native-taluk-1000817.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Development in Congress to keep SC leaders away from power: Mahesh||MLA N Mahesh on Wednesday said that the ongoing debate over the next chief minister face in Congress party is nothing but a process to keep Scheduled Caste leaders away from power. Speaking to reporters at Yelandur in the district, Mahesh said, Congress leader B Z Zamer Ahamed Khan has been projecting opposition party leader Siddaramaiah as the next CM and a few MLAs are supporting it. SC community, one of the prominent in the state from last three decade, is deprived of power since then, he said, adding that the present political development appears like the SC community people are limited support others by casting vote. SC community leaders B Rachaiah, K H Ranganath, Basavalingappa, Mallikarjun Kharge, K H Muniyappa are senior leaders of the community and have all the qualities to be CM but, they were deprived of power. “Who has more experience and ability than Mallikarjun Kharge?,” he asked and said, SC community people have turned as vote bank. Despite ability, they have no voice in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/development-in-congress-to-keep-sc-leaders-away-from-power-mahesh-1000820.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress leader complains on misuse of vaccination drive by BJP||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) spokesman H A Venkatesh has complained to Deputy Commissioner Dr Bagadi Gautham, on the BJP misusing the Covid-19 vaccination drive, to promote the party and its interests. In a letter addressed to the DC, Venkatesh on Wednesday said, “The BJP is misusing the government machinery and is projecting to the people that the vaccination is a gift of the party. BJP symbols and party workers are present in huge numbers at vaccination centres. Mysuru City Corporation vehicles are being misused for displaying portraits of the MP and MLAs, to publicise the vaccination drive. Announcements are also made, in such vehicles displaying the photos of the BJP leaders, on loud speakers, about the vaccination drive,” he said. Venkatesh said it is unfortunate that the pandemic is used for political gains. “Misuse of the vaccination drive, held with taxpayers’ money, to favour a party should be checked,” he said. Venkatesh later said the DC immediately responded to his complaint. “The DC informed that he sent a request to Police Commissioner Chandragupta immediately. The Commissioner heeded to his request and deployed Policemen to remove all party symbols and volunteers from vaccination centres,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-leader-complains-on-misuse-of-vaccination-drive-by-bjp-1000825.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Don't float my name as Karnataka CM candidate, Siddaramaiah tells MLAs||Seeking to put an end to the “CM face” controversy, Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah on Thursday asked party legislators not to float his name as the next chief minister candidate of the party. Speaking to media persons, Siddaramaiah said, “Nowhere have I stated that I want to become the chief minister. I request the party legislators to not float my name as a CM candidate,” the senior leader said. There are still two more years for the Assembly elections in the state. Hence, there is no need to talk about a CM candidate at this juncture. The party’s high command will decide who should be the candidate, after holding consultations with legislators and only after the elections are over, he said. Siddaramaiah’s comments come in the wake of several Congress legislators recently demanding that he be made the party’s CM candidate in the upcoming Assembly elections. Meanwhile, KPCC president D K Shivakumar, quipped that there have been many instances in the state’s political history where, along with those who have won the elections, those who have lost the polls too have become the chief minister. Former chief ministers Devaraj Urs and Ramakrishna Hegde are examples. “You too should contest,” he told media persons in a sarcastic response to Congress leader G Parameshwara’s supporters who, on Thursday, cheered for him as the next CM of Karnataka. He also lashed out at Revenue Minister R Ashoka who had recently commented that the Congress party’s problems were stemming from a weak high command. “Ashoka must focus on bigger problems on his plate,” D K Shivakumar said. The Karnataka Congress on Thursday also launched a campaign to collate data on the Covid-19 crisis, including deaths and job losses among people. Accordingly, party leaders will visit houses beginning from the block-level and help the public cope with the crisis, he said. The state government has underplayed the Covid-19 deaths. The actual numbers are five times the official data, he alleged. Further, even though the state government has announced financial packages, not many are able to access them. Congress leaders will not only gather data on the same, they will also help people apply for the financial aid, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dont-float-my-name-as-karnataka-cm-candidate-siddaramaiah-tells-mlas-1000951.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Not right time to speak about next Karnataka CM: G Parameshwara||MLA G Parameshwara on Thursday said that it was not the right time to debate the issue of the next Chief Minister. Parameshwara was speaking to reporters after visiting Suttur seer Shivarathri Deshikendra Swami at the mutt in the city. He said that there were two more years for the Assembly elections and it was not right time to speak about the candidate for the chief minister's post. “First, we have to win the polls and then the CM candidates will be decided,” he said. When asked about Congress MLA B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan projecting the leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah as the next CM, Parameshwara said that a few MLAs had expressed their opinions. The party colleagues should stop debating about the issue. Parameshwara held discussions with Suttur seer for more than an hour. When Parameshwara arrived at Suttur mutt's branch in the city, a few of his supporters hailed him, raising slogans ‘next CM Parameshwara’. However, Parameshwara asked them to stop it. Parameshwara said that he had also requested his followers not to raise such slogans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/not-right-time-to-speak-about-next-karnataka-cm-g-parameshwara-1001032.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||H D Kumaraswamy will be Karnataka CM if JD(S) get mandate: Revanna||MLA H D Revanna on Thursday said that H D Kumaraswamy would be the next chief minister if the people gave mandate to JD(S). Addressing reporters in Hassan, he said, "While there is a lot of debate over the CM candidate in both the Congress and the BJP, there is no such confusion in JD(S). Kumaraswamy has successfully served as chief minister twice and he will be the chief minister nominee." "Kumaraswamy waived farm loans during his tenure as the CM. If the people give their verdict in favour of JD(S), there will be an efficient and transparent administration. If not, we will sit in the opposition", he said. Revanna alleged that the government had slashed 50% of funds released to the taluk and zilla panchayats citing Covid-19 pandemic. The gram panchayat with A grade which was getting Rs 13 lakh was getting Rs 5 lakh. How was it possible to take up development work with a meagre fund? A protest would be held against insufficient funds near the DC's office in Hassan. State-wide protests would also be held later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/h-d-kumaraswamy-will-be-karnataka-cm-if-jds-get-mandate-revanna-1001049.html
24-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Parameshwara accuses BJP of misusing Covid-19 situation for party's publicity||Former deputy chief minister G Parameshwara on Thursday alleged that BJP leaders had been misusing Covid-19 situation for the party's publicity. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, Parameshwara said that the BJP was misusing the Covid-19 vaccination drive. The party leaders had been projecting the drive as the party’s programme. “The BJP leaders are exploiting the vaccine campaign. They are projecting as if they are manufacturing vaccines in their own pharmaceutical companies and are distributing them free of cost. The government’s drive is being projected as BJP’s own project,” he criticised. "There should be no politics in Covid-19 management. It is not right to conduct a vaccine drive under the party symbol or banner. Everyone should join hands to control the pandemic. It is not possible either for the BJP or for the Congress alone to fight it," he said. “We don’t have any objection if the drive is conducted by the party, but the government’s programmes should not be misused,” he maintained. Parameshwara said that both the Union as well as the State government had failed to tackle the pandemic. "No proper programme has been launched and no discussions have been held with the experts on the future of the nation. The governments have failed to take precautionary measures despite a warning on Covid second wave. The lapses claimed thousands of lives," he charged. 'False death report' Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson M Lakshmana alleged that the authorities were furnishing false death rate of Covid. He sought clarification from the district administration, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar and MP Pratap Simha. Lakshmana said that no deaths were reported in the district on June 15, 16 and 17. But, the district administration reported 26, 28 and 26 deaths respectively on these days. Only one death was reported on June 18. But, the report claimed that there were 15 deaths. The authorities were trying to project a high death rate in the district. Mysuru was still under lockdown due to official apathy. Targets PM Modi Lakshmana said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s picture on Covid vaccine certificate was not acceptable. "The vaccination is provided by the government and not by the BJP. Initially, the Union government was not ready to provide free vaccination but Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi’s efforts made the government provide free vaccines. You are giving vaccination with taxpayers' money and not from your pocket. Remove your photograph. It is not Modi’s vaccination,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/parameshwara-accuses-bjp-of-misusing-covid-19-situation-for-partys-publicity-1001072.html
24-06-2021||National||Plea in Kerala High Court seeks ban on WhatsApp||A Public Interest Litigation (PIL) has been filed in the Kerala High Court seeking a ban on WhatsApp, alleging it was not cooperating with the country's law-enforcement agencies. In his plea, Omanakuttan K G from Idukki district alleged the instant messaging platform has a separate privacy policy for the European region which is in tune with the laws prevailing there. "If the app is amenable to laws of European region and can change its functionality in accordance with the laws of European region; why is it hesitant to abide by the laws of our country?" the petitioner asked. The petitioner said the app has approached the Delhi High Court claiming it is not amenable to the newly introduced IT rules because it cannot trace the origin of the messages due to its end-to-end encryption policy. The app also claims that the newly introduced IT rules are against the right to privacy as held in the Justice Puttaswamy case, the petitioner said. Contending that WhatsApp is not free from manipulations and lacks security, the petitioner submitted the app is also used by anti-national and anti-social elements for their activities. He said he filed the petition in national and public interest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-kerala-high-court-seeks-ban-on-whatsapp-1000793.html
24-06-2021||National||US agency allows some H-1B visa seekers to re-submit applications||Some foreign guest workers in the US will be able to re-submit their applications for the H1-B visa, the most sought-after non-immigrant visa among Indian IT professionals, if their petition was solely rejected because it was based on the initial registration period, according to a federal agency. According to the US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), such re-submission of applications is for those whose applications have been rejected or administratively closed solely because the requested start date was after October 1, 2020. The H-1B visa allows US companies to employ foreign workers in speciality occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. Technology companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries like India and China. “If your FY 2021 petition was rejected or administratively closed solely because your petition was based on a registration submitted during the initial registration period, but you requested a start date after Oct. 1, 2020, you may re-submit that previously filed petition, with all applicable fees,” USCIS said on Wednesday. “Such petitions must be re-submitted before October 1, 2021. If properly resubmitted, we will consider the petition to have been filed on the original receipt date,” the USCIS said. In 2020, USCIS implemented an electronic registration process for the H-1B cap. Prospective petitioners seeking to file H-1B cap-subject petitions, including for beneficiaries eligible for the advanced degree exemption, must first electronically register and pay the $10 H-1B registration fee for each beneficiary. “The electronic registration process has streamlined processing by reducing paperwork and data exchange and provided overall cost savings to employers seeking to file H-1B cap-subject petitions,” it said. According to USCIS, for fiscal 2021, the number of petitions filed during the initial filing period was below the number projected as needed to reach the numerical allocations. This discrepancy was likely related to multiple factors, including the economic, political, and public health uncertainty created by the Covid-19 pandemic, as well as the fact that FY 2021 was the first year that we implemented the electronic registration process. “Therefore, in August 2020, we selected additional registrations that were held in reserve. The filing period for registrations selected in August ended on November 16, 2020,” it said. “Some petitioners indicated a start date after October 1, 2020. We rejected or administratively closed those petitions because they were based on registrations submitted during the initial registration period but indicated a start date after October 1, 2020. Upon reconsideration, we no longer believe that the regulations required us to reject or administratively close those petitions,” the USCIS said. The move comes days after the powerful US Chambers of Commerce launched a massive campaign to address the acute shortage of skilled and professional workforce in America. The demand to increase the H-1B quota, which currently is at 65,000 and another 20,000 for those who have higher studies from the US, is part of the America Works campaign launched by the US Chambers of Commerce early this month. “As we stand on the cusp of what could be a great American resurgence, a worker shortage is holding back job creators across the country,” US Chamber of Commerce president and CEO Suzanne Clark said. “We must arm workers with the skills they need, we must remove barriers that are keeping too many Americans on the sidelines, and we must recruit the very best from around the world to help fill high-demand jobs,” Clark said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-agency-allows-some-h-1b-visa-seekers-to-re-submit-applications-1000865.html
24-06-2021||National||54,069 new Covid-19 cases in India, 1,321 fatalities||India's single-day Covid-19 case tally rose on Thursday with 54,069 new coronavirus infections. The country saw 1,321 deaths from the fatal disease over the last 24 hours. India's active caseload fell below the 7-lakh mark and 68,885 patients recovered during the last 24 hours. The recovery rate increased to 96.61 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/54069-new-covid-19-cases-in-india-1321-fatalities-1000880.html
24-06-2021||National||No evidence that Delta Plus variant will cause Covid-19 third wave, says expert||As concerns mount in India about a possible third wave of Covid-19, one of India's top genome sequencers has waved off concerns of the new mutant Delta Plus causing a rise in infections.  Agarwal and other experts have warned people to not let their guard down as laxity at this point could bring us back to square one. He said before we concern ourselves with the third wave, we must worry about the second wave not ending. Delta Plus: Is it a concern or not? Opposing messages about the variant have kept health officials across states on their toes. The three aforementioned states have been instructed to take up immediate containment measures like avoiding crowding and intermingling of people. Meanwhile, Karnataka has expressed concerns that the variant may proliferate its border from neighbouring states. While most of the older Delta Plus cases found in India and around the world are of the AY.1 variety, scientific reports indicate that the mutant virus is further mutating into an even more dangerous form called AY.2. Mixed information about the virus may create panic among the public, which Agarwal said, has to be avoided. "I certainly do not see any reason right now for people to panic regarding Delta Plus being significantly worse than Delta or creating a major third wave," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-evidence-that-delta-plus-variant-will-cause-covid-19-third-wave-says-expert-1000895.html
24-06-2021||National||Data on effectiveness of Covaxin on 2-year-olds will be available in 2-3 months: AIIMS Director||Considering the need for developing a Covid-19 vaccine for children, Dr Randeep Guleria, Director of the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi, has recently said that experts will know the reports of trials of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin on children as young as two years, in two to three months. Trials of India’s first indigenously developed COVID-19 vaccine in children started in the first week of June in AIIMS Delhi and Patna. Dr Guleria mentioned that antibodies against the Covid-19 virus were found in these children.  "Almost 50-60 per cent of those who came for trials couldn't be recruited because they had antibodies... What this suggests is that they have a good amount of immunity,” he explained, adding, “This worry that 'the next wave may affect them' may not be correct.” After states have witnessed a dip in Covid-19 cases, questions about the reopening of schools have emerged. While the central government said on Tuesday that schools can reopen only after a significant number of people are vaccinated, Dr Guleria suggests that the government should be “aggressively working” towards it. “We should try and work on strategies that schools can be open," he added.  While the Centre has no plans to start schools physically, states like Maharashtra and Telangana have made plans to partially start reopening schools. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has directed the state Education Department on Tuesday to look at the possibilities of reopening educational institutions in the villages with no Covid-19 cases for Classes 10 and 12. Similarly, the Telangana government has also decided to reopen schools from July 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/data-on-effectiveness-of-covaxin-on-2-year-olds-will-be-available-in-2-3-months-aiims-director-1000897.html
24-06-2021||National||All set for in-person extradition hearing of Tahawwur Rana in LA||A federal US court in Los Angeles has scheduled on its calendar the in-person extradition hearing of Tahawwur Rana, the Pakistani-origin Canadian businessman who is sought for his involvement in the 2008 Mumbai terror attack in India. The extradition hearing, at the request of the Indian government, would be held in the court of Magistrate Judge Jacqueline Chooljian in Los Angeles. The court records suggested that the US government submitted a set of sealed Indian documents before the court twice this week, the latest one being on Wednesday. On request, the content of the documents have been sealed. The extradition hearing is scheduled for 1.30 local time, which is 2 am IST on Friday, June 25. “United States of America v Tahawwur Hussain Rana (In-Person CUSTODY,” a Courtroom deputy clerk of US District Court, central District of California said in the court’s calendar for Thursday. “Proceedings: Extradition Hearing” it said. The United State government, in multiple submissions before the court, has made a declaration in support of the “United States’ Surrebuttal in Support of its Request for Certification of Extradition.” Rana, 59, is sought in India in connection with his involvement in the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attack. Rana, a childhood friend of prime convict David Coleman Headley, was re-arrested on June 10, 2020 in Los Angeles on an extradition request by India for his involvement in the Mumbai terror attack in which 166 people, including six Americans, were killed. He has been declared a fugitive by India. Headley, 60, was made an approver in the case, and is currently serving a 35-year prison term in the US for his role in the attack. Rana has opposed his extradition to India, arguing that he has already been convicted by a US court in Chicago. The United States government asserts that the premise of Rana’s argument is incorrect because the Indian substantive charges are not considered lesser included offenses of their conspiracy charges. As per the India-US Extradition Treaty, the Indian government has requested the formal extradition of Rana, and the United States has initiated this extradition proceeding. The US government has argued that Rana meets all the criteria warranting certification of his extradition to India. These are: the court has both personal and subject matter jurisdiction, there is an extradition treaty between the United States and India that is in full force and effect, and the crimes for which Rana's extradition is sought are covered by the terms of the treaty. In his previous court submission on February 4, Rana's attorney had argued that Rana's extradition is barred under Article 6 of the United States-India extradition treaty because he had previously been acquitted of the offences for which his extradition is sought, and under Article 9 of the treaty because the government has not established probable cause to believe that Rana committed the alleged offences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-set-for-in-person-extradition-hearing-of-tahawwur-rana-in-la-1000898.html
24-06-2021||National||SC asks states to notify assessment scheme for Class 12 exams within 10 days||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed all state boards to notify the scheme for assessment of Class XII students within 10 days and to declare the results by July 31. A vacation bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari noted that all state boards, except that of Andhra Pradesh and NIOS, have already cancelled their class XII examinations. The top court also clarified that there cannot be uniform criteria for evaluating different state boards. During the hearing, a counsel asked the court to ensure uniform formula for assessing students by all boards. To this, the bench said, "we cannot pass such directions. There cannot be uniform scheme. That is for every board to decide. There are experts who have devised the scheme." Andhra Pradesh counsel Mehfooz Nazki maintained that the state is going to conduct examinations for Class XII in the last week of July. On this, the court sought to know how the state is going to ensure adherence to Covid protocol and how it would arrange over 34,000 rooms for allowing just 15 students in one room. "We are not very convinced about this. How can we permit you to put life of students at risk? You have to put before us proper firm decision," the bench said, seeking a well-defined formulated plan.    The court stressed the need for ventilated rooms and proper support staff and transportation.  "We hope third wave does not happen. But if that happens, are you going to risk the health of students?" the court asked putting the matter for consideration on Friday. It also sought a complete timeline and provision for some compensation in case of fatality. The court, meanwhile, declined to consider a plea against Kerala's decision to conduct Class XI examinations, saying students can approach the High Court with their petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-states-to-notify-assessment-scheme-for-class-12-exams-within-10-days-1000910.html
24-06-2021||National||Ajit Doval meets Russian counterpart in Tajikistan, discusses bilateral interaction in security sphere||National Security Adviser Ajit Doval has met his Russian counterpart Nikolai Patrushev on the sidelines of the SCO meeting in Tajikistan during which they discussed plans for the Russia-India interaction in the security sphere and cooperation among the security and law-enforcement agencies, according to a media report. The two leaders also exchanged their opinions on the evolving situation in Afghanistan and the Asia-Pacific region during the meeting, Russian news agency TASS reported on Tuesday. Doval is in Tajikistan's capital Dushanbe for the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting of national security chiefs. Patrushev, the Secretary of Russia’s Security Council, and Doval discussed in detail "further plans of the Russia-India interaction in the security sphere, cooperation among the security and law-enforcement agencies," the report quoted Patrushev's office as saying. Tajikistan, the current president of the SCO, is hosting the meeting of the top national security officials of the eight-nation grouping on June 23 and 24. According to the press service of the Russian Security Council’s office, the annual meeting of secretaries of SCO on Wednesday focused on the Covid-19 pandemic aftermath. "It was stressed that the social and economic consequences of the novel coronavirus infection pandemic may catalyse the spread of threats of terrorism, extremism, drug trade and organised crime," the press service said in a statement. The Beijing-based SCO is an eight-member economic and security bloc and has emerged as one of the largest transregional international organisations. India and Pakistan became its permanent members in 2017. The SCO was founded at a summit in Shanghai in 2001 by the Presidents of Russia, China and the four Central Asian countries of Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. India has shown keen interest in deepening its security-related cooperation with the SCO and its Regional Anti-Terrorism Structure (RATS) which specifically deals with issues relating to security and defence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ajit-doval-meets-russian-counterpart-in-tajikistan-discusses-bilateral-interaction-in-security-sphere-1000938.html
24-06-2021||National||Congress members should work to address vaccine hesitancy: Sonia Gandhi||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Thursday said the party must play an active role in ensuring full Covid-19 vaccination coverage and address vaccine hesitancy wherever evident. She also said that the country needs to prepare for the possible third wave and take proactive measures so that children are spared this calamity. Addressing a meeting of party general secretaries and in-charges of AICC in various states, she called upon party leaders and workers to continue to put pressure on the union government to ensure that the daily rate of vaccination trebles so that 75 per cent of the population gets fully vaccinated by end of this year.  Her comments come in the wake of the BJP accusing Congress of aiding vaccine hesitancy. "On the pandemic, let me say that it is absolutely essential that our party plays an active role in ensuring full vaccination coverage. At the national level, the daily rate of vaccination has to treble so that 75 per cent of our population gets fully vaccinated by end of this year," she said. "No doubt, this is dependent entirely on the adequacy of vaccine supply. We must continue to put pressure on the Union government which has, at our Party's insistence, finally taken on the responsibility for this. At the same time, we have to ensure that registration takes place, that vaccine hesitancy wherever evident is overcome and vaccine wastage is minimised," she said addressing the party leaders virtually. Quoting experts, she said they are talking of a possible third wave in a few months from now and some have pointed to the vulnerability of children in the coming months.  "This too requires our urgent attention and we must take proactive measures so that they are spared this calamity. We have to take steps to be better prepared if and when this strikes," she said. Gandhi said the second wave of coronavirus in the past four months has been devastating for lakhs of families and we must learn from this traumatic experience so that we do not have to experience it yet again.  Talking about the white paper on Covid management brought out by the Congress, she said it is being translated in other languages. It is very detailed and needs to be disseminated widely. I hope this gets done urgently, she told the leaders. Referring to the rise in fuel prices, the Congress chief said it is causing an intolerable burden on people and agitations have been organised to highlight how it is hurting farmers and millions of families.  Apart from fuel, the prices of many other essential commodities like pulses and edible oils too have skyrocketed causing widespread distress, she noted. "This price rise is taking place at a time when livelihoods are being lost in unprecedented numbers, when there is mounting unemployment and when economic recovery is not a reality," she said. Appreciating the relief work carried out by party workers cross the country during the pandemic, she said that this has been done in the Congress Party's finest traditions of community service.  "We must continue our effort. The control rooms will continue to function. The helplines too. Emergency services like ambulances and essential medicines should continue to be provided," Gandhi said.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-members-should-work-to-address-vaccine-hesitancy-sonia-gandhi-1000940.html
24-06-2021||National||Over 1.89 crore unutilised Covid vaccines available with states/UTs: Govt||More than 1.89 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and Union territories, the Union health ministry said on Thursday. Two crore vaccine doses have been administered in the first 72 hours of the implementation of the new revised guidelines of the National Covid-19 Vaccination Programme, the ministry said. More than 30 crore (30,33,27,440) vaccine doses have been provided by the Centre to states/UTs so far, through Government of India (free of cost channel) and direct state procurement category. Of this, the total consumption, including wastages, is 28,43,40,936 doses (according to the data available at 8 am on Thursday), the ministry said. "More than 1.89 crore (1,89,86,504) balance and unutilised Covid vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. "Furthermore, more than 21,05,010 vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days," the ministry said. The Union government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from June 21. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states/UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, the ministry said. Under the nationwide vaccination drive, the Centre has been supporting the states/UTs by providing them Covid vaccines free of cost. In the new phase of the universalisation of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the Union government will procure and supply (free of cost) 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by vaccine manufacturers in the country to states/UTs, it added. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-189-crore-unutilised-covid-vaccines-available-with-states/uts-govt-1000943.html
24-06-2021||National||Sexual assault case: HC to hear Goa govt's appeal against Tarun Tejpal's acquittal on July 29||The Goa bench of the Bombay High Court on Thursday adjourned till July 29 an appeal filed by the Goa government against the acquittal of journalist Tarun Tejpal in a 2013 rape case. A division bench of Justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar allowed the government to amend their appeal and serve a copy of the same along with all related documents to Tejpal. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Tejpal, told the bench they would require some time to prepare. The bench then said it would hear the appeal on July 29. It directed the government to amend their petition within one week and serve a copy of the same in one week thereafter. On May 21, Sessions Judge Kshama Joshi acquitted Tejpal, the former editor-in-chief of the Tehelka magazine, in the case where he was accused of sexually assaulting his then colleague in a lift of a five-star hotel in Goa in November 2013 when they were attending an event. The trial court had in its judgement questioned the victim's conduct, holding that she did not exhibit any kind of “normative behaviour” such as trauma and shock, which a victim of sexual assault might plausibly show.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sexual-assault-case-hc-to-hear-goa-govts-appeal-against-tarun-tejpals-acquittal-on-july-29-1000960.html
24-06-2021||National||Won't allow Class 12 exams unless sure of no fatality due to Covid, SC tells Andhra Pradesh||The Supreme Court on Thursday told Andhra Pradesh it is not convinced of the precautionary measures suggested by the state for holding Class 12 board exams and said unless satisfied that there will be no fatality due to Covid, it will not allow them.   The apex court said it may also look into the aspect of compensation in case of a fatality like in many other states where Rs 1 crore is given for the death due to Covid-19. A special bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari, which posed tough questions to the Andhra Pradesh government on its decision to hold Class 12 board examinations, asked the standing counsel for the state Mahfooz A Nazki to place before the court the “snapshot of the file” giving reasons to hold the test. “We are not satisfied with the precautionary measures you will be taking for holding the exams. We are not convinced with the mechanism you have devised. Unless we are satisfied that you are able to conduct the examination without any fatality, we will not allow you to hold the examination,” the bench said. “We have to see the aspect of compensation in case of any fatality during the examination. Some States have given Rs 1 crore compensation for death due to Covid. We can look at things through that aspect,” it said. The top court is hearing a plea seeking directions to state governments not to hold board exams in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. During the hearing, the top court flagged its specific concern over accommodating 5,19,510 students in classrooms for the exams and said the state government says that maximum of 15 to 18 students will be in one class. “If we go by your figure then for 15 students per class, you will need 34,644 rooms and if we take 18 students per class then you will need 28,862 rooms. Tell us from where you get all these rooms,” the bench said. It told Nazki, “Don't hold examinations for the sake of examination. It is not only 5 lakh students giving the examination, more than a lakh people will be involved in the process including 34,000 supervisors for each room. You have to think about their health and safety also”. The bench said the state should keep in mind the impact of the second Covid wave, how fast it unfolded and how it will cope if it is hit by the third wave. “Do you have any contingency plans? If you are hit by a third wave or if there is any unwarranted situation how will you deal with it. We have not seen any such thing on your affidavit. No one is here to prove anything. You must have thought about something about the health and safety of students and teachers,” the bench said. Nazki said the major problem was that in Class 10 students are given only grades and there is no mechanism to evaluate the students. “We understand your difficulty that converting grades to marks or evaluating the students will be a problem. But every problem has ten solutions. You talk about experts. You can talk to UGC, CBSE, CISCE or other States and experts and devise a formula. Many states had problems but they have decided to cancel the examinations,” the bench said. The top court also flagged its concern that Andhra Pradesh has not mentioned a timeline for the exams or results and asked the state to specify it to avoid any uncertainty in the minds of students.   “You cannot keep things uncertain. If you want to hold the examination we want a concrete plan by tomorrow. We want to know what your Covid protocol management is and how you are going to implement it. You must know that first and second Covid are different and as per experts the third wave will also be different. Alerts have been sounded in Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Kerala for Delta variant,” the bench said. The top court asked Nazki to file an affidavit by Friday giving the complete plan and convince the court that it has the entire necessary wherewithal to deal with any exigencies. “We want a complete break-up of things. Right from students and teachers’ transportation, classrooms and their sitting arrangements, ensuring maintenance of  Covid protocols or we will direct you not to hold the examination,” the bench said, pointing out that many states have taken the decision to cancel the examination looking at the ground reality. The bench also dealt with the affidavit of Kerala, which said that it has already held Class 12 board examinations and it will hold Class 11 examination in the month of September. The top court said that it is dealing with the plea on Class 12 board examination and if the students from Kerala have any grievance with respect to Class 11 examination, then they can approach the High Court there. In its affidavit, the Andhra Pradesh government had told the top court that it will be able to conduct Class 12 exams successfully as there are no reliable alternatives to assess the state board students.   On Monday, the top court was informed by the Assam, Tripura and Karnataka governments that they have cancelled their state boards of Class 12 board exam due to the pandemic. On June 17, the top court was informed that out of 28 states, six states have already conducted the board exams, 18 states have cancelled them, but four states (Assam, Punjab, Tripura and Andhra Pradesh) have not cancelled them as of now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wont-allow-class-12-exams-unless-sure-of-no-fatality-due-to-covid-sc-tells-andhra-pradesh-1000963.html
24-06-2021||National||Ghaziabad assault case: Twitter India MD expected to join probe||Twitter India's Managing Director Manish Maheshwari is expected to appear in person before the Ghaziabad Police on Thursday in connection with a probe related to the assault of an elderly Muslim man recently, officials said. The Twitter India MD, who lives in Bengaluru in Karnataka, was issued notice by the Ghaziabad Police on June 21 and asked to report at its Loni Border police station at 10.30 am on Thursday to get his statement recorded in the case, the officials added. “He did not reach the police station at the given time and is expected to reach here by noon,” Circle Officer (Loni), Atul Kumar Sonkar, told PTI. The Ghaziabad Police had on June 15 booked Twitter Inc, Twitter Communications India, news website The Wire, journalists Mohammed Zubair and Rana Ayyub, besides Congress leaders Salman Nizami, Maskoor Usmani, Shama Mohamed and writer Saba Naqvi. They were booked over the circulation of a video in which the elderly man, Abdul Shamad Saifi, claims he was allegedly thrashed by some young men who also asked him to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' on June 5. The police claim the video was shared to cause communal unrest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ghaziabad-assault-case-twitter-india-md-expected-to-join-probe-1000971.html
24-06-2021||National||8-yr-old girl develops multisystem inflammatory syndrome; had tested Covid negative||An eight-year-old girl, who was a suspected case of Covid-19, developed multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C), a post-Covid complication that can manifest three to six weeks after the infection, hospital authorities said on Thursday. Early detection of MIS-C is important to control mortalities. It is an unregulated hyper immune response typically found in children as a reaction to inflammation in the body, doctors said. "The child was brought to Apollo hospital here early June. Her condition was critical with low levels of blood pressure, oxygen and dipping pulse rate. While she had tested negative for Covid-19, she was detected with high levels of Covid antibodies making her a case of MIS-C," the hospital said in a statement. She was a suspected asymptomatic case of Covid-19, a spokesperson of the hospital said. "Because of her very high ventilator requirements and low oxygen saturations we decided to immediately put her on ECMO support. She improved gradually and it was only after a week that she could be taken off ECMO support," Dr Nameet Jerath, senior consultant, pediatric intensive care, said. MIS-C, a post-Covid complication, can manifest three to six weeks after asymptomatic or symptomatic infection, and early detection is important to control mortalities, she said. Dr Muthu Jyothi, senior consultant, pediatric cardiology, at the hospital, said, "If MIS-C is not identified and treated quickly, the condition of the patient can deteriorate within hours and make it life-threatening." It can develop in children who had no serious Covid-19 symptoms, the doctor said. "We brought her in an ambulance while being on ventilator to ensure the situation does not degrade further, threatening her life," Jyothi said. While the reported severity of Covid in children has been mild, a few cases of severe manifestations and post-Covid complications have been reported. These complications range from mild manifestations of extreme fatigue, body and joint pain and fever, to some severe health conditions, and MIS-C and acute respiratory distress being the two most common ones, the hospital authorities said. After complaining of high grade fever, abdomen pain, vomiting and persistent headache for a week, the young girl had been admitted to a local hospital where her condition had deteriorated to acute respiratory distress. She was then referred to the pediatric team of Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals here, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8-yr-old-girl-develops-multisystem-inflammatory-syndrome-had-tested-covid-negative-1000976.html
24-06-2021||National||Distribution of Covid-19 vaccines among states done in transparent manner, says Centre||Allocation of Covid-19 vaccines to a state is done based on its population, caseload, utilisation efficiency and wastage factors, the Union Health Ministry on Thursday said and dismissed media reports alleging non-transparent distribution of the jabs. The ministry said the allegations of non-transparent distribution of vaccines among states are "completely without any basis, and not fully informed". It clarified that the Government of India continues to allocate Covid-19 vaccines to states and union territories in a transparent manner based on the population of a state, caseload, its utilisation efficiency and wastage factors. In a statement, the ministry said India's National Covid Vaccination Programme is built on scientific and epidemiological evidence, WHO guidelines and global best practices. Anchored in systematic end-to-end planning, it is implemented through effective and efficient participation of states and UTs and the people at large. There have been some media reports alleging non-transparent allocation of Covid-19 vaccines to states, according to the statement. The ministry said the "allegations are completely without any basis, and not fully informed". It is clarified that the Government of India continues to allocate Covid-19 vaccines to states and UTs in a transparent manner, it stated. Information about the vaccine supply by the Government of India, consumption by the states and UTs, balance and unutilised vaccine doses available with them, along with vaccine supply in the pipeline is regularly shared through press releases made by Press Information Bureau, and also through other forums, the statement said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/distribution-of-covid-19-vaccines-among-states-done-in-transparent-manner-says-centre-1000977.html
24-06-2021||National||Rogue elephant kills 16 people in Jharkhand||A rogue elephant has killed at least 16 villagers in the past two months in India after likely being expelled from his herd "for bad behaviour", a wildlife official said Thursday. The mature male, believed to be 15 or 16 years old, has been on the rampage in the tribal Santhal Pargana region of Jharkhand ever since he was separated from the herd of 22 elephants. "It's likely he was in heat and was expelled because of his bad behaviour or sexual rivalry with other males," Satish Chandra Rai, regional divisional forest officer, told AFP. "We are studying his behaviour and a team of 20 officials is constantly trying to track him because our first priority is to protect the animal." The elephant, which is now on its way back seeking to reunite with the herd, has managed to outwit officials with his sheer speed and unpredictability. On Tuesday, the tusker lifted an elderly couple with his trunk and battered them to death when they had ventured out before dawn. Rai said the elephant was only killing people who accidentally got in its way, got too close, or who tried to provoke it and take pictures. "He has not been breaking into houses or deliberately attacking people," Rai said. "We want to see if he is accepted back in the herd. If he is not it will be proved he is a bad boy." India has an estimated 30,000 wild Asian elephants -- nearly 60 per cent of the total wild population. In recent years there have been rising incidents of elephants killed by locals -- and vice-versa -- as humans encroach further into forest areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rogue-elephant-kills-16-people-in-jharkhand-1000990.html
24-06-2021||National||Karnataka High Court grants interim relief to Twitter MD Manish Maheshwari||Karnataka High Court on Thursday said Twitter Inc's country head should face no "coercive action" in a case where police summoned him for failing to stop the spread of a video that allegedly incited religious discord, three sources said. Last week, police in Uttar Pradesh sent a written summons to Twitter India head Manish Maheshwari to appear before officials and answer allegations that include inciting "hate and enmity" between Hindu and Muslim communities. Maheshwari, who is based in Bengaluru city in southern Karnataka state, appealed to the court and sought to quash the summons, sources familiar with the matter said. On Thursday, "the judge said no coercive action can be taken against him and he can be examined via video conferencing," one of the sources told Reuters. A second source said the order in effect gives Maheshwari protection from any possible arrest by the police. Twitter declined to comment. The police case had been registered over a video of a few men beating an elderly man believed to be a Muslim and cutting his beard. The police report named Twitter, its local unit and seven others. IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has lashed out at Twitter for the incident, saying its failure to act was "perplexing." The controversy comes at a time when the Government of India has locked horns with Twitter over non-compliance with certain federal rules, raising concerns that the platform may no longer enjoy protection against user-generated content.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-high-court-grants-interim-relief-to-twitter-md-manish-maheshwari-1000991.html
24-06-2021||National||PM Modi asks people to be vocal for local toys||India is keen to share a pie in the $100 billion global toy market, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking young entrepreneurs to leave a strong Indian presence on the toy sector. Modi urged the participants of the Toycathon to ensure India’s diverse and rich culture and traditions get reflected in new games and toys designed in the country. He expressed concern over 80 per cent of India’s toy market demands being met through imports and asked entrepreneurs to reverse the trend. The Prime Minister also rued the fact that most of the online and digital games available in the market were not based on Indian concepts and many such games promote violence and cause mental stress. “Our focus should be on developing toys, games that present every aspect of Indianness in interesting, interactive ways,” Modi said. The world wants to learn about India’s capabilities, art and culture, and society, and toys can play a big role in that, the Prime Minister said. Toycathon-2021 was jointly launched by the ministries of Education, Women and Child Development, Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises, Textiles, Information and Broadcasting, Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), and All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) on January 5, 2021 to crowd-source innovative toys and game ideas. Modi said India has ample content and competence for digital gaming and asked young innovators and startups to be mindful of their responsibility of projecting the true picture of the country’s capabilities and ideas to the world. The Prime Minister also said that the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence is a huge opportunity for the innovators and creators of the toy industry. “Many incidents, stories of our freedom fighters and their valour and leadership can be created into gaming concepts,” he stressed. These innovators have a big role in connecting ‘folk with the future’, Modi said. Around 1.2 lakh participants from across India registered and submitted more than 17,000 ideas for the Toycathon 2021, out of which 1,567 ideas were shortlisted for the three-day online Toycathon Grand Finale, being held from June 22 to June 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-asks-people-to-be-vocal-for-local-toys-1000996.html
24-06-2021||National||Most people keen to travel this year after unlock: Survey||A majority of people have shown keen interest to travel this year after easing of lockdown restrictions, with 69 per cent respondents keen to resume travel in 2021 and 31 per cent in 2022, according to a joint survey by travel service providers Thomas Cook India and SOTC.   The survey was conducted this month by the two companies and covered 4,000 customers across India's tier-I to III towns, including top-8 metro cities. It also included mini-metros like Pune and key tier-II and III markets of Jaipur, Indore, Tiruchirappalli, Madurai, Nagpur, Surat, Baroda, Bhubaneswar, Lucknow, Chandigarh, Mysore, Coimbatore, Visakhapatnam, Guwahati and Patna. Eighteen per cent of the respondents were ready to travel immediately after unlock and 51 per cent within 3-6 months, according to the survey report, titled 'Third Holiday Readiness Report'. When it comes to destinations, there is demand for domestic and international, although domestic was higher at 54 per cent and international at 46 per cent. In India, Kashmir, Leh-Ladakh, Himachal, Andamans, Goa and Kerala are among the most popular destinations, while Dubai-Abu Dhabi, Maldives, Mauritius, Thailand and Europe are the favourite global destinations, Thomas Cook India said in a regulatory filing. Customers, however, continued to be concerned about physical and personal safety with 70 per cent of the respondents ranking health and safety as a key consideration, it added. "Re-sanitation of rooms was selected by 52 per cent respondents as a key requirement, while fully vaccinated hotel staff, drivers was a need highlighted by 48 per cent and 34 per cent respondents, respectively," according to the report. It also found that 66 per cent of respondents were willing to increase spends to ensure higher levels of health and safety on their holiday, and 62 per cent respondents preferred to travel with family/friends; 20 per cent as couples/solo and 18 per cent in a vaccinated group. Thomas Cook India President and Country Head (Holidays and MICE) Visa Rajeev Kale said, "Indian consumers continue to display strong travel desire with a noteworthy 69 per cent keen to travel in 2021. Equally important are consumer concerns on health-safety (70 per cent), uncertainty (19 per cent) and need for refundable/zero cancellation products (81 per cent)." MICE stands for meeting, incentives, conferences and exhibitions. SOTC Travel President and Country Head (Leisure) Daniel D'souza given that uncertainty is a key concern the findings of the study are very encouraging with the strong pent up travel demand being revealed. As far as duration of stay is concerned, the study found that 35 per respondents chose holidays between 3-5 days; 52 per cent for 6-12 days; 13 per cent for a holiday of over 12 days but the customers also wanted financial safety with 81 per cent respondents reiterated their need for refundable/zero cancellation products.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/most-people-keen-to-travel-this-year-after-unlock-survey-1000998.html
24-06-2021||National||UP police seize jailed BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari's luxury car||The police have seized a luxury car of jailed BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari, terming it "benami property". The former gangster-turned-politician is currently lodged in Uttar Pradesh's Banda jail. Acting on Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's orders to take action against mafia elements, Ansari's car was seized from the house of his wife Afshan in Sayyidwada locality of Ghazipur Nagar after completing the legal process, Deputy Superintendent of Police (City) Ojaswi Chawla said on Thursday. The car is registered in the name of Vikas Constructions, a company in which Afshan holds a 60 per cent stake. Ansari's brothers-in-law Anwar Shazad and Sharjeel Raza hold a 20 per cent stake each in the company, he said. If the car is registered in the name of the company, it will be treated as 'benami' property, he added. Ansari, the legislator from Mau in eastern Uttar Pradesh, is facing 52 cases in Uttar Pradesh and elsewhere, and 15 of them are in the trial stage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-police-seize-jailed-bsp-mla-mukhtar-ansaris-luxury-car-1001014.html
24-06-2021||National||Gadkari lays foundation stone, inaugurates various NH projects in Himachal Pradesh||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday laid the foundation stone and inaugurated various national highway projects in Himachal Pradesh and said these road projects will ensure prosperity for the people of the state. "The total outlay of the 222-kilometre long nine road corridors is Rs 6,155 crore," according to an official statement. The road transport and highway minister promised that road travel time from Delhi to Kullu will be reduced to just seven hours within two years or even before, it said. According to the statement, Gadkari said works related to construction of 11 more tunnels in Himachal Pradesh will soon be awarded. The minister said the government has accorded top priority to the Manali-Leh tunnel construction, it added. Gadkari said road construction works with an outlay of around Rs 15 lakh crore are planned this year across the country. He also stressed that the process related to land acquisition and environment clearance needs to by sped up to be able to complete the road construction within time. The minister also announced to award works related to 491-kilometre-long road construction in Himachal Pradesh with a total cost of Rs 15,000 crore in 2021-22. Gadkari also said that the possibility of a network of ropeway and cable car in Himachal Pradesh may be explored. On the occasion, Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jairam Thakur said good-quality roads is the top priority for the state government. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gadkari-lays-foundation-stone-inaugurates-various-nh-projects-in-himachal-pradesh-1001015.html
24-06-2021||National||PM meets J&K political leadership to chalk out future course of action||In the government’s first outreach to Jammu and Kashmir’s political leadership in almost two years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a crucial meeting with 14 leaders, including four former chief ministers, to chalk out the future course of action in the union territory. The prime minister, accompanied by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha, received the leaders from eight parties, including the National Conference, the PDP, the BJP and the Congress, at his residence. This is the first interaction between the Central leadership and the mainstream parties since August 5, 2019, when the Centre revoked Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Article 370 and bifurcated it into two union territories, Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. Minister of State in PMO Jitendra Singh, Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister P K Mishra and Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla were among those who attended the meeting. The four former chief ministers of the erstwhile state who participated in the discussions were Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah of the National Conference, Congress’ Ghulam Nabi Azad and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti. Four former deputy chief ministers were in attendance too – Congress’ Tara Chand, People's Conference leader Muzaffar Hussain Baig and BJP's Nirmal Singh and Kavinder Gupta. CPI-M leader Mohammed Yusuf Tarigami, Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) chief Altaf Bukhari, Sajjad Lone of the People's Conference, J-K Congress head G A Mir, BJP's Ravinder Raina and Panthers Party leader Bhim Singh also formed part of the delegation. "I will keep my agenda in the meeting and then talk to you," Farooq Abdullah said before the meeting started. Asked about PDP chief Mehbooba's comments that India should initiate dialogue with Pakistan, the NC leader said, "Mehbooba ji is the president of her party. She has the right to speak. I have my own. I don't want to bring in Pakistan. I am going to talk to our own prime minister." "If India can talk to the Taliban in Doha (Qatar), why not Pakistan," Mehbooba had said earlier. With no agenda announced for the meeting, the leaders from Jammu and Kashmir said they have come with an open mind. "We have not been given an agenda. We will be attending the meeting to know what the Centre is offering," said Tarigami, who is also spokesperson of the six-party People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) that was formed in the aftermath of the August 2019 decisions. Officials said the Centre is keen on holding assembly elections in the union territory as early as possible, maybe in December this year or March 2022 after the Delimitation Commission headed by Justice (retd) Ranjana Desai completes its task of redrawing constituencies in the next few months. The Commission was granted one year's extension in March this year. BJP's Jammu and Kashmir unit president Raina said Thursday’s interaction convened by the prime minister is in accordance with the wishes of heads of various political parties who have been seeking time from him for a long time. The meeting seems to be the result of the back-channel talks held with all the parties from the union territory to chart out a roadmap. The Union Home Minister, while tabling the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill 2019 in Parliament, had given an assurance that the Centre would grant full statehood to Jammu and Kashmir at an appropriate time. Today’s dialogue comes seven months after the District Development Council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir. The PAGD had surged ahead of the BJP and its allies, including the JKAP, by bagging 110 seats out of 280 with the National Conference emerging stronger with 67 seats within the alliance. The BJP was the single largest party with 75 seats. Jammu and Kashmir’s political mainstream, especially those with a strong base in the Valley, has been critical of successive administrations of the union territory for allegedly neglecting the demands of the people. It has raised questions on development initiatives since August 2019. Several leaders, including the Abdullahs and Mehbooba, were detained after the August 2019 decisions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-meets-jk-political-leadership-to-chalk-out-future-course-of-action-1001021.html
24-06-2021||National||From the Newsroom: PM Modi meets senior leaders from J&K||In your evening news update, Prime Minister Narendra Modi met senior leaders from Jammu and Kashmir; Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani announces the world's cheapest smartphone, JioPhone Next and Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah asks MLAs not to project him as the Chief Ministerial face for the 2023 Karnataka Assembly polls.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi met senior leaders from Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, the first such meeting since the bifurcation of the state into two union territories and the scrapping of Article 370 that granted the erstwhile state a special status. Leaders of eight political parties from J&K, several of whom were detained for months since the bifurcation of the state in August 2019 drove down to Modi’s 7, Lok Kalyan Marg residence for the free-wheeling discussion. Home Minister Amit Shah and J&K Lt Governor Manoj Sinha were also present. Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani announced that Google and Reliance Jio have jointly developed the world's cheapest smartphone in India, JioPhone Next. At the virtual general meeting, Ambani stated that the smartphone is in pursuit to make India '2G mukt'. The phone will be available from Ganesh Chathurthi on September 10th. However, he did not reveal a specific price for the product. Ambani said, the phone "will be powered by an optimised version of the Android OS, developed by the Mountain View-based software conglomerate and Jio. The phone will have cutting-edge features." Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Thursday asked MLAs not to project him as the Chief Ministerial face for the 2023 Assembly polls, amid widening fissures within the party on the issue, that has triggered a game of oneupmanship between him and state unit president DK Shivakumar. Siddaramaiah's statement came amid a growing list of MLAs who openly favoured him as the CM face despite diktat from the party leadership, which has irked Shivakumar, who is also nursing Chief Ministerial ambitions. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-pm-modi-meets-senior-leaders-from-jk-1001023.html
24-06-2021||National||Muslim Rashtriya Manch condemns Mehbooba Mufti's comments on Kashmir issue||The Muslim Rashtriya Manch (MRM) in Telangana on Thursday condemned the comments of PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti that India should initiate dialogue with Pakistan to resolve the Kashmir issue, saying it was against the 'national integrity' and 'unity'. Referring to Mufti's remarks, MRM's Telangana convener M A Sattar said, "She (Mehbooba Mufti) said that the special status was snatched away from them and it was a mistake and it was an illegal and unconstitutional act. Peace shall not return to J&K unless Article 370 is restored." "She also brought in the issue of involving Pakistan in resolution of the Kashmir issue." Other parties of the Gupkar Alliance like the National Conference, CPM and the Congress have seconded the views expressed by Mehbooba Mufti on Article 370, MRM, the Muslim wing of RSS, claimed in a release. "The MRM is of the view that the statements of the leaders of these parties are in direct contravention to the national integrity and unity," it said. Terming as 'temporary' the special status granted to J&K through Article 370 and 35A, the organisation said the Modi government had taken a right step in abrogating the divisive and temporary provision. The MRM also urged the Centre not to entertain such suggestions and demands from any political party. The MRM claimed that it had conducted a special signature campaign against Article 370 and 35 A and collected over 8.5 lakh signatures of Muslims, including over 70,000 from Kashmir, and submitted a memorandum to then President late Pranab Mukherjee demanding abrogation of the said articles. Addressing reporters at the end of a huddle of the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), she said during the meeting with the PM on Thursday, she would press for the restoration of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, which was "snatched away from us". Mufti had said the Centre should hold dialogue with everyone including Pakistan to resolve the Kashmir issue. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muslim-rashtriya-manch-condemns-mehbooba-muftis-comments-on-kashmir-issue-1001027.html
24-06-2021||National||NCB arrests wanted accused in Pakistan border drugs recovery case||A "most wanted" narcotics dealer linked to a Pakistan-based operative was on Thursday arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau from Hoshiarpur district of Punjab, the central agency said. Jasbir Singh, 35, alias Momi/Boss was held after a sustained operation conducted by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), following the recovery of over 56 kg of heroin from along the India-Pakistan International Border (IB) in the border district of Bikaner, in the intervening hours of June 2-3. The seizure was made by troops of the Border Security Force (BSF) and it had called this catch the "highest ever" recovery of drugs from the IB in Rajasthan till date. The agency said Singh was a "habitual offender" and was absconding since 2019. The NCB followed up on this drugs recovery case and filed a complaint under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and went on to arrest five people from various locations of Punjab and Rajasthan. "The receivers of the contraband had fled from the spot (on June 3) and could not be apprehended. The case was handed over to NCB unit based in Jodhpur," a senior officer said. He added that this operation has "inter-state as well as international ramifications" and the suspected supplier of the heroin seized by the BSF is a man named Malik Choudhary of Lahore in Pakistan. The officer said the probe in the case is ongoing and the NCB is working to “break the nexus of the drug syndicate operating internationally".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncb-arrests-wanted-accused-in-pakistan-border-drugs-recovery-case-1001029.html
24-06-2021||National||Rajnath Singh reviews Project Seabird work in Karwar||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday visited Karwar Naval Base and reviewed the progress of ongoing infrastructure development under Project Seabird. The Defence Minister was accompanied by Chief of Naval Staff, Admiral Karambir Singh, the Defence PRO said in a statement. As part of the visit, Singh undertook an aerial survey of the project area and sites, prior to arriving at INS Kadamba Helipad. Singh and Navy Chief were received by Vice Admiral R Hari Kumar, Flag Officer Commanding in Chief, Western Naval Command and Rear Admiral Mahesh Singh, Flag Officer Commanding Karnataka Naval Area, the statement said. The Defence Minister is also scheduled to visit Kochi to review the progress of construction of the indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC) there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-reviews-project-seabird-work-in-karwar-1001039.html
24-06-2021||National||Work on Central Vista going on as per schedule, says Hardeep Singh Puri||To blunt critics, Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday shared pictures of his visit to take a glimse of redevelopment works of Central Vista Avenue and the new Parliament sites, and praised the workers involved in the construction of the two projects. "Delighted to interact with the workers giving shape to our future heritage. They come from different parts of the country. Pity that the Congress ecosystem wanted to snatch away the livelihood of these hardworking women & men. I thanked them for their sweat & toil," Puri tweeted posting photos he took with workers. Delighted to interact with the workers giving shape to our future heritage. They come from different parts of the country. Pity that the Congress ecosystem wanted to snatch away the livelihood of these hardworking women & men. "Toil & perseverance of our workers is giving shape to architectural heritage for the future generations," Puri said posting number photos of redeveloped Central Vista Avenue. The minister also took a dig at Opposition parties, who have criticised the projects amid Covid-19 pandemic. "Happy to inform the ‘Vidvaans’ (learned) that their ice cream evenings are going to get even better!," he tweeted. "Work is on schedule. Quick progress being made. The new look Central Vista Avenue, with a judicious mix of modern with traditional will redefine the heart of the city. More public spaces. Easier public access. Greener & better," he said. Reacting to green activists critics that redevelopment of Central Vista would lead to cutting of large number of Jamun trees, Minister posted photos of fruit bearing trees in his twitter handle and tweeted, "All the false narratives about Central Vista Avenue are coming crashing down. The fruit laden Jamun trees stand tall as the landscape around them is being redeveloped & upgraded. There were rumours that these have been cut down!." The NDA government came under severe criticism from opposition parties, whch said the government should use the money to  improve health infrastrecture than these projects However Puri defended the project saying it was not a luxury but a necessity. Even Delhi High Court refused to stop works during pandemic saying it was a project of national importance. The Central Vista redevelopment project involved building a new Parliament building, offices to Members of Parliament, remodelling of Central Vista Avenue (Rajpath),  constructing new residences for the vice president and the prime minister, inter-connected common secretariat comprising 10 new buildings and demolishing some buildings on either side of the Rajpath. At present only two projects — the Parliament building and Central Vista Avenue — are being executed at a cost of around Rs 1,300 crore. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/work-on-central-vista-going-on-as-per-schedule-says-hardeep-singh-puri-1001058.html
24-06-2021||National||Army chiefs of India, Kazakhstan hold telephonic interaction on bilateral defence cooperation||Indian Army Chief General M M Naravane on Thursday held a telephonic interaction with his counterpart in Kazakhstan Major General Talgat Mamyrtaevich Koibakov to discuss issues of bilateral defence cooperation, according to an official statement. Kazakhstan shares land border of around 1,780 km with China. However, unlike India, Kazakhstan does not have any active border dispute with China. It has been more than a year since the military standoff between the armies of India and China erupted in eastern Ladakh on May 5, 2020, during which there were fatalities on both sides for the first time in 45 years.  India and China have made limited progress in achieving disengagement in the Pangong lake area while negotiations for similar steps at other friction points continue. Indian Army said on Twitter on Thursday, "General MM Naravane, COAS (Chief of Army Staff), had telephonic interaction with Major General Talgat Mamyrtaevich Koibakov, Commander-in-Chief, Land Forces of the Armed Forces, Republic of #Kazakhstan and discussed issues of bilateral defence cooperation."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-chiefs-of-india-kazakhstan-hold-telephonic-interaction-on-bilateral-defence-cooperation-1001061.html
24-06-2021||National||India presses OPEC for affordable oil price||With domestic retail fuel prices jumping to record high on rising international oil rates, India on Thursday pressed oil cartel OPEC for 'affordable' oil price within a 'reasonable band' and that the producers should phase out production cuts. OPEC nations such as Saudi Arabia have traditionally been India's principal oil source. But, OPEC and its allies, called OPEC+, ignoring its call for ease supply curbs had led to the world's third-biggest oil importer tap newer sources to diversify its crude oil imports. As a result, OPEC's share in India's oil imports has dropped to about 60 per cent in May from 74 per cent in the previous month. India's Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan in virtual dialogue with OPEC secretary general Mohammad Sanusi Barkindo reiterated concerns over oil prices, which have shot up above $75 per barrel - the highest since April 2019. The spike has led to retail petrol and diesel prices climbing to a record high. Petrol is above the Rs 100 per litre mark in 9 states and UTs, while diesel is being sold at over Rs 100 a litre in Rajasthan and Odisha. "Minister Pradhan highlighted the importance of affordable and regular supplies of energy to drive economic and social progress, noting that his country is a major consumer and importer of oil," a statement issued by OPEC after the meeting said. Later, a statement from the oil ministry said "Pradhan flagged concerns over the increasing crude oil prices and its impact on consumers as well as on smart economic recovery. He emphasised that high crude prices are adding significant inflationary pressure on India". Both sides discussed recent oil market developments, trends in oil demand recoveries, economic growth forecasts and overcoming energy challenges, among other issues of mutual interest. "Pradhan reiterated his request of phasing out production cuts and also emphasised that crude prices should remain within a reasonable band, which will be in the collective interests of both consumers and producers and will encourage a consumption-led recovery," the ministry statement said. He also stressed that all forms of energy will be needed to address India's growing energy needs. "The Minister, citing the growing cooperation between India and OPEC over the years, said: 'We regard OPEC as a vital energy partner,' expecting the ongoing cooperation to continue going forward," as per the statement by the oil cartel. He noted that the ongoing cooperation comprises high-level dialogue and collaboration on the technical level. In March, Pradhan and his Saudi Arabian counterpart were locked in a verbal duel after OPEC+ ignored India's plea to ease production control. Saudi energy minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman asked New Delhi to instead use oil it bought at rock bottom rates last year. Days later, Pradhan termed the statement as an "undiplomatic response from a friendly nation". Thereafter, his ministry asked refiners to look at sources outside of the Middle East for buying oil. This led to imports from Saudi Arabia, India's second-largest supplier after Iraq, slipping by about a quarter from a year earlier, while the United Arab Emirates slipped to being the seventh-largest supplier from being No 3 in April. Nigeria, another OPEC nation, is now the No 3 supplier. But, the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19 infections, which led to severe scarcity of hospital beds and medical oxygen, led to New Delhi courting the Middle East nations for sourcing medical supplies. "The Minister (Pradhan) also thanked OPEC member countries, including the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, for providing medical support during India's recent surge in Covid-19," the OPEC statement said. OPEC said Barkindo and Pradhan discussed oil market developments. "The videoconference was held as part of the (OPEC) Secretariat's regular consultation programme and outreach activities with oil-consuming countries, as well as other producers and industry stakeholders. “The discussions were part of the constructive relationship between OPEC and India, one of the world's largest oil consumers," it added. The consultations, it said, focused on "exchanging views and reviewing the conditions of the global oil market, emerging trends related to energy, the recovery prospects for the world economy and other topical issues". Barkindo, in his remarks, highlighted the improving outlook for the world economy and the global oil market. OPEC's Monthly Oil Market Report for June projected that the global economy will grow by 5.5 per cent and oil demand will rise by 6 million barrels per day in 2021. "The Secretary-General additionally underlined the strategic role of the Declaration of Cooperation (DoC) in overcoming two global oil cycle downturns in 2015 and 2016, and in 2020, the latter caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. “He noted that Participating Countries have set up solid mechanisms to contribute to the return of oil market stability, including meeting on a monthly basis to review market conditions," it said. The first high-level OPEC-India Energy Dialogue was held in New Delhi in December 2015. The last and the fourth dialogue in the series was held via videoconference on November 5, 2020. The next dialogue meeting is expected to take place later this year. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-presses-opec-for-affordable-oil-price-1001062.html
24-06-2021||National||Snatching away Kashmir's statehood, vaccine issue brought shame to India: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday claimed that snatching away of statehood from Jammu and Kashmir by the BJP-led central government has brought shame to the country, as did the Covid-19 vaccine imbroglio. Banerjee made the comment in the backdrop of Prime Minister Narendra Modis meeting with leaders of various political parties of Jammu and Kashmir in New Delhi. "I have no knowledge about this meeting. I don't even know the agenda of the meeting," she told reporters. Snatching away the statehood of Jammu and Kashmir and its bifurcation did not help the country in any way, Banerjee, also the Trinamool Congress supremo, claimed. On August 5, 2019, the Centre revoked Jammu and Kashmir's special status under Article 370 and bifurcated it into two union territories - Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. In the government's first outreach to Jammu and Kashmir's political leadership since then, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a meeting with 14 leaders, including four former chief ministers, to chalk out the future course of action in the union territory. "What was the need to take away the statehood (of J&K)? This has not helped the country at all. For the last two years, tourists could not travel to Kashmir. It became a question of the country's prestige. "The autocracy there has brought enough disgrace to the country, similar to what the (Covid) vaccines have done," she said. Though Banerjee did not elaborate on the vaccine issue, she has earlier spoken out protesting low supplies of vaccines, differential pricing and lack of universal vaccination policy. She has also attacked export of vaccines at a time when stocks in India were low. The chief minister also claimed on Wednesday that Covaxin is the brainchild of the PM and asked him to get it approved by the World Health Organisation (WHO) or take steps so that the vaccine is accepted globally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/snatching-away-kashmirs-statehood-vaccine-issue-brought-shame-to-india-mamata-banerjee-1001070.html
24-06-2021||National||Andhra Pradesh govt cancels class 10, 12 exams after SC directions||The Jaganmohan Reddy government has decided to cancel the 10th and 12th board exams this year after the Supreme Court questioned the state's preparedness to conduct the exams amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Reviewing the petitions challenging the YSRCP government's insistence to hold the exams, the apex court, on Thursday, sought to know how the decision of the exam was taken when all the other boards have cancelled the written assessment this year. Referring to the health crisis in the country during the last two months and the danger of emerging variants that could cause another wave soon, the court reportedly warned the Andhra Pradesh government that it might order compensation of Rs 1 crore for each fatality caused by its exams process. The court also wondered from where the Reddy government would arrange over 34,000 rooms for the exams, required to maintain a safe distance, accommodating only 15-20 students per room. The vacation bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari directed all state boards to notify within 10 days of their class 12 assessment process this year and declare the results by July 31. Later in the evening, Andhra Pradesh education minister Adimulapu Suresh announced that the government has, considering the apex court's observations and directions, decided to cancel the 12th exams. “As the exams process cannot be completed by July 31, we are cancelling the 12th class exams. We will constitute a high power committee to arrive at an assessment model to award marks this year,” Suresh told reporters in Amaravati. “It was decided to cancel the 10th exams too.” The decision has brought relief to lakhs of parents concerned about the safety of their children required to appear for the exams. The opposition TDP has been demanding for the exams to be cancelled. Chief Minister Reddy earlier reiterated that his government's resolve to conduct the 10th and 12th exams “for the benefit of students, is because marks/grades play a vital role in students' careers.” “States not conducting exams are only giving pass marks to the students. How can our students get admission to good colleges with such marks? What about their 50 year future with such marks?” the CM had questioned, responding to criticism from the opposition parties and other quarters. Reddy said that the centre had left the decision of the exam to the states and that Kerala had already completed the 10th exams. Stating that there are “no reliable alternatives to assess the state board students,” the Reddy government, on Wednesday, told the SC that it would tentatively hold the 12th class examinations in the last week of July and that the timetable would be issued shortly. “We still think that the best option was to conduct the exams with all the safety precautions taken,” Suresh said on Thursday while pointing that it would be impossible to hold the exams, assess and announce the results by the end of July. The 12th class examinations were originally scheduled to commence on May 5 but were deferred due to the court cases and the spike in Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh. The 10th exams were planned to be held between June 7 to 14. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradesh-govt-cancels-class-10-12-exams-after-sc-directions-1001073.html
24-06-2021||National||Chinese actions responsible for eastern Ladakh stand-off: MEA||A day after Beijing accused India of encroaching on the territory of China, New Delhi turned the table on the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of the neighbouring communist country and blamed it for the stand-off, which started along the Line of Actual Control 14 months ago and still remained unresolved. “It is well recognised that it has been the Chinese actions over the last year, including amassing of a large number of troops close to border areas in the Western Sector, and trying to unilaterally alter the status quo along the LAC, which have seriously disturbed peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said in New Delhi on Thursday. His comment came a day after Zhao Lijian, the spokesperson of the Chinese Government’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said in Beijing that the People’s Liberation Army’s deployment of a large number of troops along the LAC was a “normal defence arrangement aimed at preventing and responding to encroachment and threat” on the territory of China by India. Zhao also accused the Indian Army of increasing deployment along the border between the two nations and encroaching on its territory for a long time. “This is the root cause of tension along the China-India border. China always stands for a peaceful settlement of the boundary issue through negotiation and against linking the boundary issue with bilateral relations,” he said in Beijing on Wednesday. New Delhi responded by underlining that China violated the 1993 and 1996 agreement it inked with India, by deploying a large number of troops along the LAC in April and May 2020 and thus resulting in the stand-off. The agreements required both sides to refrain from amassing a large number of troops in the border areas, to strictly abide by and respect the LAC, and to avoid taking any unilateral action to alter it. India is likely to counter China’s allegation during the forthcoming video conference between the senior diplomats of the two nations. A source in New Delhi said that India would ask China to stop flouting its border peace pacts and not only withdraw additional troops it deployed in ‘depth areas’ along the LAC over the past 14 months, but also refrain from a further mobilisation of the PLA soldiers in the border areas. The diplomats of the two nations are likely to meet soon to break the deadlock in talks between the military commanders of the two sides to resolve the stand-off. India’s delegation will be led by Naveen Srivastava, the Additional Secretary at the East Asia Division of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), while Hong Liang, the Director General of the Boundary and Ocean Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, will head the delegation of the communist country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-actions-responsible-for-eastern-ladakh-stand-off-mea-1001082.html
24-06-2021||National||Ministry of External Affairs says that they will keep making efforts to pursue Nirav Modi's early extradition||After fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi lost the first stage of his extradition appeal in the UK High Court, the Ministry of External Affairs on Thursday said it has noted the decision and will continue its efforts to pursue his early extradition to India to face justice. The UK High Court's decision came over two months after the wanted diamond merchant's extradition to India was ordered by UK Home Secretary Priti Patel in the Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case. Asked about Nirav Modi's extradition at an online media briefing, Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said, "We have noted yesterday's decision of the United Kingdom (UK) High Court against his plea to appeal against the extradition order." "We will continue our efforts to pursue his early extradition to India to face justice," he said. A high court official confirmed that the permission to appeal was "rejected on paper" on Tuesday, which left the 50-year-old jeweller with a chance for his lawyers to make his case at a brief oral hearing in the high court with a renewed "leave to appeal" application for a judge to determine if it can proceed to a full appeal hearing. To a question on diamond merchant Mehul Choksi, Bagchi said the Indian side is in touch with Dominican authorities regarding the legal proceedings underway there against him. "I don't have any immediate update to share," he added. A Dominican magistrate court adjourned till June 25 the hearing into alleged illegal entry of Choksi into the Caribbean island nation, local media there had reported earlier last week. Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi had fled India in the first week of January, 2018, weeks before the scam in the PNB rocked the Indian banking industry. Nirav Modi escaped to Europe and was finally held in London where he is contesting his extradition to India, while Choksi took citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda in 2017 where he was staying since his escape from Delhi. Choksi, 62, had mysteriously gone missing on May 23 from Antigua and Barbuda. He was detained in neighbouring island country Dominica on May 23 for illegal entry after a possible romantic escapade with his rumoured girlfriend. His lawyers alleged that he was kidnapped from Jolly Harbour in Antigua by policemen looking like Antiguans and Indians and brought to Dominica on a boat. To a separate question on 24-year-old Vishal Jood, who is lodged in an Australian prison reportedly over his alleged hand in a series of hate attacks on suspected pro-Khalistan Sikhs in Sydney this year, Bagchi said the matter is now sub-judice in Australia. "I know that consular access to Vishal Jood was granted on June 17 and our high commission is in touch with the Australian authorities," he said. Responding to another question on the status of extradition of radical preacher Zakir Naik to India from Malaysia, Bagchi said there is no immediate update on the Zakir Naik issue. "Talks have been going on with Malaysian authorities for his extradition. We will share an update when there is one," the MEA spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ministry-of-external-affairs-says-that-they-will-keep-making-efforts-to-pursue-nirav-modis-early-extradition-1001088.html
24-06-2021||National||India should aim to be among world's top 3 naval powers in 10-12 years: Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh took stock of the works taken up under Project Seabird-2 A, the country’s largest naval infrastructure project, at the naval base here on Thursday. Rajnath, who flew from Goa in a helicopter, took an aerial survey of the naval base before landing at Kadamba helipad. The Defence minister was accompanied by the Chief of the Naval staff of the Indian Navy Karambir Singh during the review of naval infrastructure. The naval base officers briefed Rajnath on various facilities including the ship lifting and docking system and the environment-friendly facilities at the newly constructed residential complex for the staff. The minister also reviewed the capabilities and operational readiness of the fleet and naval staff. Rajnath interacted with the project contractors, engineers, naval officers and civil workers, stated a press release issued by the Indian Navy. Addressing the Indian Navy officers, Rajnath said India should aim to be among the top three naval powers in the world in the next 10 to 12 years. The Project Seabird will add teeth to the Indian Navy. It will also strengthen the country’s trade, economy and humanitarian assistance, Rajnath said adding he would try and get additional budget allocation for infrastructure development at the ‘Asia’s biggest naval base’. Atmanirbhar defence Under the Atmanirbhar campaign, about 68% of defence products and weapon systems are being made in India. Of the 48 ships and submarines, 40 are being manufactures in the domestic shipyards. Also the homegrown aircraft carrier Vikrant is expected to be inducted into Indian Navy by next year during which India will celebrate its 75th Independence Day, Rajnath said. The Karwar naval base is poised to become the Asia’s biggest naval base. Under the Project Seabird-2, a 3,000 feet long runway, hangars for aircraft and docking space for 30 warships will come up at the naval base.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-aim-to-be-among-worlds-top-3-naval-powers-in-10-12-years-rajnath-singh-1001091.html
24-06-2021||National||Kerala doctors find 7 cases of rare neuro disorder among Covishield recipients||Doctors in Kerala have detected seven cases of Guillain-Barre syndrome – a rare neurological disorder – within a month among 12 lakh people who received the Covishield vaccine, prompting them to alert others to watch out for GBS among the vaccine recipients. “Overall, our experience should prompt all physicians to be vigilant in recognising GBS in patients who have received the ChAdOx1-S vaccine (Covishield in India). While the risk per patient (5.8 per million) may be relatively low, our observations suggest that this clinically distinct GBS variant is more severe than usual and may require mechanical ventilation,” they reported in the Annals of Neurology. GBS is a rare condition in which the immune system attacks the nerves. The symptoms start as weakness and tingling in the feet and legs. The sensations can quickly spread to the upper body, leading to paralysis in the worst cases. While the condition may be triggered by an acute bacterial or viral infection, there are treatments available to deal with such medical emergencies. Out of the seven patients detected by the Kerala doctors, six are women and all of them are 50-70 years of age. They are from Ernakulam, Kottayam and Kannur districts of Kerala where approximately 1.2 million individuals had received the Covishield vaccine as of April 22. “GBS following vaccination is a rare adverse effect that is likely to be causal. All the seven patients are alive and getting better with treatment,” Boby V Maramattom, the corresponding author of the study and a senior doctor at the department of neurology, Aster Medcity at Kochi told DH. The incidence of GBS in India is approximately 6–40 cases per million per year, with a seasonal variation, peaking in the rainy season. With a denominator of 1.2 million people, the expected cases of GBS per year are approximately seven to 48 annually or between 0.58 to four cases in every four weeks. The reporting of seven GBS cases in 1.2 million people within four weeks (mid March to mid April) marks a 1.4-to-10 fold rise in the incidence of GBS. “Although the (causative) factors are not completely established, molecular mimicry between viral proteins and human nerve proteins are likely to be a reason,” he said. “It is not completely unexpected with a vaccination but the risk is approximately less than five per million doses.” A separate team of researchers also reported four such cases from Nottingham in England, an area in which approximately 7,00,000 people received the same vaccine. The frequency of GBS in both the areas was estimated to be up to 10 times greater than expected. "If the link is causal it could be due to a cross-reactive immune response to the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein and components of the peripheral immune system. The clinicians should be vigilant in looking for this rare neurological syndrome following the administration of Covid-19 vaccines," wrote the authors of the UK report. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-doctors-find-7-cases-of-rare-neuro-disorder-among-covishield-recipients-1001092.html
24-06-2021||National||Maharashtra Covid-19 case tally crosses 60-lakh mark||Nearly 15 months after the Covid-19 pandemic broke out in India, the progressive cases in Maharashtra crossed the 60-lakh mark on Thursday even as the Uddhav Thackeray government launched preparations to face the third wave. During the first wave and the ongoing second wave, the state has recorded 60,07,431 cases and 1,19,859 deaths. In the last 24 hours, the state reported 9,844 cases and 197 deaths. However, 359 deaths have been added to the progressive total – as part of the reconciliation process of Covid-portal. The case fatality rate in the state is 2 per cent. Out of 4,03,60,931 laboratory samples, 60,07,431 have been tested positive (14.88%) for Covid-19 till date. Currently 6,32,453 people are in home quarantine and 4,166 people are in institutional quarantine. The total active cases in the state stands at 1,21,767. The first set of two coronavirus cases were detected in Pune on March 9, 2020 while the first death was reported in Mumbai on March 17. In the last nearly 15 months of the pandemic, the health infrastructure has been upgraded. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-covid-19-case-tally-crosses-60-lakh-mark-1001096.html
24-06-2021||National||India's digital database for farmers stirs fears about privacy, exclusion||A plan by India to build digital databases of farmers to boost their incomes has raised concerns about privacy and the exclusion of poor farmers and those without land titles. Tech firm Microsoft will run a pilot for the agriculture ministry's AgriStack in 100 villages in six Indian states to "develop (a) farmer interface for smart and well-organised agriculture" aimed at improving efficiency and reducing waste. Each farmer will have a unique digital identification that contains personal details, information about the land they farm, as well as production and financial details. Each ID will be linked to the individual's digital national ID Aadhaar. AgriStack will create "a unified platform for farmers to provide them end to end services across the agriculture food value chain," authorities have said, amid a broader push to digitise data in India, from land titles to medical records.  But the project is being rolled out without consultations with farmers, and with no legal framework to protect their personal data, according to more than 50 farmers' groups and digital rights organisations that have criticised the proposal. "These developments ... seem to be taking place in a policy vacuum with respect to the data privacy of farmers," they said in a statement. "Such an approach may fail to solve structural issues and instead gives rise to new problems." A spokesman for the agriculture ministry did not respond to a request for comment. About two-thirds of India's 1.3 billion population relies on farming for a living, but a majority are small and marginal farmers with limited access to advanced technologies or formal credit that can help improve output and fetch better prices. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has vowed to double farmers' incomes by 2022-23, last September passed three new laws that seek to deregulate and modernise agriculture. Farmer groups have opposed the laws, saying they will only benefit large private buyers at their expense. Digital farming technologies and services, including sensors to monitor cattle, drones to analyse soil and apply pesticide, can improve yields and significantly boost farmers' incomes, according to a study by consulting firm Accenture. But such technologies also generate huge amounts of data that can be used without the consent of farmers, said Rohin Garg, associate policy counsel at the non-profit Internet Freedom Foundation. "In the absence of a data protection regulation, farmers' data may be exploited by private sector entities" and lead to high interest rates on farm loans and forced evictions, he said. Digitisation can also exclude pastoral communities, Dalits and indigenous people who are often prevented from owning land. "These cultivators and farmers are still not part of data systems and they are not recognised as farmers," said the non-profit Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture. "Ultimately, any proposal which seeks to tackle the issues that plague Indian agriculture must address the fundamental causes of these issues – something the existing implementation of the AgriStack fails to do."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-digital-database-for-farmers-stirs-fears-about-privacy-exclusion-1001101.html
24-06-2021||National||Centre's actions betrayal of trust: J&K leaders tell PM Modi||Several leaders from Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday vented their anger over the Centre’s move to turn the erstwhile state into a union territory and take away its special status and told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that it was an act of betrayal against the people of the state. The three-and-a-half hour-long meeting between 14 leaders from J&K and PM Modi saw leaders demanding immediate restoration of full statehood, elections to the assembly and steps by the Centre to restore the trust that has been lost by the August 5, 2019 actions. In 2019, the Modi government had scrapped the special status of Jammu and Kashmir by reading down Article 370 through a Presidential Proclamation in Parliament and bifurcated the state into two union territories. “We told the Prime Minister that the trust has broken down and it is his responsibility to restore this trust,” former J&K Chief Minister Omar Abdullah told reporters after the meeting. Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said he had put forth five sets of demands that included restoration of statehood, holding of elections, rehabilitation of Kashmiri Pandits, restoration of the J&K cadre, and the constitutional guarantee of land and jobs for the locals. Azad also demanded the release of political prisoners who were arrested after the state was bifurcated in 2019. He said the meeting had no set agenda and every leader spoke their heart out. Most of the J&K leaders did not demand the restoration of Article 370, contending that the matter was before the Supreme Court and the legal process should be allowed to play out. PDP chief and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti demanded the reinstatement of Article 370 and asserted that the people of J&K would struggle for it peacefully and constitutionally for months and years together. “Article 370 was given to us by our own Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru and Home Minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and not by Pakistan,” she said. “People of J&K are angry, hurt, disturbed, emotionally broken and feel humiliated by the illegal and unconstitutional decision taken on August 5,” Mufti said. Former PDP patron Muzaffar Hussain Baig, who is now with the People's Conference of Sajjad Lone, said the Prime Minister assured them that Kashmir will be a zone of peace and not a zone of conflict. Altaf Bukhari of the Apni Party said the leaders vented their anger at the meeting with the prime minister, who heard them all like a “father figure”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-actions-betrayal-of-trust-jk-leaders-tell-pm-modi-1001139.html
24-06-2021||National||17 states vaccinate at least 25% of population against Covid-19||While this is the fourth straight day of giving more than 50 lakh shots, the last three days were nowhere close to the record-breaking Monday when nearly 91 lakh jabs were given. The shortfall was more than 30% in each of the next three days when compared to Monday. But due to an overall increase in vaccination, this week compared to the low-vaccination days of May, as many as 17 states and UTs including Karnataka have now managed to inoculate at least a quarter of their population with a single shot. The other large state in this list is Gujarat. The remaining 23 states include smaller hilly states, northeastern states, union territories and the national capital of Delhi. On the flip side are Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, which are at the bottom with only 10% of their population receiving a single dose. The national average is under 20%. “It is important that the vaccination situation improves in every state so as to prevent the human toll from current and future waves of Covid-19 pandemic. Unequal geographic uptake of vaccines would also potentially create an unequal distribution of Covid-19 disease burden across states,” health economist Rijo John, a visiting professor at the Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode told DH. India’s cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage now stands at 31 crore or almost one-third of its target population of 95 crore. Nearly 18% of the population received a single dose and 4% got both the shots. As of Thursday, close to 1.9 crore unutilised doses are available with the states. In addition, more than 21 lakh vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by the states within the next 3 days, the Union Health Ministry said, assuring a steady supply. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/17-states-vaccinate-at-least-25-of-population-against-covid-19-1001145.html
24-06-2021||National||For now, utilising vaccines for own vaccination drive remains priority: India||India on Thursday said its stand on Covid-19 vaccine exports has been that it would depend on its domestic needs and asserted that right now the priority remains utilising made-in-India jabs for its own inoculation drive. The assertion by Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi came at an online media briefing in response to queries on media reports on possible exports of vaccines from India to Bangladesh. "Our position on the issue of vaccine exports has been consistent and clear. We have always stated that overseas supply of vaccines from India would depend on vaccine availability and our domestic vaccination programme," Bagchi said. "For the moment our priority remains on utilising made-in-India vaccines for our own vaccination programme which as you know has received a boost with the new phase of vaccination that was launched earlier this week on June 21," he said. Bagchi said India is also making efforts to further increase its domestic vaccine production. Asked when would Pfizer's vaccine be available in India, the MEA spokesperson emphasised that the government of India is making all efforts to augment vaccine availability in the country be it through domestic production or imports. "As regards the specific vaccines and the status of their imports into India, this is a matter for the concerned regulatory authorities," he added. Bagchi also said India hopes that as the Covid situation in the country continues to improve, other nations would take steps to normalize travel with India. "We have seen some initial steps in this regard. The government will continue to prioritise this issue," he said. To a separate question on emergency use authorisation for Covaxin from the World Health Organization (WHO), the MEA spokesperson said, "We are closely following the developments regarding efforts by Bharat Biotech to obtain emergency use listing authorisation from the WHO." Asked which countries have shown interest in using or adapting the CoWin application, the digital platform that helped India launch and implement a nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme, Bagchi pointed out that during his intervention at the recent G7 meeting, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had offered to share India's experience and expertise in the successful use of open source digital tools in contact tracing and vaccine management. "In pursuance of this, the National Health Authority proposes to organise an event with partner countries across the world to share details of the indigenously developed CoWin app, which has been at the centre of our vaccination drive," he said. "We will provide further updates once the details of the event have been firmed up," Bagchi added. Asked about the Ebrahim Raisi being elected as the president of Iran, sanctions by the US and the situation in bilateral ties, he said India has been closely monitoring the recent developments regarding Iran and its conversations with other countries. "We will continue to look at this closely. I don't have an immediate response on that, we have seen some positive sentiments. We will continue to see how these progress," Bagchi said. He also highlighted the congratulatory messages from the Indian leadership to the newly elected Iranian president. Asked when would India host the BRICS Summit this year, Bagchi said he does not have any update regarding the proposed dates for the summit as yet. On a proposal of India and South Africa for a temporary waiver of certain intellectual property rights provisions in the TRIPS Agreement to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, Bagchi said talks are on with many countries at various levels, but added that for details, the Commerce Ministry should be contacted. In October 2020, India and South Africa had submitted the first proposal suggesting a waiver for all WTO members on the implementation of certain provisions of the TRIPS Agreement in relation to the prevention, containment or treatment of Covid-19. In May, a revised proposal was submitted by 62 co-sponsors, including India, South Africa and Indonesia. The agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights or TRIPS came into effect in January 1995. It is a multilateral agreement on intellectual property (IP) rights such as copyright, industrial designs, patents and protection of undisclosed information or trade secrets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/for-now-utilising-vaccines-for-own-vaccination-drive-remains-priority-india-1001150.html
24-06-2021||National||India desires normal relations with all neighbours, including Pakistan: MEA||India on Thursday said it desires normal relations with Pakistan and it was for that country to create a conducive atmosphere by taking "credible, verifiable and irreversible" action against cross-border terrorism.   "As far as our bilateral relations with Pakistan are concerned, our stand is well known. We desire normal relations with all our neighbours including Pakistan," Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said at a media briefing. "Pakistan must work towards creating a conducive atmosphere, including by taking credible, verifiable and irreversible action to not allow any territory under its control to be used for cross-border terrorism against India in any manner," he said. Bagchi was asked about Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan's recent comments on Jammu and Kashmir and his contention that both countries would not require nuclear weapons if they settled the Kashmir issue. "Regarding developments in Jammu and Kashmir, this is clearly an internal matter for India," the MEA spokesperson said. Ties between India and Pakistan nosedived after a terror attack on the Pathankot Air Force base in 2016 by terror groups based in the neighbouring country. Subsequent attacks on an Indian Army camp in Uri further deteriorated the relationship. Since then, India has not been having bilateral talks with Pakistan saying talks and terror cannot go hand-in-hand. The relationship further dipped after India's warplanes pounded a Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorist training camp deep inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019, in response to the Pulwama terror attack in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed. The ties hit rock bottom after India announced withdrawing Jammu and Kashmir's special powers and bifurcating the state into two union territories in August 2019. Since then, Pakistan has been unsuccessfully trying to rally international support against India on the Kashmir issue. India has been maintaining that the onus is on Pakistan to create an environment free of terror and hostility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-desires-normal-relations-with-all-neighbours-including-pakistan-mea-1001151.html
24-06-2021||National||Congress to stage nationwide agitation from July 7-17 against inflation, hike in fuel rates||The Congress decided on Thursday to hold a countrywide agitational programme from July 7 to 17 against the rising inflation and the increase in the fuel prices. This was decided at a meeting of the party general secretaries and various state in-charges convened by Congress president Sonia Gandhi. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary K C Venugopal, in a statement, said led by the party chief, the AICC team discussed and deliberated upon the important and urgent issues of high inflation, price rise, the skyrocketing rates of pulses, edible oil and other household products as also the unprecedented everyday hike in the petrol and diesel prices. He said since May 2, the government has raised the fuel rates 29 times and the price of petrol has crossed Rs 100 per litre in more than 150 cities. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government has earned Rs 22 lakh crore in the last seven years by imposing excise duty on petrol and diesel, Venugopal claimed. The prices of edible oils have also nearly doubled in the last six months and that of pulses have seen an unprecedented rise, he said, adding that the increase in the wholesale price index in May 2021 has been 12.94 per cent, which is the highest in 11 years. "Moved by the plight of the people already suffering on account of the corona pandemic, unemployment and salary cuts, the Congress party has decided to launch nationwide agitation programmes at the block, district and state levels," Venugopal said. These programmes, he said, will be implemented by the state units of the party between July 7 and July 17 and shall comprise leaders and members of the party as well as the AICC's frontal organisations, including the Mahila Congress, aided by scores of ordinary party workers all over the country. Giving details, Venugopal said, the party would launch a countrywide agitation of women involving the Mahila Congress, the Youth Congress and other frontal organisations of the AICC at the block level, and Congress leaders and workers would also take out cycle rallies at the district level. "Congress leaders and workers will take out marches and processions at the state level. A signature campaign will also be run at all petrol pumps across the country, demanding a reduction in the prices of petrol and diesel," the AICC general secretary said. Through these programmes, he said the party aims to build a mass movement, which would put pressure on the government to roll back the excessive excise duty on fuel and gas, and provide relief to the already suffering consumers in the times of the pandemic, economic slowdown and unprecedented unemployment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-to-stage-nationwide-agitation-from-july-7-17-against-inflation-hike-in-fuel-rates-1001152.html
24-06-2021||National||For too long now, Twitter has indulged in online bullying of citizens: Varun Gandhi||BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Thursday asked Twitter to make public the legal notice, which it said it had received from Indian law enforcement, against violations by him on the micro-blogging site. Gandhi also tweeted a screenshot of an email that he said he had received from Twitter, informing him of "a request from Indian law enforcement" regarding his account. The BJP leader said it claimed that his account had violated the laws. "I am certain I have violated no law and that no law agency would have found anything offensive in my tweets. Twitter should clarify their basis for such correspondence. Shocked by their behaviour," said Gandhi, who represents Uttar Pradesh's Pilibhit constituency in Parliament. He also said that the micro-blogging site should not become an ostracising platform. Underlining that he had not violated any law, Gandhi said Twitter is “bullying” Indian citizens and alleged that the social media giant has an agenda. "For too long now, Twitter has indulged in online bullying of our citizens for their diversity of political views to make us conform with their 'woke' propaganda. It should stay a platform, not an ostracising tribunal. This harassment of Indians will not fly with the law of the land," he tweeted. The MP said he is making these remarks after enquiring from all possible avenues connected with Indian law enforcement within the government. "If Twitter really has received a complaint regarding my content, let it share the said legal notice and its provenance in the interest of transparency,” he said. This comes amid a tussle between the BJP government at the Centre and Twitter over various issues ranging from complying of new IT rules to terming tweets by the party leaders as manipulated media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/for-too-long-now-twitter-has-indulged-in-online-bullying-of-citizens-varun-gandhi-1001163.html
24-06-2021||National Politics||Nusrat Jahan has shamed Indian culture: Dilip Ghosh||West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh launched an attack on TMC MP Nursat Jahan over her marital status, saying she had 'brought shame' to Indian culture. "This can be Saguta babu's (TMC MP) ideology and not the ideology of India or Bengal. The party should suspend her or she must resign," Ghosh demanded. Jahan, who is reportedly dating actor-assembly poll candidate Yash Dasgupta in recent times, said in a statement that since her marriage ceremony with Jain had taken place in accordance with Turkish Marriage Regulation, the marriage is invalid here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nusrat-jahan-has-shamed-indian-culture-dilip-ghosh-1000854.html
24-06-2021||National Politics||Nadda slams Digvijaya, Kamal Nath for ‘creating confusion’ among people through their remarks||Hitting out at senior Congress leaders Digvijaya Singh and Kamal Nath over their recent statements on the abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir and the coronavirus situation, respectively, BJP president J P Nadda on Thursday accused them of creating confusion in the minds of people. Addressing a day-long meeting of Madhya Pradesh BJP's executive committee virtually from New Delhi, he said that these (Congress) leaders forget that they are actually speaking out against the country. Referring to Singh’s recent statement made in a Clubhouse chat, in which he was purportedly heard saying that the decision of revoking Article 370 and reducing the statehood of J&K was “extremely sad” and the Congress party “would certainly have to have a relook on this issue", Nadda said, “You have seen what kind of excellent views he has on the abrogation of Article 370 and 35 A.” “While they and their prime ministers were unable to do, the determination of our prime minister (Narendra Modi) and (Union Home Minister) Amit Shah's strategy decimated Article 370 and 35A and made Kashmir an inseparable part of the country,” he said. A meeting is also under way on the Kashmir issue with the PM to discuss ways for taking Kashmir forward, he said. "They should understand that Kashmir today is free from Article 370 and 35 A. But (Digvijaya) Singh is pained by it and therefore, indulges in different discussions in the Clubhouse on the issue," Nadda said. Similarly, (Kamal) Nath, while criticising the BJP and the prime minister, said that India is not great, but infamous in the world, Nadda said on the Madhya Pradesh Congress chief’s recent statement over the government’s handling of the Covid-19 situation. "What kind of words he is using. See his mentality. If you want to criticise the BJP, do it, but why are you defaming the great country in the process," he said. “Their main aim is to create confusion in the minds of the people and it is their habit,” Nadda alleged. Referring to the erstwhile Nath-led Congress government in MP that collapsed in March 2020 after 15 months of rule, he said it came to power after three to five-year terms of the BJP government in the state, and added that everybody had seen how it functioned. "Transfers, commission and corruption ruled the state under Nath. No projects were allowed to start unless people started to pay donations at the chief minister's residence. The development works were stalled and the state was turned into a 'mission commission' instead of 'mission progress'. All sections of the society got nothing except cheating,” he alleged. Nadda said that because of the “right-minded people” like Jyotiradiya Scindia and as the party leaders thought that there is a need to dislodge that government, the BJP came back to power in the state. The BJP chief also lashed out at the Congress leaders for creating hurdles in dealing with the Covid-19 situation in the country by criticising the Modi government. He praised Modi's leadership and said that no stone was left unturned in saving 130 crore people of the country during the pandemic. During the second wave of Covid-19, when there was a crisis of medical oxygen supply in the country, the nation's capacity of 900 MT oxygen was raised to 9,446 MT in a short period of time by ensuring its availability via road, air and water network, he added. He also praised the Indian Air Force for playing a key role in ensuring availability of medical oxygen in the country. On the Covid-19 vaccination, he said that Congress leaders should feel ashamed for raising questions over the issue as vaccines for chicken pox in the country (during their party’s rule) came after 15 years of its arrival in the world and that of polio after 30 years of its eradication from the world. “But under Modi's leadership, two vaccines were developed against Covid-19 in just nine months,” he said, accusing the Congress leaders of indulging in criticism and demoralising the people of the country. Nadda termed the development of vaccines against Covid-19 as the “largest and fastest” programme in the world. “By December 19, companies in the country will start manufacturing vaccines. By that time, 257 crore doses of vaccines will be available, which means two-doses for all and there is a budget of Rs 35,000 crore for it,” he said. He added that even the World Health Organisation (WHO) has praised Modi's leadership in dealing with the situation, which he said was “not a small thing”. Nadda also listed a number of achievements of the governments under Modi and Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, and urged the party workers to inform people about these things. He criticised the Congress party for “teaching lessons of democracy” to the BJP, and reminded it of the "excesses" it committed against the opposition leaders during the Emergency.    MP BJP president Vishnu Dutt Sharma and state chief minister also addressed the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nadda-slams-digvijaya-kamal-nath-for-creating-confusion-among-people-through-their-remarks-1001005.html
24-06-2021||National Politics||PM Modi distracting present with theatrics, toying with country's future, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday of distracting the present with theatrics and "toying" with the future of the country. His reaction came after Modi interacted with the participants of Toycathon-2021 through video-conferencing and said the world wants to understand India's capabilities, art, culture and society. "Today, MSME sector employers are themselves facing unemployment. PM is distracting India's present with theatrics and 'toying' with the future," Gandhi wrote on Twitter. Today, MSME sector employers are themselves facing unemployment. PM is distracting India’s present with theatrics and ‘toying’ with the future. The prime minister, in his address, called upon young innovators and startups to be mindful of their responsibility of projecting the true picture of the country's capabilities and ideas to the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-distracting-present-with-theatrics-toying-with-countrys-future-says-rahul-gandhi-1001031.html
24-06-2021||National Politics||DMK govt is an extension of the Justice Party: Stalin||Dubbing the Governor’s address as just a “trailer”, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Thursday asserted that the State Budget containing details about the long-term plans of the government and ways to overcome obstacles in the journey will be the “main picture.” In his reply to the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the Governor’s address, Stalin reiterated that the core principles of the DMK like social justice and social welfare will be the pillars of the new government. The Chief Minister said he takes pride in the fact that the DMK has formed its government coinciding with 100 years of the Justice Party, the precursor to the party, installing its first government in the 1920s in Madras Presidency during the British regime. “When (C N) Annadurai assumed office as Chief Minister in 1967, he declared that the DMK government was an extension of the Justice Party dispensation. In the same vein, I take pride in declaring that our government is also an extension of the Justice Party,” Stalin said. “Annadurai is an extension of the Justice Party. Kalaignar (M Karunanidhi) is an extension of Annadurai and today I say I and the DMK government are an extension of Kalaignar,” he said, adding that ocial justice, self-respect, love for the language and race, and state’s rights are the four pillars of the DMK. Justice Party was the precursor to Dravidar Kazhagam founded by social reformer Periyar E V Ramasamy. The DMK is an off-shoot of the Dravidar Kazhagam. In his speech, Stalin responded to criticism from opposition parties that the Governor’s address did not include any promises made in the DMK manifesto saying everything cannot be clubbed into one speech. “This (Governor’s address) is just a trailer, and the main picture will be unveiled when we present the Budget,” the Chief Minister said. The DMK government will present a full Budget for 2021-2022 as the previous AIADMK just presented a vote on account in February due to elections. He also utilised the opportunity to take a dig at his predecessor Edappadi K Palaniswami on containing the spread of Covid-19 accusing the former Chief Minister of being responsible for not taking enough steps from February 26 to May 2 when the Model Code of Conduct was in force. “He only talks till February 26. He conveniently forgets a few pages in the book by not talking about the spread of the virus after the elections. No one tied his (hands) saying he should not be in charge. The then Chief Minister took review meetings but he did not take steps to control knowing well that the AIADMK was not going to come to power,” Stalin said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dmk-govt-is-an-extension-of-the-justice-party-stalin-1001034.html
24-06-2021||National Politics||Rajasthan Congress chief whip calls Gajendra Singh Shekhawat a 'fugitive', draws sharp reaction from BJP||Congress chief whip in the Rajasthan Assembly Mahesh Joshi, who had refused to appear before the Delhi Police Crime Branch in connection with a phone tapping case lodged on a complaint by Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, on Thursday called the Union minister a "fugitive", a remark that invited a sharp reaction from the BJP. "Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat is running away from giving voice sample to the Anti-Corruption Bureau of Rajasthan in connection with the audio tapes. If he is clean, then why is he running away? He is a fugitive on moral grounds. He should appear before the ACB and give a voice sample," the ruling party's leader told reporters outside the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) office here. Following his remarks, the Congress leader's supporters started shouting slogans against Shekhawat, calling him a 'bhagoda' (fugitive). Reacting to it sharply, BJP state president Satish Poonia said that Congressmen might have remembered their ancestors and hence raised the slogans. "Whenever there was a struggle in the country, Congress leaders played the role of fugitives. Today, the Congressmen probably might have remembered their ancestors and therefore raised the slogan," he said at the BJP headquarters. He said that Congress leaders are touching a new low in politics in the state. "No one becomes a fugitive because of slogans. It is their frustration and guilt that is coming to the fore. Earlier, there used to be ideological fights in politics in the state but now the Congress is touching a new low. The Congressmen know that they are not going to retain power in the state," Poonia said. On the other hand, Joshi has sent a reply to the notice sent by the Delhi Police Crime Branch, which had asked him to appear before it on Thursday. "I have refused to appear before the Crime Branch citing personal reasons. The matter related to the jurisdiction of the case is pending before a court in Delhi, and hence no action should be taken by the Crime Branch before the jurisdiction is decided by the court," he said. The Crime Branch had sent the notice to Joshi, asking him to appear before it on June 24 for questioning in the phone tapping case lodged on a complaint by Shekhawat. The Congress leader said he was not named in the FIR that was registered in March this year by the Delhi Police against the Officer on Special Duty (OSD) to the Rajasthan chief minister, Lokesh Sharma, on the complaint by Shekhawat, who is also the BJP MP from Jodhpur. Sharma had allegedly circulated purported audio clips of the conversation about toppling the state government. On the basis of the audio clips, Joshi had registered cases with the Special Operations Group (SOG) and the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) of the Rajasthan Police in July last year but the FIR did not mention that Gajendra Singh referred to in the clip was Union minister Shekhawat. The phone-tapping controversy erupted in July last year in Rajasthan. Audio clips of alleged telephonic conversations between Shekhawat and Congress leaders surfaced amidst a rebellion against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot by his then deputy Sachin Pilot and 18 party MLAs supporting him. Congress leaders of Gehlot's camp had alleged that BJP leaders were indulging in horse-trading to topple the state government. The Delhi Police had registered the case on Shekhawat's complaint against Sharma, and others on charges of criminal conspiracy, criminal breach of trust and unlawfully intercepting telegraphic signals (telephonic conversation). Sharma has also rejected the allegations. The OSD had approached the Delhi High Court seeking quashing of the FIR against him. Earlier this month, the court asked the Delhi Police not to take any coercive action against Sharma till the next date of hearing -- August 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-congress-chief-whip-calls-gajendra-singh-shekhawat-a-fugitive-draws-sharp-reaction-from-bjp-1001069.html
24-06-2021||National Politics||PM said he wants to remove 'dil ki doori and Dilli ki doori': Omar after meet on J&K||Prime Minister Narendra Modi conveyed to a group of leaders from Jammu and Kashmir that he wanted to remove "dil ki doori and Dilli ki doori" -- distance between hearts and the distance with Delhi -- National Conference leader Omar Abdullah said after a meeting to chalk out the future course of action in the union territory on Thursday. Talking to reporters after the meeting, Abdullah said both Prime Minister Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah assured that they were committed to the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir's statehood. The meeting was called nearly two years after the Centre abrogated special status of the erstwhile state and bifurcated it into two union territories -- Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. "The takeaway from the meeting was that the prime minister said that he wanted to remove 'dil ki doori and Dilli ki doori' but I as well as other leaders are sure that one meeting is not enough for the same. However, a process has begun," Abdullah, a former chief minister, said. The central leadership wanted to hold the assembly elections immediately after the delimitation commission submits its report but senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad urged the prime minister to restore full statehood before conducting the polls, he said. He said that his party president Farooq Abdullah said during the meeting that there was an urgent need to rebuild trust in Jammu and Kashmir. "The trust deficit among the people of Jammu and Kashmir needs to be addressed to immediately by the Centre and for that, the process of restoration of complete statehood is necessary," he said. On the delimitation commission, Omar Abdullah said the central leadership was informed that the exercise in itself was defeating the very purpose with which the BJP-led government had carried out the exercise of abrogation of special status on August 5, 2019. "On one hand the central leadership claimed that the decision in August 2019 was taken for a complete merger of Jammu and Kashmir with the Union of India and on the other the same Jammu and Kashmir is treated differently by bringing in separate delimitation commissions for Assam and us. "If the delimitation commission for Assam could be withheld and assembly elections held there, then why not for Jammu and Kashmir. Isn't this defeating the very purpose of the central leadership," he asked. The former chief minister said that even the central leadership was of the view the government could not be run by bureaucrats and that a political government needs to take charge. Omar Abdullah said, "Our party president has made it clear that as and when an invite for the (delimitation) commission meeting will come, we will take consider it." Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad told reporters that he put forward various points on behalf of his party in the meeting, which included restoration of complete statehood, followed by elections. "I have also asked for a rehabilitation process for Kashmir Pandits, release of political prisoners, and domicile rules whereby the Centre guarantees jobs for the people of Jammu and Kashmir," Azad told reporters. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti told reporters that the meeting went off well and that she has complimented the prime minister for initiating back-channel talks with Pakistan that led to the ceasefire agreement at the Line of Control (LoC) and decrease in infiltration levels. "I have requested the prime minister that, if need be, we could talk to Pakistan once again for further boosting the peace process," she said. On the abrogation of Article 370, Mehbooba said that her party would continue to fight for its restoration. "After all the special status has not been given to us by Pakistan. It was given to us by late Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru and Sardar (Vallabhbhai) Patel. We will continue to fight for restoration of special status through legal and constitutional means," she said. She also demanded resumption of cross-LoC trade which had been stopped by India following reports that it was used for smuggling of arms and ammunition and was being used to fund terror activities in Jammu and Kashmir. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-said-he-wants-to-remove-dil-ki-doori-and-dilli-ki-doori-omar-after-meet-on-jk-1001103.html
24-06-2021||North and Central||PM Modi meets Jammu and Kashmir leaders today: All you need to know||All eyes are on embattled Jammu and Kashmir as Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to hold a meeting with political leaders of the Union Territory, which include four former chief ministers of the erstwhile state. The meet is aimed at breaking the political impasse in the region.  Here is all you need to know > This is the first such meeting being conducted in Jammu and Kashmir since the Centre revoked Article 370, which accorded special status to the state, and bifurcated it into the Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh in August 2019. > The meeting is said to be the Centre's initiative to strengthen political processes in the Union Territory. No formal agenda has been announced and the J&K leaders have said they will attend with an open mind. > PM Modi is expected to discuss holding of assembly elections in J&K. After Mehbooba Mufti's government fell in 2018, people of the state have participated in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and the District Development Council elections in 2020. > The meeting is also expected to discuss the restoration of full statehood to Jammu and Kashmir. PDP's Mufti, Congress and other leaders have said they will stick to their demand of statehood in the meeting. >It is significant that Congress, which walked out of the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), is also attending the meeting, represented by state unit president G A Mir and former CM Ghulam Nabi Azad. > There is speculation that the government may discuss nominating 24 members to J&K Assembly as representatives of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-meets-jammu-and-kashmir-leaders-today-all-you-need-to-know-1000883.html
24-06-2021||North and Central||Delimitation Commission holds meeting with J&K DCs||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with leaders of political parties in Jammu & Kashmir, the Delimitation Commission on Wednesday held a virtual meeting with all 20 deputy commissioners (DCs) of the Union Territory with regard to delimitation of assembly constituencies. The meeting with the DCs, who are also district election officers, was held in two batches in which deputy Election Commissioner Chandra Bushan Kumar took note of the issues - both administrative as well as topographic - in the districts. “The DCs informed the Commission about the administrative difficulties faced by them with respect to the assembly constituencies. The Commission sought detailed data on demographics from the DCs,” a senior official, who was part of the meeting, said. The exercise gains significance as it was held a day before PM Modi’s scheduled meeting with political leaders of J&K at his residence in the national capital at 3pm on Thursday. Sources said the Commission will hold a meeting with political parties in J&K soon to discuss the delimitation process. The Commission was set up by the central government on 6 March 2020, to redraw parliamentary and assembly constituencies as per the J&K Reorganisation Act, 2019. However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Commission couldn’t visit J&K so far. In February this year, the Commission, headed by Justice (retd) Ranjana Prakash Desai, held a meeting with its associated members in New Delhi. However, only two associate members – BJP MPs Jugal Kishor Sharma and Jatiendra Singh – attended the meeting, while the three National Conference MPs – Farooq Abdullah, Hasnain Masoodi and Akbar Lone – boycotted it on the plea that the J&K Reorganization Act 2019 was “unconstitutional” and under judicial scrutiny. The last Assembly in J&K was dissolved by then governor in November 2018 months after the Mehbooba Mufti-headed government in the erstwhile state fell, following the BJP withdrawing support to it in June that year. Though Parliament elections in J&K were held in April-May 2019 with the rest of the country, the Assembly polls were deferred “due to security reasons". The elections to the Assembly of the UT of J&K will be held only after the process of delimitation is completed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delimitation-commission-holds-meeting-with-jk-dcs-1000889.html
24-06-2021||North and Central||5 cases of Covid Delta Plus variant in Madhya Pradesh, 1 dead||Five persons have so far been found infected with the Delta Plus variant of coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh and one of them has died, state Medical Education Minister Vishwas Sarang said on Thursday. The other four persons, who were vaccinated against Covid-19, are fine, he told PTI. "One person from Ujjain, who died, was not inoculated,” he said. Delta Plus has been declared a variant of concern by the Centre. So far, three persons from Bhopal and two from Ujjain have been found infected with the Delta Plus variant in MP, the minister said. A genome sequencing machine will soon be installed in Bhopal and the state would then not have to send samples to Delhi, he added. Ujjain Collector Ashish Singh confirmed that a 59-year-old woman, who died of Covid-19 on May 23, was infected with the Delta Plus variant. She tested positive for coronavirus on May 17. Later, her sample was sent for genome sequencing. On Tuesday, it was found that she was infected by the Delta Plus variant, the official said. Earlier, the sample of a 65-year-old woman from Bhopal was sent to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on May 23 and it came out positive for the Delta Plus variant on June 16, officials said. The woman, who had received both doses of the anti-Covid-19 vaccine, recovered in home isolation, they said. The new Delta Plus variant has been formed due to a mutation in the Delta or B.1.617.2 variant, first identified in India and one of the drivers of the deadly second wave. Though there is no indication yet of the severity of the disease due to the new variant, Delta Plus is resistant to the monoclonal antibody cocktail treatment for Covid-19 recently authorised in India. On Wednesday, Madhya Pradesh recorded 84 new cases of coronavirus and 21 fatalities, raising the tally of infections in the state to 7,89,499 and the death toll to 8,827, as per official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-cases-of-covid-delta-plus-variant-in-madhya-pradesh-1-dead-1000924.html
24-06-2021||North and Central||PM Modi's big Jammu & Kashmir all-party meet under way||Prime Minister Narendra Modi met senior leaders from Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, the first such meeting since the bifurcation of the state into two union territories and scrapping of Article 370 that granted the erstwhile state a special status. Leaders of eight political parties from J&K, several of whom were detained for months since the bifurcation of the state in August 2019 drove down the Modi’s 7, Lok Kalyan Marg residence for the free-wheeling discussions where Home Minister Amit Shah and J&K Lt Governor Manoj Sinha were also present. According to leaders from J&K, there was no agenda for the meeting which is widely expected to focus on the delimitation of Assembly and Lok Sabha constituencies and a possible call for elections in the union territory. Among the 14 leaders invited for the meeting are four former chief ministers – Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti and Ghulam Nabi Azad, leaders of BJP, Congress, CPI(M), J&K Panthers Party among others. “We are going to raise the issue of restoration of statehood,” Ghulam Ahmed Mir, J&K Congress President said ahead of the meeting. People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), a group of six political parties including the National Conference, PDP, CPI(M), Awami National Conference, CPI and J&K People's Movement had met on Tuesday to discuss their stand on the Centre's invite. Alliance leaders said they would insist on the restoration of the status of Jammu and Kashmir back to what it was prior to August 2019. The buzz in the political circles was that the government was keen on re-starting the political process in the union territory and subsequently call for elections. The Union Territory of J&K has a legislative Assembly and can elect MLAs and have a chief minister, while the union territory of Ladakh will continue to be run by a Lt Governor and an Administrator. In December last year, PAGD had won 100 seats in the local body elections in J&K while the BJP won 74 seats. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modis-big-jammu-kashmir-all-party-meet-under-way-1000952.html
24-06-2021||North and Central||Taekwondo coach dies by suicide, alleges non-payment of salary in note||A 46-year-old Taekwondo coach, who was out of work for over a year following Covid-19 lockdown, died by suicide in New Delhi. He was apparently upset over non-payment of pending salary by a private school where he worked earlier, police said on Thursday. The incident was reported from Outer Delhi's Mangolpuri on Wednesday and the deceased has been identified as Tanoop Johar, who was found hanging by his family in his room. He used to work in a school in Rohini, but had been unemployed for over a year now. In to a note recovered by the police, the deceased has mentioned names of two persons belonging to the school management, alleging that he was disturbed over non-payment of his pending salary. He was also apparently upset over his status as an unemployed person. Johar, who was taking online classes since March last year during the lockdown but had to discontinue later over a dispute with the school management over salary, had earlier filed a case against the school management in a labour court. "After two months of taking online classes last year, Johar questioned the school authorities over non-payment of salary. They gave an excuse that they were waiting for students to pay fees and kept assuring us that we will be given our salaries. But after four months, when we asked them again, the school management told us to resign," one of Johar's former colleagues was quoted by PTI as saying. "During the lockdown last year, we also wrote to the school authorities about the issue, but still our salary has not been paid. We also moved court against the management, but we are still waiting for our salaries to be paid," the colleague added. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) Parvinder Singh said all claims are being looked into, but a case is yet to be registered as the allegations are being verified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/taekwondo-coach-dies-by-suicide-alleges-non-payment-of-salary-in-note-1000988.html
24-06-2021||North and Central||Sonia Gandhi asks party leaders to address Covid-19 vaccine hesitancy||Often accused of triggering vaccine hesitancy, Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Thursday asked party leaders to go all out and ensure full coverage of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. Addressing party leaders in New Delhi, Gandhi gave Congress the credit for forcing the Modi government to announce expansion of the vaccination drive and asked party workers to work towards overcoming vaccine hesitancy and minimising wastage. The Congress President’s remarks came at a time when BJP leaders and Union ministers have been accusing the party of creating vaccine hesitancy by raising doubts about efficacy of vaccines, particularly the home-grown Covaxin. Gandhi also flagged the issue of rising prices of edible oil and pulses in addition to fuel prices at a time when livelihoods have been lost in unprecedented numbers. “You are all aware of the intolerable burden being imposed by rising fuel prices. Agitations have been organised to highlight how it is hurting farmers and millions of families. But quite apart from fuel, prices of many other essential commodities like pulses and edible oils too have skyrocketed causing wide-spread distress,” she said. On the Covid-19 front, Gandhi asked leaders to prepare for the possible third wave and take proactive measures so that children were spared this calamity. Gandhi said party leaders and workers should continue to put pressure on the Union government to ensure that the daily rate of vaccination trebles, so that 75% of the population gets fully vaccinated by the end of this year. “No doubt, this is dependent entirely on the adequacy of vaccine supply. We must continue to put pressure on the Union government which has, at our party's insistence, finally taken on the responsibility for this. At the same time, we have to ensure that registration takes place, that vaccine hesitancy wherever evident is overcome and vaccine wastage is minimised,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sonia-gandhi-asks-party-leaders-to-address-covid-19-vaccine-hesitancy-1000989.html
24-06-2021||North and Central||BJP fields murder accused for Unnao panchayat chief polls||The BJP on Thursday nominated murder accused Arun Singh, who is a confidant of rape convict Kuldeep Singh Senger, as its candidate in the district panchayat chairman polls in Uttar Pradesh's Unnao district. Singh's nomination triggered sharp reactions from the rape survivor as well as opposition leaders in the state. ''Singh is an accused in the murder of my father... he is a threat to me and my family,'' the woman said. In a video, which has gone viral on social media, the woman is heard questioning the decision of the saffron party to field Singh for the chairman's post. The woman has also written to PM Narendra Modi and UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to cancel Singh's nomination. Singh was an accused in the case of allegedly conspiring to get the woman and her family killed in an accident. A truck had smashed into a car in which the woman, her two aunts and her lawyer were travelling in the neighbouring Raebareli district in 2019. The aunts died on the spot while the woman and the lawyer were critically injured. Earlier too, the BJP had nominated Senger's wife Sangeeta for the post of member of the district panchayat from Fatehpur Chaurasi in Unnao district, but was cancelled following strong protest from the rape survivor. Senger was serving life sentence after being found guilty of raping a minor in 2017. The rape survivor had tried to immolate herself in front of the UP CM's residence here, but was stopped by the cops. Later, a Delhi court also convicted Senger over the death of the woman's father in police custody in Unnao. He was held guilty of culpable homicide not amounting to murder in the case. Senger, in a bid to deter the victim and her family from pursuing the case, had got her father arrested on fictitious charges. He died in Unnao jail under mysterious circumstances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-fields-murder-accused-for-unnao-panchayat-chief-polls-1000999.html
24-06-2021||North and Central||Modi assured elections will be held after delimitation, statehood will be restored, say J&K leaders||Holding the first face to face conversation with mainstream leaders of Jammu and Kashmir two years after government revoked its special state status and turned it into a union territory, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday assured the delegation of 14 leaders from the region that elections will be held in Jammu and Kashmir soon after delimitation exercise is completed. "Today’s meeting with political leaders from Jammu and Kashmir is an important step in the ongoing efforts towards a developed and progressive J&K, where all-round growth is furthered," the Prime Minister tweeted after the three-hour long meeting during which he also called for doing away the distance of heart (dil ki doori) and not just the distance from Delhi (dilli se doori). "Our priority is to strengthen grassroots democracy in J&K. Delimitation has to happen at a quick pace so that polls can happen and J&K gets an elected Government that gives strength to J&K’s development trajectory," Modi said underlining that the biggest strength of the nation's democracy is the ability to sit across a table and exchange views. Modi told the leaders of Jammu and Kashmir that it is the people, especially the youth who have to provide political leadership to J&K, and ensure their aspirations are duly fulfilled. He said that he wanted to call the meeting of J&K leaders last year but Covid-19 delayed the plan as it also delayed the completion of the work of the delimitation commission, which should have been over by now. However, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Kolkata hit out at Modi questioning why the statehood of the Jammu and Kashmir was "snatched" first and said that the Centre's handling of the J&K "insulted the nation." The demands made by 14 leaders from eight parties of Jammu and Kashmir ranged from seeking restoration of special status for the state, reverting the statehood to it to seeking early polls and guarantee for their land and property. Centre, however, made it clear to them about its 'no go back' stance on the issue of abrogation of Article 370 while expressing its willingness to restore the statehood and hold Assembly polls in the state soon after the delimitation exercise is completed. While PDP leader and former Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti batted for restoring the special status to Jammu and Kashmir, most of the leaders from the region said the decision on Article 370 should be left to the Supreme Court, which is hearing a slew of petitions on this matter. After the meeting, Mufti asserted that her party will "struggle to restore Article 370 back to the state even if it takes months and years" through peaceful means. She reiterated that the central government should speak to Pakistan to restore peace in Jammu and Kashmir if it can speak to China. She resented new laws every day like domicile and sought security of land belonging to people of Jammu and Kashmir. Mufti said she told the Prime Minister that his government abrogated Article 370 from Jammu and Kashmir in an "illegal unconstitutional manner" because it was part of BJP's agenda whereas he should have done it through a proposal of Jammu and Kashmir Assembly even if he wanted to remove it. "People of Jammu and Kashmir are in great difficulty. It has become difficult for them to even breathe. They are put behind bars even if they breathe a bit louder," she said. Linking restoration of statehood to peaceful elections, Home Minister Amit Shah said, "we are committed to ensure all round development of Jammu and Kashmir. The future of Jammu and Kashmir was discussed and the delimitation exercise and peaceful elections are important milestones in restoring statehood as promised in Parliament." About the meeting he said it was conducted in a "very cordial environment". "Everyone expressed their commitment to democracy and the Constitution. It was stressed to strengthen the democratic process in Jammu and Kashmir." We are committed to ensure all round development of J&K. The future of Jammu and Kashmir was discussed and the delimitation exercise and peaceful elections are important milestones in restoring statehood as promised in parliament. Delimitation commission headed by former SC judge Justice (retd) Ranjana Prakash Desai was set up in March 2020. This will increase the number of seats of J and K Assembly from 83 to 90. If  the twenty-four seats of the Assembly that continue to remain vacant because of falling in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) are included, the number comes at 114. Minister of State for PMO Jitendra Singh said, "the Prime Minister said everyone will have to work together to take democracy to the grass root in Jammu and Kashmir. He also said there should be an atmosphere of people's participation to ensure all round development in the state. Modi pointed out how elections to Panchayati Raj and other civic bodies  were held peacefully and now there is a need is a need to walk togethers towards the next step democratice process, i.e of holding Assembly elections." In the meeting responding to the demands to release political prisoners, Shah said only a handful of political prisoners remain behind bars there and the government will set up a committee to examine their release. In a clear pointer that the terms of engagement have now changed as far negotiations on Jammu and Kashmir are concerned, most of the leaders attending the meeting on Thursday, who had been under House arrest for months after the revocation of Article 370 in August 2019, expressed happiness at the talks starting at least. RSS leader Ram Madhav, who had looked after the J&K region for the BJP for a long time, said, "the fact that the J & K meeting has gone on for more than 3 hrs is in itself an indication of its success." Ex-PDP member Muzaffar Hussain Baig, who is now with Sajjad Lone's People's Conference said the overwhelming majority of the leaders, who attended the meeting sought restoration of statehood of Jammu and Kashmir. Baig refused to comment on the remarks of PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti that the central government should also talk to Pakistan to resolve the Kashmir issue. Before attending the meeting, National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah also distanced from Mufti's remarks saying it is her party's agenda. Omar Abdullah, whose party is one of the petitioners, seeking restoration of special status to the state, said that his party will continue to fight the legal battle in the Supreme Court on this. He also demanded that J&K should get back full state status with independent J and K cadre to the state. He said the Centre carrying out delimitation exercises  in Jammu and Kashmir in isolation has raised suspicions. Sajjad Lone said, "we all were quite positive that there will be some delivery."   Centre also listed out development initiatives carried out by the central government in the region after the Centre had on August 5, 2019 decided to abrogate provisions of Article 370 that granted special status to Jammu and Kashmir. For months, the Jammu and Kashmir leaders including all three Chief Ministers Farooq, Omar and Mehbooba were kept in House arrest. Months after their release, the Thursday meeting called by the Prime Minister in the national capital was the first political reach out and in a way began the process for rolling out of the electoral exercise in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/modi-assured-elections-will-be-held-after-delimitation-statehood-will-be-restored-say-jk-leaders-1001042.html
24-06-2021||North and Central||4 students from Ladakh arrested in Israel embassy blast case||Four youths from Kargil were arrested in connection with the "very low-intensity" blast near the Israel embassy in the national capital in January, police sources said on Thursday. They were picked up by Delhi Police's Special Cell, which is investigating the conspiracy angle in the case, from Kargil in the union territory of Ladakh on Wednesday and brought to Delhi on transit remand. In a statement, Delhi Police spokesperson said the four were picked up in a joint operation "with a central intelligence agency and Kargil Police" in connection with "conspiracy to plan and execute terror activities in the national capital". The statement did not mention the Israel embassy blast case.  The arrested persons have been identified as Nazir Hussain (26), Zulfikar Ali Wazir (25), Aiaz Hussain (28) and Muzammil Hussain (25), all residents of Thang village in Kargil.  The blast case was handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) while Delhi Police's Special Cell has registered a separate case on conspiracy in the incident, which had sent shivers down the security establishment as India's top political and military leadership were witnessing Beating the Retreat ceremony at Vijay Chowk on Raisina Hills, two kilometres away from the blast site. A "very low-intensity" explosion took place near the Israeli embassy on January 29 evening. Delhi Police had then said that the "initial impressions (sic) suggest a mischievous attempt to create a sensation". No one was injured in the incident but the windshields of three vehicles parked on the APJ Abdul Kalam Road, where the embassy is located, were damaged. Recently, the NIA had announced a reward of Rs 10 lakh each for those who identify two persons who were captured on CCTV camera near the embassy moving around in a suspicious manner. Years ago on February 13, 2012, a motorcycle-borne youth had tailed a car of the Israel embassy on Aurangzeb Road, which was renamed as APJ Abdul Kalam Road, and placed explosives. Within seconds, the car went up in flames and investigators had put the blame on Iranian spies.   A journalist named Syed Mohammad Ahmed Kazmi was arrested and charge-sheeted in the case but those who actually planted the bomb were not arrested yet. Three persons, including the Israeli defence attache’s wife, were injured in the incident. They were on their way to pick up the defence attache's children from school.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-students-from-ladakh-arrested-in-israel-embassy-blast-case-1001046.html
24-06-2021||North and Central||Scuffle between Kullu cops, CM’s security staff: DGP told to submit report in 3 days||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has asked DGP Sanjay Kundu to submit within three days a probe report over the scuffle between Kullu district police personnel and men from his security staff. The incident had taken place near the Bhuntar airport during the Kullu visit of the CM and Union minister Nitin Gadkari. After the incident, the CM told reporters in Kullu on Wednesday that appropriate action will be taken after getting the inquiry report, which the DGP has been told to submit within three days. According to reports, the brief clash had taken place after some local people gathered there, raising slogans favouring Gadkari as prime minister. The CM's security staff objected to people gathering there. In videos that surfaced on social media, Kullu SP Gaurav Singh is seen slapping Additional SP Brijesh Sood, who is Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur's security incharge. At this, CM's Personal Security Officer (PSO) Balwant Singh kicked the SP. The state DGP had said in a statement on Wednesday that the three officers involved in the incident have been replaced and sent on compulsory leave till the conclusion of the inquiry. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/scuffle-between-kullu-cops-cm-s-security-staff-dgp-told-to-submit-report-in-3-days-1001048.html
24-06-2021||North and Central||Restoration of Jammu and Kashmir's statehood must to rebuild trust: Farooq Abdullah||National Conference president and former chief minister Farooq Abdullah on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to work towards building trust in Jammu and Kashmir by ensuring that its full statehood is restored. "There is a loss of trust which needs to be restored immediately and for that, to begin with, the Centre should work for restoration of complete statehood to Jammu and Kashmir," Abdullah, who is a Lok Sabha member, said. "I conveyed to the prime minister that the statehood means reverting even the IAS and IPS cadres of Jammu and Kashmir. The state has to be in totality," he said after the meeting that lasted for over three hours. The NC chief, who was accompanied by his son and former chief minister Omar Abdullah, said it was vital for the Centre to restore the identity of Jammu and Kashmir at the earliest so that other democratic exercises could be carried forward. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/restoration-of-jammu-and-kashmirs-statehood-must-to-rebuild-trust-farooq-abdullah-1001060.html
24-06-2021||North and Central||Vaccines work against 'Delta Plus' Covid-19 variant: MP health official||With Madhya Pradesh reporting five cases of the 'Delta Plus' variant of Covid-19 so far, a top health department official on Thursday said the vaccines currently being administered to people are effective against the highly contagious strain. 'Delta Plus' has already been declared a variant of concern by the Centre. Madhya Pradesh is among a handful of states where the cases of 'Delta Plus' variant have been found. “Among the five people found infected with the Delta Plus variant, three are already vaccinated and even after getting affected with the new variant, there was no need for them to rush to hospital, which means the vaccine is effective against it (the new variant) also,” additional chief secretary (health) Mohammad Suleiman told reporters. He quoted an official of the Delhi-based National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) as saying that the Delta Plus variant's severity is comparatively more (than existing strains), but at present there are not many cases of this variant in the country. Therefore, it is not possible to predict what will be its impact on the population, Suleiman said, quoting the NCDC official. The state is on alert and testing will be enhanced to know whether people are getting infected by the 'Delta Plus' variant, Suleiman said. Madhya Pradesh is among the five states where genome sequencing facilities will be started by the NCDC, the senior bureaucrat said. This decision followed chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's discussions with NCDC officials, he said. Suleiman said people are enthusiastic about getting vaccines and those residing in tribal areas are also coming forward to receive doses. Expressing happiness over Indore vaccinating a record 2.25 lakh people on Monday, he said, “If we are able to arrange adequate stock of vaccines, then the entire eligible population of Indore district can be inoculated by mid-July. He informed the state government has set a target to administer at least the first dose to all eligible people by September-end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaccines-work-against-delta-plus-covid-19-variant-mp-health-official-1001065.html
24-06-2021||North and Central||Punjab para-athletes protest near Amarinder's residence for jobs||Para-athletes of various disciplines held a protest near the official residence of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday, demanding jobs from the state government. Having won accolades in national and international events, the protesting sportspersons said they wanted to return the awards given by the state as a mark of protest. The police had put up barricades on the road leading to the chief minister's house. The protesting para-athletes were joined by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders and workers, and slogans were raised against the Congress government of the state. The police evicted them from the protest site and detained them briefly. Talking to the media, para-athlete Sanjeev Kumar said they were not given jobs by the state government despite assurances. Kumar said he had won many medals and awards, including the Punjab government's prestigious Maharaja Ranjit Singh Award. Another para-athlete, Veena Arora of Amritsar, also asked the Punjab government to provide jobs to them. Taking a dig at the government, the protesters said if it could offer jobs to the sons of two Congress MLAs on compassionate grounds, then there is no reason why it cannot give jobs to them. They were referring to the Punjab cabinet's decision to appoint Qadian MLA Fatehjang Singh Bajwa's son Arjun Partap Singh Bajwa as an inspector in the Punjab Police and Ludhiana MLA Rakesh Pandey's son Bhisham Pandey as a naib tehsildar in the Revenue Department on "compassionate" grounds. AAP legislator Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer said the special athletes were more qualified and fit for government jobs than the sons of Congress MLAs and leaders. The Amarinder Singh-led Congress government made a lot of announcements for sportspersons, but most of them are living in poverty now, he said. The AAP leader added that para-athletes had staged a 'dharna' last year as well to remind the government of its promise of jobs to them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-para-athletes-protest-near-amarinders-residence-for-jobs-1001067.html
24-06-2021||Opinion||How to prevent the next pandemic||By Seth Berkley, How do we prevent a pandemic like this from happening again? As we start to tackle that question, inevitably part of it will involve looking back at the mistakes that were made with Covid-19, and rightly so. But it’s also important to learn from the things we got right, because this pandemic could have been worse, much worse. So, if we want to ensure that this is the last pandemic to cause devastation on this scale, then not only do we need to build on these successes, but the time to do that is now. Without question, one of the biggest of those successes has been the unprecedented speed at which vaccines were developed, approved and rolled out, and not just to those who can afford to pay. This has already saved countless lives and made the end of this global crisis a tangible reality. Even so, to avoid a repeat of this disaster we still need to figure out how to avoid supply bottlenecks so we can get there faster; by some people’s reckoning, that means being ready to delivery vaccines within just 100 days after a pandemic has been declared. Solving that doesn’t have to involve reinventing the wheel. What’s more, we already have a model for how to do it in the way we tackle flu. To understand how, first consider what we need: the ability to rapidly develop and approve vaccines that protect against an as-yet unknown threat and at breakneck speed; to increase and globalise vaccine manufacturing, by devolving it from the Global North and building capacity in the Global South, and through increased use of technology transfers, so that we have the ability to rapidly produce extremely large volumes—more than are normally produced globally in a given year—so people everywhere are protected; and we need a global distribution network and supply chains to actually get those vaccines out to people. With Covid-19, the scientific and vaccine manufacturing community, and new organisations like the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), rallied and got us not just one but more than a dozen approved vaccines so far, and in record speed—just 327 days for the first one. Even so, we didn’t get enough doses, or at least won’t get them fast enough. With a pandemic, speed is critical; it’s not enough to protect people in just some parts of the world and let the rest of the world wait. To stop transmission, high-risk people need to be prioritised everywhere. This is all the more frustrating given that, with Covid, we now have a way to provide equitable access, so that people in countries that can’t afford these vaccines can still get them. Compared to the last pandemic, in 2009, we’ve been able to get vaccines to people in lower-income countries two times faster, to four times the number of countries and with seven times the volume of doses over a comparable period. Of course, this is still not good enough. But what is so remarkable is that, unlike with the flu, we did this without any approved coronavirus vaccines to work from and, without a dedicated global pandemic network already in place. This was made possible because 193 economies came together in support of the COVAX Facility, an initiative created to provide rapid, fair and equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines. Set up as one of three pillars of the Access to Covid-19 Tools Accelerator, COVAX draws on the preexisting strengths of the three organisations leading it, the World Health organization, the Coalition of Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and Gavi. The latter, which I run, is itself a vaccine alliance made up of a range of global health partners that also include UNICEF, the World Bank and a global network of civil society organisations—all engaged in the effort. Despite having no surge capacity or funding to start with, we were able to build on these preexisting strengths to pull all the pieces together needed to not only accelerate the development and availability of Covid-19 vaccines, but also ensure that compensation, liability and indemnification safety nets were in place, and quickly secure more than 1.3 billion doses, so far, for people in 92 lower-income countries, those that may not be able to afford them and therefore might be left behind. All this enabled us to start rolling them out to these countries, ensuring that all the logistics, personnel, monitoring and data systems were in place, just 39 days after people in high-income countries got their first jab. The single biggest missing piece by far is how we get doses faster. There have already been more than 1.5 billion produced, but we’re still seeing the same kinds of vaccine nationalism and export restrictions that plagued us during the 2009 swine flu pandemic, where almost the entire global supply of doses ended up in the possession of just a handful of wealthy countries, leaving few for the rest of the world. With Covid, we are trying to accelerate equitable access so people get them even quicker, by encouraging governments to donate their surplus doses to COVAX until further supplies come online, but in the long term, for future pandemics, we can’t assume that governments won’t continue to put national interests first. Technology transfers have also helped significantly and are one reason why we were able to get vaccines in the volumes we have so quickly. This is where vaccine developers share both their intellectual property and the vital know-how needed to make vaccines, with other manufacturers, particularly those in emerging economies. But there aren’t enough of these transfers; we need more including more geographical diversity in the production sites. So, the only watertight solution is to increase global supply and globalise it. One way to do that is to increase manufacturing capacity across the globe; to gain the ability to suddenly produce large volumes at speed during a crisis, but without leaving factories idle the rest of the time, is to take inspiration from how we prepare for flu pandemics. Until now, influenza has been the main focus of pandemic preparedness, and with good reason. Over the past century, there have been four flu pandemics. So, for decades we have had a global network of suppliers standing ready to produce pandemic flu vaccines when the need arises, but the rest of the time these facilities stay busy churning out seasonal flu vaccines to protect the people most at risk from nonpandemic flu strains. When a flu pandemic strikes, these facilities can rapidly shift production to produce vaccines targeting the pandemic strain. It’s a system that largely works, but we now need to replicate that model for a broader range of pandemic threats. The way to do that is to build on our existing global supply chains, such as the routine immunisation programs that are currently used to vaccinate 90 per cent of the world’s children from vaccine-preventable diseases. Here we already have a global supply and distribution network, and over the last 20 years organisations like Gavi have helped expand and grow that, from five manufacturers to 17 just for developing countries. If we expand that further and, in particular, build capacity in emerging economies, and make sure that the supply chains for equipment and materials are robust, so the Global South has the ability to produce its own vaccines, not only can we increase supply of these vaccines, but with technology transfers the same facilities can be used to increase global supply of and access to pandemic vaccines when the need arises. Most of what we need to avoid a repeat of this crisis already exists, particularly now that we have a networked solution like COVAX. We just need to ensure that partners have the surge capacity to scale up quickly and there is contingency funding so that the effort is properly resourced to deal with the sudden needs caused by a pandemic. But we also urgently need to invest in additional manufacturing capacity in the Global South. That won’t happen overnight. But if we start now then we can be sure we’ll be prepared for the next one, because it is an evolutionary certainty there will be a next one. This is an opinion and analysis article; the views expressed by the author or authors are not necessarily those of Scientific American.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-to-prevent-the-next-pandemic-1000829.html
24-06-2021||Opinion||Rashtra Manch and the Opposition: Need to chew the cud||The excitement generated by a meeting of the Rashtra Manch, a political action group of anti-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Opposition parties, has ignited speculation over the need for a ‘credible alternative’ to the BJP in the 2024 general elections. The fact that the meeting took place at the residence of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar was seen by some as a propitious sign. The participants, however, were keen to play down the event. The NCP clarified that the gathering of representatives of eight political parties was “not a political meet”. It also clarified that the meeting was not initiated by Pawar but by another veteran politician and now a Trinamool Congress leader, Yashwant Sinha. Despite such soft-pedalling and the notable absence of the Congress, it is worth thinking of the challenges the Rashtra Manch would face in seeding an anti-BJP alliance. The presence of a spectrum of public intellectuals at the meeting notwithstanding, much brickwork will have to be done for forging a viable political front. Uttar Pradesh poses an immediate challenge with assembly elections due in just seven months. There is no sign yet how the Rashtra Manch can become a player in India’s most politically weighty state. The main contender, the Samajwadi Party (SP), has been dormant and needs to re-establish its credentials as an alternative to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath despite his misgovernance. An SP alliance with the Congress seems a non-starter, especially after such seat-sharing in Bihar cost the Rashtriya Janata Dal an electoral victory. The Bahujan Samaj Party, the other major party in UP, is an unreliable ally as it is not above flirting with the BJP. Unlike in West Bengal, the advantages of encouraging a Muslim consolidation against the BJP in UP are limited. The relative number of assembly constituencies where the Muslim voter can swing the results is fewer. Nor can the UP parties build a campaign like Mamata Banerjee did, projecting the BJP and its leaders as cultural outsiders who threaten the local language and traditions. Caste-based polarisation has been the mainstay of the Opposition in the Hindi belt, but this has been countered before by the BJP’s Hindutva campaign uniting voters across caste lines. Therefore, the Opposition game plan for UP will have to think beyond anti-incumbency and beyond the “tried and tested” strategies for mass-mobilisation. Perhaps the economy will be the biggest issue in 2024. The negative growth rate of 7.3 per cent in 2020-21 was bad enough. Now, the Reserve Bank of India and international financial institutions suggest that India’s recovery will be prolonged. They have steadily revised the projected growth rate downward for 2021-22 – first from 10.5 per cent to 9.5 per cent and then to 8.5 per cent. Unemployment figures present an even more alarming picture. According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), the unemployment rate increased from 11.9 per cent in May 2021 to 13 per cent by June 13. The labour participation rate (i.e. number of people working as a percentage of the working-age population), which had fallen to 40 per cent, fell further to 39.7 per cent. These figures, taken together, imply a fall both in employment rate and in absolute employment. Informal jobs may recover with the lifting of localised lockdowns, but CMIE points out that the steady downward trend in employment is not related to lockdowns alone. Neither any Opposition party nor the Rashtra Manch has shown any road-map to deal with the economy, generate employment or strengthen the social security net for unorganised sector workers. The absence of a charismatic leader capable of taking on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and someone who would be unfazed by the BJP’s provocations also remains a problem for the Opposition. Perhaps the Rashtra Manch needs to rethink its strategy and not look for a single rallying figure to lead the Opposition nationally. As of now, the strongest challenge to the BJP in every state is provided by a party that is often just locally dominant, including Congress-led governments. Perhaps Rashtra Manch should work out a federal leadership structure with a small national coordination office to get all anti-BJP forces on board. However, the Opposition to the BJP will have to develop a shared political programme and think beyond mere aggregation of the anti-BJP vote. The various strands of an alternative programme will have to be developed much ahead of the general elections. No Opposition party seems to be applying itself to this task. By contrast, straws in UP’s wind suggest that the BJP is clearly opting for its mission of Hinduising the voters -- the economy and unemployment be damned. The Rashtra Manch can encourage the Opposition parties to formulate and agitate on an alternative agenda of governance, initiating joint-action programmes over the next three years. Beginning from Uttar Pradesh, joint Opposition rallies and mass protests can be a precursor to Opposition unity. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/rashtra-manch-and-the-opposition-need-to-chew-the-cud-1000908.html
24-06-2021||South||Closed down Coca-Cola plant in Kerala now turned into 600-bed Covid hospital||The 34-acre land in Palakkad, which was first used as a Coca-Cola plant two decades ago, will now be used by the Kerala government for a 600-bed Covid facility. Due to its hazardous effects on the groundwater and toxic waste, the Coca-Cola plant was shut down after protests by the villagers, interest groups, and NGOs in that area. According to the officials, they spent Rs 75 lakh to build the facility which has 100 oxygen beds and 40 ICU beds, along with 10 ventilators.  “Ten paediatric beds have been made ready, anticipating that a third wave could affect children. The hospital also has a one-kilolitre oxygen tank. A dozen doctors have been appointed by the Health department… other medical staff will be hired with the support of local bodies,” an official told. The Electricity Minister told, “Around 300 volunteers worked for a week, day and night, to make the hospital a reality,” and added that the infrastructure and medical equipment of the facility were made with the efforts of the Health Department along with the public’s support.  V Murugadas, Chittur block panchayat president, told the publication that eight village panchayats have set aside Rs 10 lakh each, and the Chittur block panchayat Rs 30 lakh, to run the Covid treatment centre. A management committee has been formed by these local bodies to address non-medical issues, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/closed-down-coca-cola-plant-in-kerala-now-turned-into-600-bed-covid-hospital-1000959.html
24-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly adopts 3 Bills, House adjourned sine die||The Tamil Nadu Assembly on Thursday adopted three amendment Bills, including one for amending the state's Fiscal Responsibility Act and the House was later adjourned sine die. The TN Fiscal Responsibility Act 2003 was amended to extend the time limit to eliminate revenue deficit and reduce fiscal deficit to three per cent of Gross State Domestic Product by 31 March 2024, the statement on objects and reasons for the Bill said. The government decided to amend that legislation based on the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission. The commission recommended an extra annual borrowing space for the states to the extent of 0.50 per cent of their GSDP for each of the first four years covering 2021-22 to 2024-25 based on certain performance criteria in the power sector. Further, the Finance Commission recommended fixing the net borrowing limit to GSDP at 4 per cent (2021-22) 3.5 per cent (2022-23) and 3 per cent (2023-24 to 2025-26). Two Bills were passed for amending laws related to local bodies, both urban and rural (covering nine districts including Kancheepuram and polls were held in 2019 for rural local bodies in other districts). This was to extend the term of office of special officers (as their term expires on 30 June) upto 31 December 2021 or until the first meeeting of the council after polls, whichever is earlier. The Bills were piloted by Ministers holding the portfolios of Finance (Palanivel Thiaga Rajan), Municipal Administration (K N Nehru) and Rural Development (KR Periakaruppan). Later, the Assembly was adjourned sine die by Speaker M Appavu after the leader of the House, Duraimurugan moved a resolution. The Assembly session, first after the DMK government assumed office last month, began on June 21 with Governor Banwarilal Purohit's ceremonial Address to the House. Later, the motion of thanks to the Governor's Address was taken up which saw the treasury benches and the main opposition crossing swords over several issues including the handling of Covid-19 pandemic and reopening of liquor outlets. Chief Minister M K Stalin replied to the discussion on Thursday while Leader of Opposition K Palaniswami spoke on June 23. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-adopts-3-bills-house-adjourned-sine-die-1000969.html
24-06-2021||South||Quarantine and PCR test mandatory for farm fish in Kerala||A 12-day quarantine and PCR test has been made mandatory for fish seeds being imported for farming purposes in Kerala. In a bid to check spread of virus infection like Tilapia Lake Virus (TiLV) among fish, the quarantine and PCR test, similar to that of Covid protocols, are being implemented by the Kerala Fisheries Department. Meanwhile, the Kerala Animal Husbandry Department is also considering insisting on quarantine for cattle being brought from other states, in view of Covid infection among animals in some parts of the country. Kerala Fish Seed Centre secretary H Salim told DH that there were some instances of TiLV infection among imported Tilapia fish seeds. Hence, it was decided to enforce quarantine and PCR test for imported fish seeds. Only those with quarantine facilities would be given fish seed import licence and the PCR test would be conducted on samples before being distributed to fish farm. These measures are being initiated as per the provisions in the Kerala Fish Seed Act. Industry sources said that fish farming has been gaining much popularity in Kerala, and during the lockdown, many had ventured into fish farming. Varieties of Tilapia are being widely imported to Kerala. While as per the official estimate, around 12 crore fish seeds are imported, mainly from Bengal and Andhra Pradesh, large quantity of fish seeds were being imported illegally as well. Salim said that the the chances of the infection from imported farm fish seeds spreading to the water bodies was also high and hence, the quarantine norms are being strictly enforced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/quarantine-and-pcr-test-mandatory-for-farm-fish-in-kerala-1000993.html
24-06-2021||South||CBI arraigns former IPS officers in ISRO espionage case||The CBI has arraigned former IPS officers, including Gujarat former DGP R B Sreekumar, in a case pertaining to the conspiracy behind the over 25-year-old ISRO espionage case. Then DIG (Crimes) Siby Mathews, who headed the special team that probed the case, former DySP K K Joshua, who was a member in the team, and former police special branch inspector S Vijayan were among the other officers arraigned. Sreekumar was a deputy director with the Intelligence Bureau. The CBI initiated a probe into the conspiracy angle on the basis of a Supreme Court directive in April. Former ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan, who was accused of espionage and was later acquitted, had alleged conspiracy and the SC ordered Rs 50 lakh compensation to him in 2018. The SC subsequently appointed the Justice D K Jain committee to find appropriate actions against the erring officials and based on the committee's report the SC ordered a CBI probe. The CBI first-information-report had charged the accused of wrongful confinement and custodial torture. The ISRO espionage case originated in 1994 with the Kerala police registering cases under the Foreigners Act and Official Secret Act against two Maldivian women and two scientists of Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre alleging espionage. Apart from Narayanan, another ISRO scientist was also arraigned. Then Chief Minister K Karunakaran was also in a tight spot as his close confidante and IPS officer Raman Srivastava was also alleged to have links to the case. But the CBI which later took over the probe dismissed the charges as fabricated and recommended action against the police officers. Subsequently, Narayanan initiated a legal battle seeking action against the police officials and compensation. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cbi-arraigns-former-ips-officers-in-isro-espionage-case-1001010.html
24-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu to conduct drone and DGPS survey of temples within a year||As part of its plans to ensure greater transparency in temple administration, the Tamil Nadu government will soon embark on an ambitious plan to conduct a drone and Differential Global Positioning System or DGPS survey of nearly 5 lakh acres of land owned by various temples and trusts that come under the HR & CE department.  The project, which will cost around Rs 20 crore, is likely to begin in the next three months if the tender process goes smooth as planned. Officials in the know told DH that it will take about a year to complete the drone and DGPS survey of the temples and lands owned by them. “This is a major step towards ensuring transparency and accountability in temple administration. The survey will generate 3D images which we plan to upload on the department's website. The 3D images will be so accurate that a person can even measure the land size," a senior official told DH. He explained that the department will ask the company that will survey to deploy a maximum number of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) to ensure that the mapping is done in a short period. The HR & CE department is also mulling seeking the help of the Institute of Remote Sensing of Anna University in the process. The official said the department plans to upload 3D images of the lands belonging to temples as and when they are ready, without waiting for the entire process to be over. “We plan to begin the mapping work by September once the process of finalising the bid is over. We hope to upload some of the 3D maps by the end of this year. The process of mapping lands belonging to big temples will be easy and we do may not face any major problem,” he explained. The efforts come at a time the HR & CE department faces several complaints from various organisations on poor upkeep of temple properties and not keeping a tab on rapid encroachment of temple land. The drone and DGPS survey comes close on the heels of the HR & CE department taking up a massive digitisation work of land documents of temples that come under it. Documents for over 3 lakh acres of land have already been uploaded on the web. “Drone and DGSP survey will measure the land to sub-meter level, and we feel mechanization and technology intervention is the best way to ensure transparency. But we will not compromise on our manual work too,” the official said. The project will be supervised by HR & CE Commissioner J Kumaragurubaran who had successfully mapped over 41,000 acres of land belonging to State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu (SIPCOT) during his tenure as Managing Director.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-conduct-drone-and-dgps-survey-of-temples-within-a-year-1001033.html
24-06-2021||South||Kerala Women's Commission head tells woman in distress to 'suffer'; apologises later||Kerala Women's Commission chairperson and CPM leader M C Josephine is facing severe criticism as she told a woman, who rang up her to complain of domestic violence, to 'suffer'. Her statement that if dowry is being given it should be credited in women's bank account only also raised many eyebrows. The Opposition party Congress-led United Democratic Front and various forums demanded Josephine's resignation. Following the controversy, Josephine tendered an apology for asking the woman to 'suffer'. It was during a phone-in complaint redressal programme on a television channel when Josephine spoke in an irritated manner to a woman who rang up to complain of assault by her husband and mother-in-law. As the woman said that she did not report to the police about the assault, she commented that then she may "suffer", Josephine said. She was speaking in an irritated tone right from the beginning as the complainant was speaking feebly and there was noise in the background. The incident happened close on the heels of domestic violence and dowry deaths being widely reported in Kerala. A helpline opened by the Kerala police on Wednesday to consider domestic violence complaints received 212 complaints on the first day itself. As the matter became controversial, Josephine issued a statement tendering apology for asking the woman to suffer. She said that she reacted in such a manner as she was upset over women not reporting to the police about domestic violence. While Kerala PCC president K Sudhakaran and various opposition outfits demanded Josephine's resignation, BJP leader Sobha Surendran sought Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani's intervention into the incident. Demonstrations were staged against her in many parts of the state. Josephine is also facing severe criticism on social media. Some pro-left organisations also protested against the Women's Commission chairperson's statement. Josephine's statement on crediting dowry money in the bank accounts of women came while speaking to the media after visiting the house of a recent dowry victim at Kollam district. She said that while dowry should ideally be avoided, in case it needs to be given, it should be credited to women's bank account. The statement raised many eyebrows as many felt it indirectly supported dowry. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-womens-commission-head-tells-woman-in-distress-to-suffer-apologises-later-1001063.html
24-06-2021||South||Aisha Sultana allowed to leave Lakshadweep after being quizzed in sedition case||Lakshadweep filmmaker and actor Aisha Sultana was allowed to leave the island by the Kavaratti Police after they quizzed her for three days in connection with a sedition case. Though she was not arrested and allowed to leave, she was told by the police that she might be summoned again after her statements were verified, said sources. She was quizzed earlier on June 20 and June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aisha-sultana-allowed-to-leave-lakshadweep-after-being-quizzed-in-sedition-case-1001078.html
24-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu govt to launch post-Covid-19 clinics||Tamil Nadu government will establish post-Covid clinics at all medical college hospitals run by it to treat patients suffering from complications after recovering from Covid-19 infection. Chief Minister M K Stalin said the post-Covid clinics will have specialist doctors to attend to patients who have developed complications after recovery. Such clinics will be established in all government medical college hospitals, Stalin added. In his reply to the Motion of Thanks to Governor’s address, Stalin said the state government machinery was prepared to handle if the third wave of Covid-19 was to hit the state. He added that the new government added 89,618 beds after it assumed office on May 7. Stalin also listed the steps taken by his government to tackle the second wave of infections and recalled that he had convened an all-party meeting to discuss ways and means to control the spread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-to-launch-post-covid-19-clinics-1001087.html
24-06-2021||State||‘Honour killing’ sparks protests in Vijayapura; 5 suspects identified, 2 held||Members of a consortium of Dalit bodies and Vishwa Hindu Parishad activists held a demonstration here on Wednesday, condemning the murder of a Dalit youth in a suspected honour killing case. The office-bearers of the Dalit organisations, including the Karnataka Dalit Sangarsha Samiti, alleged that Basavaraj Badiger (19) of Madar community from Saladahalli, was murdered for having an affair with a Muslim girl, identified as Davalbi Bandagisab Tambad (16), from the neighbouring Khanapur village. “This (honour killing) is inhuman and condemnable. The district administration and the police should take the case seriously and bring the culprits to book. Upset over daughter’s affair with a Dalit youth, the girl’s father and other family members allegedly bludgeoned both the youth and the girl to death with boulders at a field at Saladahalli in Devarahippargi taluk on Tuesday. The Kalakeri police have registered the double murder case. Meanwhile, Vijayapura SP Anumap Agarwal on Wednesday said that the police have identified five suspects. Of which, two have been arrested and are being interrogated. However, he did not give their names. On Tuesday, the SP had formed three teams to probe the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/honour-killing-sparks-protests-in-vijayapura-5-suspects-identified-2-held-1000797.html
24-06-2021||State||Siddaramaiah should be Karnataka CM nominee, say 2 more Congress MLAs||It seems that the Congress national leadership’s directions to its Karnataka cadre, asking them not to float speculations on the party’s chief ministerial candidate for the 2023 Assembly elections, has had little bearing on some of its legislators. For, two of the party’s legislators - Akhanda Srinivasamurthy from Pulikeshinagar and S Ramappa from Harihar - on Wednesday demanded that Congress legislature party leader Siddaramaiah should be the CM candidate. Speaking to mediapersons on Wednesday, Srinivasamurthy said Siddaramaiah was a popular leader and the public was keen on seeing him back as the CM. “All our opinion is that he should become the CM. It will be good for the state,” he said. Harihar MLA S Ramappa said KPCC president D K Shivakumar was still “young” and hence Siddaramaiah should be given an opportunity to be the CM candidate in 2023. “Shivakumar still has time. In 2023, I believe Siddaramaiah should become the CM. Shivakumar will get an opportunity in the following elections,” he said. Irked by the statements, Shivakumar said he was in no hurry to occupy any post. The only focus of the party at this point is to bring Congress back to power in Karnataka. “We have to devote time to it completely. The public wants to see a change of administration in the state,” he said, adding that he had never claimed that he wanted to become the CM. “I’m in no hurry to occupy any post,” he said. Siddaramaiah sought to distance himself from the legislators’ comments. “What can I do if they issue such statements? This doesn’t concern me,” he told reporters. Recently, AICC general secretary incharge of Karnataka Randeep Singh Surjewala had directed the party cadre to refrain from projecting CM candidates for the 2023 polls, after legislators like Zameer Ahmed and Raghavendra Hitnal made statements in favour of Siddaramaiah’s candidature.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/siddaramaiah-should-be-karnataka-cm-nominee-say-2-more-congress-mlas-1000800.html
24-06-2021||State||M T B Nagaraj named Bengaluru Rural minister; Yogeshwar for Kolar||Municipal Administration minister MTB Nagaraj was appointed the in-charge minister for Bengaluru Rural district on Wednesday. Nagaraj, who is an MLC, replaces Ashoka. Nagaraj had sought the responsibility in the past and had even criticised the CM for dragging heels over the MLCs’ appointment as incharges for districts. “He (MTB) hails from the region, and there was a requirement (of appointing a local legislator as in-charge of the district). There is no question of sacrifice here as I have my hands full with Revenue Department and Disaster Management” Ashoka said. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said that Tourism minister C P Yogeshwar will be put in-charge of Kolar district shortly. Reacting to MTB’s appointment, Yediyurappa said that Ashoka himself had recommended it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/m-t-b-nagaraj-named-bengaluru-rural-minister-yogeshwar-for-kolar-1000801.html
24-06-2021||State||AIDSO seeks cancellation of odd semester exams||The All India Democratic Students Organisation (AIDSO) members met Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan and sought the cancellation of odd-semester examinations. In a memorandum submitted to the minister, the students, who are members of the AIDSO, highlighted the online survey conducted to collect the opinion of the students where 40,000 students participated and spoke about dropping the decision to conduct two semester examinations in the same month. They urged the minister to evaluate them using internal assessment or some other standard scientific methods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/aidso-seeks-cancellation-of-odd-semester-exams-1000806.html
24-06-2021||State||Out-of-school kids: Karnataka HC directs govt to ascertain survey method||The High Court on Wednesday directed the state government to convene a meeting of all stakeholders, including amicus curiae, to ascertain whether the survey on the issue of out-of-school children was carried out in terms of Rule 6 of model rules under the RTE Act. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, was hearing a suo motu petition on the implementation of the provisions of the RTE Act and Rules. Referring to a letter by the Chief Commissioner of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to the Additional Chief Secretary of the Urban Development department, the court said the BBMP has not understood the purport of the order on the household survey. The bench directed the government to convene a meeting to ascertain whether the survey was carried out in terms of the directions of the court and in terms of Rule 6 of the RTE Rules. “Apart from holding the meeting, we direct the Additional Chief Secretary to the Urban Development Department to address a letter to the Chief Commissioner of BBMP to ensure that the work of survey is undertaken by the BBMP in terms of sub-rule 1 of rule 6,” the court said. The bench permitted the amicus curiae to file a memo on record if infirmities are found in the process of the survey adopted by the state government or any local authority. The matter has been posted to July 19. Rule 6 of the RTE Rules requires the local authority to maintain a record of all children in its jurisdiction, through a household survey, from their birth till they attain 14 years. In an interim direction passed on March 16, 2020, the court had directed the government to ensure that the household survey is completed by April 30, 2020. The court had also directed to ensure that the record of children, from their birth till they attain 14 years, is generated at least six weeks before the commencement of the next academic year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/out-of-school-kids-karnataka-hc-directs-govt-to-ascertain-survey-method-1000808.html
24-06-2021||State||Virtual fundraising for Karnataka musicians from June 25-27||A fundraiser concert ‘Kalanidhi’ to help musicians affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic will be held through social media platforms from June 25-27. The programme will be streamed through Facebook and Twitter pages of Deputy CM C N Ashwath Narayan, Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya, singer Vijay Prakash and the Youtube channel ‘Kalanidhi’. Among the prominent names expected to perform in the virtual concert are Hariharan, Shankar Mahadevan, Sonu Nigam, Raghu Dixit, Archana Udupa, Anuradha Bhat and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/virtual-fundraising-for-karnataka-musicians-from-june-25-27-1001125.html
24-06-2021||State||JD(S) MLC stages protest over not being invited for district minister's meeting||MLC from the JD(S) S L Bhoje Gowda staged a solitary protest in front of the deputy commissioner's office here on Thursday, alleging that only BJP MLAs, MPs and MLCs were invited to the officers' meeting held under the chairmanship of the district incharge minister. Deputy Commissioner K N Ramesh and Additional Deputy Commissioner B R Roopa tried to convince Bhoje Gowda to drop the protest. But Gowda snapped at them in a high pitch. The officers were embarrassed in front of the public. He was then taken inside the DC's office where he was pacified. He said, "On June 23, district incharge minister S Angara called a meeting of officers at the DC office auditorium. The minister's personal secretary informed my personal secretary that the people's representatives are not allowed to attend the meeting. However, BJP MLAs and MP were allowed to participate. This differentiation has happened many times. Though the matter has been brought to the notice of the minister and the district administration, it has not helped," he complained. Gowda said, "six districts come under my jurisdiction. Chikkamagaluru is the nodal taluk. The district administration should be aware of this. If only BJP elected representatives are invited to the officers' meeting, am I also not an MLC from the district? The district in-charge minister and the DC have violated the protocol." DC Ramesh clarified that whenever the district incharge minister calls a meeting of officers, some MLAs attend the meeting, even if the district administration does not invite them formally. The district administration does not differentiate between the ruling party and the Opposition. The problem has arisen due to a misunderstanding, he said and that he would ensure that it does not recur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jds-mlc-stages-protest-over-not-being-invited-for-district-ministers-meeting-1001127.html
24-06-2021||State||PM Modi and his Cabinet must resign: Citizens for Democracy||Citizens for Democracy (CfD) has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi appealing for his resignation over the Centre's "colossal failure" that cost lakhs of innocent lives. "The people of this country have lost faith in the caliber of your regime. Further, they have seen the arrogance, insensitivity and incompetence of the political leadership of the union government and the colossal failure of almost all major policy decisions of your government, right from 2014 itself (when the BJP-led Government was formed) till now," a letter penned by 24 social workers and activists, under the aegis of CfD, said. The signatories include anti-corruption activist and president of CfD S R Hiremath, eminent author Devanoora Mahadeva, farmer leader Badagalapura Nagendra, among others. The failures of the government has cost lakhs of innocent lives and severe socio-economic crisis for crores of people who have lost jobs, the letter said. Modi should resign along with his government, and must facilitate the formation of a government with broad political vision that can bring all sections of India (all parties and civil society) together to effectively deal with the present health (Covid-19), socio-economic and governance crises, the letter added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pm-modi-and-his-cabinet-must-resign-citizens-for-democracy-1001130.html
24-06-2021||State||Krishna floods: Karnataka deputes officer to Maharashtra||The deputy commissioners of Belagavi and Solapur in Maharashtra have been appointed as nodal officers to coordinate between the states in mitigating the floods in Krishna basin during monsoon, Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol said on Thursday. "A senior officer of Water Resources department from the state has been deputed to Ratnagiri to monitor the amount of rainfall and water discharge from Maharashtra reservoirs," he told reporters here. In the recent meeting with the Maharshtra delegation led by its Water Resources minister, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa urged the Maharashtra minister to release water from Koyna in a staggered manner, Karjol said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/krishna-floods-karnataka-deputes-officer-to-maharashtra-1001143.html
24-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt launches new digital learning platforms||The Higher Education Department on Wednesday launched a new set of digital learning platforms, which allow students pursuing higher education courses at government-run institutions to learn “anytime, anywhere”. To bridge the digital divide between those studying in private institutions and government institutions during the pandemic, the department has converted 2,500 classrooms into smart classrooms and distributed tablet PCs to around 1.55 lakh degree, diploma and engineering students from 430 government degree, 82 polytechnics and 14 government engineering colleges and launched a Learning Management System (LMS). Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said the programmes would “enable ‘anytime, anywhere’ learning” and benefit 25,000 teachers and five lakh students. The tablet PCs will be distributed to students at a cost of Rs 163 crore. “These initiatives will help resolve the imbalance between offline and online, digital and physical, rural and urban, government and private, rich and poor and also English and native language barriers with respect to access to quality teaching and learning, besides providing a strong platform to implement the National Education Policy effectively,” he said. The department is also spending on converting 2,500 smart classrooms (Rs 27.77 crore) and development of a Learning Management System (Rs 4.04 crore). The department aims to convert the remaining 6,000 classrooms into smart classrooms during the 2021-22 academic year. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa inaugurated the smart classrooms and also symbolically distributed tablet PCs in Bengaluru on Wednesday. He said the initiatives were aimed at benefiting students belonging to the economically weaker sections studying in government institutions. Briefing about the initiative, Pradeep P, commissioner, Department of Collegiate Education said the initiatives allow students to access the classroom and refer to the content uploaded by teachers. He said the tablet PCs are sim card based and can be accessed anywhere. Desktop and mobile apps that work without the Internet are also part of the programme. “The content uploaded in the Learning Management System is bilingual and the uniqueness of this system is, students can also rate their teachers,” explained Pradeep. Currently, 3.5 lakh content modules are uploaded on LMS from experts in 15 state-run universities and affiliated colleges. The students can access any of the contents and rate them to help teachers improve. Meanwhile, students will be assessed by teachers periodically based on multiple choice questions and question banks on the LMS. “This will help bring in revolutionary changes in the teaching and learning process,” he added. The smart classrooms include projectors, whiteboard, Android box, UPS, and the Internet to facilitate the use of modern teaching and learning models and LMS enables access to learning both in online and offline modes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-launches-new-digital-learning-platforms-1000798.html
24-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Officer handling Arvind Bellad phone tapping case changed||A new officer will take up the probe into a complaint filed by MLA Arvind Bellad. City police commissioner Kamal Pant on Wednesday assigned Pruthvi M J, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Sheshadripuram sub-division, to conduct a formal probe into the complaint. He assigned Pruthvi as the investigating officer after learning that the Cubbon Park sub-division ACP Yathiraj B R, who was conducting the probe, had faced allegations of supporting a senior officer in the illegal phone tapping of several politicians. The move came six days after Yathiraj began the investigation. Bellad had filed a complaint with DG&IGP Praveen Sood alleging that his phone was being tapped and some unidentified persons called him from prison.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/officer-handling-arvind-bellad-phone-tapping-case-changed-1000799.html
24-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government gears up for SSLC exams, releases SoPs||Ahead of the SSLC (10th standard) examination scheduled to be held in the third week of July, the government on Wednesday released the SoP for the examination centres. According to it, each classroom will have only 12 students writing the exam, with one student per bench. Further, the SoP mandates at least the first dose of vaccination for teaching and non-teaching staff attending to exam work. As the Covid cases in Bengaluru and other parts of the state are plummeting gradually, the department of primary and secondary education has instructed nodal officers in all districts to prepare for conducting the exams. “The SoP has been sent to all the districts and officials have been directed to make all necessary arrangements which will be verified by the deputy commissioners and CEOs of zilla panchayats,” Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said. The school authorities must ensure sanitisation of the examination centres before and after every examination in association with the local civic bodies. “Social distancing must be followed while entering the centre and sanitisers must be provided at the entrance. Kids may be allowed to get water bottle and tiffin boxes,” the SoP said. The department has allowed Covid positive students to appear for the exam at the Covid care centres identified by the department at the taluk level. Such students will be provided transport in ‘108’ ambulances, officials said. Last year, the SSLC Board had not allowed virus-infected students to appear for the exam and they were asked to write the exams along with repeaters during the supplementary exam. “At least two rooms shall be reserved for students with fever, cough and cold symptoms. Such students will report to health centres set up at the schools. The health centres will be equipped with a thermal scanner, oximeters, first-aid boxes. Students who come without masks will be provided masks,” Suresh Kumar said. The minister will hold a video conference on June 28 with district authorities, CEOs of zilla panchayats, SPs of districts, treasury officers and health officers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-gears-up-for-sslc-exams-releases-sops-1000805.html
24-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||RGUHS interim VC approaches cyber cops against 'propaganda'||There seems to be no end to controversy over the appointment of interim vice chancellor of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Science (RGUHS) with the present interim vice chancellor Dr Jayakar Shetty approaching cyber crime police seeking action against those spreading false news against him of being corrupt. Dr Jayakar, in his complaint lodged with the South CEN Crime police said that some persons, including in newspapers and social media, falsely published news allegedly accusing him of being corrupt and a criminal case has been registered against him with the Central Bureau of Investigation. Dr Jayakar stated in his complaint that also stated that some persons had also alleged that his appointment as interim vice chancellor was not according to the rules. 'Image tarnished' The police have taken up the case under the Information Technology Act and are investigating. Dr Jayakar told police that the rumours are false news published to tarnish his image. After the government appointed him as interim vice chancellor, Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar had raised an objection saying that he was a principal of a private dental college. Sudhakar had claimed that only a dean or the registrar of a government college was eligible to be appointed as vice chancellor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rguhs-interim-vc-approaches-cyber-cops-against-propaganda-1000810.html
24-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||College students above 18, teaching & non teaching staff in Covid vaccination priority group, says Ashwath Narayan||With the state government considering opening higher educational institutions, Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan on Thursday said all college students above 18 years, their teaching staff and non-teaching staff will be considered as a priority group to administer Covid vaccine. The DCM, who also holds the higher education portfolio, said vaccination for the above groups would be taken up in July in the respective colleges as per the guidelines of the central government after consulting with the officers. "Inoculation campaigns will be arranged in the colleges. Validation letters issued by the respective institutions need to be submitted before getting vaccinated. Head of the institution and another officer will be appointed as nodal officers in every institution," he was quoted as saying by his office in a release. In response to a question, Narayan said offline classes will be started once all the students are vaccinated with the first dose. "Teaching, learning process has not stopped and it is being continued through digital mode and attendance is mandatory for online classes also," he informed. The DCM said existing vaccines are effective against Delta plus variant of the virus also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/college-students-above-18-teaching-non-teaching-staff-in-covid-vaccination-priority-group-says-ashwath-narayan-1001098.html
24-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||3,979 new Covid-19 cases, 138 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka has reported 3,979 new cases of Covid-19 and 138 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 28.23 lakh and toll to 34,425, the health department said on Thursday. The day also saw 9,768 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 26,78,473. Out of 3,979 new cases reported, 969 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 3,176 discharges and 14 deaths. Total number of active cases in the state is at 1,10,523. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 2.46 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 3.46 per cent. Out of 138 deaths reported on Thursday, 22 were from Mysuru, Dakshina Kannada 15, Bengaluru Urban 14, Ballari and Dharwad 10, Hassan 9, followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 969, Dakshina Kannada 498, Mysuru 404, Hassan 336, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,09,073, followed by Mysuru 1,64,018 and Tumakuru 1,14,265. Cumulatively a total of 3.33 crore samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,61,287 were tested on Thursday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/3979-new-covid-19-cases-138-deaths-in-karnataka-1001113.html
24-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka hotels, resorts get 50% property tax relaxation||In a significant move, the government has announced a 50 per cent relaxation on property tax for hotels, resorts, restaurants and amusements parks for the financial year 2021-22. In an official statement on Thursday, Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar said the government had decided to relax the property tax for hotels and resorts for the financial year 2021-22, in an effort to rejuvenate the tourism industry in the state, which had seen a slump owing to Covid-19. The 50 per cent relaxation on property tax for the hospitality industry comes in addition to waiver given for electricity tariff for the months of April, May and June. The government has also given a concession on excise licence and other fees, allowing to pay only 50 per cent of the fees at this point, while the rest can be paid before December 31, the statement read. That apart, Rs 5,000 financial aid will be given to tourist guides registered with the tourism department. The money will be directly credited to their bank accounts, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hotels-resorts-get-50-property-tax-relaxation-1001121.html
24-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt notifies premium floor area ratio, slashes charges||The state government has issued final notification for allowing construction under premium floor area ratio (PFAR) and has slashed charges for it by almost half. According to officials, the move was to ensure more takers for the revenue generation scheme of the government, which would allow construction at "impact zones" identified by local civic bodies. The final notification on PFAR was issued on June 16 by the government. The draft notified in November last year had set PFAR charges at Rs 16,500 per square meter (sqm) for a site whose guidance value was Rs 50,000 per sqm. However, as per the final notification PFAR charges will be Rs 10,000 per sqm. All buildings have a permissible FAR of 2.5, meaning that a building in a 1,000 sqm plot is allowed a built-up area of 2,500 sqm. Under PFAR, in areas identified as "impact zones" in master plans prepared by local bodies, the government will allow a permissible FAR of 3.5, allowing for a built-up area of 3,500 sqm. Charges per sqm of PFAR was dependent on the guidance value of the developed site, and shall not be less than 50% of the guidance value of the additional built-up area, according to the notification. PFAR was first proposed in 2017 under draft common zoning regulations, and is being implemented by inserting a new provision - Rule 37(E) - to Karnataka Planning Authority Rules. The new insertion allows for charges to be levied in case of permission for utilising PFAR. PFAR, as per the rule, will be allowed only in sites abutting a road with a minimum width of 9 meters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-notifies-premium-floor-area-ratio-slashes-charges-1001123.html
24-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt allows reopening of public libraries||The government has allowed public libraries to open, subject to conditions imposed to contain Covid-19. The libraries will remain open from 10 am to 5.30 pm. In districts where caseloads were high, Deputy Commissioner can take calls on opening libraries. Working hours of libraries are subject to lockdown regulations such as weekend curfew, according to an order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-allows-reopening-of-public-libraries-1001124.html
24-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Provide video conferencing hearing facility to quasi-judicial bodies: Karnataka HC to govt||The High Court on Thursday directed the government to take a decision for providing a video conference hearing facility to all the quasi-judicial authorities in the state, mainly the authorities under the Karnataka Land Revenue Act. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka gave this direction while hearing a PIL. The government advocate submitted that compliance with the order of the court was delayed because the quasi-judicial proceedings by revenue authorities have not taken place for the past one year due to Covid-19. The bench said it is high time that the government takes a decision for providing facilities of video conferencing hearing to all quasi-judicial authorities. These authorities include tahsildars, assistant commissioners, regional commissioners and deputy commissioners. The court said hearing through video conferencing should be commenced in a phased manner. “Initially, the government can identify quasi-judicial authorities which are discharging very important functions. Priority can be given to such quasi-judicial authorities for providing video conference hearing facilities. All quasi-judicial authorities can have the facility in a phase-wise manner,” the court said. The court said restoring important proceedings under the statute is important, bearing in mind the principles prescribed in the Disaster Management Act 2005, requiring all public authorities to be in the state of preparedness to deal with the situation of a possible third wave of Covid-19. The bench has posted the matter to July 13, to enable the government to submit information on providing video conferencing hearing facilities. The court also directed the government to disclose whether any of the quasi-judicial authorities have been provided with proper video conferencing facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/provide-video-conferencing-hearing-facility-to-quasi-judicial-bodies-karnataka-hc-to-govt-1001134.html
24-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Offline classes schedule for Karnataka colleges only after first vaccine dose||The higher education department will announce dates to resume offline classes in the month of July after completing the first dose of vaccination to all students aged above 18 years as well as the teaching and non-teaching staff. In a statement released to the media, Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said the department has decided to conduct vaccination drives at the college level to ensure vaccination for all students above 18 years of age and all staff. "The reopening of offline classes date will be announced soon after the completion of the first dose of vaccination to all eligible students and staff," he said. To get the vaccination during the drive conducted for students, teachers and non-teaching staff, one has to submit the letter provided by the institution concerned and the head of each college and one officer from the department will be designated as nodal officers for these drives. These nodal officers should ensure that all eligible students and staff get the vaccines. The department will issue a separate standard operating procedure for the vaccination drive conducted for students and staff. "Even after the vaccination, if students feel uncomfortable to attend offline classes, they can attend online classes. Both the options will be made available, but attendance is compulsory for students even during online classes," said Ashwath Narayana. The minister has requested all students and staff to get vaccinated and said, "The immunity power in the body will increase after the first dose of vaccination, and even if students or staff test positive because of offline classes, the effect of the virus will be low after the first dose."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/offline-classes-schedule-for-karnataka-colleges-only-after-first-vaccine-dose-1001136.html
24-06-2021||West||Rahul Gandhi appears before Surat court over 'Modi surname' remark||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Thursday appeared before a Surat court in connection with a criminal defamation case filed against him for his alleged remarks against "Modi surnames" during 2019 Lok Sabha elections. A Surat BJP MLA had filed the case, claiming that Gandhi's remarks "defamed the Modi community" by calling their surnames "thieves". Rahul Gandhi recorded his statement before Chief Judicial Magistrate A N Dave. The magisterial court had issued an order directing Gandhi to remain present before it on June 24 to record his final statement. Local sources said during the deposition, Gandhi responded to most of the questions by saying he didn't remember anything. According to the plea filed by local BJP legislature Purnesh Modi, Gandhi reportedly uttered derogatory remarks in his public speeches in Karnataka during the Lok Sabha poll campaign in 2019, while referring to "Nirav Modi, Lalit Modi and Narendra Modi... how come they all have common surnames? How come all the thieves have Modi as surnames?" Modi has said in his complaint that such remarks "hurt the sentiments of the entire Modi community" and therefore, he filed the defamation case against Gandhi. Congress leaders said before leaving for Delhi, Rahul Gandhi met state Congress leaders, including president Amit Chavda, Leader of Opposition Paresh Dhanani, among others and had lunch at the circuit house.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rahul-gandhi-appears-before-surat-court-over-modi-surname-remark-1000891.html
24-06-2021||West||Over 2,000 in Mumbai fell victim to fake Covid vaccination drives, MVA tells HC||More than 2,000 people have fallen victim to fake Covid-19 vaccination camps in Mumbai so far, the Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Thursday. The state government's counsel, chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare told the court that at least nine fake camps had been held in the city till now, and four separate FIRs registered in this connection. The state government also submitted before a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni, a status report on the ongoing probe. The state also said that the police had recorded the statements of 400 witnesses so far and the investigators were in the process of finding the whereabouts of a doctor, who was an accused in the incident that took place at a housing society in suburban Kandivali, where one such camp was held. "At least 2,053 people fell victim to these fake vaccination camps. Four FIRs have been registered in relation to these camps. While some accused persons have been identified, several unknown persons, too, have been booked in these FIRs," Thakare said. While the bench accepted the state's report, it said that the state and municipal authorities must, in the meanwhile, take measures to get the victims tested for any ill-effects caused by fake vaccines. "Our anxiety is, what happens to these people who were vaccinated? What were they administered and what is the effect of this fake vaccine?" the court asked, questioning the contents of the fake vaccines. The bench also took exception to the fact that the state government was yet to come up with specific guidelines for vaccination camps organised by private housing societies, offices, etc, despite an order of the court passed earlier this month. "This is very very urgent. We had expected the state would come up with SOPs immediately. Time is of essence here, you (state) can't delay," the court said. The bench also asked the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to inform the court about what it proposed to do to check the adverse effects on the health of victims of the nine fake vaccination camps. To this, the BMC's counsel, senior advocate Anil Sakhre said the civic body was also conducting its own probe into the incidents. "We have realised that vaccination certificates were not given to the victims on the same day that they were administered the fake vaccines. Later, certificates were issued using the names of three different hospitals. That is how people realised something was wrong," Sakhre said. "These hospitals, however, said they had not provided the vials used in these camps. We have also written to the Serum Institute of India," he said. The high court has directed the BMC and the state government to file their affidavits responding to the court's queries and directions by June 29, the next date of hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-2000-in-mumbai-fell-victim-to-fake-covid-vaccination-drives-mva-tells-hc-1000957.html
24-06-2021||West||Environmentalists blast Parsik Hill quarry resumption in heart of Navi Mumbai, send SOS to CM||Shinde had assured a delegation of local quarry operators that the quarrying, halted five years ago, would be restarted to help settle the Navi Mumbai Project Affected People and float 40,000 jobs, according to reports. Describing the idea of restarting quarrying in the heart of Navi Mumbai as a “terrible idea in these days of pandemic” from both public health and ecological points, environment focused NGO NatConnect Foundation has suggested alternative sites to fetch stone chips required for construction. Environmentalists also protested against the ongoing quarrying at Kharghar and said this is adding to the pollution, apart from playing with biodiversity. “There are scores of social welfare schemes under which the PAPs can be settled and we do not have to continue to blast the already plundered hills,” NatConnect director B N Kumar. The blasting of the hills was resumed later but stopped after the Forest Department pointed out that the quarry operators violated the licensed levels by mining 264.1 hectares against the permitted area of 138.07 hectares. In an earlier development, the Pune Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) made environment clearance a prerequisite for the resumption of quarrying. The Forest and Environment Departments, apart from Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation, opposed the quarrying, Kumar recalled. “We are not opposed to either development or settling the people affected by the 50-year-old Navi Mumbai project,” Kumar said and reminded the local leaders and the government about the paramount importance of public health in these days of Covid havoc. The government could, however, encourage quarrying on a cooperative basis in other parts of the State which are not inhabited, and thus offer gainful employment to the project affected families, Kumar said in his letter to CM Uddhav Thackeray and Environment Minister Aditya Thackeray. NGO Shri Ekavira Aai Pratishthan (SEAP), has also appealed to the Chief Minister to intervene and ensure that the Parsik Hill range is not blasted again and again. Some of the hills, he pointed out, have been blasted to the extent of 70 to 80% due to the greed of some of the operators, he said. Pawar pointed out that CIDCO is also constructing affordable housing at the foot of the quarried hills. While this project is also patently wrong as it could face dangers of landslides, he said these housing colonies would be directly impacted by the quarrying. Kharghar-based activist Jyoti Nadkarni said the authorities remained unconcerned about the dangers of quarrying in the node despite a series of complaints. “The officials are just passing the buck as the citizens suffer,” she pointed out. Another environment activist Naresh Chandra Singh wondered as to how any government could allow quarrying amid residential areas. “It beats common sense,” Singh said, “No one seems to be concerned about public health and the environment.” Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/environmentalists-blast-parsik-hill-quarry-resumption-in-heart-of-navi-mumbai-send-sos-to-cm-1000978.html
24-06-2021||West||Patient bitten by rat in Mumbai hospital dies||In a bizarre incident, a young man, who was bitten by a rat, in the civic-run Rajawadi Hospital at Ghatkopar in Mumbai died on Wednesday night. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has come under sharp criticism after the incident. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar has ordered a probe into the incident and has called for a detailed report from the hospital. The patient Shrinivas Nagesh Yallapa (24) was admitted to the hospital on Sunday with a very low haemoglobin count. The patient was suffering from alcohol-related liver disease and was in critical condition from the time he was admitted in an unconscious state. According to Hospital Superintendent, Dr Vidya Thakur, the patient died at 9 pm on Wednesday. The hospital management had confirmed the rat bit near the patient's eyes, but said injuries were "superficial". The hospital administration has taken rodent repellent measures in the wake of the incident. In the wake of the incident, the Leader of Opposition in Council Pravin Darekar and BJP Lok Sabha MP from Mumbai North East Manoj Kotak raised the issue. “In Sion Hospital dead bodies were kept next to patients undergoing treatment. A year later, BMC administration has not improved. Doctors in the ICU are outsourced. Mumbai model is praised for Covid management but if incidents like this come forward what’s the use of these praises,” said Darekar. "The BMC is said to be Asia's largest civic corporation, but it does not have enough measures to protect patients from mice,” said Kotak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/patient-bitten-by-rat-in-mumbai-hospital-dies-1000981.html
24-06-2021||West||Massive protests over naming of Navi Mumbai airport||The satellite township of Navi Mumbai and the adjoining Raigad district saw massive protests on Thursday over the issue of renaming the new upcoming international airport. However, even as there were protests, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri sought to lighten the mood with 'Santa-Banta' humour reacting to an old tweet by celebrity Suchitra Krishnamoorthi. The locals are demanding that the Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA), being constructed in the Raigad district, be named after the late farmers’ leader D B Patil, who has worked for the Project Affected People (PAP). The City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) is the nodal agency for NMIA and it would be run by Adani Airport Holdings Ltd (AAHL), an entity of the Adani Group. On Thursday, thousands of people came to the streets – amid tight security arrangements – to press for the demand of the locals. People from Raigad, Thane and Palghar districts, under the All Party Action Committee, (APAC) along with local workers of BJP and AAP staged the protests. The Board of Directors of CIDCO had already taken the decision to name the NMIA after Shiv Sena founder Balasaheb Thackeray which the Maha Vikas Aghadi government has in principle accepted. Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray has refrained from making any comments on the issue. However, his close aide and Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde said that the airport would be named after the late Shiv Sena supremo. Besides, two other names have cropped up -- an online campaign is underway to name it after late J R D Tata, the father of civil aviation in India, while BJP MLA Nilay Naik has demanded it be named after late Vasantrao Naik -- the longest-serving chief minister of Maharashtra. Singer-actor Suchitra Krishnamoorthi, in a tweet, said: “…Banta sent a letter to Civil Aviation Minister: Sir, it is my humble request that the new airport in Navi Mumbai should be named ‘Bantacruz’, since my brother has already one airport named after him ‘Santacruz’. The Ministry of Civil Aviation receives many requests for naming & renaming of existing & under construction airports. The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai, in the grand old days, used to be referred to as Santacruz Airport because of its proximity to the locality and the suburban railway station. However, Puri, a diplomat-turned-politician replied, “The Ministry of Civil Aviation receives many requests for naming and renaming of existing and under construction airports. To lighten the mood a bit, I want to inform my friend Banta that his formal proposal has not yet been received by us!” Krishnamoorthi replied to the tweet saying “Haha. Stay well and witty sir. Love and respect always”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/massive-protests-over-naming-of-navi-mumbai-airport-1001018.html
24-06-2021||West||CBI registers case against private firm for defrauding SBI, other banks of Rs 2,435 crore||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered an FIR against billionaire-businessman Gautam Thapar and his company CG Power and Industrial Solutions for causing a loss of a whopping Rs 2,435 crore to the State Bank of India (SBI) and other consortium banks. After the losses came to light, the SBI, Industrial Finance Branch, Mumbai, lodged a complaint along with a detailed report to the CBI on May 28, 2021. On Tuesday, the CBI registered an FIR against CG Power and Industrial Solution Ltd, Gautam Thapar, the then CMD, KN Neelkanth, the then CEO and MD, Madhav Acharya, the then ED and CFO, B Hariharan, the then Director, Omkar Goswami, the then Non-Executive Director, Venkatesh Rammoorthy, the then CFO and unknown public servants and others.  The CG Power and Industrial Solution Ltd, earlier known as Crompton Greaves Ltd, is an Indian multinational engaged in designing, manufacturing, and marketing of products related to power generation, transmission, and distribution. It was alleged that the accused had cheated the SBI and other consortium banks including Bank of Maharashtra, Axis Bank, Yes Bank, Corporation Bank, Barclays Bank, IndusInd Bank among others by way of diversion of bank funds, sham transactions with related parties, borrowing funds from the bank by misrepresentation. They have also been accused of falsifying/fabricating books of accounts, entries, vouchers, and financial statements; furnishing false, incorrect or misleading information; siphoning off funds including various loan proceeds. “The allegations were based on a forensic audit report. Searches are being conducted at the premises of the accused including said private company at Mumbai, Delhi and Gurugram,” CBI officials said on Thursday. This is a new case against Thapar, who was booked earlier in Rs 466 crore fraud case in a Yes Bank scam case. The complaint by Suresh Kumar Pareek, Branch Head, SBI, Industrial Finance Branch at Bandra East in Mumbai to the CBI headquarters in New Delhi, pointed out that SBI and 12 other banks were defrauded. The CBI FIR said that the accused between 2015 and 2019 allegedly cheated the banks by way of diversion of bank funds and sham transactions with related parties. The SBI complaint has pointed out that during August 2019, the board of the company disclosed to the Sebi about several suspicious, unauthorised transactions including previously undisclosed debt in the balance sheet. As per the board of the company, the total liabilities of the company and the group may have been potentially understated by approximately Rs 1,053.54 crore and Rs 1,608.17 crore, respectively, as of March 31, 2018, and by Rs 601.83 crore and Rs 401.83 crore, respectively, as of April 1, 2017. The SBI complaint said that advances to related and unrelated parties of the company and the group may have been potentially understated by Rs 1,990.36 crore and Rs 2,806.63 crore, respectively, as of March 31, 2018, and by Rs 1,479.34 crore and Rs 1,331.47 crore, respectively, as of April 1, 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cbi-registers-case-against-private-firm-for-defrauding-sbi-other-banks-of-rs-2435-crore-1001030.html
24-06-2021||West||Don’t hasten unlock: Uddhav Thackeray amid third Covid-19 wave fears||With the threat of a third wave of Covid-19 pandemic looming large and the emergence of Delta Plus variant, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked the government machinery not to hasten the unlocking process. “Please study and analyse the ground situation in cities and districts and take a call. Please do not hasten the unlock process. There is no reason to hurry, we have to be careful and cautious,” Thackeray told a meeting on Thursday. Thackeray also asked the officials to scale up the oxygen production capacity in the state, increase bed strength and set up field hospitals. The chief minister’s directives came during a video conference with Collectors of Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts in the Konkan region, Satara, Sangli, and Kolhapur districts in Western Maharashtra, and Hingoli district in Marathwada region, where the positivity rate is high. Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope was also present at the meeting besides Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Dr Pradeep Vyas, Dr Sanjay Oak and Dr Shashank Joshi, the Chairman and member, respectively, of the state’s Covid-19 Task Force. “The tail of the second wave is yet to pass off. You are not completely out of it. Although different levels of restrictions have been set for the districts, the local administration has to decide on the restrictions based on the actual situation and without any risk,” he said. Thackeray stressed the need to ensure Covid-19-appropriate behaviour in the new normal.  “Citizens need to be careful and the infection may spread if proper precautions are not taken,” he said.  “It is very important to remove the misconceptions in the minds of the citizens about vaccination and motivate them for vaccination,” Thackeray said. The chief minister said that emphasis would be laid on large-scale testing and tracing with treatment and vaccination and the necessary facilities would be provided to the districts in this regard. "The symptoms of this virus are also changing. It is very important to remove the misconceptions in the minds of the citizens about vaccination and motivate them. In some cases, curbs will also have to be tightened," Dr Oak pointed out in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/don-t-hasten-unlock-uddhav-thackeray-amid-third-covid-19-wave-fears-1001071.html
24-06-2021||West||Fearing loss of autonomy, minority schools in Gujarat approach HC against new act; notice issued||The Gujarat High Court on Thursday issued a notice to the state government on a clutch of petitions moved by an association of minority schools, challenging a recently amended act, which has done away with a clause that allowed such schools "freedom to administer and recruit teachers" on their own without the government's interference. The petitioner schools have contended that this new act will do away with their autonomy and they will have to eventually appoint teachers or headmasters selected by the government. Similar petitions have been filed previously by other similar schools in which the high court on Monday issued notice to the government. The division bench of chief justice Vikram Nath and justice Biren Vaishnav issued the notice to the state returnable on July 20. The government-aided minority schools, created based on religion and language, have challenged the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (Amendment) Act, 2021, which came into effect from June 1. They have contended that section 40A of the act, which has replaced section 40A of the Gujarat Secondary and High Secondary Education Act, 1972, the principal act, has taken away the right of such schools to administer itself without government interference. The previous act (section-40A), exempted such schools from certain regulatory provisions. It means that section 17, 34 (2) and 35 of the principal act will be applicable for minority institutions as well. These acts deal with qualifications, methods of selection, condition of appointment, condition of promotion and termination of employees, among others, as laid down by the government. "It is clear that the selection and appointment of teachers for an educational institution is one of the essential ingredients of the right to manage an educational institution and the minorities can plainly be not denied such right of selection and appointments without infringing Article 30(1) that fundamental right of the minority institutions to manage and administer their educational institutions," the petitioner schools have stated. "The main grievance of the petitioners herein is with regard to application of the provisions of section 35 of the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Act, 1972 as being violative of their right to appoint teaching staff (teachers/lecturers and Headmaster/Principals) as also non-teaching staff under Article 30(1) of the Constitution of India," the petition states. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fearing-loss-of-autonomy-minority-schools-in-gujarat-approach-hc-against-new-act-notice-issued-1001128.html
