25-06-2021||First Edit||Covid deaths: Govt must pay ex gratia||There is a right and just case for paying ex gratia compensation to the families of those who died of Covid-19 in the country. The case is buttressed by law also because the Disaster Management Act (DMA), 2005, provides for such compensation. Covid-19 was notified as a disaster under the DMA in March 2020. The ex gratia in such cases is Rs 4 lakh, as per a 2015 notification. A PIL filed in the Supreme Court has demanded payment of Rs 4 lakh to the kin of every victim, as in the case of cyclones, floods, earthquakes, etc. The central government has opposed the demand on various grounds, including the assertion that it cannot afford to make payment of such a large compensation. According to official figures, about four lakh deaths have taken place due to Covid-19 till now. The figures may change, and more fatalities are likely to occur in the coming weeks and months. But it is not right to claim that there are no resources when the government is spending huge money on projects like the Central Vista redevelopment. The argument that cyclones or earthquakes are one-time events, but the pandemic is a continuing event also does not bear scrutiny. It is a one-time event for the victim and the family. The fact that it is a global disaster does not lessen its severity for the victims and their kin. Most people have spent large financial resources for treatment and many families have been pauperised. It is the responsibility of the State to provide adequate health facilities and ensure treatment for these who need it. It is known that many people did not get adequate treatment. The government has the moral responsibility to pay compensation to the kin of the victims in such a situation, and it should not advance excuses for not doing so. The government has also said that limiting relief to monetary payoffs was a “narrow and pedantic approach” and there was no precedent of giving ex gratia compensation for a disease or disaster spread out over a period. It has said that granting compensation in the case of one disease while denying it in the case of other diseases would be wrong and discriminatory. Instead of one-time compensation it wants to deploy funds in healthcare, enhance social protection and support economic recovery of affected communities. While decisions and actions with long-term impact are good and necessary, people need support and sustenance in the short term. One is no substitute for the other. The petitioner's submission that some help needs to be given to families who lost their breadwinners or families of frontline warriors who lost their lives is just and legitimate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/covid-deaths-govt-must-pay-ex-gratia-1001172.html
25-06-2021||In Perspective||Rashtra Manch and Opposition: Need to chew the cud||The excitement generated by a meeting of the Rashtra Manch, a political action group of anti-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) opposition parties, has ignited speculation over the need for a ‘credible alternative’ to the BJP in the 2024 general elections. The fact that the meeting took place at the residence of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar was seen by some as a propitious sign. The participants, however, were keen to play down the event. The NCP clarified that the gathering of representatives of eight political parties was “not a political meet”. It also clarified that the meeting was not initiated by Pawar but by another veteran politician and now a Trinamool Congress leader, Yashwant Sinha. Despite such soft-pedalling and the notable absence of the Congress, it is worth thinking of the challenges the Rashtra Manch would face in seeding an anti-BJP alliance. The presence of a spectrum of public intellectuals at the meeting notwithstanding, much brickwork will have to be done to forge a viable political front. Uttar Pradesh poses an immediate challenge, with Assembly elections due there in just seven months. There is no sign yet how the Rashtra Manch can become a player in India’s most politically weighty state. The main contender, the Samajwadi Party (SP), has been dormant and needs to re-establish its credentials as an alternative to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath despite his misgovernance. An SP alliance with the Congress seems a non-starter, especially after such seat-sharing in Bihar cost the Rashtriya Janata Dal an electoral victory. The Bahujan Samaj Party, the other major party in UP, is an unreliable ally as it is not above flirting with the BJP. Unlike in West Bengal, the advantages of encouraging a Muslim consolidation against the BJP in UP are limited. The relative number of Assembly seats where the Muslim voter can swing the results is fewer. Nor can the UP parties build a campaign like Mamata Banerjee did, projecting the BJP and its leaders as cultural outsiders who threaten the local language and traditions. Caste-based polarisation has been the mainstay of the Opposition in the Hindi belt, but this has been countered before by the BJP’s Hindutva campaign uniting voters across caste lines. Therefore, the Opposition game plan for UP will have to think beyond anti-incumbency and beyond the “tried and tested” strategies for mass-mobilisation. Perhaps the economy will be the biggest issue in 2024. The negative growth rate of 7.3% in 2020-21 was bad enough. Now, the Reserve Bank of India and international financial institutions suggest that India’s recovery will be prolonged. They have steadily revised the projected growth rate downward for 2021-22— first from 10.5% to 9.5% and then to 8.5%. Unemployment figures present an even more alarming picture. According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), the unemployment rate increased from 11.9% in May 2021 to 13% by June 13. The labour participation rate (i.e., the number of people working as a percentage of the working-age population), which had fallen to 40%, fell further to 39.7%. These figures, taken together, imply a fall both in employment rate and in absolute employment. Informal jobs may recover with the lifting of localised lockdowns, but CMIE points out that the steady downward trend in employment is not related to lockdowns alone. Neither any opposition party nor the Rashtra Manch has shown any roadmap to deal with the economy, generate employment or strengthen the social security net for unorganised sector workers. The absence of a charismatic leader capable of taking on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and someone who would be unfazed by the BJP’s provocations also remains a problem for the Opposition. Perhaps the Rashtra Manch needs to rethink its strategy and not look for a single rallying figure to lead the Opposition nationally. As of now, the strongest challenge to the BJP in every state is provided by a party that is often just locally dominant, including Congress-led governments. Perhaps Rashtra Manch should work out a federal leadership structure with a small national coordination office to get all anti-BJP forces on board. However, the Opposition to the BJP will have to develop a shared political programme and think beyond mere aggregation of the anti-BJP vote. The various strands of an alternative programme will have to be developed much ahead of the general elections. No opposition party seems to be applying itself to this task. By contrast, straws in UP’s wind suggest that the BJP is clearly opting for its mission of Hinduising the voters -- the economy and unemployment be damned. The Rashtra Manch can encourage the opposition parties to formulate and agitate on an alternative agenda of governance, initiating joint-action programmes over the next three years. Beginning from Uttar Pradesh, joint Opposition rallies and mass protests can be a precursor to Opposition unity. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/rashtra-manch-and-opposition-need-to-chew-the-cud-1001180.html
25-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Lone tusker creates fear in Karadigodu||Wild elephant menace is on rise in Siddapura. Agriculturists in the region have alleged that a tusker, which is camping in Karadigodu village, has been destroying crops. It has been crushing coffee, plantain and mango saplings in the plantations, causing huge losses. During nights, the elephant has been coming near the houses, creating fear among people. There have been instances where the tusker has charged towards people. The tusker has pulled down three coconut trees, about 50 feet tall, in a plantation belonging to Kusumavati of Karadigodu. The villagers have urged the forest department to capture the lone tusker and translocate it. An elephant herd is creating chaos in Kakkattukadu area of Guhya village. The elephants are destroying plantation crops. People are fearing to move about in the village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lone-tusker-creates-fear-in-karadigodu-1001187.html
25-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||27 black fungus cases in Dakshina Kannada hospitals||As many as 27 people with black fungus are reportedly being treated at different hospitals in Dakshina Kannada district. Of the 27 patients, 21 are being treated in District Wenlock hospital and others in private hospitals. Of the active cases, eight are from DK and 19 from other districts. As many as 35 patients, who had recovered, were discharged on Thursday. Twenty nine among them are from other districts. So far, 18 black fungus fatalities have been reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/27-black-fungus-cases-in-dakshina-kannada-hospitals-1001217.html
25-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Chamul expands market to other states||The district milk federation has planned to expand the market of Chamul (Chamarajanagar Milk Union Limited) products. The milk produced here will not only be marketed in neighbouring states, but also sent to eastern states, the Indian Army and Bhutan. Chamul Managing Director M Rajashekaramurthy said the Nandini Goodlife milk was being transported to Bhutan pre-Covid outbreak. The supply will resume again, he said. Around 4.5 to 5 lakh litres of Goodlife milk is being supplied to the Indian Army in Assam Rifles every month and 1.5 lakh litres is being exported to Bhutan. Around 60,000 litres of milk is being supplied to Meghalaya, Mizoram, West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and other places. Recently around 1,000 litres of Nandini milk was supplied to Ooty in Tamil Nadu, he said. The district produces 2.75 lakh litres of milk every day, including 1.2 lakh Goodlife milk sachets. Around 40,000 litres is supplied to Mother Dairy and 33,000 litres sold locally. Besides, curd, buttermilk, ghee, butter and other milk products are also produced, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chamul-expands-market-to-other-states-1001389.html
25-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru now under Category II of Unlock||The state government on Friday brought Mysuru district under Category II of the Unlock 2.0 process giving respite to the district that was kept locked down due to Covid-19.  In the Category II districts, the Covid-19 positivity rate is 5-10% and only essential shops are allowed to operate from 6 am to 2 pm and there is no permission for dine-in services at hotels among other restrictions. Also, the government has included Chamarajanagar, Davangere and Chikkamagaluru districts under Category I of Unlock 2.0. In this category, all shops will be open from 6 am to 5 pm. Also, buses and the Metro (in Bengaluru) will operate with 50% capacity. Hotels, clubs, restaurants, lodges, resorts and gyms have been conditionally allowed to operate their businesses. The fresh inclusion is based on the “weekly moving average positivity rate” and “also taking into account the consistent declining trend of the case positivity rate,” according to an order issued by Principal Secretary (Revenue) N Manjunatha Prasad.  As many as 26 districts are now under Category I.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-now-under-category-ii-of-unlock-1001549.html
25-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Heavy vehicles movement on Agumbe ghat road suspended till October||The Shivamogga district administration has issued an order banning the movement of vehicles weighing above 12 tonnes on Agumbe ghat road that links Shivamogga with Udupi district till October 15. In his order, Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar said, Agumbe Ghat Road is very narrow, and land sliding incidents might take place as Thirthahalli and Udupi have been receiving heavy rains for the past one week and it is likely to continue. As a precautionary measure, heavy vehicles have been banned. The vehicles can instead ply on alternate routes: Shivamogga-Thirthahalli-Agumbe-Sringeri-Kere Katte, Karkala-Udupi-Mangaluru or Mastikatte-Hulikal-Hosangadi, and Siddapura-Udupi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/heavy-vehicles-movement-on-agumbe-ghat-road-suspended-till-october-1001584.html
25-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yogeshwar's remarks keep leadership speculation alive||Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar kept alive speculation surrounding Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s replacement by cryptically saying on Friday that he was awaiting the result of an exam he had written. “The result will be out shortly,” he said. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai dismissed the remark saying that there aren’t any “exams” being held during Covid-19. Yogeeshwar, who has been critical of Yediyurappa’s leadership, said that he had raised some issues between four walls with national leaders of the party. “I have raised some issues (with national leaders) in the interest of party and organisation, and based on what aspirations I have as minister. Since revealing it in front of media was not right, I raised the issue within four walls in front of Delhi leaders,” he said, maintaining that his problems were not personal and will be addressed by party leadership. “Our fundamental issue is different which we cannot share (with the media)... I have written an exam. Let us wait for the result,” Yogeshwar said, in reference to his meeting with BJP national general secretary and Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh last week. The minister said that he was not happy with the budgetary allocation for Tourism department. “Even the previous Tourism minister C T Ravi was unhappy,” he said, adding that Tourism generated employment and should not be a “neglected department.” To a question on former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi threatening to resign from BJP, Yogeshwar said that Ramesh was unlikely to resign. “If he has any grouses, we will address them in the future,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yogeshwars-remarks-keep-leadership-speculation-alive-1001544.html
25-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||M P Kumaraswamy miffed over non-availability of ministers||BJP legislator M P Kumaraswamy said on Friday that he would lodge a complaint with BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel over the non-availability of some ministers to respond to grievances of the MLAs and general public. “While Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is available to meet legislators twice a week at Vidhana Soudha, meeting some ministers has become a difficult task,” he told reporters. According to Kumaraswamy, about 70% of ministers were not addressing the grievances. “Some ministers visit Vidhana Soudha only for Cabinet meetings, and are not accessible anytime else,” he said. Noting that some were available at their homes, he asked whether it was possible for ordinary party workers to meet them there. The Mudigere MLA’s complaint came a week after BJP national general secretary and Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh directed all ministers in the state Cabinet to meet MLAs, party workers and ordinary people - with or without appointment - at their offices every Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/m-p-kumaraswamy-miffed-over-non-availability-of-ministers-1001552.html
25-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Will quit as MLA, but stay in BJP: Ramesh Jarkiholi||Gokak MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi has said that he had determined to tender resignation as legislator. "I certainly will resign as MLA and there is no doubt about it. But, it does not mean that I will quit today itself. I will come out with my decision in 7-8 days. I have refrained myself for the time being on the advice of some seniors and well-wishers," he said on Friday. Ramesh was speaking to reporters at Sambra airport after returning from his visit to Suttur Mutt in Mysuru. The former minister clarified that he visited Mumbai recently for "political reasons." Ramesh said that the party (BJP), Sangh Parivar and the central leaders in Delhi were very cordial with him. "But some people have stabbed me from the back. I will disclose the details in the days to come." He added that B S Yediyurappa would continue as the chief minister and the party would face the next Assembly election under his leadership.  Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, Ramesh said that he would stay in BJP even after tendering resignation as MLA and that there was no question of he returning to Congress. "I got the trust and affection in BJP, which I did not get during my 20 years in Congress. BJP is a disciplined party and I am committed to the decision taken by the chief ,inister and the party high command. My political life will end in BJP," he clarified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-quit-as-mla-but-stay-in-bjp-ramesh-jarkiholi-1001553.html
25-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP observes 'Black Day' against Emergency||The state BJP on Friday observed 'Black Day' to mark the anniversary of the nationwide Emergency declared by the then prime minister Indira Gandhi in 1975. Events were held at Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's residence and other parts of the state. Those imprisoned during emergency were also felicitated. "Congress should admit its mistake (for imposing Emergency) and apologise to the people of the country," Yediyurappa said. The CM recalled that he was arrested during the Emergency and leaders like Atal Bihari Vajpayee, L K Advani, George Fernandes and H D Deve Gowda were imprisoned at the Bengaluru central penitentiary. "There was also a ploy to finish us off in jail," Yediyurappa said, adding that people gave a proper response to Congress by rejecting them in the Lok Sabha polls that came thereafter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-observes-black-day-against-emergency-1001557.html
25-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Call special Assembly session: H D Kumaraswamy||JD(S) legislature party leader H D Kumaraswamy on Friday wrote to Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri and Governor Vajubhai R Vala urging them to convene a special session of the legislature. Kumaraswamy said the session should discuss the Covid-19 situation, allegations of corruption and kickbacks in irrigation projects and the neglect of Kannada in banking and other sectors. Responding to this, Law & Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai said a decision on convening the session will be taken after a discussion with the chief minister. “We need to be mindful of the pandemic, especially now that the new Delta Plus variant has been found,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/call-special-assembly-session-h-d-kumaraswamy-1001558.html
25-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||IMA case: Roshan Baig's properties will be attached, govt tells Karnataka HC||The state government has informed the High Court that it is in the process of identifying the properties of former minister Roshan Baig for attachment in connection with the I Monetary Advisory (IMA) scam case. The government stated that prima facie it has found that Baig has played a key role in promotion of the IMA group, its business activities and has also obtained financial gains. In the affidavit filed before a division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, Principal Secretary to Revenue department R Manjunath Prasad has stated that a notification to attach the movable and immovable properties of Baig will be issued under the Karnataka Protection of Interest of Investors in Financial Establishments (KPID) 2004. The affidavit stated that a communication had been sent to the competent authority under the KPID Act in the IMA case on May 4, 2021 and a reminder on June 14, 2021 for sending a report after identifying the assets. “Further, the Commissioner of BBMP as well as Deputy Commissioner, Bengaluru Urban and Deputy Commissioner, Bengaluru Rural district have also been intimated to identify the properties belonging to ex-MLA R Roshan Baig and send the report back to government immediately,” the affidavit said. It could be recalled that the court had directed the state government to reconsider its stand on attachment of properties of Roshan Baig. This direction was passed after the government maintained that its officers were not well acquainted in such matters, especially when assets concern people not linked to the administration of the company. The court had directed the state government to act in accordance with section 3 of the Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments (KPID) Act for attachment of properties of directors and also assets procured out of the money of the depositors. The state government has now said that a notification for attachment of properties as per Section 3 of the KPID Act will be issued as soon as it gets details of the properties. The bench posted the matter to July 7 for further consideration. The court said it will also take up the issue of Rs 12.82 crore donation made by IMA group to V K Obaidulah Government School in Shivajinagar. The court had directed the state government to take a decision on reimbursement of this amount to the competent authority. In response, the Department of Primary and Secondary Education has informed that the amount received as donation/gift cannot be paid back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ima-case-roshan-baigs-properties-will-be-attached-govt-tells-karnataka-hc-1001559.html
25-06-2021||Main Article||Tiffing with Twitter||The power of social media is such that despite the threat of propaganda and fake news, it does not only lend voice to the oppressed and the marginalised but more importantly, it can act as a bulwark against authoritarian governments masquerading as paragons of democratic values. Its capacity to become a vehicle of protest and whistleblowing, where a person can speak his or her mind, bitch against a government and vent his or her spleen on its policies makes it so popular and therapeutic. Besides the judiciary, it has become a kind of a life support system for a citizen at a time when the government tends to abuse legal guarantees of liberal freedoms (freedoms of speech, assembly, association, the press, movement, ownership, belief and thought, opinion and expression) and resorts to violence by coercive State apparatus. As the regular media, often dependent on government patronage, can hardly be trusted to protect such freedoms, social media has its mission cut out for it, its nuisance value notwithstanding. Twitter is the new pulpit for the high and the mighty. Its enormous power and influence over public opinion all around the world was showcased when Barbadian pop star Rihanna used this platform to express solidarity with India’s protesting farmers last year, drawing a global outpouring of support that sent our government into a tizzy. The social media traction against Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s farm policies, with support from climate change activist Greta Thunberg, US lawyer and activist Meena Harris, and lawmakers in the UK and the US, backing the protesting farmers in posts on social media, unnerved the government so much that it had to mobilise a counter-narrative blitzkrieg with hashtags such as #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda. “We respect social media a lot. It has empowered common people. Social media has a big role in the Digital India programme. However, if social media is misused to spread fake news, violence, then action will be taken,” said Ravi Shankar Prasad, the minister for information technology, in the course of mounting tension between Twitter and the government, peeved over the company’s refusal to fully comply with orders to remove certain accounts that were critical of the government’s handling of the ongoing farmers’ protests. In principle, the government cannot be faulted. But what happens on the ground is completely antithetical to what the government preaches. “Democracy and freedom were a part of India’s civilisational ethos”, Modi piously averred at the virtual G-7 summit, which, after a fashion, is as much true, as his saying that “cyberspace remains an avenue for advancing democratic values and not of subverting it.” Our Prime Minister has an amazing capacity to make the right noises at the right fora, and none can dispute them at their face value. He said that he “shared the concern” expressed by several leaders that “open societies are particularly vulnerable to disinformation and cyber-attacks.” But it is the government’s record of clamping down on public freedom far too frequently that makes its speech and intentions suspect. The battle between the government and Twitter has become a battle of wits and, one suspects, egos. One wishes the battle had been as righteous as it is claimed to be. Twitter’s recent run-in with the government after the ‘blue tick’ verification badge was removed from the personal account of Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and of several senior RSS functionaries, including its chief Mohan Bhagwat, and after it described what the BJP had called a “Congress toolkit” to be “manipulated media” demonstrates the kind of democratic spunk that the ruling dispensation is unaccustomed to, which possibly made it go white with rage. Twitter showed rare courage when it permanently banned Donald Trump’s Twitter account some months ago when it decided that the tweets of the then President of the United States were inciting violence leading to the storming of the US Capitol. That it would not allow any transgression, even if it was by a person holding as high an office as the American presidency, gave hope, particularly in India where even a municipal commissioner or a judicial magistrate is seen to exercise unconscionable authority over people deemed subordinate to him or her. An Indian company having the gumption to take such a stand against any of the country’s smug, powerful officials is difficult to imagine. The instance of how money power and increasing influence over social media can be manipulated by a ruling party is evident from the way the aggressive #IndiaSupportsCAA campaign was mobilised in 2019. Thus, when it comes to making a choice between the oligopoly of Big Tech and the anti-democratic predilections of a government, it becomes a dilemma. Recently, cartoonist Manjul’s Twitter account fell foul of the authorities, presumably because he’s perceived to be critical of Modi and his government. Delhi police dragged Disha Ravi over the toolkit controversy, the heavy-handedness of which looked like an inquisition. The Amethi Police registered a criminal case against a young man in UP in April who took to Twitter to make an appeal for an oxygen cylinder. The litany of charges pressed against him included circulating a rumour “with intent to cause…fear or alarm… whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the State or against the public tranquillity!” “India has a glorious tradition of free speech and democratic practices dating back centuries. Protecting free speech in India is not the prerogative of only a private, for-profit, foreign entity like Twitter,” said a recent government statement. The unsavoury truth is that behind the veneer of good intention and the real threat of social media being overrun by hostile propagandists and armchair revolutionaries, the recent shenanigans against Twitter smack of an overwhelming urge for censorship.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/tiffing-with-twitter-1001181.html
25-06-2021||National||DH Toon | Amarinder spells out plan to fulfil poll promises||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday outlined the action plan to fulfil key poll promises related to law and order during his meeting with the Mallikarjun Kharge-led panel to end factionalism in the state Congress, ahead of the assembly polls early next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-amarinder-spells-out-plan-to-fulfil-poll-promises-1001173.html
25-06-2021||National||India sees 51,667 new Covid cases, 1,329 fatalities||India on Friday reported 51,667 new Covid-19 cases, 64,527 recoveries and 1,329 deaths in the last 24 hours, data from the Union Health Ministry showed. Active cases stood at 6,12,868 and the death toll increased to 3,93,310. Friday's cases bring India's total Covid-19 infections, since the start ofthe pandemic, to 3,01,34,445.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-51667-new-covid-cases-1329-fatalities-1001266.html
25-06-2021||National||Here's how you can link your passport number with your vaccination certificate||The Co-WIN portal is now allowing users to link passport numbers to vaccination certificates in a bid to ease travel. Aarogya Setu app's official handle on Twitter Thursday uploaded screenshots of the new feature along with instructions on how to carry out the task. In case name on certificate does not match name on passport, you can request for name correction as well Entering passport number and requesting name change can only be done once, so please ensure there are no mistakes in entering the details The feature comes at a time when the government has changed its vaccination policy to also prioritise Indian residents who study or work abroad and Tokyo-bound Olympic athletes. Here's how you can link your passport number to your vaccine certificate: Step 1: Log on to cowin.gov.in  Step 2: On the right-hand side, next to your registered mobile number, lies a dropdown menu titled "Raise an Issue"  Step 3: After selecting "Raise an Issue," choose the "Add Passport Details" option  Step 4: Upon completing step 4, you will be sent to a new page. Over there, click on "select member" and choose the member whose passport number you'd like to add and enter the number below. In the event that the name on the vaccine certificate does not match that on the passport, repeat steps 1 and 2, and instead of choosing the "Raise an Issue" option, select the "Certificate Correction" option. This will lead you to another page, where you will have to choose the member whose details you'd like to correct along with the information you want to correct. In this case, tick the name box, enter the correct name below and press continue. The name can only be changed once so ensure there are no mistakes while entering it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heres-how-you-can-link-your-passport-number-with-your-vaccination-certificate-1001279.html
25-06-2021||National||Filmmaker Aisha Sultana gets anticipatory bail in sedition case||Lakshadweep native actor Aisha Sultana was allowed to leave the island by the Kavaratti police after three days of quizzing in connection with the sedition case. Though she was not arrested and allowed to leave, she was told by the police that she might be summoned again after verifying her statements, said sources. She was quizzed earlier on Sunday and Wednesday. The Kavaratti police registered the case on the basis of a petition give by BJP Lakshadweep president Abdulkhader Haji citing a remark of Sultana in a TV channel discussion that Covid surge in Lakshadweep due to decisions of administrator Praful Khoda Patel was a 'bio weapon' of the BJP. The court said in the event of her arrest, she shall be released on bail on execution of bond for Rs 50,000 with two solvent sureties each for like amount to the satisfaction of the officer arresting her. Following the registration of the FIR in Lakshadweep, Sultana had approached the Kerala High Court seeking anticipatory bail. Last week, the high court had granted her interim anticipatory bail for a week, while reserving orders on her anticipatory bail application. The court had directed her to comply with the notice given by Kavaratti police to appear before them for interrogation on June 20 in connection with the case. The court had ordered that she be granted interim anticipatory bail if she is arrested. The allegation is that the filmmaker, while participating in a debate telecast by a Malayalam news channel on June 7, had said the Centre used biological weapons against the people of Lakshadweep. When the anticipatory bail plea came up, her counsel had submitted that Sultana had clarified her remarks later and tendered an apology for making the statement. Sultana submitted that she never realised that usage of the word bio-weapon is an offence and the remark was made not intending to create hatred in the minds of the people. She said she was ready to appear before police for questioning but sought protection from arrest. Opposing her anticipatory bail plea, Lakshadweep administration had said Sultana promoted separatism and communalism even in the minds of school children by making such a statement. Sultana was interrogated by the Kavaratti police on Sunday, Wednesday and Thursday in connection with the case. Emerging from the police station at Kavaratti, after nearly a three-hour long interrogation on Thursday, Sultana had claimed, "Everything is over.I am told that I can go back to Kochi.I will reach Kochi tomorrow or a day after." (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/filmmaker-aisha-sultana-gets-anticipatory-bail-in-sedition-case-1001285.html
25-06-2021||National||Expert panel formed to tackle possible third Covid wave affecting children||With the likelihood of a possible third wave of Covid-19, the Directorate of Indian Medicine and Homoeopathy here has formed an expert committee to guide the government in handling the crisis. The five-member committee consists of Siddha experts who have a track record of treating infectious diseases, especially among children. According to a source in the directorate, the panel comprises Dr P Sathiyarajeswaran, Director in-charge of Siddha Central Research Institute (SCRI), Chennai, Dr Meenakshi Sundaram, Professor, National Institute of Siddha (NIS), Tambaram, Dr. J Sriram, lecturer Grade II, Government Siddha Medical College, here, Dr S Joseph Maria Adaikalam, Assistant Professor, Department of Epidemiology, The Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University and Dr Parthiban, Autism specialist from Swabhimaan Trust, here. The committee was formed at a meeting convened on June 21 by the Directorate here to review the preparedness for the third wave of the contagion. The panel comprises mostly of Siddha Kuzhanthai Maruthuvam paediatricians - to suggest the essential Siddha drugs, treatment guidelines for combating covid in children and also to propose training module on Siddha Kuzhanthai maruthuvam to other practitioners of the medicine system. According to Dr Sathiyarajeswaran, the committee has already submitted base data and come up with guidelines to treat the infected. "The screening which is being followed now, especially the RT-PCR tests would continue. The emphasis will be on effectively using the therapeutic drugs and following a herbal diet regimen," he told PTI. "Unlike the first wave which has reported very less number of children about 70,000 testing positive for the infection, the point to ponder is majority of children were under mild infection and very rarely multi-systemic infection occurs in the second wave," says the document on guidelines. It lists diarrhea, vomitting, fever, cough, eye infection, vasculitis, along with fever and cough for children among the symptoms. "Children may be asymptomatic and remain super spreaders. No studies have supported infection spreading via lactation and hence a feeding mother can proceed with feeding, but always wear a mask and give the baby to be looked after by others after feeding," the document further states. The guidelines on intervention for asymptomatic children (1 to 12 years) includes administering Kabasura Kudineer (a herbal concoction) 5 ml to 30 ml as per the advice of the physician for 14 days, Urai Mathirai/syrup one to two tablets daily as advised by the physician. Medicines for symptomatic approach in children include those for skin rashes, feeling unusually tired, fast heartbeat, rapid breathing, red eyes/redness or swelling of the lips and tongue, redness or swelling of the hands or feet. The dietary advice includes: Ensuring adequate hydration and other medication like taking milk with turmeric and pepper, Karisalai Malt, Moringa powder and banana powder among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expert-panel-formed-to-tackle-possible-third-covid-wave-affecting-children-1001287.html
25-06-2021||National||India's first Indigenous Aircraft Carrier will be commissioned next year, says Rajnath Singh||India's first Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC) will be commissioned next year, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said here on Friday. In a statement to the media after reviewing the progress made in the construction of the IAC, Singh described it as India's pride and a shining example of Atmanirbhar Bharat. "Commissioning of this IAC next year would be a befitting tribute to India's 75th year of India's independence", he said. Singh visitedthe IAC being built at Cochin Shipyard Limited here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-first-indigenous-aircraft-carrier-will-be-commissioned-next-year-says-rajnath-singh-1001290.html
25-06-2021||National||BJP, AAP face off over Delhi's 'inflated' oxygen demands||A report of the Supreme Court-appointed panel claiming the Delhi government inflated medical oxygen demand at the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic triggered a war of words between the BJP and AAP. Flashing the report of the Supreme Court-appointed oxygen audit committee, BJP spokesman Sambit Patra claimed that Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s “politics of shifting the blame from his incompetence” stood exposed, a charge rejected by the AAP. “You were proving incompetent and a failure. You had to shift blame and for that, you raised a false alarm and spread panic across the country,” Patra said. “No such report exists. We have spoken to several members of the Committee. They told us that they have not signed or approved any such report,” Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia told a virtual press conference. Patra rejected Sisodia’s charge and shared relevant portions of the affidavit filed in the Supreme Court by the Health Ministry placing the reports on record. “Respected Sisodia ji, please read Para 7 of the below-displayed affidavit which mentions the submission of the “Sub-Committee on Oxygen Audit” Report to the Honourable SC. Manish ji by denying the truth you can’t escape responsibility,” Patra said. Sisodia claimed that the report that Patra was referring to was drafted in the BJP office and submitted to the Supreme Court. “Show me the signed report of the members of the SC appointed Oxygen Audit Committee,” he said. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal made an emotional plea saying his only crime was that he fought to ensure that his two crore people get to breathe. “When you were busy with election rallies, I was awake all night, arranging supplies of oxygen. I fought, I pleaded to get oxygen for the people. People have lost their near and dear ones due to lack of oxygen. Don’t call them liars, they are feeling bad about it,” Kejriwal said. मेरा गुनाह-मैं अपने 2 करोड़ लोगों की साँसों के लिए लड़ा जब आप चुनावी रैली कर रहे थे, मैं रात भर जग कर Oxygen का इंतज़ाम कर रहा था। लोगों को ऑक्सिजन दिलाने के लिए मैं लड़ा, गिड़गिड़ाया लोगों ने ऑक्सिजन की कमी से अपनों को खोया है। उन्हें झूठा मत कहिए, उन्हें बहुत बुरा लग रहा है The committee set up by the Supreme Court said in its interim report that the Delhi government's claim of 1,140 metric tonnes requirement of medical oxygen was four times the calculated consumption as per the formula based on bed capacity, which was 289 MT. Patra said many lives were lost in Delhi due to lack of oxygen and expressed hope that Kejriwal will be held accountable and punished by the Supreme Court. “SC oxygen audit team finds Delhi Govt inflated oxygen need by four times during peak & affected supply to 12 high caseload states. Hope accountability is fixed for disrupting oxygen supply across India,” Union Minister Piyush Goyal said. Patra said many lives could have been saved if the Delhi government had not inflated its needs, and states like Uttar Pradesh and Haryana had to suffer. “You were proving incompetent and a failure. You had to shift blame and for that you pressed a false alarm and spread panic across the country,” Patra said. अरविंद केजरीवाल के इस झूठ के कारण 12 ऐसे राज्य थे जो ऑक्सीजन सप्लाई को लेकर अफेक्टेड हुए। क्योंकि सभी जगह से ऑक्सीजन की मात्रा काट कर दिल्ली भेजना पड़ा था। Cricketer-turned-politician Gautam Gambhir tweeted, "If you have any shame left @ArvindKejriwal , hold one of your PCs now & apologise to the nation for inflating oxygen need BY FOUR TIMES during second wave!"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-aap-face-off-over-delhis-inflated-oxygen-demands-1001300.html
25-06-2021||National||Covaxin may not get full licence soon: Report||Earlier this week, the company had submitted the data of Covaxin’s Phase 3 trial, which was conducted on 25,800 volunteers, to the subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). According to the report, 77.8 per cent efficacy was observed in the trials. “The proposal seeking full licensure for Covaxin was looked into and we have sought more details. Till then, Covaxin will continue to be available to the public under the earlier emergency authorisation,” said an official told the publication. “India’s National COVID Vaccination Programme is built on scientific and epidemiological evidence, WHO guidelines and global best practices. Anchored in systematic end-to-end planning, it is implemented through effective and efficient participation of States and Union Territories and the people at large,” said the Ministry told on Thursday, adding that vaccine supply is not affected by the state’s vaccine wastage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covaxin-may-not-get-full-licence-soon-report-1001301.html
25-06-2021||National||Health Ministry’s eSanjeevani app to provide free medical consultation to rural masses via CSC||Common Services Centre's (CSCs) and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare have joined hands to bring OPD consultations to citizens in rural and remote areas of the country through a network of over 3.74 lakh CSCs. The web-based application,‘eSanjeevani', developed by the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), provides free video-based tele-consultation in the local language by doctors empanelled in each state. Once the patient visits the CSC, the Village Level Entrepreneur (VLE) will register the patient and fill in the details on the OPD app. The VLE will then receive 16-digit Patient ID and a token. Once the SMS is received, the VLE will log in with the patient ID. When the 'Call Now' button is activated, the VLE can initiate the video call and help the citizen get consultation. Following the consultation, the VLE can download the e-prescription sent by the doctor. Elaborating on the Application, Dr Sanjay Sood, Group Director, C-DAC Mohali said, “More than 60 lakh consultations have so far been done through eSanjeevani. Almost all state hospitals and Army hospital doctors are available on the platform to provide tele consultation. eSanjeevani has facilitated quick digital transformation and widespread uptake of telemedicine across the country because of a unique bouquet of benefits that it offers: Free services; Simple processes and workflows for users (patients and doctors); India’s premier institutions like AIIMS, State Health Departments are amongst the services providers.” Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said, “The Government came up with telemedicine guidelines during the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic for providing access to primary healthcare for citizens in rural and remote areas. The guidelines helped us develop and release the eSanjeevani OPD Application." “CSCs have stepped in to assist citizens during the Covid-19 pandemic, be it through access to telemedicine consultations, banking services and education. eSanjeevani OPD with its customised platform and a panel of state-level doctors on call will solve the problem of shortage of doctors in rural areas and enhance our efforts to reach out to rural citizens with quality healthcare," Dinesh Tyagi, MD, CSC Special Purpose Vehicle, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-s-esanjeevani-app-to-provide-free-medical-consultation-to-rural-masses-via-csc-1001316.html
25-06-2021||National||Narada case: Supreme Court asks West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, minister to approach Calcutta High Court afresh||The Supreme Court on Friday asked West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Law Minister Moloy Ghatak to approach the Calcutta High Court afresh with their plea to file an affidavit in the Narada scam. A bench, presided over by Vineet Saran, asked the High Court to decide their plea related to the filing of affidavits with regard to their alleged role on the day of the arrest of four TMC leaders by the CBI on May 17 in the sting tape case. The top court said since the High Court was going to hear the matter on June 29, the parties, including the West Bengal government, may approach them. It requested the High Court to first decide the applications filed by the West Bengal government, Banerjee and Ghatak, before proceeding further. The bench, also comprising Justice Dinesh Maheshwari, stayed the June 9 order by the High Court which declined to take into record affidavit by Banerjee and Ghatak after hearing their counsel senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi and senior advocate Vikas Singh for West Bengal. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta suggested the top court asked the petitioners to approach the High Court afresh as the matter was being heard there. Both the leaders were accused of stopping the CBI from performing its legal duty after the arrest of four TMC leaders. Earlier, two Supreme Court judges Justice Indira Banerjee and Aniruddha Bose, both hailing from West Bengal, had recused to hear the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narada-case-supreme-court-asks-west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-minister-to-approach-calcutta-high-court-afresh-1001327.html
25-06-2021||National||Maharashtra reports first death from Delta Plus variant||The Delta Plus Covid-19 variant claimed its first victim in Maharashtra on Friday — an 80-year-old with co-morbidities. "Out of the 21 Delta Plus variant patients in Maharashtra, an 80-year-old with co-morbidities passed away," Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope told news agency ANI. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-reports-first-death-from-delta-plus-variant-1001336.html
25-06-2021||National||Film based on SSR: Delhi HC issues notice on appeal by actor's father||The Delhi High Court on Friday issued notice on an appeal filed by late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput's father challenging a single judge's order refusing to stay the release of movie 'Nyay: The Justice', or to restrain anyone from using his son's name or likeness in movies. A vacation bench of Justices Anup Jairam Bhambhani and Jasmeet Singh sought response from the movie's director Dilip Gulati and producers Sarla Saraogi and Rahul Sharma and others. The high court, however, refused to pass any interim order on the appeal by Krishna Krishore Singh. The bench noted the submission of senior advocate Chander Lal that the film has been released on website and a mobile app on June 11 as scheduled. Senior advocate Harish Salve, representing Rajput's father, argued that the producer and the director of the film have commercially exploited life story of the actor who allegedly committed suicide at his Mumbai home last year. Salve argued that the single judge has misdirected, misapplied and misinterpreted law laid down by the Supreme Court in Puttaswamy case (Right to Privacy). At the outset, the counsel appearing for the director of the movie told the court that the film has been released on the OTT platform named Lapalap original as scheduled. Salve, however, said: “This is some obscure platform and only god knows what kind of website is this”. He said the movie is going to infringe upon the right to privacy and the right to a fair trial and with each passing day, it is causing damage to the reputation of the actor. “The film is trying to portray his life. What exactly happened to him is still under investigation. You cannot jump the gun,” Salve said. The high court had earlier sought to know whether 'Nyay: The Justice', purportedly based on Rajput's life, has been released as scheduled on June 11 after both the director of the film and the actor's father gave contradictory statements on the aspect. The single judge had on June 10, refused to stay the release of several movies, including 'Nyay: The Justice', saying these films are neither portrayed as biopic nor factual narration of what transpired in his life. "Posthumous privacy right is not permissible", it had said in its interim order on a plea by Rajput's father to restrain such films. The single judge had earlier said it found merit in the submissions of producers and directors that if information of events which have occurred is already in the public domain, one cannot plead any violation of right to privacy on a movie inspired from such events. Some of the upcoming or proposed movie projects based on his son's life include, 'Suicide or Murder: A star was lost', 'Shashank' and an unnamed crowd-funded film. The court had directed the filmmakers to render complete accounts of the revenue earned from the films, if any case of damages is made out in future and listed the suit for completion of pleading before the joint registrar. It had said the producers and directors claimed the films to be fictional rendition of true events surrounding the lives of film/TV personalities, including Rajput who was found dead at his home in Mumbai. The investigation is still on. The had court said it did not find merit in the plaintiff's contention to restraint on the strength of his right to fair trial relating to the unnatural death of his son, saying no foundation is set up to demonstrate how the films would impair the trial. It had termed as misconceived plea that the content of the film is defamatory and will damage his and his son's reputation. The suit has claimed that in case a "movie, web-series, book or any other content of similar nature is allowed to be published or broadcasted, it would affect the right of the victim and deceased for a free and fair trial as it may cause prejudice to them". It has also contended that Rajput being a well-known celebrity, "any misuse of his name/ image/ caricature/ style of delivering dialogues also amounts to infringement of the personality right vested with the plaintiff besides amounting to acts of passing off". The contentions of Rajput's father have been opposed by the filmmakers of the upcoming and proposed movies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/film-based-on-ssr-delhi-hc-issues-notice-on-appeal-by-actors-father-1001339.html
25-06-2021||National||On way back from South China Sea, US Navy’s Ronald Reagan Carrier Strike Group holds drills with India’s warships, fighter jets ||India’s warships and fighter aircraft had a joint drill with the United States Navy’s Ronald Reagan Carrier Strike Group, which recently conducted “maritime security operations” in the South China Sea, riling up China. The multi-domain drill on Wednesday and Thursday was intended to send out a message to China, which of late not only restarted deploying a large number of troops closer to its disputed boundary with India but also conducted a high-altitude military drill in Tibet, simulating battle situations that required integrated operations by different units of its People’s Liberation Army. The drill sharpened the regional maritime security construct to uphold a rules-based maritime order in the Indian Ocean region, the US Navy stated. “Our nations share a common interest in a secure Indo-Pacific,” said Rear Admiral Will Pennington, commander of the American Navy’s Ronald Reagan Carrier Strike Group – a.k.a Carrier Strike Group 5 (CSG 5) or Task Force 70 – after the joint drill with the warships of the Indian Navy and the fighter aircraft of the Indian Air Force. “Working collectively with like-minded nations to provide full-spectrum awareness and defence of the vast Indian Ocean expanse ensures stability in the region.”  The US Navy’s CSG 5 included its only forward-deployed aircraft carrier USS Ronald Reagan, Destroyer Squadron 15, Ticonderoga-class guided-missile cruiser USS Shiloh and Arleigh Burke-class guided-missile destroyer USS Halsey as well as the aircraft from the Carrier Air Wing 5. The Indian Navy warships, which participated in the drill, included a Kolkata-class guided-missile destroyer INS Kochi, a Talwar-class frigate INS Teg, a P-8I maritime patrol and reconnaissance aircraft, MiG-29K fighters from the Indian Navy Air Squadron 303. Besides, the Su-30 fighter aircraft from the Indian Air Force 222 Squadron also took part in the exercise with the US Navy ships. The drill included an anti-submarine exercise, aerial exercises, like dissimilar aircraft combat training, detect-to-engage sequence, helicopter cross-decking and formation maneuvering. The series of at-sea exercises reinforced the converging maritime interests of the US and India, comes on the heels of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s meeting with the US Secretary of Defence, Lloyd Austin, in Washington DC last month. Austin had also visited New Delhi in March and had a meeting with his counterpart Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. The Indian Navy vessels have been holding joint drills with the US Navy’s warships returning from deployment in the South China Sea – more regularly since the Chinese PLA’s aggressive move to unilaterally change the status quo along the China-India Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and counter-deployment by the Indian Army in April and May 2020 resulted in a stand-off. The Indian Navy ships had joint drills with the Nimitz Carrier Strike Group of the US Navy in the Indian Ocean in July 2020. The Indian Air Force’s aircraft joined the Indian Navy ships for another joint drill with the US Navy’s Theodore Roosevelt Carrier Strike Group on March 27 and 28 this year. Both the Nimitz Carrier Strike Group and the Theodore Roosevelt Carrier Strike Group were returning from deployment in the South China Sea when they conducted drills with the Indian Navy ships. “Flying with our counterparts from the Indian Navy and Air Force has been a great opportunity for the aircrew assigned to CTF (Carrier Task Force) 70, providing challenging airborne scenarios necessary for building the confidence to operate effectively together within the Indo-Pacific region,” Cmdr. Daniel O'Hara, commanding officer, Strike Fighter Squadron (VFA) 102 was quoted in a US Navy statement. “We developed critical relationships that we hope to renew in the near future with a shared and continued focus on multinational interoperability and the highest levels of professional airmanship.” Though almost 14 months passed since the stand-off between India and China along the LAC in eastern Ladakh started, the series of talks between the diplomats and senior military commanders of the two sides could not yet resolve it completely. The stand-off took the relationship between New Delhi and Beijing to a new low but brought India’s strategic convergence with the US in the Indo-Pacific under renewed focus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/on-way-back-from-south-china-sea-us-navy-s-ronald-reagan-carrier-strike-group-holds-drills-with-india-s-warships-fighter-jets-1001343.html
25-06-2021||National||Covid-19: NTF recommends 2-3 weeks worth strategic oxygen reserve||Supreme Court-appointed National Task Force (NTF) of top medical experts, set up to formulate a methodology for allocation of oxygen to states and union territories, has recommended that the country should have strategic reserves of the gas for 2-3 weeks of consumption on the lines of the arrangements made for petroleum products. The 12-member NTF also said that all hospitals should have a buffer capacity for emergencies and they should set-up oxygen monitoring committees of senior staff. The top court had set up the NTF on May 6 to formulate a methodology for allocation of oxygen for saving lives of Covid-19 patients and to facilitate a public health response to the pandemic. "We should have strategic reserves of oxygen for the country to cover 2-3 weeks’ consumption, similar to the arrangement made for petroleum products. Similarly, all hospitals should have a buffer capacity for Emergencies,” the NTF said. Dealing with augmenting the supplies of liquid medical oxygen or LMO, based on present and projected demands during the pandemic, the panel said that about 20 per cent buffer capacity of the states' requirement should be created for allocation over and above baseline demand for allocation to states with rising cases of Covid-19. “Efforts are to be made to further scale up LMO production in preparation of the next pandemic. There is an urgent need to increase production of LMO from about 5 per cent - 8 per cent of gaseous industrial oxygen. Government should support and subsidize concerned industries”. The panel suggested that in an emergency, the states may actively explore setting up some field/make-shift hospitals in proximity of industrial oxygen production units which can supply piped oxygen with necessary modifications and strict quality control and technology to be put in place to convert nitrogen plants to oxygen producing plants in case of an emergency situation. It said that focus should also be placed on cylinders, gaseous oxygen and arrangement of cylinder fillers and CO2 cylinders from beverage industries may also be converted to oxygen cylinders. The panel said that besides cylinders & LMO, the PSA plants must be encouraged, based on actual assessment as the PSA plants have the capability to manage a 100 bedded hospital and fill cylinders for ambulances and PHC/CHC as well. “Make Oxygen generation units (PSA) compulsory for all hospitals, including for medical colleges and district hospitals. All district hospitals should have PSA plants with compressors so that they can manage their own load as well as fill cylinders for CHC/ PHC/ Ambulances,” it said, adding that each hospital with 100 or more beds should be encouraged to have an LMO installation and a cryogenic storage tank for LMO should be insisted upon for every hospital in metropolitan areas. For rural areas, the panel said that Oxygen supply to rural areas to be supported with new strategies including the need to shift PSA plants towards vulnerable areas with cylinder turnaround time also needs to be efficient. “Adequate number of cylinders must be kept as a buffer. The rural and semi-urban areas preparation should be prioritized henceforth”, it said, adding that the concentrators should be used in Covid Care Centres in rural areas, and district hospitals, where patients need 5 L/min Oxygen, thereby saving about 5 per cent-7 percent of oxygen usage. It said that Oxygen cylinder filling and storage in rural areas is important and hence, central filling stations be considered in districts/rural areas and for smaller villages liquid oxygen cylinders of 250 litres may be considered to be parked for 10-12 bed facilities.   “There should be a strategy to manufacture oxygen locally or in the neighbourhood for the big cities to fulfil at least 50 per cent of their LMO demand, as road transportation is vulnerable. This may be taken up in respect of Delhi and Mumbai on priority, due to their population density. All 18 metro cities will be made oxygen independent, with at least 100 MT storage in the city itself,” the panel said. Making number of recommendations in its 163-page report submitted to the top court, the NTF suggested steps to be taken at hospital level and State level and said that in hospitals, “If oxygen saturation remains below 92 percent on 5L flow, awake-prone position may be advised to reduce oxygen requirement of patients; hence more stress on this intervention”. On monitoring of Oxygen needs at State level, the panel said that in normal times no special arrangements are required but in emergency, implementation of management of Oxygen Grid with 10-12 regional production sites is required .   “The storage hubs with state and district storage spokes should be in place for any emergent situation. Long haul connectivity through Rail from the production hub to the storage hubs, with the last mile connectivity as a spoke model transported by trucks. The LMO production hubs should be so located that the transport distance even by rail is preferably less than 24 hours,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-ntf-recommends-2-3-weeks-worth-strategic-oxygen-reserve-1001347.html
25-06-2021||National||Foreign national arrested in connection with blast outside Hafiz Saeed's house in Pakistan: Reports||A foreign national has been arrested by Pakistani security agencies in connection with the car bomb blast outside the house of the 2008 Mumbai terror attack mastermind and chief of the banned Jamat-ud-Dawa (JuD) Hafiz Saeed here, according to media reports on Friday. The suspect identified as Peter Paul David was arrested from the Lahore airport on Thursday, the Dawn newspaper reported. David was offloaded from a Karachi-bound flight and shifted to an undisclosed location for interrogation, Duniya TV reported. He is said to be the owner of the car used in the blast, the Dawn report said. David’s travel history showed that he had been shuttling between Karachi, Lahore and Dubai frequently, while he could not satisfy the investigators about the purpose of these visits and his activities, the report said. Three persons were killed and 21 others injured when a powerful car bomb exploded outside Saeed's residence at the Board of Revenue (BOR) Housing Society in Johar Town on Wednesday morning, resulting in serious injuries to some police officers guarding the JuD chief's house. The windows and walls of Saeed's house were damaged from the impact of the blast. No group has claimed responsibility for the blast so far. The law enforcement agencies were also on the lookout for another suspect who is said to have driven the explosives-laden car to the targeted location, the report said. Since being stolen in 2010 from Gujranwala in Punjab province, the car used in the blast had been sold further multiple times and David was its last owner, according to initial investigations. An official said intelligence agencies traced the location of the owner of the car through its registration record obtained from the excise department and then arrested David from the Lahore airport. Quoting initial investigations, the official said the car entered Lahore from Babu Sabu interchange a few hours before the blast where police personnel cleared the vehicle and the driver after checking. He added that there were conflicting reports about whether the car was carrying explosives at the time or not. However, there was a strong possibility that it was fitted with explosives inside Lahore and then driven to Johar Town. CCTV footage showed a masked suspect parking the car at the corner of a street near the residence of the JuD chief around 10:40 am on Wednesday. He got out of the car and then disappeared, the official said, adding that the blast occurred around 11:10 am. Reportedly, the suspect had carried out the blast with a timed device. Footage later showed that the driver was picked up from a petrol pump nearby by an accomplice in a car and they drove off, the official said. He added that during interrogation, David denied his involvement in the blast. He told the investigators that during his last visit to Dubai, a friend of his said someone he (the friend) knew in Gujranwala needed his (David’s) car for a couple of days. When he returned to Pakistan, he handed over the car to a masked man in Gujranwala, David said, adding that he thought the man was wearing the mask because of the Covid-19 situation. Interior Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed claimed that Punjab police were close to arresting the culprits responsible for the blast in Lahore. In a video statement posted on Twitter on Thursday, the minister claimed that officials had achieved “great success” during the investigation. “Punjab police will soon arrest the culprits and deliver good news to the people,” he said. Three unidentified terrorists have been named in the FIR in the case. The 71-year-old Saeed has been serving a jail sentence at the high-security Kot Lakhpat Jail in Lahore for his conviction in terror financing cases. The blast sparked rumours that Saeed was present in the house. Saeed, a UN-designated terrorist whom the US has placed a USD 10 million bounty on, has been convicted for 36 years imprisonment in five terror financing cases. His punishment is running concurrently. Saeed-led JuD is the front organisation for the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) which is responsible for carrying out the 2008 Mumbai attack that killed 166 people, including six Americans. The US Department of the Treasury has designated Saeed as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist. He was listed under the UN Security Council Resolution 1267 in December 2008.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/foreign-national-arrested-in-connection-with-blast-outside-hafiz-saeeds-house-in-pakistan-reports-1001348.html
25-06-2021||National||Ravi Shankar Prasad denied access to his Twitter account for almost an hour||Amid ongoing tussle between Twitter and the Government over complying new social media rules, micro blogging platform on Friday temporarily blocked IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad's personal account for alleged violation of the US Copyright Act. However the account was reinstated an hour later with a warning note that the account may be locked again or potentially suspended in case of any additional notices against the account. According to lumen Data base, IT minister account access was blocked on the request of International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (“IFPI”) for violating AR Rehman song copy right Ma Tujhe Salaam. The Minister tweeted on December 15, 2017. In an angry reaction to the social media platform's move, the Minister said the decision of the company was arbitrary and a gross violation of IT rules. This was the first time Twitter denied access to the account of a Union Minister in India. Reacting to the row, Twitter spokesperson said, "The Minister’s account access was temporarily restricted due to a DMCA notice only and the referenced tweet has been withheld. As per our copyright policy we respond to valid copyright complaints sent to us by a copyright owner or their authorized representatives." Though the Twitter account of the minister was visible for public viewing, Twitter did not permit anyone authorized to access this account to log in or make any post. When the minister and his team tried to log in to the Twitter account @rsprasad Twitter showed a message saying, “Your account has been locked because Twitter received a compliant Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) Notice for content posted to your Twitter account. Under the DMCA copyright owners can notify Twitter claiming that a user has infringed their copyrighted works. Upon receipt of a valid notice, Twitter will remove the identified material. Twitter maintains a repeat copyright infringer policy under which repeat infringer accounts will be suspended. Accruing multiple DMCA strikes may lead to suspension of your account.” Surprised by the block, the Minister posted on another social media platform Koo, "Friends! Something highly peculiar happened today. Twitter denied access to my account for almost an hour on the alleged ground that there was a violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of the USA and subsequently they allowed me to access the account." Confronting Twitter, Prasad said it was apparent that his statements calling out the high handedness and arbitrary actions of the microblogging platform, particularly sharing clips of interviews to TV channels and the powerful impact had "clearly ruffled its feathers". "Twitter’s actions indicate that they are not the harbinger of free speech that they claim to be but are only interested in running their own agenda, with the threat that if you do not tow the line they draw, they will arbitrarily remove you from their platform,"the Minister said. Insisting that Twitter has to follow new IT rules, the Minister said, “There shall be no compromise on that.". Replying to the Minister's tweet, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, who is also chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on IT, said he will seek explanation from Twitter on the issue as he had also faced a similar situation earlier for posting a video in his handle. Twitter is at loggerheads with the Centre over the compliance of new social media rules. The government has slammed Twitter for deliberate defiance and failure to comply with the country''s new IT rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ravi-shankar-prasad-denied-access-to-his-twitter-account-for-almost-an-hour-1001362.html
25-06-2021||National||51 cases of Delta Plus Covid-19 variant detected across 12 states, says Centre||Fifty-one cases of Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus have been detected across 12 states in the country, with Maharashtra reporting the highest number of 22, the Centre said on Friday, stressing that there are still very limited cases of this mutation and it cannot be inferred that it is showing an upward trend. These 51 cases were detected from over 45,000 samples sequenced so far in the country. Sujeet Singh, Director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), said 22 cases of Delta Plus variant have been found in Maharashtra, followed by nine in Tamil Nadu, seven in Madhya Pradesh, three in Kerala, two each in Punjab and Gujarat, and one case each in Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana and Karnataka. "There are very limited number of cases of this mutation (Delta Plus). In India, there are very limited cases (of Delta Plus). There are nearly 50 cases that are found in 12 districts and this has happened in the last three months. It cannot be said that in any district, state it is showing an increasing trend. Till the time we don't correlate this we will not say this is a rising trend because its mutations are the same as Delta variant," Singh told a media briefing of the health ministry. There was some variance in the figures in the slides presented at the briefing but officials confirmed later that the total cases of the Delta Plus variant detected so far stands at 51 across 12 states. So the transmission potential in the Delta variant can also found in the Delta Plus variant, he added. The NCDC is among the 10 institutes involved in genome sequencing of the coronavirus in the country. Singh said the Delta Plus variant signifies the Delta variant with an additional mutation -- B.1.617.2.1. This specifically refers to acquisition of K417N genetic variant in the background of Variant of Concern (VoC) Delta (B.1.617.2). He said K417N is of public significance as this mutation is also present in the Variant of Concern Beta (B.1.351). He said the Delta Plus variant is denoted by a plus sign. "This does not mean...that severity of transmission is more or lead to more severe disease. If scientific evidence does (suggest) that then we will definitely let you know," he said. Singh added that since the Delta variant is already a VoC, its sub-lineage can also be called a VoC. Talking about Delta Plus variant, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Balaram Bhargava said it is present now in 12 countries, and in India, it has been found in 12 states, but they are very localised. "Delta Plus variant has also been isolated and cultured at ICMR-NIV and laboratory tests to check vaccine effect on Delta Plus variant. We should have these results in 7-10 days' time whether the vaccine is working against the Delta plus," he added. Singh said Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Telangana and West Bengal have Delta variant in more than 50 per cent of the samples sequenced. "After that, we came to a conclusion that exponential surge during the second wave was to a large extent driven by this variant. Ninety per cent of the cases (of the samples sequenced) are being driven by B.1.617.2 (Delta) variant of SARS-CoV2," he said. He said coronavirus variants of concern have been found in 174 districts in 35 states and union territories with the highest number of such cases seen in Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Telangana, West Bengal and Gujarat. The proportion of Covid-19 cases with variants of concern rose from 10.31 per cent in May, 2021 to 51 per cent on June 20, 2021, he added. Bharghav also asserted that both the Covid-19 vaccines -- Covishield and Covaxin -- work against SARS-CoV-2 variants like Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta. He added that the second wave of Covid-19 is not yet over in the country as 75 districts still have more than 10 per cent prevalence and 92 districts have 5-10 per cent prevalence of the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/51-cases-of-delta-plus-covid-19-variant-detected-across-12-states-says-centre-1001391.html
25-06-2021||National||Covid-19 second wave not yet over, warns Centre||The Centre on Friday warned that the second wave of Covid-19 is not yet over in India. The government said that 75 districts still have more than 10 per cent prevalence, while 92 districts have a 5 to 10 per cent prevalence of coronavirus.  Addressing a briefing on the coronavirus situation in the country, Union Health Ministry officials said around 48 Delta plus variant cases have been found in 11 states in India so far. Maharashtra has the highest number of Delta Plus variant cases at 20. "Proportion of coronavirus cases with variants of concern have risen from 10.31 per cent in May, 2021 to 51 per cent on June 20, 2021," an official said, adding that 90 per cent of cases in India are being driven by B.1.617.2 (Delta) variant.  The government said that both 19 vaccines -- Covishield and Covaxin -- work against variants of the SARS-CoV-2 --- Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-second-wave-not-yet-over-warns-centre-1001401.html
25-06-2021||National||Covid-19 Vaccine Matters: Inoculation drive staggers, concerns mount over efficacy||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-matters-inoculation-drive-staggers-concerns-mount-over-efficacy-1001412.html
25-06-2021||National||Phone-tapping case: Congress workers protest Delhi Police summons to Mahesh Joshi||Congress workers here protested the Delhi Police summons in a phone-tapping case to the party’s chief whip in the Rajasthan Assembly, Mahesh Joshi. The Delhi Police had asked the Congress leader to appear before it on June 24 for questioning in the case lodged on a complaint by Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who is also the BJP MP from Jodhpur. Joshi had refused to appear before police. The phone-tapping controversy had erupted in July last year in Rajasthan. Audio clips of alleged telephonic conversations between Shekhawat and Congress leaders surfaced amidst a rebellion against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot by his then deputy Sachin Pilot and 18 party MLAs supporting him. Congress leaders backing Gehlot had alleged that BJP leaders were indulging in horse-trading to topple the state government. Congress workers from the Hawamahal constituency assembled at Badi Chaupad and raised slogans against Shekhawat. They waved posters with slogans against Shekhawat and called him a “fugitive”. “Shekhawat should apologise from Mahesh Joshi. He should also come to Jaipur to give voice samples to the Anti-Corruption Bureau,” a local Congress worker said, in an apparent reference to the telephonic conversations allegedly aimed at toppling the state government last year. They made a human chain and protested for nearly two hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/phone-tapping-case-congress-workers-protest-delhi-police-summons-to-mahesh-joshi-1001414.html
25-06-2021||National||Adhir not 'immediately optimistic' about Modi govt's J&K move||Senior Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury on Friday said he would rather wait and watch than be immediately optimistic about any "overnight change" in Jammu and Kashmir, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held talks with 14 political leaders of the Valley. Chowdhury, while interacting with reporters at his residence here, also said the BJP-led central government, after the revocation of Article 370, had made many promises, but nothing came of it. "I have no faith in the BJP government. I don't have any great expectation from it. Two years ago, they had promised that any Indian citizen can reside in the union territory. Did that happen? Brahmins, till date, are scared to return to the Valley. Also, terrorist activities continue unabated," the veteran leader said. He recalled that the Modi-Shah regime had "vowed to capture the PoK region two years ago, but that turned out to be an empty promise". The Bengal Congress president further pointed out that many of the leaders who were invited to Thursday's meeting were placed under house arrest after the abrogation of Article 370, and some were also equated with secessionist elements. "...so now they are bringing out leaders from jails and allowing them to participate in talks. None has forgotten the fact that leaders of this party (BJP), in the recent past, equated some of them with secessionist elements, calling them member of certain gangs," he said. In the Centre's first outreach to Jammu and Kashmir's political leadership in almost two years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a crucial meeting with 14 leaders, including four former chief ministers, to chalk out the future course of action in the union territory. Modi, accompanied by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha, received the leaders from eight parties, including the National Conference, the PDP, the BJP and the Congress, at his residence. The Centre had in August 2019 revoked Jammu and Kashmir's special status under Article 370 and bifurcated it into two union territories -- Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. The Congress leader, when asked about his opinion on the current state of affairs in Bengal amid the Covid-19 pandemic, expressed concern over the fake vaccination camp that was set up in Kolkata. He urged Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to issue a statement in the matter "as the incident could increase vaccine hesitancy among people". A man claiming to be an IAS officer and the joint municipal commissioner of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation organised Covid-19 vaccination camps in the city, where people were administered fake doses. He was later arrested. Chowdhury insisted that Centre should amend the existing provision which makes it mandatory for a chief minister or any other minister to get elected from an assembly seat within six months. Banerjee, who did not end up victorious from Nandigram in the March-April Assembly polls, is set to contest a by- election to be able to get elected to the House. She said that she was eager to fulfil the constitutional obligation at the earliest. "The Centre can very well amend the existing provision, raising the period to one year instead of six months, in the wake of the pandemic," Chowdhury said. He observed that students, who won't be able to write papers due to cancellation of exams amid to the pandemic, may find the move to hold by-elections at this juncture "discriminatory".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adhir-not-immediately-optimistic-about-modi-govts-jk-move-1001417.html
25-06-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Twitter denies Union IT and Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad access to his account for an hour||In your evening news update, Twitter denies Union IT and Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad access to his account for an hour; a war of words breaks out between the BJP and AAP over a report by Supreme Court-appointed panel and Maharashtra becomes the first state in the country to cross the three-crore vaccination.  Twitter on Friday denied Union IT and Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad access to his own account on the micro-blogging platform for almost an hour on an alleged ground that there was a violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of the USA. However, he was subsequently allowed to access the account. The minister said, "Twitter's actions were in gross violation of Rule 4 (8) of Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, where they failed to provide me any prior notice before denying me access to my own account."  A report by a Supreme Court-appointed panel claiming the Delhi government inflated medical oxygen demand at the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic triggered a war of words between the BJP and AAP. BJP spokesman Sambit Patra claimed that Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s “politics of shifting the blame from his incompetence” stood exposed.  Meanwhile, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia told a virtual conference, “No such report exists. We have spoken to several members of the Committee. They told us that they have not signed or approved any such report." Maharashtra became the first state in the country to cross the three-crore vaccination mark even as the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government gave a major push to the vaccination drive in the worst-affected state to prevent the spread of the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19. The government asked District Disaster Management Authorities (DDMA) to ensure that more people turn up for vaccinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-twitter-denies-union-it-and-law-minister-ravi-shankar-prasad-access-to-his-account-for-an-hour-1001421.html
25-06-2021||National||Samajwadi Party, Congress are allies of Islamic terrorists, Mehbooba must go to Pakistan, says UP minister||An UP minister has accused the Congress and Samajwadi Party of being “allies of Islamic terrorists”, and said madrassas are helping in the religious conversion of the poor with people involved in it getting money directly in their accounts from Muslim countries. The allegations were made by Uttar Pradesh Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Anand Swaroop Shukla, while talking to reporters on Thursday late night. The minister also attacked PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti saying "her heart is in Pakistan" and asked her to go to Pakistan. “Facts have come to light that help of madrasas and voluntary organisations is being taken for the conversion and the people involved in the religious conversion of the poor and the deaf-mute children are getting money from Muslim countries in their personal accounts,” Shukla said while talking to reporters at his residence. “The conversion by inducing fear, greed and delusion is completely illegal and unconstitutional. The Yogi government and the ATS is taking and will take strict action against this,” Shukla said, referring to the recent arrest of two men allegedly involved in running a campaign to convert the poor and deaf-mute children to Islam. The Anti-Terrorist Squad of the Uttar Pradesh police had early this week arrested two men from Delhi’s Jamia Nagar, allegedly running an outfit involved in converting deaf students and other poor people to Islam in Uttar Pradesh with funding from Pakistan’s ISI. Following the duo's arrest, the Enforcement Directorate too has registered a case of money laundering in the alleged conversion drive with funding from Pakistani intelligence agency ISI, officials sources said on Friday. Attacking the opposition, the minister accused them of being pro-Muslims. “The entire opposition, whether it be the Congress or the SP, they all are pro-Muslim, and to garner their votes, they hail Pakistan, saying Pakistan Zindabad and they say Hindustan Murdabad when they visit Pakistan. They have been left with no political dignity,” said the minister. “What will the people like Akhilesh Yadav (SP chief) talk? When he became the chief minister in 2012, he issued an order for the release of all Muslim terrorists imprisoned in Uttar Pradesh jails – for offences like religious conversions, triggering bomb blasts and being involved in loot and robbery,” the minister said. “It was our MLAs and party workers who opposed the move and approached courts to abort the order,” he added. “These people from the SP and Congress fully work as allies of Islamic terrorists,” said the minister. Terming conversion as a big challenge for the Hindu society, he said the Wahabi mentality of Islam is trying to Islamise the whole world by effecting a demographic change. He also said some Hindus too have become agents of this mentality and support Maulanas who spew venom against Hinduism. He also called for boycotting those Hindus having such a mentality. Attacking PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti, the minister said “her heart is in Pakistan” and she “intends to make India an Islamic country”. “If Mehbooba Mufti has so much love for Pakistan, then she should go there,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/samajwadi-party-congress-are-allies-of-islamic-terrorists-mehbooba-must-go-to-pakistan-says-up-minister-1001423.html
25-06-2021||National||Renewable energy sector in India gets $70 billion investment in 7 years: Singh||Power Minister R K Singh has said that as much as $70 billion (about Rs 5.2 lakh crore) has been invested in renewable energy across the country in the past seven years. This assumes significance in view of India's ambitious target of having 175 gigawatts (GW) of renewable energy by 2022. Singh was addressing at an event on 'Accelerating Citizen Centric Energy Transition' yesterday evening, organised by The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE). It was conducted in collaboration with the Permanent Mission of India (PMI) to the United Nations and the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW). The virtual event was organised on the sidelines of the Ministerial Thematic Forums week (June 21-25) for the UN High Level Dialogue on Energy to be convened on September 20 this year. India has been designated a Global Champion for Energy Transition, one of the five themes at the dialogue. Singh said, "During the past seven years, over $70 billion investment has been made in renewable energy in India. India has a liberal foreign investment policy for renewables allowing 100 per cent FDI through the automatic route in sector." He added that ensuring 'ease of doing business' is the government's utmost priority. "Our continuous focus is on maintaining sanctity of contracts and safeguarding investments." The minister also talked about the establishment of dedicated project development cells (PDC) and foreign direct investment (FDI) cells in all ministries for handholding and facilitating domestic and foreign investors. Adequate measures and safeguards have also been undertaken to address the concerns of businesses and investors arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic, Singh added. He launched a booklet on 'The India Story', a compilation of Indian initiatives that are shaping India’s energy transition. The minister said 'The India Story' booklet captures the essence of some of the flagship initiatives that have accelerated energy transition. "These will continue to power our ambitious renewable energy programmes, with the end goal of ensuring access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all, while always keeping the citizen at the center of this transition," he added. He also launched a website (www.energytransition.in), which will act as a repository of energy transition related knowledge resources from around the world. Singh further said a Renewable Energy Investment Promotion and Facilitation Board (REIPFB) portal has also been developed to provide a one-stop assistance and facilitation to the industry and investors for development of projects and bringing new investment to the renewable energy sector in India. He lauded the commitment shown by the Indian industry to India's energy transition plans. Several members from the industry have voluntarily declared RE goals and committed to the carbon disclosure project (CDP), renewable 100 per cent and science-based targets (SBTs). Many of them are also preparing substantive energy compacts for the September Dialogue. He was pleased to inform that JK Cement, UltraTech, Toyota and NTPC have already submitted their energy compacts. While talking about the initiatives that will pave the way for future of energy transition in India, Singh said rules are being framed for 'green tariff' policy. The policy will help electricity distribution companies (discoms) supply electricity generated from clean energy projects at a cheaper rate as compared to power from conventional fuel sources. In addition to that, the government is promoting Green Hydrogen with obligations for Fertilisers and Refining industries (Green Hydrogen Purchase obligations). The minister also mentioned about the recent initiatives in the renewable energy sector such as viability gap funding options for offshore wind energy, launching of green term ahead market and green day ahead market. Rules for facilitating RE through open access and RE procurement through exchanges will also be notified to promote non-conventional resources of energy. Singh said that in the past six years, India's installed renewable energy capacity has increased by over two-and-a-half times and stands at more than 141 gigawatts (including large hydro), which is about 37 per cent of the country's total capacity (as on June 16, 2021). During the same period, the installed solar energy capacity has increased over 15 times and stands at 41.09 GW. India's renewable energy capacity is the fourth largest in the world. India's annual renewable energy addition has been exceeding that of coal-based thermal power since 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/renewable-energy-sector-in-india-gets-70-billion-investment-in-7-years-singh-1001427.html
25-06-2021||National||PAN-Aadhaar linking deadline extended to September 30||The Centre on Friday extended the last date for linking Aadhaar with PAN by three months to September 30.  The Centre also announced tax exemptions on money paid by an employer to employees for Covid-19 treatment. Also, ex-gratia payment received from an employer by family members in case of the death of an employee due to Covid-19 would be exempt from income tax. It also extended the deadline for various tax compliances in view of the ongoing pandemic. The last date for PAN-Aadhaar linking too has been extended by three months to September 30, 2021. The deadline for employers to furnish Tax Deducted at Source (TDS) certificate in Form 16 to employees too has been extended till July 31 from July 15. The deadline for Vivad Se Vishwas direct tax dispute resolution scheme has been extended by two months till August 31. Taxpayers can make payments till October 31 with an additional amount of interest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pan-aadhaar-linking-deadline-extended-to-september-30-1001433.html
25-06-2021||National||Panel set up by SC bats for strategic oxygen reserves to deal with demands||A National Task Force (NTF) of top medical experts, set up by the Supreme Court, has recommended that the country should have strategic reserves of oxygen for two-three weeks of consumption on the lines of the arrangements made for petroleum products. Formed to devise a methodology for allocation of oxygen to States and Union Territories during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, it also proposed a formula for determining the oxygen needs for the country by taking into account all levels of care. As much as 1.5 MT of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) required for a 100-bed hospital with 25% ICU beds is a formulation that may be examined, it said. The 12-member NTF also said that all hospitals should have a buffer capacity for emergencies and they should set up oxygen monitoring committees of senior staff. The court had set up the NTF on May 6 to formulate a methodology for allocation of oxygen for saving lives of Covid-19 patients and to facilitate a public health response to the pandemic. "We should have strategic reserves of oxygen for the country to cover 2-3 weeks' consumption, similar to the arrangement made for petroleum products. Similarly, all hospitals should have a buffer capacity for Emergencies,” the NTF said in its 163-page report. With regard to augmenting the supplies of liquid medical oxygen or LMO, based on present and projected demands during the pandemic, the panel said that about 20 % buffer capacity of the states' requirement should be created for allocation over and above baseline demand for allocation to States with rising cases of Covid-19. “Efforts are to be made to further scale up LMO production in preparation of the next pandemic. There is an urgent need to increase production of LMO from about five to eight % of gaseous industrial oxygen. Government should support and subsidise concerned industries," it said. In an emergency, states may actively explore setting up some field/make-shift hospitals in proximity of industrial oxygen production units which can supply piped oxygen with necessary modifications and strict quality control and technology to be put in place to convert nitrogen plants to oxygen-producing plants in case of an emergency situation. It said that focus should also be placed on cylinders, gaseous oxygen and arrangement of cylinder fillers and carbon-dioxide cylinders from beverage industries may also be converted to oxygen cylinders. The panel said that besides cylinders and LMO, the PSA plants must be encouraged, based on actual assessment as the PSA plants have the capability to manage a 100 bedded hospital and fill cylinders for ambulances and PHC/CHC as well. “Make oxygen generation units (PSA) compulsory for all hospitals, including for medical colleges and district hospitals. All district hospitals should have PSA plants with compressors so that they can manage their own load as well as fill cylinders for CHC/ PHC/ Ambulances,” it said. For rural areas, the panel said that oxygen supply should be supported with new strategies including the need to shift PSA plants towards vulnerable areas with cylinder turnaround time also needs to be efficient. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/panel-set-up-by-sc-bats-for-strategic-oxygen-reserves-to-deal-with-demands-1001447.html
25-06-2021||National||PM's meeting with J&K leaders 'positive' step; Centre must restore statehood before assembly polls: Karan Singh||Describing Prime Minister Narendra Modi's meeting with top political leaders from Jammu and Kashmir as a "very positive step", veteran Congress leader and former J&K governor Karan Singh on Friday said statehood must be restored before holding assembly polls there and asserted that such a move would go a long way in helping to "heal the wounds" of the people. Singh, the son of Maharaja Hari Singh who signed the terms of Kashmir's accession in 1947, also said his personal opinion is that prima facie the revocation of special status under Article 370 seems "irreversible" but asserted that the matter was before the Supreme Court and it must be decided by the top court. In an interview with PTI, the last Sadr-e-Riyasat and first governor of the erstwhile state also demanded that the Centre must provide a "financial-cum- developmental package" to the people whose livelihoods were badly affected during the last two years following the Centre's move to bifurcate Jammu and Kashmir into two Union Territories and revoke its special status. His remarks come a day after Modi held talks with top political leaders from Jammu and Kashmir and told them that the Centre's priority is to strengthen grassroots democracy there for which delimitation has to happen quickly for polls to be held. Reacting to the prime minister's meeting with 14 political leaders of Jammu and Kashmir, including four former chief ministers, Singh said, "I definitely think it is a very positive step. First of all, because everybody was involved and people who once were discarded as anti-national, they all came -- National Conference and Peoples Democratic Party both." "I believe everybody spoke their mind very frankly and the prime minister listened very attentively to everybody. Three and a half hours of the meeting was there and my own view is that it is a very positive move because something was needed to break the ice," the former Union minister said. The whole situation after the change of status had become "ossified politically", Singh said, adding that the meeting was the start of a political process that is to be welcomed. Asked about the demand of most of Jammu and Kashmir leaders of restoration of statehood, he said it was a unanimous view because after being in special status for 70 years suddenly to be demoted to not even a state down to a Union Territory is "something nobody in Jammu and Kashmir has appreciated". "So statehood is a universal demand, the question is timing. Now as I understand the situation, the first step now is delimitation. The delimitation commission is already working, they should submit their report very soon. After delimitation then the next step is elections. My own view is that...we should have elections as a full state," Singh said. He asserted that full statehood for Jammu and Kashmir should definitely be restored before assembly elections because if it goes to polls as a Union territory and then becomes a state, that would not make any sense because the situations are different with difference in status. "As soon as possible, we should get statehood, I mean if we get it tomorrow there is nothing like it but in any case when we fight the next elections we must fight them as a full-fledged state," the 90-year-old leader said. Singh also lamented that it was a "strange irony" that his father signed the instrument of accession for the whole state and "today we are having to fight for statehood". Asked if statehood could reduce "dil ki doori' -- a term used by Prime Minister Modi at the meeting, Singh said restoring statehood will go a long way to help "heal the wounds". "By itself, it won't be enough but it would definitely be a major step," he added. Asked about calls from a section for restoring Article 370 provisions that granted special status to J&K and were abrogated in 2019, Singh said, "My personal belief in this is that it seems to me prima facie that the changes are irreversible but the matter is before the Supreme Court so we shouldn't unnecessarily make any detailed comment on it what should be done and what should not be done." The veteran Congress leader urged the Supreme Court to take up the matter soon, asserting that it was a very crucial and important issue that should be given priority. Asked about divergent views struck by Congress leaders on the Article 370 issue, Singh said he was not a Congress spokesperson and would not want to speak on behalf of the party. "I expressed my personal view that it did not seem to me that Article 370 can be restored...My view may be slightly divergent from others. But the consensus is what Ghulam Nabi (Azad) said" and the matter is before the Supreme Court and they will decide on it. Asked what were his expectations from the Centre on J&K going forward, Singh said he expected that they would move forward as they say on delimitation, elections and statehood. Demanding a financial-cum- developmental package for the people of J&K, Singh said for two years the state suffered very heavily. "The whole Kashmir Valley, the horticulture was destroyed, tourism which is our mainstay was destroyed so tens of hundreds of crores of losses were suffered," he said, adding that in Jammu also heavy losses were incurred. "So they should first compensate those people who lost during those two years," he said. Modi's J&K outreach saw the prime minister conveying to the 14 political leaders from the union territory during their face-to-face meeting here that he wanted to end the 'Dilli ki Doori' as well as 'Dil ki Doori' (distance from Delhi as well as the distance of hearts) with Jammu and Kashmir, which has witnessed a prolonged spell of militancy and unrest. The four former chief ministers of the erstwhile state who participated in the discussions were Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah of the National Conference, Congress' Ghulam Nabi Azad and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti. Four former deputy chief ministers were in attendance too - Congress' Tara Chand, People's Conference leader Muzaffar Hussain Baig and BJP's Nirmal Singh and Kavinder Gupta. CPI-M leader Mohammed Yusuf Tarigami, Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) chief Altaf Bukhari, Sajjad Lone of the People's Conference, J-K Congress head G A Mir, BJP's Ravinder Raina and Panthers Party leader Bhim Singh also formed part of the delegation. This was the first interaction between the top leadership of the Union government and mainstream parties in J&K since August 5, 2019, when the Centre revoked its special status provided under Article 370 and bifurcated the border state into Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pms-meeting-with-jk-leaders-positive-step-centre-must-restore-statehood-before-assembly-polls-karan-singh-1001454.html
25-06-2021||National||SBI-led consortium gets over Rs 5,800 cr in Mallya loan default case: ED||A State Bank of India (SBI)-led consortium that lent loans to fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya on Friday received Rs 5,824.5 crore in its accounts after shares of UBL, earlier attached under the anti-money laundering law, were sold recently, the ED said. Mallya is accused in a multiple banks loan default case of about Rs 9,000 crore. The disputes resolution tribunal (DRT) had sold these shares on June 23 after the Enforcement Directorate had transferred shares worth about Rs 6,624 crore of UBL to the SBI-led consortium on the directions of a special PMLA court that is hearing the case involving Mallya in Mumbai. These shares were attached under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) by the ED, a central probe agency. "Today, SBI led consortium received Rs 5824.5 crore in its account from the sale of shares of United Breweries Limited." "The sale had taken place on 23.06.2021 as sequel to the transfer of the shares to the Recovery Officer by ED," the central agency tweeted. The rest of the shares worth about Rs 800 are "expected" to be sold and realised in the accounts of the SBI-led group of banks by June 25, it had earlier said. The ED had issued a statement on Wednesday stating that about 40 per cent of the money lost by banks in alleged frauds perpetrated by fugitive businessmen Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and Mallya has been recovered so far due to its "swift" action in attaching and freezing their assets. Mallya, who fled to the UK, is being probed by the ED and the CBI for a Rs 9,000 crore alleged bank fraud linked to the operations of his now defunct Kingfisher Airlines. On Wednesday, the ED had said the banks had "recovered" Rs 1,357 crore by a similar sale of shares in the case against Mallya. The liquor baron has lost his case against extradition to India and as he has been denied permission to file appeal in the UK Supreme Court, his extradition to India has become final, the ED had said. Commenting on the development, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had tweeted on Wednesday that "Fugitives & economic offenders will be actively pursued; their properties attached & dues recovered." Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sbi-led-consortium-gets-over-rs-5800-cr-in-mallya-loan-default-case-ed-1001464.html
25-06-2021||National||Anitlia bomb scare-Hiren murder case: NIA custody of 2 accused extended||A special court in Mumbai on Friday sent former policeman Sunil Mane to judicial custody in the Antilia bomb scare and Mansukh Hiren murder case, while it extended NIA custody of accused Santosh Shelar and Anand Jadhav till July 1. Mane was held in April, while Shelar and Jadhav were arrested on June 11. While Mane was in judicial custody earlier, the National Investigation Agency probing the case had sought his remand again to confront him with the accused recently arrested, which was granted, and at the end of this period on Friday, he, along with Shelar and Jadhav were produced before Judge PR Sitre. While seeking the extension of remand of Shelar and Jadhav, the NIA had said the two had fled after the car used in Hiren's murder was found, and the duo had gone to Delhi and a few other places before being held in Latur in Maharashtra. The probe agency told court the duo were also in touch with someone through social media, and there was need to find out who was funding their movements. The case pertains to an explosives-laden SUV being found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's south Mumbai residence on February 25, and a Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren, who claimed this vehicle was stolen from his possession, being found dead in a creek on March 5. So far, 10 people have been arrested in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anitlia-bomb-scare-hiren-murder-case-nia-custody-of-2-accused-extended-1001468.html
25-06-2021||National||More curbs eased in Tamil Nadu: Malls, gyms; places of worship to reopen from June 28||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday announced more relaxations in lockdown norms, effective June 28, and they include re-opening places of worship and malls in four districts and resumption of public transport in 23 other districts. Gyms, yoga centres (50 per cent occupancy), museums and protected monuments would open in a total of 27 districts (10 AM to 5 PM) and barring 11 other districts, including Coimbatore and Thanjavur. Also, people would have access to beaches between 5 AM and 9 AM across the state, an official release here said. The government extended by one more week other restrictions as part of the lockdown norms till 6 AM on July 5 and they include closure of bars and cinemas. Shopping complexes, malls and places of worship would re-open in four districts of Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengelpet in northern Tamil Nadu with relatively less number of cases and which fall in third category. All kinds of textile showrooms, and jewelleries could operate in these four districts by allowing a maximum of 50 per cent customers. Private establishments could work with 100 per cent workforce in Chennai and three other districts. The government has categorised 38 districts into three separate groups in keeping with the incidence of COVID-19 cases for the purpose of easing curbs. Non-airconditioned bus services, including inter- district operations, shall resume with 50 per cent occupancy in as many as 23 other districts in the second group. Bus services are already operational only in Chennai, and three nearby districts, including Chengelpet. In the first category of 11 other districts with comparatively more cases, time duration for functioning of a variety of retail outlets besides tea shops have been extended till 7 PM (previously upto 2 PM for certain shops and 5 PM for others). In these districts under the first group, government offices related to essential services would operate with 100 per cent employees and those in other wings shall work with 50 per cent workforce. Government offices in other regions already work with full strength. These 11 districts include seven in western parts (including Coimbatore) and four in Cauvery delta region like Thanjavur. The e-pass requirement has been largely dispensed with in districts under group two and three and for purposes of attending marriage functions in category one areas, an e-pass would be needed. The 23 districts in the second category include Ariyalur, Cuddalore, Dharmapuri, Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Kanyakumari, Krishnagiri, Madurai, Perambalur, Pudukottai, Ramanathapuram, Ranipet and Sivaganga. Effective June 14, the government allowed more relaxations for 27 districts and it includes re-opening of government-run retail liquor outlets and salons. With a spike in coronavirus cases, the state government clamped a lockdown from May 10. Following a gradual decrease in the number of cases, the government has been relaxing curbs more and more in a phased manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-curbs-eased-in-tamil-nadu-malls-gyms-places-of-worship-to-reopen-from-june-28-1001472.html
25-06-2021||National||'Restrictions on Olympic-bound departing from India not applicable on those training abroad'||India's Olympic-bound athletes, who are training abroad right now and scheduled to reach Tokyo directly from their current bases, will not face the stricter restrictions that have been put in place for those travelling from the country, Deputy Chef de Mission Prem Verma said on Friday. While the Indian contingent will be allowed to train during their three-day on-arrival quarantine, they won't be allowed to meet athletes from other countries during the hard quarantine. "Indian athletes preparing for the Games overseas and reaching Tokyo directly would not face the restrictions applicable to those who have been residing in India for 14 days before departure," Verma was quoted as saying by the Sports Authority of India in a statement. This is likely to benefit the shooters, who are currently training in Croatia and Italy, top wrestlers like Vinesh Phogat and Bajrang Punia, tennis star Sania Mirza and javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra among others. Verma also said Tokyo Olympics Organising Committee has increased the list of accredited laboratories for Covid-19 tests to a number of cities across the country. Verma told the athletes and support staff that a number of issues raised by the IOA have been addressed by the Tokyo OC to India's satisfaction. He said there would no restriction on training of Indians, but they cannot meet athletes from other countries for the first three days. India is clubbed with Afghanistan, Nepal, Maldives, Pakistan and Sri Lanka, in group 1 countries with serious Covid-19 situation. The Indian contingent departing from New Delhi will have to upload its health status for each of the seven days prior to departure on the Organising Committee health app along with negative RT-PCR reports from approved labs, 96 and 72 hours prior to the journey. Apart from this, the Tokyo-bound contingent will also undergo sensitisation workshops on three modules titled "Life in Tokyo, Playing Clean and From India with Pride." Life in Tokyo explains the preparations for travel in the fortnight before departure, the formalities to be completed before travel, including vaccination, and anti-bodies test reports. Athletes and support staff from Hockey, Judo, Rowing, Boxing and Wrestling attended the opening session on Life in Tokyo on Friday. Athletes like Badminton player PV Sindhu, ace paddler Sharath Kamal, fencer Bhavani Devi and equestrian athlete Fouaad Mirza were among those who attended the first 'Playing Clean module', an anti-doping session conducted by officials of the National Anti-Doping Agency (NADA) on Thursday. At the formal launch on Friday, SAI DG Sandip Pradhan congratulated the athletes, and the coaching and support staff for staying committed to their preparation for the Olympic Games. He said the members of the contingent were the country's brand ambassadors and were the pride of the nation. "It is important that we understand the protocols laid down by the organising committee. The Olympic Games is being held under different circumstances imposed by the Covid-19 pandemic. "It is the duty and responsibility of each member of the contingent to feel comfortable and safe in the environment," Pradhan said. Over 100 athletes from India have qualified for the Games.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/restrictions-on-olympic-bound-departing-from-india-not-applicable-on-those-training-abroad-1001477.html
25-06-2021||National||South Western Army Commander reviews operational preparedness of Chetak Corps||South Western Army Commander Lieutenant General AS Bhinder visited the formation of Chetak Corps undergoing training at Mahajan Field Firing Ranges, a spokesperson said on Friday. During his two-day visit, the commander reviewed the operational preparedness and mission reliability of the formation, witnessed live firing as well as skill evaluation of artillery and armoured regiments and all-weather combat power capability of formation, defence spokesperson Lt Col Amitabh Sharma said. He exhorted all ranks to continue with their sustained hard work amidst the pandemic with due precautions and be ready to deal with any contingencies. Lt General Bhinder interacted with the troops undergoing training and complimented them for their excellent training standards and operational readiness amidst the fight against the ongoing pandemic. He also reiterated maintaining a high level of synergy between the man and machine as well as a high threshold of operational readiness in order to meet emerging challenges across the spectrum, the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south-western-army-commander-reviews-operational-preparedness-of-chetak-corps-1001478.html
25-06-2021||National||Plan afloat to link Aadhaar, PAN to passengers' login info for railway ticket booking amid tout menace||To prevent touts from booking online tickets, Indian Railways on Friday said it is working on a system to link identity documents such as Aadhaar, PAN and Passport to login details of passengers on the ticket booking IRCTC website. "This is our future plan. We have to create a network first. We have almost done our work with Aadhaar authorities and we are doing the same with other identity cards. The moment the system is in place we will start using it," Railway Protection Force (RPF) Director-General Arun Kumar told the media on Friday. At present, touts, who create multiple login identities and book tickets including Tatkal on busy routes especially during festival seasons.   Though the Railway Protection Force has been taking action against touts based on human intelligence which had little or no impact on the ground, he said. Till May 2021, 14,257 touts have been arrested, he said and added that so far, tickets worth Rs 28.34 crore have been seized. He also said that the Rail Suraksha app has been developed for passengers to register safety-related complaints with the Government Railway Police and the RPF while they are travelling. "We are devising a surveillance and response mechanism for CCTV coverage to 6,049 stations and all passenger train coaches," he said. He said that the RPF has formulated a special plan 'reach out, secure and rehabilitate' for protecting children orphaned by Covid. Kumar also said that for the safety and security of women passengers, the RPF has increased its women personnel from three per cent of the force to nine per cent, making it the central force having the highest share of women in its ranks. The DG said that about 1,29,500 (from 2019 to May 2021) male passengers travelling in coaches for women were arrested under section 162 of the Railway Act and prosecuted by the RPF. The RPF has played an important role in the rescue of children and child help desks manned by nominated NGOs are functional at 132 stations till 2020, he said. The DG said that 56,318 children have been rescued from 2017 up to May, and 976 children have been rescued from traffickers from 2018 up to May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plan-afloat-to-link-aadhaar-pan-to-passengers-login-info-for-railway-ticket-booking-amid-tout-menace-1001481.html
25-06-2021||National||Action on account without giving user full context akin to platform taking judgement call: Koo CEO||Direct action on an account without giving the user the full context of the alleged violation and a chance to contest is akin to a social media platform taking a final judgement call and not acting as an intermediary, Koo CEO Aprameya Radhakrishna said on Friday. The minister called out Twitter over the brazen arbitrariness and "running their own agenda". Twitter's actions are in gross violation of the IT rules, where they failed to provide any prior notice before denying access to the account, the minister said in a series of posts on Koo. Prasad later also tweeted on the issue. "Giving a user complete context of any claimed violation and an intimation of the exact violation is important. The user should also be able to contest or accept the claimed violation," Koo's Radhakrishna said in a statement. "A direct action of suspension without the above makes it seem like a social media platform is taking the final judgement call and is not being an intermediary," Radhakrishna added. Lashing out at Twitter earlier, the minister had said it was apparent that his recent statements calling out the "high handedness and arbitrary actions" of Twitter had ruffled feathers. "Friends! Something highly peculiar happened today. Twitter denied access to my account for almost an hour on the alleged ground that there was a violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of the USA and subsequently they allowed me to access the account," Prasad wrote. The temporary locking of the IT minister's Twitter account comes at a time when the US digital giant has been engaged in a tussle with the Indian government over the new social media rules. The government has slammed Twitter for deliberate defiance and failure to comply with the country's new IT rules, which has led to the microblogging platform losing its legal shield as an intermediary in India, and becoming liable for users posting any unlawful content. Twitter had not fully complied with the new rules, called Intermediary Guidelines, that mandate setting up grievance redressal mechanism and appointing officers to coordinate with law enforcement. The rules became effective from May 26 and Twitter, even after the expiry of the additional time, had not appointed the requisite officers, leading to it losing the 'safe harbour' immunity. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/action-on-account-without-giving-user-full-context-akin-to-platform-taking-judgement-call-koo-ceo-1001482.html
25-06-2021||National||BJP-Congress slugfest on national Emergency anniversary||The 46th anniversary of the imposition of Emergency kicked up a political slugfest with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday reminding of those "dark days" that can never be forgotten and Opposition leaders flagging "undeclared emergency" under the current dispensation. "India remembers the Emergency as a dark period during which every institution was subverted and an atmosphere of fear was created. Not only people but also ideas and artistic freedom were held hostage to power politics. "This is how Congress trampled over our democratic ethos. It can never be forgotten. The period from 1975 to 1977 witnessed a systematic destruction of institutions," PM Modi tweeted with the hashtag #DarkDaysOfEmergency. Let us pledge to do everything possible to strengthen India’s democratic spirit, and live up to the values enshrined in our Constitution. Soon ministers in the Modi government as well senior BJP leaders mounted a frontal attack on the Congress dusting off 'tales of persecution" during late Indira Gandhi's regime. Home Minister Amit Shah said, "Congress murdered democracy on this day in 1975 for its lust and arrogance of power. Emergency was imposed to trample on voices that were raised against a family. It was a dark chapter in India's democracy." BJP chief J P Nadda praised the role of Jan Sangh and RSS in fighting the Emergency. "A grateful nation remembers thousands of unsung heroes from Bharatiya Jan Sangh and RSS, who led the anti-Emergency movement from the front.' 'Emergency period was a Black Spot for the country as Democracy was murdered by Indira Gandhi for her vested political interests," he said. BJP also raked up the controversial issue of the "forced sterilisation" during the Emergency for which Sanjay Gandhi was blamed in the past. Ironically, Sanjay Gandhi's wife Maneka Gandhi and his son Varun Gandhi are Lok Sabha MPs from BJP. "Congress-inflicted atrocities that India will never forget. 1.1 crore people were forcefully sterilized during the period of Emergency," the BJP Twitter handle posted. The Prime Minister also chose the occasion to recall "the horrors of Emergency when freedom of press & freedom of expression were suppressed." "It is a blot on our democracy," he said remembering all those greats who resisted the Emergency and protected Indian democracy. 25 जून 1975 की उस रात देश के लोकतंत्र को कुचल दिया गया था, तानाशाही और दमन का वो मंजर जो देश ने उस समय देखा वो कभी नहीं देखा था। AICC Communication Department Chairman Randeep Singh Surjewala hit back at the Prime Minister's Emergency remarks. "Says a PM, who is synonymous with three “S” - Suppress, Stifle & Subjugate. A PM-who has undermined Parliament, A PM-who has disdain for Constitution, A PM-who has eroded Institutions, A PM-who has trampled Democracy, shouldn’t preach, for India is under ‘Modi-gency’ for 7 yrs," the Congress leader tweeted. Says a PM, who is synonymous with three “S” - Suppress, Stifle & Subjugate. Swaraj India leader Prashant Bhushan said, "46 years ago, an Emergency was declared, rights suspended, media censored & 100,000 placed under detention. We thought that India would never emerge from that night. We did. Today we live under an undeclared emergency with rights institutions under siege. We will emerge from this too." 46 yrs ago, an Emergency was declared, rights suspended, media censored&100,000 placed under detention.We thought that India would never emerge from that night. We did.Today we live under an undeclared emergency with rights &institutions under siege. We will emerge from this too Asking people to pledge to do everything possible to strengthen India’s democratic spirit, and live up to the values enshrined in the Constitution, Modi recalled "On June 25, 1975, the nation was turned into a prison. For 21 months, numerous atrocities were committed. Even in that darkness, there were also those who fought for democracy." He asked readers to visit the NaMo App to know more. Extending the attack for Emergency to the current Congress leadership, BJP MP Baijayant Jay Panda while recalling Emergency excesses, said, "Beware its heirs who make false equivalences to dilute their stigma." Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who had joined BJP in 2015 after a long stint in Congress, said, "National Emergency was not done to thwart any attempt of political violence or sedition. It was a sheer manifestation of Gandhi's anger & her attempt to enjoy political supremacy." Tagging to hashtags #Emergency1975HauntsIndia and #DarkDaysOfEmergency, Union Minister Kiren Rijiju said called it the darkest chapter in Azad India’s history and added "I wish Congress Party realises how our country suffered under its tyrannical regime." Party spokesperson Sambit Patra, former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and others also joined the online campaign on the issue. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-congress-slugfest-on-national-emergency-anniversary-1001485.html
25-06-2021||National||India, China agree to restart talks between military commanders to end stand-off||The senior military commanders of India and China will meet once again soon to work out a deal to end the 14-month-long stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) soon, the diplomats of the two sides agreed during a video conference on Friday. Even as the soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) are still engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh, New Delhi and Beijing agreed to avoid further escalation till both sides could clinch a deal for a mutual withdrawal of front-line troops from all the remaining face-off points along the LAC. India’s delegation for the video conference was led by Naveen Srivastava, the Additional Secretary at the East Asia Division of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). Hong Liang, the Director-General of the Boundary and Ocean Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, led the delegation of the communist country. The two sides had a “frank exchange of views” on the situation along the LAC. They agreed on the need to find an early resolution to the remaining issues along the de facto boundary between the two neighbouring nations, keeping in view the agreement reached between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi in September 2020. A spokesperson of the MEA in New Delhi stated that the two sides agreed to hold the next – the 12th – round of the meeting between the Senior Commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA meeting “at an early date” in order to “achieve the objective of complete disengagement from all the friction points along the LAC” in accordance with the “existing bilateral agreements and protocols”. The senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had on April 9 last held the 11th round of meeting but had failed to agree on withdrawal of the front-line troops from the remaining face-off points along the LAC. They had not even issued a joint press release after the meeting, unlike the previous few rounds of talks. Though almost two-and-a-half months passed since the 11th meeting between the military commanders took place, New Delhi and Beijing could not schedule the 12th. The video conference between Indian and Chinese diplomats on Friday was intended to break the deadlock. It was the 22nd round of consultation within the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC), which the two nations set up in 2012 as an institutional mechanism to deal with the flashpoints along the disputed boundary between the two neighbouring nations. The two sides activated the mechanism to resolve the stand-off along the LAC a year ago with a similar video conference on June 24, 2020. The Indian Army and the Chinese PLA withdrew front-line troops from the northern and the southern banks of Pangong Tso in February, but they could not agree on disengagement from other face-off points along the LAC, like Hot Springs, Depsang and Gogra Post, over the past four months. “The two sides will continue to work to further ease the situation on the border, avoid recurrence of the situation on the ground, and jointly maintain peace and tranquillity in the border area,” the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government said in a statement released in Beijing after the video-conference. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-agree-to-restart-talks-between-military-commanders-to-end-stand-off-1001487.html
25-06-2021||National||More data needed to decide whether children can be vaccinated, says ICMR chief||ICMR Director General Dr Balram Bharagava on Friday said that pregnant women can be vaccinated against Covid-19, but more data needs to be available to decide whether children can be inoculated against the disease. "The health ministry has given guidelines that they (anti-Covid vaccine) can be given to pregnant women. We have also demonstrated from our ICMR PregCovid registry that vaccination is useful in pregnant women and it should be given," he said during a press conference. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) chief was asked a question on vaccination of children and pregnant women. On whether Covid-19 shots can be administered to children is still a debatable question, until enough data is available, Bharagava said, adding that there is only one country in the world, the US, which is administering vaccines to children at the moment. Whether very small children will ever need a vaccine is still a question, he said. "Till such time we have more  data available on vaccination of children we will not be in a position to vaccinate children at large. However, we have started a study on children between 2-18 years and we should have the results of that by September- October so that we can make some decision," Bharagava said. However, international literature and experts are still debating on whether children need to be inoculated, he said. "In the US we have seen some complications with vaccines among children," Bharagava said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-data-needed-to-decide-whether-children-can-be-vaccinated-says-icmr-chief-1001490.html
25-06-2021||National||Scientists isolate Delta Plus Covid-19 variant in lab, tests on vaccines under way||While there are 49 cases in India so far, the maximum number of the latest variant of SARS-CoV-2 has been reported from Maharashtra (21) followed by Tamil Nadu (9), Madhya Pradesh (7) and Kerala (3). In Maharashtra, the maximum cases are in Ratnagiri and Jalgaon districts. Other states and union territories that reported such variants are Punjab, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Karnataka and Jammu and Kashmir. Following the death of an 80-year-old woman due to the Delta Plus variant in Ratnagiri district, the Maharashtra government on Friday announced a heightened level of restriction in the state and indicated imposing stricter norms in the days to come. There were also three such deaths in Madhya Pradesh. But scientists analysing the strain said it was too early to press the panic button as the variant needs to be watched at least for the next one month before deriving any conclusion on its virulence and transmission behaviour. “We will have to see whether there will be 400 cases of Delta Plus over the next one month or 4,000 cases. At the moment, it's not a major cause of worry. We just have to be cautious,” Sudhanshu Vrati, executive director at the Regional Centre of Biotechnology and a member of the government advisory panel on Covid genome sequencing told DH. Multiple INSACOG laboratories are in the process of isolating and analysing the new strain and its vulnerability against the vaccines. "Very recently we have cultured the virus in the laboratory. Now we are testing whether the vaccines are effective. We should be having the results in the next 7-10 days,” Balram Bhargava, director-general of Indian Council of Medical Research said here on Thursday. “The coming together of a key mutation in the Beta VOC (variant of concern) with the Delta VOC should be a cause for concern but not panic. We need to better understand whether the effects of the mutations are neutral, additive or bigger than the sum of parts,” said another scientist. In Kerala, which reported three such cases, health department nodal officer Amar Fettle said the Delta Plus variant remained as a variant of interest only and not of concern. While 150 virus genomes are sequenced each month, the state will now send more samples for sequencing. In neighbouring Tamil Nadu, officials said 1,159 samples were sent to the Institute for Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine, Bengaluru for genomic sequencing. Of this, the Delta variant was reported in 72% cases and Alpha variant in 8.4% of samples. Nine samples returned positive for the Delta plus variant. Andhra Pradesh’s first Delta Plus case was reported on Friday from Tirupati. West Bengal didn’t report the variant so far and the state’s Director of Health Services Ajay Chakraborty refused to speak on the mutated strain. But Amitabha Nandi, former director of the School of Tropical Medicine told DH, “Since West Bengal was hit in the first and second wave, I think the Delta Plus variant will also affect it though it is difficult to make predictions.” (With inputs from Mrityunjay Bose, ETB Sivapriyan, Arjun Raghunath, Prasad Nichenametla, Soumya Das and Zulfikar Majid) Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scientists-isolate-delta-plus-covid-19-variant-in-lab-tests-on-vaccines-under-way-1001498.html
25-06-2021||National||Kalyan-Dombivali, Varanasi joint winners of Centre's Covid Innovation award||Kalyan Dombivali in Maharashtra's Thane district and Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh have been named joint winners of the Covid Innovation Award given out by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, a civic official said here on Friday. A Kalyan Dombivali Municipal Corporation release said the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban affairs had, on August 25 last year, held a competition with regards to work done under various categories in smart cities, with over 100 areas participating. The presentation for KDMC was done by The Smart Kalyan Dombivali Development corporation Limited, it said. KDMC and Varanasi were declared joint winners by Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Friday in Delhi, the release added. KDMC chief Vijay Suryavanshi said the award has been won due to the commitment of numerous doctors, paramedical staff, health department employees, NGOs and elected representatives etc. As per a PIB release, the Innovation award for Covid management was given under the India Smart Cities Awards 2020, and this theme connected to the outbreak was added along with tradition ones like social aspects, governance, culture, urban environment etc for the first time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kalyan-dombivali-varanasi-joint-winners-of-centres-covid-innovation-award-1001501.html
25-06-2021||National||Record vaccinations may not stop deadly third Covid-19 wave in India||By Chris Kay Officials in New Delhi rejoiced earlier this week when India hit a single-day record by administering more than 80 lakh Covid-19 vaccinations. But even this unprecedented pace may not be fast enough for a country just emerging from a devastating second wave to head off a third one, experts say. They also question whether this week’s push averaging about 46 lakh doses a day, up from about 30 lakh for most of the past month, can be sustained. Despite halting all exports in April and benefiting from a huge vaccine producing industry, India has covered only 4 per cent of its vast population, putting it far behind most of the West and China, which is deploying about 2 crore doses a day. At this rate, some scientists say a third wave could arrive within months, driving fears the country may see a repeat of the recent nightmare of oxygen shortages and overwhelmed hospitals. “I don’t think the recent spurt can be maintained, given what we know of the supply situation,” said Gautam Menon, a professor of physics and biology at Ashoka University, who also works on modeling outbreaks. “The single-day spike seems to have been the result of a concerted effort by some states, who may have stockpiled doses for this purpose. We would need to get to about 1 crore doses per day to ensure that a future wave is less potent.” Fresh Jolt India’s challenges in accelerating its inoculation drive are considerable. The fewer than 1 crore doses per month being currently pumped out of two local manufacturers are struggling to cover its nearly 140 crore people. There is also considerable hesitancy to overcome and logistical hurdles to reaching much of the countryside, where more than two-thirds of Indians live. Nevertheless, Prime Minister Narendra Modi must hope that the record jump will be the jolt the immunization campaign needs. This week, N.K. Arora, the chair of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization in India, said as many as 22 crore shots will become available starting next month. India aims to vaccinate 1 crore people a day, he said, pointing to the country’s history with large childhood inoculation drives for diseases such as polio. On Friday, Arora said India now expects to procure between 30 crore to 35 crore vaccine doses in August. Still some researchers are skeptical and took to social media to criticize the sudden spurt. Chandrakant Lahariya, a New Delhi-based epidemiologist and co-author of a book on India’s battle against Covid, called it “an overzealous attempt” to hit a record that would drain limited stocks. Rijo M. John, a health economist and adjunct professor at the Rajagiri College of Social Sciences in Kochi, said on Twitter that “the chest-thumping must officially end now,” because India doesn’t have enough doses in the short term to continue hitting those same levels. World’s Pharmacy The jubilation among government officials has parallels to the launch of India’s coronavirus vaccine campaign in January. Hopes were so high that Modi shipped out millions of shots in a short-lived bout of vaccine diplomacy and called his country “the world’s pharmacy.” Modi’s generosity belied a stuttering rollout at home as lower-than-anticipated batches came off the production lines at the Serum Institute of India Ltd., the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, and Bharat Biotech International Ltd., India’s other main provider. Both companies have promised to bolster output starting in July. However, Serum’s chief executive officer, Adar Poonawalla, said last month that exports aren’t expected to resume until the end of the year, a blow for many poorer nations depending on Indian supplies. The Indian launch of Russia’s Sputnik V has also been slow. Despite receiving shipments from Russia last month, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd., the local distributer, is still going through a small-scale pilot launch of the vaccine, a spokesperson told Bloomberg. ‘Wishful Thinking’ If an average pace of about 32 lakh daily doses is maintained, India will be able to vaccinate 45 per cent of its adult population by year-end and 60 per cent by the end of March 2022, Anubhuti Sahay and Saurav Anand, South Asia economists at Standard Chartered Plc, wrote in a report on Wednesday. They said that if more vaccines become available and the pace increases by 30 per cent, India could fully immunize 55 per cent by the end of 2021. “We’re a big country, we’ve got a lot of people to vaccinate,” Aparna Mukherjee, a senior scientist at the Indian Council of Medical Research -- the country’s main research agency -- said in an interview on Wednesday. She said getting everyone vaccinated before the onset of a third wave would be “wishful thinking,” but efforts are on to inoculate the most vulnerable. The South Asian nation also expects to add six more vaccines to its armory in “the coming months,” including Sputnik V, Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, India’s foreign minister, said in an interview with Bloomberg on Tuesday. He blamed Europe and the US for raw vaccine material bottlenecks and said the key to boosting global coverage is to help India scale up. “The US and Europe need to step forward if India has to ramp up its own production,” he said. Even with the uptick, coverage across the country has been patchy. Inoculation rates in India’s top five states contributing almost 50 per cent of the country’s gross domestic product are lower than the national average, according to Standard Chartered. The pace in India’s vast countryside is even slower. “Vaccine hesitancy remains high in rural India,” said Sahay and Anand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-vaccinations-may-not-stop-deadly-third-covid-19-wave-in-india-1001507.html
25-06-2021||National||DRDO successfully test fires enhanced version of Pinaka rockets||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) successfully test-fired an extended range version of indigenously developed "Pinaka" rocket at Integrated Test Range (ITR) in Chandipur off the coast of Odisha, official sources said on Friday. Altogether 25 Enhanced Pinaka Rockets were test-fired in quick succession against targets at different ranges on Thursday and Friday. The 122 mm Caliber rockets were launched from a Multi-Barrel Rocket Launcher (MBRL), an official said. "All the mission objectives were met during the launches. The enhanced range version of Pinaka Rocket System can destroy targets at distances up to 45 kilometres," a source said. In order to check the accuracy of the rockets hitting the target, all the flight articles were tracked by various Range instruments. The rocket system has been developed jointly by Pune based Armament Research and Development Establishment (ARDE) and High Energy Materials Research Laboratory (HEMRL) with manufacturing support from Economic Explosives Limited, Nagpur. The development of the Enhanced Pinaka system was taken up to achieve longer range performance, sources said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated DRDO and the Industry on the successful launch of Enhanced Pinaka Rockets. Secretary, Department of Defence R&D and Chairman DRDO, Dr G Satheesh Reddy also commended the efforts of the teams involved in the successful trials of the rockets. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-successfully-test-fires-enhanced-version-of-pinaka-rockets-1001508.html
25-06-2021||National||CBSE class 10, 12 optional exams to be held in August: Nishank||Students who are not satisfied with the Class 10 and 12 results under the CBSE assessment formula will have the option to appear for written examinations in August, Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said on Friday. Nishank made the announcement in a brief audio message recorded from his hospital bed in AIIMS where he is recovering from post-Covid-19 complications. The minister was scheduled to interact with the students on Friday evening, but sent a pre-recorded message on Twitter instead. The CBSE is expected to announce the results by July 31. “Those who are not satisfied with the assessment formula, need not worry. Exams will be conducted for you in August,” Nishank said. He said CBSE has already said that those who choose to write the exams will have to abide by the marks they score, and cannot go back to the marks assigned under the tabulation policy. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-class-10-12-optional-exams-to-be-held-in-august-nishank-1001511.html
25-06-2021||National||Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad launches e-filing portal of Income Tax Appellate Tribunal||Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Friday launched the e-filing portal of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) here, saying the initiative should be seen as a larger narrative of transformation the country is undergoing through the digital medium. The 'ITAT e-dwar' portal will enhance accessibility, accountability and transparency in day to day working of the ITAT, tribunal president Justice P P Bhatt said, according to an official statement. Launching the portal, Prasad said the digital India initiative seeks to bridge the divide between the digital haves and the digital have nots leading to digital inclusion achieved by technology, which is low cost, home grown and developmental.  The minister observed that during the Covid pandemic and the resultant lockdown,  the judiciary functioned through digital means and heard more than one crore cases.  He stated that about more than 18 crore cases is available on the National Judicial Data Grid (NJDG) and  suggested that cases of the ITAT should also be integrated with the grid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/law-minister-ravi-shankar-prasad-launches-e-filing-portal-of-income-tax-appellate-tribunal-1001513.html
25-06-2021||National||India to come out with space transportation policy, onboard private players, startups||The country plans to come out with a robust national space transportation policy that will put in place a technological and regulatory pathway so that the private ecosystem can prosper in the area. According to the Department of Space (DoS), globally, the participation of private agencies in providing launch services has increased and some of them have become significant players in the commercial market for launch services. India is also witnessing the emergence of a "New Space" wherein the private players in the space sector aim to tap the commercial potential of small satellite launch services by developing small satellite launchers for the global market, it said. The Indian players who are engaged in the launch vehicle development, the DoS said, are also eager to leverage the national facilities already established by the government. The recent reforms announced by the government towards unlocking the potential of the space sector in the country are expected to attract entrepreneurs to invest in cost-effective & quick turnaround space transportation systems commensurate with the significant global commercial launch services market, it said. The DoS on Friday placed the "Draft National Space Transportation Policy-2020 - Norms, Guidelines & Procedures (NGP)" for implementation in public domain inviting comments and suggestions by July 21. According to it, sustaining independent access to space and the continuous evolution of space transportation capabilities towards human and robotic space exploration along with the commercial exploitation of global opportunities require a robust national space transportation systems policy. "The increasing number of startups in the country in the recent years, which are seeking to develop independent space launch systems to capture the global launch services market, require a seamless technological & regulatory pathway in the country so that the private ecosystem can prosper in the area while also bringing in innovative technologies including its spin-offs benefiting the Indian economy", the draft policy said. It is essential to ensure that the independent launch activities undertaken by Indian entities are in accordance with relevant treaties & other international agreements due to the impact of such activities on public safety, domestic & global transport and in-orbit satellites. "Therefore, an authorisation mechanism needs to be in place to ensure compliance with the relevant regulations and safety requirements," the draft said. The National Space Transportation Policy 2020 aims to unlock the potential of the space sector in the country with respect to space transportation systems. This primarily involves the creation of a fertile environment within the country for Indian entities to develop launch vehicles and launch them from Indian territory within the framework of international treaties and safety regulations, according to DoS. The policy seeks to provide opportunities for Indian entities to capture a share of the global launch services market while allowing the government agencies to accelerate focused R&D to build space transportation capabilities for future space endeavours along with commercial exploitation, it was stated. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-come-out-with-space-transportation-policy-onboard-private-players-startups-1001516.html
25-06-2021||National||'Farmers' protests brought back memories of Emergency': SKM in 'letter of anguish' to President||Farmers agitating over the farm laws on Friday penned a ‘letter of anguish’ to President Ram Nath Kovind saying their seven-month protests at the borders of Delhi brought back memories of the Emergency imposed 46 years ago. “Mr President, for the past seven months the Government of India broke every decorum of democracy to end this farmers’ agitation. The farmers who had come to the national capital to have their voice heard were greeted with roadblocks, dug up roads, use of tear gas, water cannons, false cases, and some of our colleagues were even jailed,” the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) said in a letter to the President. The SKM, which has been spearheading the farmers’ protests since November 26 last year, urged the President to direct the Modi government to immediately repeal the three farm laws. “Whatever we have witnessed in the past seven months reminds us of the Emergency that was imposed upon us 46 years ago. Even today... without declaring Emergency, democracy is being throttled every day,” the SKM said. Various farmers organisations, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at the Delhi borders against the three farm laws enacted by the Modi government since November 26 last year. On Saturday, farmers are planning to gather in huge numbers at the three border sites – Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu – to mark the seventh month of their protests. The central government has held 11 rounds of talks with the agitating farmers and offered to suspend the three farm laws for 18 months and continue dialogue to address their concerns. However, farmers have been adamant on the repeal of the three laws and refused to hold a discussion with the government on the merits of the laws. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-protests-brought-back-memories-of-emergency-skm-in-letter-of-anguish-to-president-1001517.html
25-06-2021||National||Pakistan calls PM Modi's meeting with J&K political leaders 'PR exercise'||Pakistan's Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi on Friday described Prime Minister Narendra Modi's meeting with top political leaders from Jammu and Kashmir as a "drama" and a "PR exercise". Modi held talks with top political leaders from Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday and told them that the Centre's priority is to strengthen grassroots democracy there for which delimitation has to happen quickly for polls to be held. This was the first interaction between the top leadership of the Union government and mainstream parties in J&K since August 5, 2019, when the Centre revoked its special status provided under Article 370 and bifurcated the border state into Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. "In my view it was a drama and why was it a drama? Because at best it could be called a public relations exercise but nothing was achieved," Qureshi said a day after the high-level meeting on Jammu and Kashmir in New Delhi. Qureshi said the Kashmiri leaders at the meeting "unanimously demanded full-fledged restoration of statehood". "The leaders were not given any solid reply to their demand and instead told that a decision about restoration of the special status of Kashmir will be taken at an appropriate time, which is an ambiguous statement," he said. He pointed out that the All Parties Hurriyat Conference (APHC) leadership was not invited to the meeting. Tensions between India and Pakistan have spiked since New Delhi abrogated the Article 370 of the Constitution to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir on August 5, 2019. India’s decision evoked strong reactions from Pakistan, which downgraded diplomatic ties and expelled the Indian envoy. Qureshi claimed that India was trying to bring demographic changes in Kashmir which was worrying for Pakistan as it would have long term implications. To a question about back-door diplomacy with India, he said no such communication was going on with India but confirmed intelligence-level contact. “There is no back-door channel but there is contact on the regional situation at an intelligence level but there is no back-door channel," he said. India has categorically told the international community that the scrapping of the Article 370 was its internal matter. India has repeatedly said Jammu and Kashmir is an integral part of India and the country is capable of solving its own problems. India has told Pakistan that it desires normal neighbourly relations with Islamabad in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence. Talking about the Afghan peace process, Qureshi said he was not aware of the deployment of a UN peacekeeping force in Afghanistan but Turkey was expected "to maintain security responsibilities at Kabul airport". "Pakistan wants a stable and peaceful Afghanistan whereas the United States appreciates Pakistan's positive role in the peace process," he said. The foreign minister also said that there was no change in Pakistan's policy on nuclear assets. “Our nuclear assets are for our own defence. We have no aggressive intentions," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-calls-pm-modis-meeting-with-jk-political-leaders-pr-exercise-1001521.html
25-06-2021||National||Container ship catches fire off Port Blair coast; ICG deploys ship, aircraft for assistance||A container ship off the Port Blair coast caught fire on Friday and the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) has deployed a ship and an aircraft for assistance, an official statement said. "Container ship MSC Messina with 28 crew about 425 nautical miles from Port Blair reported fire in engine room AM 25 Jun, one crew missing," the ICG said on Twitter. The ship is en route from Colombo to Singapore, it said. "MRCC (Merchant Rescue Coordination Centre) in Port Blair is coordinating assistance through MSC Deila (another container ship) in vicinity. ICG Ship & aircraft being deployed," the ICG said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/container-ship-catches-fire-off-port-blair-coast-icg-deploys-ship-aircraft-for-assistance-1001523.html
25-06-2021||National||Puducherry to get its first woman Minister in 40 years||Puducherry would get its first woman minister in over four decades with the induction of AINRC legislator Chandira Priyanga in the N Rangasamy-led coalition cabinet, which will be expanded on June 27. Presidential nod has been accorded to the list of cabinet members submitted by Chief Minister Rangasamy to Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Tuesday. According to a Puducherry Gazette notification, "the President has been pleased to appoint" A Namassivayam, K Lakshminarayanan, C Djeacoumar, Chandira Priyanga and A K Sai J Saravana Kumar as Ministers in the cabinet. Lakshminarayanan, Djeacoumar and Priyanga represent lead partner AINRC, while Namassivayam and Saravana Kumar are from its ally BJP. Incidentally, this is the first time the saffron party is part of a Ministry in the Union Territory. Another first would be the induction of a woman member in the cabinet after 41 years, with Priyanga being chosen by Rangasamy, who was sworn-in as chief minister on May 7. Late Congress leaders Renuka Appadurai was the last woman minister from the UT during 1980-83 and handled the Education portfolio in the M D R Ramachandran (DMK)-led coalition ministry. Ending more than a month's suspense, the cabinet formation in Puducherry finally took shape on Wednesday with Rangasamy submitting the list of members to be included in his ministry, to Soundararajan, which has now been approved by the President. Soundararajan will administer the oath of office and secrecy to each of the four AINRC members and two BJP MLAs. Though the AINRC-led NDA had swept the April 6 Assembly polls in this union territory, cabinet formation dragged on for long as the saffron party initially insisted for a deputy CM post, but later settled for the post of the Assembly Speaker. Soon after leading his alliance to a win, AINRC founder Rangasamy was sworn-in as chief minister on May 7 while BJP's 'Embalam' R Selvam was elected unopposed as Speaker of the Puducherry Assembly on June 16. The swearing-in ceremony will be held at 2.30 pm on Sunday in front of Raj Nivas, the office cum residence of the Lt Governor, officials said. The total strength of the Ministry would now be six, including the Chief Minister. In the hustings, AINRC emerged victorious from 10 segments out of 16 seats it contested and is heading the NDA here. The BJP annexed six seats out of 9 seats it aspired to garner. The NDA enjoys the support of three nominated members belonging to the BJP. The House has a total of 33 MLAs, including the three nominated ones.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/puducherry-to-get-its-first-woman-minister-in-40-years-1001524.html
25-06-2021||National||Govt to refresh IT Act, but initial focus on PDP Bill: IT Secretary||IT The government plans to refresh the Information Technology Act to address the requirements of new technologies and developments in the industry, a top government official said on Friday. Ministry of Electronics and IT (Meity) Secretary Ajay Prakash Sawhney, however said the government's immediate focus is on putting in place the Personal Data Protection (PDP) Bill. "There is also requirement to refresh IT Act itself. The IT Act came in 2000 and was last amended in 2008," the Secretary said at an industry event. Sawhney said there is a need to review the IT Act because issues at present have changed significantly. He said the new IT rules for social media platforms have strengthened the rights of users. "The companies that we deal with have grown immensely. Completely new segments of operations have taken shape and globally there is huge amount of innovation happening in this space. "Laws are coming up in different parts of the world. We have to strengthen our cyber security and our adjudication and many other things. The next thing will be to come up with legal framework which addresses these new developments. That is something which will also be on the anvil but right now we will focus on personal data privacy bill and non-personal (data protection) policy," he said. The Joint Committee of Parliament examining the PDP Bill was given fourth extension in the Budget Session to table the bill in Monsoon Session of Parliament. Sawhney said non-personal data protection bill is also in the works that promote innovation and growth around data processing. "The next big thing for us is PDP Bill. We are hoping to take it through at the earliest. Hopefully, in the next session, if we are able to get the report from that group, then we shall be pushing for early processing in Parliament," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-refresh-it-act-but-initial-focus-on-pdp-bill-it-secretary-1001525.html
25-06-2021||National||Indore, Surat awarded for best performance in Smart Cities awards; UP wins 'state award'||Indore and Surat were on Friday adjudged joint winners of the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry's Smart Cities Award 2020, while Uttar Pradesh secured the first position in the state awards category, tailed by Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. The awards were given based on a range of themes like social aspects, governance, culture, urban environment, sanitation, economy, built environment, water and urban mobility. In 2019, Surat was the only winner among smart cities. This is the first time that states have also been awarded for the overall performance of smart cities. The ministry also announced joint winners under the Covid innovation category -- Kalyan-Dombivali and Varanasi. The awards were announced on the occasion of the sixth anniversary of the Smart Cities Mission (SCM), the Atal Mission for Urban Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) and the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Urban (PMAY-U). Chandigarh bagged the award for union territories, while Indore won the "Innovative Idea Award". According to the ministry, Ahmedabad bagged the 'Smart Cities Leadership Award', followed by Varanasi and Ranchi in the second and third spots respectively. The top nine performing cities which have been awarded a 4-star rating are Surat, Indore, Ahmedabad, Pune, Vijayawada, Rajkot, Visakhapatnam, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Vadodara. Of the total proposed projects Under the Smart Cities Mission, 5,924 projects worth Rs 1,78,500 crore have been tendered so far, and work orders have been issued for 5,236 projects worth Rs 1,46,125 crore, the ministry said in a statement. It also said that 2,665 projects worth Rs 45,080 crore have been fully completed and are operational (as on 23 June 2021). The statement said that under PMAY (Urban), about 1.12 crore houses have so far been sanctioned for its beneficiaries, out of which more than 83 lakh houses are grounded and more than 50 lakh completed. Around 105 lakh household tap water connections and 78 lakh sewer or septage connections have so far been provided under AMRUT and in convergence with other schemes, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indore-surat-awarded-for-best-performance-in-smart-cities-awards-up-wins-state-award-1001534.html
25-06-2021||National||Israel Embassy blast case: Four students from Ladakh sent to 10-day police remand by court||The students were arrested from Kargil on Thursday and brought to Delhi on transit remand, they said. A minor IED blast took place outside the Embassy of Israel in the heart of Lutyens' Delhi on January 29. There were no casualties. Some cars were damaged in the explosion that occurred about 150 metres away from the embassy on the Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Road. The four students have been identified as Nazir Hussain (26), Zulfikar Ali Wazir (25), Aiaz Hussain (28) and Muzammil Hussain (25), the police said, adding that all of them are residents of Thang village in Ladakh's Kargil district. "They were presented before a magistrate court on Thursday which sent them to police remand for 10 days," a senior police officer said. They had come to Delhi in November last year and were preparing for competitive examinations, he said. All four of them were in Delhi on the day of the incident and their phones were found to be switched off, police said. During interrogation, the suspects have been questioned about their period of stay in Delhi and why their phones were found to be switched during the time of the incident, police said. The police are likely to conduct searches at the locations where the students stayed in Delhi, including Mukherjee Nagar area where they had been staying for a brief period while preparing for competitive exams, they said. Further investigation into the case is underway. In a joint operation with a central intelligence agency and the Kargil Police, the Special Cell of the Delhi Police had detained the four persons in connection with the conspiracy to plan and execute terror activities in the national capital, a statement issued on Thursday quoting Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal had said. The Delhi Police Special Cell, which was probing the incident, had registered a case of "conspiracy" behind the blast. The Ministry of Home Affairs had handed over the probe of the blast to the National Investigation Agency on February 2. Recently, the NIA announced a reward of Rs 10 lakh each for identification of two people captured on CCTV camera.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/israel-embassy-blast-case-four-students-from-ladakh-sent-to-10-day-police-remand-by-court-1001542.html
25-06-2021||National||Covishield, Covaxin work against SARS-CoV-2's Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta variants: Centre||Covid-19 vaccines Covishield and Covaxin work against SARS-CoV-2 variants Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta, while effectiveness tests against the Delta Plus variant is ongoing, the government said on Friday. There are four variants of concern of the coronavirus disease -- Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta -- with Delta Plus being a sub-lineage of the Delta variant which is also a variant of concern. Addressing a press conference, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said a reduction of neutralisation capabilities of vaccine with different variants, which is based on global literature, shows that Covaxin does not change with the Alpha variant at all and so it is the same as it is with the standard strain. "Covishield reduces slightly with Alpha, by 2.5 times. For the Delta variant, Covaxin is effective but antibody response is slightly reduced to three-fold reduction, and for Covishield, it is a two-fold reduction, while in Pfizer and Moderna it is a seven-fold reduction," he said. "However, Covishield and Covaxin work against the variants of SARS-CoV-2- Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta -- that is well established for these two vaccines," Bhargava said. Talking about the Delta Plus variant, Bhargava said it is present now in 12 countries. Referring to those detected in India, he said there are 51 cases across 12 states "but they are very localised". "The Delta Plus variant has also been isolated and cultured at ICMR-NIV, and laboratory tests to check vaccine effect on Delta Plus variant are ongoing. We should have these results in seven-10 days as to whether the vaccine is working against the Delta Plus variant," he said. The Delta variant has about 15-17 mutations and was first reported in October last year, and it was responsible for more than 60 per cent of cases in Maharashtra in February. It has spread to 80 countries, Bhargava said. The B.1.617 strain has three subtypes – B.1.617.1, B.1.617.2 and B.1.617.3 -- and B.1.617.2 (Delta variant) has been classified as a variant of concern and it has increased transmissibility, stronger binding to receptors of lung cells, potential reduction in monoclonal antibody response and potential post-vaccination immune escape, he said. The B.1.617.2 Plus or Delta Plus variant, detected in different parts of India, characterisation of which is ongoing (three mutations), Bhargava said. There are 16 countries where more than 25 per cent of cases of Delta variant have been found, he said. These are Australia, Bahrain, Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, Israel, Japan, Kenya, Myanmar, Peru, Portugal, Russia, Singapore, South Korea, United Kingdom, United States of America. Bhargava said that the second wave of Covid-19 is not yet over. "We have still got 75 districts which have more than 10 per cent prevalence. We have 92 districts which have between five-10 per cent prevalence and 565 districts are less than five per cent prevalence so in large part of India second wave is over,” he said. However, these districts are important and it is possible to avert the third wave provided individuals and society adhere to protective behaviours, Bhargava said. "We must avoid mass gathering, use masks correctly and consistently, and any indicative hotspots we find they need to be immediately identified that is what we have done with Delta Plus variant, and isolated people and vaccination has been initiated for these people and district level test positivity rate is posted on the health ministry website,” he said. Data needs to clearly monitored by districts to ensure if the rate is going beyond five per cent, the ICMR chief said. “Then we need to impose strict restrictions and that is the most important point that will guide us through the pandemic," he added. Bhargava said public health prevention strategies do not change with variants. "Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination have to continue but continuous monitoring of mutations is important to track vaccine escape, increased transmissibility and disease severity. The next step is, if need be, vaccine composition can be changed as per the circulating variants of interest and variants of concern that can also be done with RNA vaccines and adenovirus-based vaccine can also be modified," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covishield-covaxin-work-against-sars-cov-2s-alpha-beta-gamma-delta-variants-centre-1001550.html
25-06-2021||National||Pregnant women can be vaccinated against Covid-19: MoFHW||In a change in its earlier stance, Union Health Ministry on Friday said that pregnant women "can and should" be vaccinated against Covid-19. The directive comes amidst growing concern overexposure of expectant mothers (and their children) to the deadly virus. "The Health Ministry has given guidelines that the vaccine can be given to pregnant women. Vaccination is useful for them and should be given," Dr Balram Bhargava, Director-General of the Indian Council for Medical Research, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Earlier, the ministry had said that pregnant and lactating women should not be administered the Covid-19 vaccine. It had said that the decision was because women who are pregnant, lactating or expecting pregnancy confirmation have not been part of any vaccine trials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pregnant-women-can-be-vaccinated-against-covid-19-mofhw-1001577.html
25-06-2021||National Politics||Can never forget dark days of Emergency, PM Modi says on 46th anniversary||On the 46th anniversary of the imposition of Emergency, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said those "dark days" can never be forgotten and called for taking a pledge to strengthen India's democratic spirit and live up to the values enshrined in the Constitution. "This is how Congress trampled over our democratic ethos. We remember all those greats who resisted the Emergency and protected Indian democracy," he tweeted, while sharing a link about several draconian measures taken by the then Congress government.  "The dark days of Emergency can never be forgotten. The period from 1975 to 1977 witnessed a systematic destruction of institutions.Let us pledge to do everything possible to strengthen India's democratic spirit, and live up to the values enshrined in our Constitution." he said.  Let us pledge to do everything possible to strengthen India’s democratic spirit, and live up to the values enshrined in our Constitution. Other senior BJP leaders also hit out at the Congress with Home Minister Amit Shah saying the Congress "murdered" democracy on this day in 1975 for its lust and arrogance of power.  Emergency was imposed to trample on voices that were raised against a family, he said, calling it a dark chapter in India's democracy.  BJP president J P Nadda paid tributes to those who fought against Emergency while suffering numerous atrocities. The Emergency was imposed by then prime minister Indira Gandhi for a 21-month period from 1975 to 1977, when curbs were imposed on the fundamental rights of people. Gandhi lifted Emergency in 1977 and called for Lok Sabha elections in which the Congress was handed a crushing defeat, its first ever since the country's Independence in 1947, by the combined opposition of Janata Party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/can-never-forget-dark-days-of-emergency-pm-modi-says-on-46th-anniversary-1001272.html
25-06-2021||National Politics||Chidambaram slams govt for insisting on polls in J&K before granting statehood||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Friday said it is bizarre that the government wants to hold elections in Jammu and Kashmir first and grant statehood later. He said the Congress and other parties in Jammu and Kashmir want statehood first and the elections later. "Congress and other J&K parties and leaders want Statehood first and Elections afterward. Government's response is Elections first and Statehood later," he said on Twitter. Congress and other J&K parties and leaders want Statehood first and Elections afterward. Government’s response is Elections first and Statehood later. "The horse pulls the cart. A state must conduct elections. Only such elections will be free and fair. Why does the government want the cart in front and the horse behind? It is bizarre," he added. Nearly two years after the bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir into two UTs and revocation of its special status, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held talks with top political leaders from the erstwhile state, and said the Centre's priority is to strengthen grassroots democracy there for which delimitation has to happen quickly so that polls can be held. Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who was also present at the meeting, had said that the delimitation exercise and holding of peaceful elections in the Union Territory are important milestones in restoring statehood as promised in Parliament. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chidambaram-slams-govt-for-insisting-on-polls-in-jk-before-granting-statehood-1001330.html
25-06-2021||National Politics||BJP accuses Kejriwal of 'criminal negligence' over 'inflated' oxygen requirement||Citing a Supreme Court-appointed audit panel's report, the BJP on Friday said the Delhi government "inflated" its oxygen requirement during the second wave of Covid-19 by four times and accused Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of "heinous crime" and "criminal negligence". Addressing a press conference, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra cited the report to note that the Delhi government had demanded 1,140 MT of the life-saving gas during the peak of the second wave even though it could utilise 209 MT. The requirement was 351 MT even if the panel went by the Delhi government's formula while it was 289 MT according to the central government's estimate, he said, adding that only 209 MT was expended while Kejriwal projected an requirement of 1,140 MT. "Imagine the amount of criminality. This is a heinous crime by Arvind Kejriwal. This is criminal negligence as the panel says he sought four times more oxygen than required. The report has exposed the politics he did to shift blame from his incompetence and failure to deal with Covid-19," Patra claimed. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, however, accused the BJP of lying about the existence of such a report. "There is no such report. We have spoken to the members of the Oxygen Audit Committee formed by the Supreme Court. They said they have not signed or approved any such report. Patra noted that many lives were lost in Delhi due to lack of oxygen and expressed hope that Kejriwal will be held accountable and punished by the Supreme Court. Due to Kejriwal's lies, he alleged, 12 states were affected as oxygen supply was diverted from them to meet the needs of the national capital. Patra said many lives could have been saved if the Delhi government had not inflated its needs, and states like Uttar Pradesh and Haryana had to suffer. "You were proving incompetent and a failure. You had to shift blame and for that you pressed false alarm and spread panic across the country," he said, attacking the Delhi chief minister for targeting the Modi government then for shortage in oxygen supply and meting out "step-motherly" treatment to Delhi. Patra said Mumbai and Delhi had 92,000 and 95,000 Covid cases respectively on May 3, and while the western city required 275 MT of oxygen, Delhi sought 900 MT. The Delhi chief minister works with the formula of "100 per cent advertisement and zero per cent Covid management", and spent over Rs 1,000 crore on advertisement, he said, alleging that Kejriwal has been doing similar politics on vaccination and ration programmes in the capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-accuses-kejriwal-of-criminal-negligence-over-inflated-oxygen-requirement-1001340.html
25-06-2021||North and Central||Dozens of bodies surface from sandy graves as Ganga breaches banks in Prayagraj||Dozens of bodies, which were buried in the sand, were seen floating in the Ganga river in Prayagraj, about 200 kilometres from Lucknow, after the water levels of the river rose sharply following incessant rains and discharge of water from the dams. Officials said the bodies, which were seen floating near Phaphamau Ghat, appeared to be of patients who died from Covid-19. According to sources in Prayagraj, more than 90 bodies have so far been cremated in accordance with rituals by the local administration. ''Some of the bodies appeared to be freshly buried... they were not decomposed,'' said a senior official on Friday. Sources said the bodies had started emerging out of the sandy graves since Thursday morning as the water level of the rivers began to rise. Officials said these bodies had been buried in sand pits, which were barely three to four feet deep, and were afloat after the river breached its banks following heavy rainfall in the past few days. ''We expect more bodies to surface once the water levels rise further as a large number of bodies are buried in such pits along the bank of Ganga in the district,'' the official said. Hundreds of bodies, mostly of Covid victims, were either dumped in the rivers or buried on their banks when the second wave of the pandemic was at its peak in the state. The state government later deployed security personnel along the banks of the major rivers to prevent the dumping of bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dozens-of-bodies-surface-from-sandy-graves-as-ganga-breaches-banks-in-prayagraj-1001278.html
25-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi made exaggerated claims for Oxygen during second Covid wave, used wrong formula, panel tells SC||A panel formed by the  Supreme Court for Oxygen audit of Delhi has said the government of National Capital Territory used a wrong formula and made exaggerated claims for O2, affecting supply in other States, during the peak of second wave of Covid-19 pandemic between April and May, amid dissent from two members. "It was not clear on what basis Delhi sought 700 MT in the top court when data collated by it for audit had gross errors," the sub-group said in its interim report. The panel headed by AIIMS director Randeep Guleria and comprising Subodh Yadav, joint secretary, Jal Shakti Ministry, Bhupinder S Bhalla, principal secretary (home), Government of NCT, Delhi, Sandeep Budhiraja of Max Hospital, Delhi and Sanjay Kumar Singh, controller of explosives, PESO was formed by the top court on May 6. Bhalla as well as Budhiraja, however, recorded their objections to the findings of the interim report.  "The manner in which the proceedings have been conducted, suggests that the purpose was to arrive at a pre-conceived and predetermined conclusion and narrative to recommend a lower quantity of Oxygen to Delhi and portray an impression that the assessment made by Delhi was exaggerated and not genuine," Bhalla wrote. The Delhi government's officer maintained that the panel's proceedings were "a perfunctory desktop exercise, conducted hurriedly", resulting into "erroneous entries and even more erroneous conclusions". The Delhi government further said it was "sad and shocking" that the panel arrived at sweeping conclusions without giving it an opportunity to explain. Budhiraja, who did not attend May 18 meeting of the sub-group, said despite request for circulation of minutes of the May 15 meeting, it was never done. The report triggered a war of words as BJP's spokesman Sambit Patra claimed Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's politics of shifting the blame for his incompetence stood exposed. Delhi's deputy CM Manish Sisodia, however, contended no such report by the committee existed as he spoke to members of the sub-group who denied approving any report. Indicting the Delhi government, the panel, for its part, found "gross discrepancy” in its claim of actual consumption of 1140 MT, which was four times higher than the calculated consumption of 289 MT in accordance with the bed capacity. It pointed out Delhi's four hospitals Singhal, Aryan Asaf Ali, ESIC Model and Liferay claimed extremely high LMO (Liquid Medical Oxygen) consumption with very few beds. "The claims appeared to be clearly erroneous leading to extremely skewed info and significantly higher Oxygen requirement," the report said. Following “recalculation”, the panel  said the actual consumption of 183 hospitals here as per data from Delhi government was 1140 MT. However, after correcting erroneous reporting by four hospitals, the figure was found as 209 MT.  It appeared the Delhi government used wrong formula and made exaggerated claims on April 30. Some hospitals could not differentiate between Kilolitre and Metric Tonne but this was not examined when 700 MT demand was projected, the panel in its interim report said. Citing a study by Petroleum and Oxygen Safety Organization (PESO), the panel noted that actual requirement of Delhi was much less than what was demanded, making other states such as Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir “suffer badly”. The report, prepared after carrying out a study between May 5 and 11, also contended that AAP government was neither auditing its usage of oxygen nor was assessing its realistic demand.    The Delhi government claimed its formula for Oxygen demand was based on ICMR guidelines but no such guidelines was placed before the panel, it said. During the crisis, the top court had repeatedly asked the Centre to maintain daily supply of 700 MT Oxygen to Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-made-exaggerated-claims-for-oxygen-during-second-covid-wave-used-wrong-formula-panel-tells-sc-1001295.html
25-06-2021||North and Central||Air India plane flies to Dubai from Amritsar with just one passenger||UAE-based Indian businessman S P Singh Oberoi was pleasantly surprised to have the whole plane to himself when he boarded Air India's flight from Amritsar to Dubai with an economy-class ticket in hand. Oberoi, who holds a golden visa that allows 10-year long residency in the UAE, was the sole passenger on the national carrier's Dubai-bound three-hour flight that departed from Amritsar around 3.45 am on Wednesday, an official said. During the flight, he snapped pictures with the crew members and paced up and down the aircraft multiple times without any hindrance. Air India did not respond to PTI's request for a statement on this matter. This was the third time in the last five weeks when a flight to Dubai had just one passenger. On May 19, a 40-year-old man named Bhavesh Javeri was the lone passenger on Emirates' Mumbai-Dubai flight. Three days later, another man named Oswald Rodrigues was the lone passenger on Air India's Mumbai-Dubai flight. Flights on India-Dubai routes were one of the most lucrative ones for carriers in the pre-pandemic times due to high demand. However, since the onset of the pandemic, traffic on India-Dubai routes have taken a major hit. India and its aviation sector had been especially reeling during April and May this year due to the pandemic's second wave, which is receding currently. India suspended its scheduled international flights on March 23, 2020, when the first wave struck the country. However, special international flights have been operating under Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under air bubble pacts formed with around 27 countries since July 2020. Flights between India and the UAE have also been operating under an air bubble arrangement. Under this, limited flights can be operated between the two countries with restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/air-india-plane-flies-to-dubai-from-amritsar-with-just-one-passenger-1001299.html
25-06-2021||North and Central||Wrestler Sushil Kumar to remain in jail as court extends judicial custody till July 9||A Delhi court on Friday extended the judicial custody of Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar till July 9 in connection with the alleged murder of a young wrestler at Chhatrasal Stadium here. Kumar was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Mayank Aggarwal at the end of the 14-day judicial custody. He is facing charges of murder, culpable homicide, and kidnapping. According to the counsel of the accused, he has been shifted to Tihar jail number 2 from Mandoli jail, where he was earlier lodged. Kumar, along with his associates, allegedly assaulted Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends at the stadium on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over an alleged property dispute. Dhankar, 23, succumbed to the injuries later. The police have claimed that Sushil Kumar is the “main culprit and mastermind” of the murder and said that there is electronic evidence wherein he and his associates could be seen beating Dhankar. Sushil Kumar was nabbed on May 23, along with co-accused Ajay Kumar Sehrawat. Till now, he has undergone police and judicial custody of 10 and 23 days, respectively. A total of 10 people, including Sushil Kumar, have been arrested so far in connection with the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wrestler-sushil-kumar-to-remain-in-jail-as-court-extends-judicial-custody-till-july-9-1001310.html
25-06-2021||North and Central||One terrorist dead in encounter with security forces in J&K's Shopian district||One unidentified terrorist was reportedly killed after an encounter broke out between security forces and militants in Hanjipora area of Shopian, according to news agency ANI. The operation is underway. Security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation in the Hanjipora area of Shopian district following information about presence of militants there, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire on the security forces personnel who retaliated. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-terrorist-dead-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jks-shopian-district-1001321.html
25-06-2021||North and Central||SBSP to support SP candidates in zila panchayat polls||The Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party, a former BJP ally, on Friday said it would support Samajwadi Party candidates in the election for the posts of zila panchayat chairman in Uttar Pradesh. The national president of the party and former minister, Om Prakash Rajbhar, also alleged that the Yogi Adityanth government was fuelling the issue of religious conversion to divert people's attention from its failures. "We will support  Samajwadi Party candidates in the election of zila panchayat chairman in the state. The winning zila panchayat members of the party would cooperate with the SP in the elections," he told PTI here.  Rajbhar said that he can do anything to stop the BJP and added that only the SP is capable of giving a reply to the saffron party. When asked whether his party would support the SP in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections as well, he said a decision in this regard would be taken at the right time as per the situation. Alleging that the BJP is adopting every trick to win the election for the post of zila panchayat chairman, Rajbhar said in Ballia, the BJP declared Supriya Yadav, who was a member of his (Rajbhar's) party and elected as zila panchayat member, its candidate by getting her to join the BJP on Thursday. The BJP had declared Yadav as its candidate from Ballia immediately after Divyangjan Empowerment Minister Anil Rajbhar inducted her into the party at the district office on Thursday . Rajbhar also alleged that people were suffering due to the policies of the Adityanath government. “The system has completely collapsed under the Yogi government. Common people are suffering from inflation, corruption and basic problems. The Yogi government has raised the issue of conversion to divert the attention of the public from these issues,” he charged. The election to the post of zila panchayat chairman is slated for July 3||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sbsp-to-support-sp-candidates-in-zila-panchayat-polls-1001331.html
25-06-2021||North and Central||FIR in Uttar Pradesh against news site over mosque demolition documentary||The Uttar Pradesh Police has filed an FIR against news portal 'The Wire', its two journalists and two others over a documentary on the demolition of a mosque here which, the administration said, was built illegally. The case has been registered against journalists Siraj Ali and Mukul S Chauhan, and two others -- Mohammad Anees and Mohammad Naeem -- who gave "provocative" statements in the documentary that spread "prejudiced, misleading and untrue" information, police said on Friday. The Barabanki administration had demolished the mosque on May 17, terming it an illegally constructed building and attributed its claim to an April 2 order of the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court. The mosque was located adjacent to the tehsil premises and opposite the SDM's residence. A video related to the Ramsanehi Ghat tehsil complex was shared by news portal 'The Wire' on its Twitter handle on June 23 in which "baseless" claims have been made, Superintendent of Police Yamuna Prasad said. "A case has been registered against The Wire on Thursday night on charges of spreading enmity and religious frenzy by broadcasting sensational, prejudiced, misleading and untrue things and making a malicious attempt to spoil communal amity. Instructions have been issued to initiate action," he said. In-charge of Kotwali police station Sachchidanand Rai said investigations are underway to find out who else was involved in "making provocative statements and spreading false information". The news portal has termed the police's charges "baseless", and accused the Uttar Pradesh government of "criminalising the work of journalists who are reporting what is happening in the state". "This is the fourth FIR filed by the UP Police in the past 14 months against The Wire and/or its journalists and each of these cases is baseless. The Adityanath government does not believe in media freedom and is criminalising the work of journalists who are reporting what is happening in the state," said The Wire's founding editor Siddharth Varadarajan in a statement on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fir-in-uttar-pradesh-against-news-site-over-mosque-demolition-documentary-1001337.html
25-06-2021||North and Central||My crime is I fought for the breath of 2 crore citizens: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||In face of the BJP's accusation of "criminal negligence" citing a report that the Delhi government "exaggerated" oxygen requirement during the second Covid-19 wave, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said his only "crime" was that he "fought for the breath of two crore people". He also said that those who lost their loved ones due to the shortage of oxygen should not be called "liars". A sub-group constituted by the Supreme Court to audit oxygen consumption in the national capital's hospitals has said that the Delhi government "exaggerated" consumption of the life-saving gas. The five-member panel, headed by AIIMS director Randeep Guleria, said that during the second wave of Covid-19 infections, the Delhi government had made claims for allocation of 700 MT of oxygen on April 30 using a "wrong formula". After the report came to light, the BJP accused Kejriwal of "heinous crime" and "criminal negligence". In reply to the allegation, Kejriwal took to Twitter to say, "My crime -- I fought for the breath of my two crore people. When you were doing an election rally, I was awake all night arranging for oxygen. I fought, pleaded to get oxygen for people." मेरा गुनाह-मैं अपने 2 करोड़ लोगों की साँसों के लिए लड़ा जब आप चुनावी रैली कर रहे थे, मैं रात भर जग कर Oxygen का इंतज़ाम कर रहा था। लोगों को ऑक्सिजन दिलाने के लिए मैं लड़ा, गिड़गिड़ाया लोगों ने ऑक्सिजन की कमी से अपनों को खोया है। उन्हें झूठा मत कहिए, उन्हें बहुत बुरा लग रहा है "People have lost their loved ones due to lack of oxygen. Don't call them liars, they are feeling so bad," he said in a tweet in Hindi. BJP leaders, including East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir and former Delhi minister Kapil Mishra, have slammed the Delhi government over the issue and demanded an apology over what they call is "criminal negligence". BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra termed it a "heinous crime". "Imagine the amount of criminality. This is a heinous crime by Arvind Kejriwal. This is criminal negligence as the panel says he sought four times more oxygen than required. The report has exposed the politics he did to shift blame from his incompetence and failure to deal with Covid-19," Patra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/my-crime-is-i-fought-for-the-breath-of-2-crore-citizens-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-1001345.html
25-06-2021||North and Central||Health services on halt as government doctors in Punjab strike||Health services were affected in Punjab on Friday as government doctors went on a day-long strike against the recommendations of the state's sixth pay commission related to non-practising allowance and pension benefits. Outpatient department (OPD) services remained suspended in government hospitals, with doctors at many places holding demonstrations. However, all emergency services, Covid-19-related work including duty of doctors in isolation wards, and vaccination continued as usual, Dr Gagandeep Singh, president of the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association, told PTI over phone. The strike call was given by the Joint Punjab Government Doctors Coordination Committee, which has members from the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association and is supported by the Punjab State Veterinary Officers Association, Rural Medical Officers Association, Punjab Dental Medical Officers Association and Punjab Ayurveda Officers Association. "We are against the decision to decrease Non-Practising Allowance and delinking NPA from basic pay. Besides, we are also objecting to the formula which they have used to calculate pension benefits," Singh said. Asked what medical services have been affected in view of the strike, Singh said, "OPDs, elective surgeries, official work, online consultations, these have been suspended in all government hospitals across Punjab -- from district hospitals to subsidiary health centres as well as in all ayurvedic dispensaries and homoeopathic clinics. The work in veterinary hospitals is also suspended." Singh said that in medical colleges in the state OPD and elective surgeries remained suspended. Dental OPDs also remained closed in government hospitals and health centres, he said. The Punjab government had on Thursday set up an oversight committee of ministers to resolve grievances of state government employees. The state government employees on Wednesday had gone on a five-day pen-down strike against the recommendations of the sixth pay commission. They employees were objecting to the formula used in calculation of pay increase. The Punjab government last week had decided to implement a majority of the recommendations of its sixth pay commission with effect from January 1, 2016, a move that will benefit over five lakh serving and retired employees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/health-services-on-halt-as-government-doctors-in-punjab-strike-1001361.html
25-06-2021||North and Central||Bank guard in UP opens fire at customer trying to enter without mask||A security guard posted at the Junction Road branch of Bank of Baroda here on Friday allegedly opened fire at a customer who was trying to force his way inside without a mask, police said. The customer, Rajesh Kumar, was seriously injured and admitted to the district hospital while the guard has been taken into police custody, Superintendent of Police (City)  Ravindra Kumar said. Rajesh Kumar had come to the bank for some work at around 11:30 am when an altercation took place with the guard, Keshav Prasad Mishra, who in anger shot at him, the SP said. According to eyewitnesses, the guard was heard repeatedly shouting before he was taken into custody that the customer was trying to force his way inside without a mask and abused him when he was checked for it. He also said that he had to open fire when the customer forcibly entered. The SP said the customer's statement will be recorded after he regains consciousness. Geeta Bhusal, senior manager of Bank of Baroda Junction Road branch said the forensic team of the police is checking the CCTV footage. The exact status of the incident will be known only after watching the footage, she added. After receiving information about the incident, IGP, Bareilly Range Ramit Sharma, SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan, SP City Ravindra Kumar and others reached the spot and the forensic team has started investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bank-guard-in-up-opens-fire-at-customer-trying-to-enter-without-mask-1001364.html
25-06-2021||North and Central||ED to probe money laundering angle in 'ISI funded conversion racket 'case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has registered a criminal case of money laundering in connection with alleged conversion of some deaf students and poor people to Islam in Uttar Pradesh with purported funding from Pakistani intelligence agency ISI, officials sources said on Friday. An Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR), the ED equivalent of a Police FIR, has been filed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), they said. The matter came to light after the UP Police anti-terrrorist squad (ATS) arrested two men, residents of Jamia Nagar in Delhi, earlier this week. The UP Police had identified the arrested accused as Mufti Qazi Jahangir Alam Qasmi and Mohammad Umar Gautam. The ATS claimed that they ran an outfit, named Islamic Dawah Center, that purportedly had access to funds from Pakistan's inter-services intelligence (ISI) and other foreign agencies to carry out their alleged illegal activities. The ED studied this FIR and registered the money laundering case. Its probe will be focused on the allegation that illicit funds were received from abroad and domestic sources and laundered by the accused and their associates, official sources said. The agency has powers to attach assets of the accused during the investigation stage and file charge sheet against them before a PMLA court later for prosecution and award of punishment that can range between three and seven years as prescribed under law. After the arrest, Uttar Pradesh Police ADG (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar had told the media that Gautam, who himself is a convert to Islam from Hinduism, boasted to the police of having converted at least 1,000 people to Islam, luring them with marriage, money and jobs. The officer said that the ATS had been working on the case after it obtained intelligence that some people were getting funds from ISI and other foreign agencies for converting poor people to Islam and spreading communal enmity in the society. The two were booked on various charges under the IPC and Uttar Pradesh's stringent anti-conversion law.  They, at present, are in police custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-to-probe-money-laundering-angle-in-isi-funded-conversion-racket-case-1001370.html
25-06-2021||North and Central||Infiltration bid foiled along LoC in J&K's Kupwara||An infiltration bid was foiled along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, officials said. Security forces foiled the infiltration bid in Tangdhar area, the officials said. Some arms and ammunition were left behind by the infiltrators. The recovery includes an AK-47 rifle, a pistol, two hand grenades and six packets of heroin worth Rs 30 crore, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/infiltration-bid-foiled-along-loc-in-jks-kupwara-1001372.html
25-06-2021||North and Central||NIA files charge sheet against 7 militants in Poonch conspiracy case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday filed a charge-sheet against seven Tehreek-ul-Mujahideen (TuM) militants before a special court in Jammu in connection with the Poonch conspiracy case. A spokesperson of the NIA said the accused have been charged under various sections of IPC, Arms Act, Explosive Substance Act and the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). The militants named in the charge sheet include Mohammad Mustafa Khan, Mohammad Yaseen, Mohammad Farooq, Mohammad Ibrar, Mohammad Javid Khan, Sher Ali and Mohammad Rafiq alias Sultan. “Investigation has revealed that the seven charge-sheeted accused persons were part of a deep-rooted criminal conspiracy by Pakistan-based handlers of TuM and their terror associates based in Poonch (J&K) and Kuwait to execute terrorist activities and wage war against the Indian State,” the NIA investigation revealed. “Absconding accused Rafiq and other handlers based in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir with the assistance of Sher Ali based in Kuwait,  Mustafa, Yaseen, Farooq, Ibrar, Javid and others on the Indian side of LoC in Poonch smuggled arms, ammunition, explosives, narcotics etc into the Indian territory,” it said and added the accused persons were taking advantage of geography, affinities of religion, culture and other ties cutting across both sides of the LoC. During the course of investigation, the NIA spokesperson said, a large cache of arms, ammunition, explosives, narcotics along with flag, posters and other incriminating material belonging to TuM outfit, which was hidden at different places in Poonch was recovered. Further investigation in the case continues, he said. The case was initially registered by J&K Police at Mendhar police station in Poonch after the arrest of Mustafa and recovery of six hand grenades along with other incriminating documents from his residence on 27 December 2020. Later on March 16 this year, the NIA re-registered the case and took over the investigation into it. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-files-charge-sheet-against-7-militants-in-poonch-conspiracy-case-1001405.html
25-06-2021||North and Central||Active Pakistani terrorists in Kashmir declined over the years, says Army officer||The number of Pakistani terrorists active in Kashmir has been dropping over the years due to several reasons like terror financing watchdog FATF’s pressure on Islamabad and these militants keeping a distance and working only as advisors, a senior Army officer said on Friday. He said the neighbouring country's attempt to project the situation in the Valley as an "indigenous freedom struggle" has also contributed to the decreased number of active Pakistani terrorists here. "The Pakistani terrorists have been directed, since the last three to four years, to keep a distance and work as advisors. There are two sides to it. The first is that if a Pakistani terrorist is not killed, the complicity of our neighbouring country is seen less. They have pressure from Paris-based Financial Action Task Force (FATF) and others," General Officer Commanding of strategic Chinar Corps of the Army, Lt Gen D P Pandey told reporters at a function here. He said the longer strategy formulated by Pakistan is to use killing of terrorists during encounters to fuel “anti-national” sentiments. "When you kill a Kashmiri youth who has been a terrorist for five-six months, a family is established against our country, it becomes unhappy. So, then (it involves) his extended family, his friends, the village. This is their (Pakistan) strategy. They coordinate in the background, they motivate a young child, radicalise him, hand him guns without any training, push him forward and when he is killed, things follow. “It is their strategy to show it (militancy) as an indigenous movement where the whole effort is local. When they kill someone, a message comes within half-an-hour that this is local Kashmiri freedom struggle," he added. Giving more details, the Corps Commander said only two foreign militants were killed in Kashmir this year. "Our counter-infiltration grid has been very strong for the last few years, which means that less number of foreign militants were able to infiltrate…,” he said. He also said the security situation in the Kashmir Valley of the last few years cannot be compared with that of the last two to three decades. "It (security) has improved much. There are many things to it - abrogation of (Article) 370, development, having a good control and other things. But, an important aspect is the presence of foreign terrorists - which are all from Pakistan and it is not like a mix from some other countries…,” he said. Lt Gen Pandey said one should not see everything from the prism of terrorist numbers as terrorism has two factors -- 'terror' and 'ism'. "This 'ism', this nexus which lives on the money, is still there and we have to break it, which is not a work of one or two years, but many years. Some people from Kashmiri diaspora, sitting in foreign countries, want the youth here to pick guns. “They incite poison and get money. The youth--who have problems in their homes, their education, their debts, are poor and illiterate--are getting killed. Until the civil society in Kashmir understands it, stops it and exposes them, this cycle will continue," he said. Asked if the improvement in situation warranted a withdrawal of the Armed Forces Special Powers Act, the Army officer said the law was needed as terrorists were a floating population, moving from one place to another. "There is a need for the security forces to ensure that the people feel safe and secure, and durable peace is established because the situation in Kashmir, due to various reasons, can very well shift very fast," he added. Lt General Pandey also dismissed opinions that involvement in counter-insurgency operations was compromising the Army's operational capabilities in conventional warfare. "The Indian Army's training and focus is always on the conventional training. CI/CT operations is our number two task. We are here in a supporting role. The J-K police and the civil administration work and when they need us, they call us and we operate there,” he stressed. On heavy artillery being moved to Ladakh, the Corps Commander said these are normal "turnover processes". "Everyone knows China's activities across the LAC, so a balance of force is maintained and we act on that," he said. Asked if the withdrawal of foreign troops from Afghanistan was a cause of concern in respect of the security situation in Jammu and Kashmir, Lt Gen Pandey said the situation here has changed from the past 30 years. "I think there are two options, maybe some people will come here, but I assure you that whenever anyone tries to come, the control of J-K Police (over the situation) is very strong, and no wrong act will be allowed in Kashmir,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/active-pakistani-terrorists-in-kashmir-declined-over-the-years-says-army-officer-1001419.html
25-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi's 'Baba ka Dhaba' owner discharged from hospital||South Delhi eatery 'Baba ka Dhaba' owner Kanta Prasad has returned home after being discharged from the Safdarjung hospital, police said on Friday. Prasad, 81, attempted suicide on June 17, police had earlier said. He had consumed alcohol and sleeping pills following which he was admitted to the hospital, police officials had said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said Prasad returned home after being discharged from the hospital on Thursday and is currently taking rest at his home. Prasad told the police that he was getting calls from various people asking him to apologise to YouTuber Gaurav Wasan, said a senior officer. Prasad felt depressed and took the extreme step, the senior police officer said, adding that no case has been registered in this matter so far. "I was discharged on Thursday. I just want Wasan to stay happy and leave us on our own," Prasad said after coming back home. However, Wasan told PTI that he has no idea who all were calling Prasad. "How would I know who was calling him and asking him to apologise to me? When I saw him on the media apologising (to me), I went to meet him. He was saying sorry to me. I felt bad and asked him not to say so as he is elder than me. "I never blamed him and said anything against him. I have also uploaded a video on my social media handle when I met him last time at his dhaba," Wasan said. On June 17, the police received information from the Safdarjung Hospital that Prasad had been admitted there. The police reached the hospital and collected the MLC (medico-legal case) which mentions intake of alcohol and sleeping pills as the cause of unconsciousness. The statement of Prasad's son Karan was recorded. He said said in the statement that his father consumed alcohol along with sleeping pills. Prasad shot into the limelight last year when a video of him tearfully talking about the lack of customers at his eatery and his financial woes went viral, triggering an outpouring of support in cash and kind from all over the country. The video was shot and uploaded by Wasan. Later, the octogenarian filed a complaint against Wasan for alleged misappropriation of funds raised through donations. Prasad went on to open a restaurant. However, he faced losses and had to shut it down. Recently, Prasad returned to his 'dhaba' and apologised to Wasan. The YouTuber visited Prasad and accepted his apology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-baba-ka-dhaba-owner-discharged-from-hospital-1001428.html
25-06-2021||North and Central||No smiles in Kashmir after politicians' meet with PM Modi in Delhi||For the region stripped of its special status on August 5, 2019, the topmost politicians of Jammu and Kashmir, including four former chief ministers, couldn’t bring home any smiles after a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on June 24. With no assurances from the PM over restoration of statehood, domicile rules, job guarantees or land rights at a meeting that stretched over three hours in the national capital, public reaction was quite visible, right from the streets of Kashmir to the virtual world of social media. While many are ridiculing the leaders from parties, including National Conference, Peoples Democratic Party, Peoples Conference and the Apni Party in particular, others call it a fixed match, which the local politicians had been longing for. “New Delhi has always breached trust of Kashmiris and local politicians have always been hand-in-glove with the Centre. This time too, New Delhi is trying to show to the international community that all is well in Kashmir and, for that reason, a fixed match was held with Kashmiri politicians in Delhi,” Shahid Ahmad, a college student, told DH. He also has a word of caution for Kashmiri politicians. “New Delhi even didn’t spare late Sheikh Abdullah, who offered Kashmir on a platter to India. He was jailed, humiliated (in 1953) and when they (New Delhi) felt they needed him again, he was released and given power in 1975. They have been repeating the same formula time and again. But I can’t blame New Delhi as our own politicians are power-hungry,” Ahmad rued. His views were echoed by Mushtaq Dar, a shopkeeper in old city Srinagar, who believes that politicians are responsible for the mess Kashmir is in. “Speaking one language in Delhi and one in Srinagar has been a hallmark of Kashmiri politicians over the decades and it has not changed. But, now they can’t fool people with their antics anymore,” he said. NC leader and an influential Shia leader from Budgam, Aga Syed Ruhullah, who had asked some tough questions from the leaders going for the talks, in a tweet said: “A human does not turn himself into a dog for a piece of bone! (sic).” Dr Khawar Khan, a registrar at Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar while ridiculing Gupkar Alliance leaders, tweeted, “They were a gang 70 years back, they were a gang on August 5, 2019 and they are a gang now. Blood hungry political mafia who have landed us into what we are in (sic).” Musadiq Shah, a Kashmiri businessman, while ridiculing the Kashmiri politicians, wrote on Facebook: “This hyped meeting was a dictation for delimitation and further elimination of Kashmir.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-smiles-in-kashmir-after-politicians-meet-with-pm-modi-in-delhi-1001436.html
25-06-2021||North and Central||Monsoon Session of Chhattisgarh Assembly to begin on July 26||The monsoon session of the Chhattisgarh legislative Assembly will begin from July 26 and will have five sittings, an Assembly official said on Friday. As per an official notification, the 11th session of the fifth Chhattisgarh legislative Assembly will begin on July 26 and conclude on July 30. There will be Question Hour on all five days, along with works pertaining to financial and government affairs, the notification issued by Chandra Shekhar Gangrade, principal secretary of the Chhattisgarh Assembly stated. On the last day a time slot of two and a half hours has been allotted for non-government affairs, it was stated. As the session will be held amid the Covid-19 crisis, precautionary guidelines for it will be issued later, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/monsoon-session-of-chhattisgarh-assembly-to-begin-on-july-26-1001437.html
25-06-2021||North and Central||Another consignment of 6 kg heroin recovered along LoC in Kashmir||While foiling an infiltration bid along the Line of Control (LoC) in Tanghdar area of north Kashmir’s Kupwara district, police and security forces on Saturday recovered six kg of heroin besides arms and ammunition. “Police along with army’s 7-Rashtriya Rifles and 87 Battalion BSF foiled an infiltration bid at Tangdhar area and recovered arms, ammunition and drugs left behind by the infiltrators. It includes one AK47, one pistol, two grenades besides six packets of heroin (market value approx Rs 30 crore),” the police said in a statement. The latest recovery of the drug came just two days after a similar consignment of 27 kg of heroin was recovered by the BSF along the Indo-Pak international border in Hiranagar sector of Kathua district in Jammu. After the recovery of heroin in Kathua, BSF Jammu frontier DIG SPS Sandhu had said the consignment was part of Pakistan’s narco-terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. Last Saturday J&K police busted a narco-terror module in north Kashmir's Baramulla district and arrested 10 people with a huge quantity of heroin, worth Rs 45 crore, along with arms and ammunition. Earlier on May 23, J&K police had busted another Pakistan sponsored narco-terror module and recovered eight kilograms of heroin worth 50 crore in the market from frontier Kupwara district. On April 14, security forces recovered 10 kilograms of narcotics with an approximate value of Rs 50 crore in the international market along the LoC in the Kupwara district. A similar consignment of deadly heroin, whose estimated market value, as per the police, is somewhere between Rs 50-60 crores, was seized on April 8 along the LoC in the same district. These recoveries, police say, have clearly shown that the cross border narco-terror threat has become a major area of concern in Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/another-consignment-of-6-kg-heroin-recovered-along-loc-in-kashmir-1001445.html
25-06-2021||North and Central||UP to do genome sequencing of Covid test samples of passengers from states with Delta Plus||Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday put the Uttar Pradesh health authorities on alert against the emergence of new coronavirus variant Delta-Plus detected in some parts of the country. In a bid to shield UP from the onslaught of the new variant, the chief minister has asked the state’s health authorities to start genome sequencing of RT-PCR samples of train, air or road passengers coming to UP from states where delta-Plus variant has been detected. Acting on the recommendations of the state's health experts' advisory panel, the chief minister also ordered the collection of samples from the UP districts bordering the states where cases of delta-Plus variant have been detected and get their genome sequencing done in UP itself. "For delta-Plus variant, genome sequencing of more and more samples should be done. Genome sequencing of those coming from railway, bus and air route should also be done,” Additional Chief Secretary (Information) Navneet Sehgal said in an official statement. The statement said the samples should also be taken from districts bordering states where the virus’ delta-Plus variant was detected and as per results of the tests, mapping of delta Plus variant should be done, Sehgal said. “This will help in taking preventive measures from this new variant," he said in the statement, adding the chief minister gave the directions after chairing a high-level meeting to take stock of the Covid situation in the state and the emerging threat from its delta-Plus variant. The chief minister also asked the Health Department to expedite the process of setting up ICUs for children, including the newborn ones, across the state, amid the fears that a possible third wave will affect children more. The chief minister gave the directions following the strategy, chalked out by the state-level health experts’ advisory panel, which has also recommended a high level of public awareness about the threats from the new as well as existing variants of the virus. The chief minister also ordered upgrading the facilities and infrastructure at the KGMU, Lucknow or BHU Medical College and Hospital, Varanasi, which too have begun genome sequencing. Till now samples were being sent to Pune for genome-sequencing but now with the start of the high-end investigation in the state itself, they will not have to be sent outside the state, the statement said. The state government will also conduct door-to-door distribution of 'special medicine kits' with syrups and chewable tablets for children showing influenza-like symptoms of cold and cough, the statement said. It added that the distribution of the medicine kits for children will be undertaken by over four lakh members of 60,569 surveillance committees in rural areas from June 27, the CM said. “Everyone must follow the Covid-19 protocols and ensure 100 per cent usage of double masks, sanitisers along with social distancing and maintenance of personal hygiene,” the CM said. He mentioned that the five-fold strategy of “Tracing, Testing, Treatment, Covid-appropriate behaviour and Vaccination (TTT-CV) implemented with utmost seriousness will be effective in curbing any further spread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-to-do-genome-sequencing-of-covid-test-samples-of-passengers-from-states-with-delta-plus-1001479.html
25-06-2021||North and Central||No option but to talk to Centre: J&K leaders||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting, leaders from J&K said they had no option but to join the talks as it was the Centre that could offer any solution to their problems. A section of the leaders rued that they did not get any concrete assurances from the Prime Minister over the “concerns, demands and aspirations” voiced during the three-and-a-half hour meeting on Thursday afternoon. “If there is any power which can affect the change in J&K, it is this government. There is no other option than to talk to the Center,” People's Conference leader Sajjad Lone, who served as minister in the PDP-BJP government, told DH. Most of the J&K leaders were placed under house arrest for months together since the scrapping of Article 370 and bifurcation of the state into two union territories on August 5, 2019. However, all the leaders attended the meeting called by the Prime Minister without any rancour. “First of all it was the Prime Minister who had called for a meeting. You have to give respect to the office of the Prime Minister,” PDP President and former J&K Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti said, adding that perhaps the prime minister had sensed the anger among the people in J&K and decided to reach out to those who believe in the middle ground. The leaders, however, had divergent views on holding of elections. While Congress veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad favoured restoration of statehood followed by elections, Mufti wanted the Centre to take some confidence building measures before going for polls. Senior BJP leader Kavinder Gupta said though Mufti made a demand for restoration of Article 370, she had also accepted the reality that this government was not ready to accede to the demand. “She referred to BJP’s 70-year agenda of scrapping Article 370 and said her party would continue to fight for its restoration,” Gupta told DH. Senior BJP leader Nirmal Singh said it was not the right time to speak about restoration of statehood as the Prime Minister has assured on the floor of Parliament and even on Thursday that it would happen at an appropriate time. Singh termed as a positive development on the agreement to allow the delimitation process to be completed before calling for elections. CPI (M) senior leader and Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration spokesperson, Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami said the J&K leaders they did not get any concrete assurances from the Centre over their “concerns, demands and aspirations''. Lone said the BJP has a very strong ideological agenda and “we have to be realistic at what they can deliver.” Apni Party president Syed Mohammad Altaf Bukhari expressed gratitude to the Centre for initiating a dialogue with the political leaders of J&K.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-option-but-to-talk-to-centre-jk-leaders-1001500.html
25-06-2021||North and Central||General M M Naravane visits Army's training command in Shimla||Army Chief Gen MM Naravane on Friday visited the Army's training command in Shimla where he was apprised about steps taken to make professional military education more contemporary and responsive to the current challenges. Officials said Gen Naravane was briefed about new initiatives like technological infusion in training of troops considering future battlefield scenarios. "The Chief of Army Staff was briefed on a range of issues including strategic - military futures, doctrinal corrections, operational challenges and preparedness, technological infusion and training pedagogy," the Army said. "Gen Naravane was apprised about a number of initiatives being undertaken to maximise the effectiveness of the Indian Army and steps taken to make professional military education more contemporary and responsive to current challenges," it said.   The Chief of Army Staff also called on Himachal Pradesh Governor Bandaru Dattatraya, the Army said in a statement.           "Later, the Army Chief and the President, Army Wives Welfare Association (AWWA), interacted and honoured the next of kin of Sepoy Ankush, Sena Medal (Posthumous), who had made the supreme sacrifice during the Galwan standoff on the Northern borders in June 2020," the Army added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/general-m-m-naravane-visits-armys-training-command-in-shimla-1001526.html
25-06-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan’s first case of Delta Plus variant found in Bikaner||The first case of the Delta Plus variant of coronavirus in Rajasthan has been found in Bikaner. The sample of a woman who was tested positive for coronavirus was sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune on May 30 for genome sequencing and her test report came on Friday. “The Delta-plus variant was found in the woman's sample. She has already recovered from the Covid infection,” Bikaner’s Chief Medical and Health Officer, Dr O P Chahar, said. He said it was the first confirmed case of the Delta-plus variant in the state. “She was asymptomatic and has recovered completely. She had already received both doses of Covaxin,” Dr Chahar said. The CMHO said the sampling will be conducted on Saturday in the Bangla Nagar area where the woman lives. The Medical and Health Department’s joint director, Dr Devendra Chaudhary, said the woman is aged 65 years. The Covid-19 tally in Rajasthan, meanwhile, rose to 9,51,826 on Friday with 131 fresh cases, officials said. The death toll stood at 8,905 as no new fatality was reported in the state due to coronavirus. Of the 131 cases, 17 were reported from Jodhpur, among others. A total of 9,41,048 patients have recovered from the disease so far and there are 1,873 active cases in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-s-first-case-of-delta-plus-variant-found-in-bikaner-1001528.html
25-06-2021||North and Central||Chardham Yatra to open partially for locals from July 1||Uttarakhand Cabinet on Friday decided to partially open the Chardham yatra for locals in limited numbers from July 1.           Briefing reporters about the Cabinet's decision, state government's spokesman Subodh Uniyal said Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri will be opened for residents of Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi districts respectively from July 1 with a cap on the number of pilgrims to visit the temples daily.         Bringing a negative RT-PCR/Rapid Antigen test report will be mandatory for every pilgrim and the SOPs to be followed by them while visiting the temples will be issued separately, Uniyal said.              A senior official will be appointed for each of the four Himalayan temples who will coordinate with the district administration concerned about the arrangement for pilgrims, he added.         Asked whether the Chardham yatra will open for pilgrims from across the state from July 11 as planned earlier, the spokesman said it will depend on the overall Covid-19 situation.      "There are predictions about the third wave and the Delta mutant of the pandemic. That will have to be taken into account before we go ahead with the decision to open the yatra for the whole of the state. The Cabinet will sit again to take a call on that," Uniyal said.         The Uttarakhand High Court had recently reprimanded the state government for the "haste" being shown in opening the Chardham yatra and asked it to either suspend or defer it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chardham-yatra-to-open-partially-for-locals-from-july-1-1001569.html
25-06-2021||Opinion||Why an all-party meet on Jammu and Kashmir||Not the one to undergo a sudden change of heart, particularly on issues close to his personal ideological beliefs - Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) among one of the core issues - Prime Minister Narendra Modi's move to call an all-party was more baffling than surprising. What has led to this sudden change of heart? Interestingly, it has happened sooner than expected. It was not long ago that the invitees to the meeting were vilified and incarcerated. So, is the invite an admission that the Modi government's RSS driven agenda on J&K - post the partial abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution and annulling Article 35A - has failed? Second, suddenly, the National Conference (NC) patriarch Farooq Abdullah and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti figured in Modi's scheme of things. These are the same leaders who, alongside Congress, were blamed by the hosts of the June 24, 2021, all-party meeting for having misgoverned, annihilated and looted Kashmir. The two leaders of the Kashmir centric parties, more so Ms Mufti, were targeted for allegedly kowtowing to the Pakistan line. Against this backdrop, convening an all-party meeting with the participation of both the NC and PDP gives a sense that not only has the Centre's earlier gameplan in J&K failed to deliver, but political and diplomatic expediencies have forced it to revert to old warhorses in the Union Territory. Interestingly, both the parties have been allies of the BJP-led NDA at one point or another. It implies that the new political experiment the Modi government has tried, particularly in Kashmir, has failed to deliver as expected. It is almost two years now that the state of J&K was bifurcated into two UTs with a vow by the Centre and the ruling BJP to create a new political order bereft of Abdullahs, Muftis and even the Congress, to fulfil the dream of a "New Kashmir". But, nothing of the sort happened. There is no denying that the Centre convened the all-party meeting under the shadow of developments in Afghanistan, with the Taliban raring to take over the country's reins. It is feared this might adversely impact Kashmir, where militancy has been by and large under control but certainly not over yet. But, more than this, the local domestic political/electoral compulsions have forced the ruling dispensation to take the much delayed political initiative involving all parties. The Centre/BJP's experiment to create an alternative political force through PDP turncoat and former finance minister in the PDP-BJP alliance government, Altaf Bukhari, who has floated a new political outfit, Apni Party, comprising defectors from different political parties, and ilks of Peoples Conference's Mr Sajad Lone- who incidentally was an ally and minister in the same government could not prove their worth. It is another matter that Lone made a common cause with Farooq Abdullah and Ms Mufti to join the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) only to quit under mysterious circumstances. With the NC and PDP under constant check with their leaders in house arrest and the Congress not in the PM's scheme of things, and neither the Bukhari-Lone experiment nor the much-talked emergence of new leadership order as an outcome of the District Development Council elections, taking place, the options with the Centre were limited. Thus, the only workable course of action left was to initiate a political process by roping mainstream political parties. It is a hard fact that despite their best efforts and pumping in resources, the BJP has not been able to find a foothold in the Valley. These factors pointed towards the ignominy of a political vacuum occurring in the Union Territory, particularly Kashmir. The fear that Pakistan-backed militant outfits might benefit from this situation by exploiting people's sentiments over the withdrawal of special status and statehood forced the government to convene an all-party meeting hurriedly. Since both NC and PDP still enjoy ground support in the Valley with pockets of influence in the Jammu region and the Congress having a pan J&K presence, it became a compulsion for the Modi dispensation to involve them in the political initiative. The fact of the matter is that no political initiative would have been possible without the three under the prevailing circumstances. There is also the growing public disenchantment with the governing system in the Jammu region, the stronghold of the BJP. In the aftermath of the dilution of Article 370, measures such as land and job protection for locals have not been implemented. There is accompanying economic distress due to the ineffectiveness of the post Article 370 regime, which the Covid-19 pandemic has worsened. Over-riding all these factors is political empowerment, which has different dimensions but is a common concern in the Jammu and Kashmir regions. While Jammu's ire on regional disparities have remained unaddressed despite overwhelming electoral support that the BJP received in the last five elections of different levels, Kashmir's identity crisis is directly related to the dilution of Article 370 and related issues. Interestingly, statehood demand has become a common link between the two regions that otherwise have different perspectives on many issues. The issue of identity and political empowerment is as serious even in the adjoining Union Territory of Ladakh. Coincidentally, on the eve of the all-party meeting, the apex committee for People's Movement of Ladakh demanded a Legislative Assembly for the hilly desert and bringing the area under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution that protects tribal rights. Interestingly, a former BJP MP, Thupstan Tsewang, heads the apex committee. One of its active members is the party's sitting MP and a close Amit Shah acolyte, Jamyang Tsering Namgyal, along with representatives from other political parties. At best, the all-party meeting can be termed as an ice-breaking exercise. Holding elections would be the first step towards political empowerment. The issues of regional identity and its protection need to be addressed as per the people's aspirations to make political initiatives such as this viable and result oriented. (The writer is an independent journalist who writes on Jammu and Kashmir) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-an-all-party-meet-on-jammu-and-kashmir-1001307.html
25-06-2021||Opinion||World universities rankings: Are they necessary?||The Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) ranking of world universities has just been published for the year 2022. There is much jubilation in India at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) being ranked the top research university in the world. I am delighted that IISc is ranked at the top as one can look at the rankings critically without being subjected to the criticism that this is just a case of sour grapes. So, we should take a critical look at the ranking process and ask ourselves how justified IISc's rank vis-à-vis those ranked at par or below IISc in research? These other universities include well-known centres of education and research such as MIT, Harvard University, Caltech, Stanford University, University of California - Berkeley and Cambridge University. Therefore, it is vital to analyse the validity of research rankings and not place so much importance on IISc's rank that we become complacent about our research performance. It is quite ludicrous that the performance of entire institutes can be quantified and reduced to a single number, much like an individual's abilities are quantified by her of his IQ. After all, education and research involve the interplay of creativity, innovation and mentoring, and are much too complex to be reduced to a single performance metric. Human nature is to compare and quantify, and as long as people are willing to value rankings, there will be companies to do the task. But it is for people in decision-making capacities to view these critically and not make major decisions only based on the rankings. The QS ranking system works by considering six criteria. These are: 1) academic reputation, 2) reputation, as perceived by employers, 3) faculty/student ratio, 4) citations per faculty, 5) the ratio of international faculty to national faculty, and 6) the ratio of international students to national students. The first criterion – academic reputation – is decided by a survey conducted among about 100,000 experts in teaching and research. The subjective perception of these experts governs the score for academic standing, yet this criterion carries the most weight of 40 per cent in determining rankings. A similar survey conducted among about 50,000 responses from employers regarding the second criterion contributes 10 per cent weight to the ranking system. Thus, half of the intangibles decide maximum ranking points. The remaining four criteria can be quantified based on the data provided by universities. The faculty-to-student ratio of a university carries a weight of 20 per cent. However, a larger faculty-to-student ratio does not always translate to better instruction for students. In many research institutes, support faculty such as scientific and technical officers are counted as teaching faculty, although they are only marginally involved in teaching. In many universities and institutes, well-established senior faculty are less accessible to students. They are often less involved in the institution's academic activities as they tend to be busy working in various committees, nationally and internationally. Another criterion is the citations per faculty, and this parameter constitutes 20 per cent of the ranking points. Citations are the number of times other publications cite a published paper. However, in scientific circles, to boost citations for one's papers, one has to circulate among scientists by attending conferences, inviting other scientists for seminars and personally socialising one's ideas. So, the number of citations may scale more with the visibility of the paper than the true scientific impact of the work. It is also not uncommon to see citing a work to discredit it; this counts as a citation nevertheless. Notwithstanding these well-known drawbacks, the number of citations remains one of the leading metrics used by the research community and funding agencies to judge research performance. For the QS rankings, the citations received per faculty over the five years starting from seven years before the assessment are considered. The citations that count towards ranking exclude self-citations, namely, publications that cite the authors' own papers. Citation count is also normalised against the total citations in the field, as not all fields have the same number of researchers or total publications. Citations can sometimes lead to incorrect conclusions. An example is Panjab University, which was ranked the top Indian university/institute in Times Higher Education ranking of Asian institutes in 2013, upstaging all other institutes that have continuously outperformed Panjab University on almost all metrics. The anomaly was attributed to many citations received by a few faculty and their students who were joint authors on papers on the discovery of the Higgs boson at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) run by CERN in Switzerland. A few thousand authors from a few hundred universities and institutes authored these papers. Besides such anomalies, usually the impact of a paper is not realised within the span of a few years of its publication. The impact of a paper is judged better by the longevity of its citations. Thus, restricting citations of publications to just a few years is flawed. Instead, the total citations received by all papers published from the beginning of an institute or university over the previous five years may be a better metric. Although I am generally opposed to the idea of ranking, this new way of reckoning citations score will weigh pioneering publications that have remained important over long periods. In another ranking system, the number of papers published by an institute was used as a parameter in deciding rankings. This led to an anomaly in the rankings in 2010 and involved the University of Alexandria. In that year's rankings, the University of Alexandria was surprisingly placed very high. This anomaly was traced to a single professor's practice of misusing his position as an editor of a journal to publish a large number of articles in that journal. The remaining two metrics, namely fraction of international faculty and international students, are driven by sociological, financial and geographical aspects of where an institute is located. Although these two criteria have the least weight, they have the possibility of unfairly favouring one institute over the other for mostly non-academic reasons. The question of whether it is necessary and desirable to rank universities and institutes is a moot point. Many universities often resort to window-dressing the data to improve their rankings. Often, they have personnel entrusted with finding ways to improve the rankings and embellish the achievements of students and faculty. Many a time, scarce resources are frittered away in showcasing the institute. Critical evaluation of the ranking system has become important as funding agencies find it an easy metric to base their decisions on it. The ranking process is further encouraged by the scientific publishing machinery (which is already a money-spinning business). It has a lot more to profit when researchers tend to increase their publication numbers to improve the institute's ranking, besides contributing to increasing their own individual metrics. I believe that just as we should do away with marks and ranks for the students in exams (which I have written about in Deccan Herald May 16, 2019), we should also do away with the ranking of universities. Instead, it is sufficient to divide universities into different tiers and let the clientele, who need to decide, to delve deeper to find what suits them. Such a tier-based division can also be done for specific categories such as best faculty, best campus, best peer group and so forth. It will certainly help prospective students and their parents to make decisions based on categories they care most about, instead of bestowing bragging rights for institutes or universities to advertise themselves. (The author is an Emeritus Professor and an INSA Senior Scientist in the Solid State and Structural Chemistry Unit, Indian Institute of Science) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/world-universities-rankings-are-they-necessary-1001319.html
25-06-2021||Opinion||Options when inflation is eating into your fixed deposits||Retail inflation accelerated to a six-month high of 6.3 per cent in May, making actual returns negative for bank depositors. Fixed deposit rates of banks are around 5 per cent. State Bank of India – the country’s largest lender – offers 5 per cent for one year to less than two-year deposits and 5.1 per cent for two years to less than three years. Inflation is not likely to come down substantially soon. Earlier this month, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had projected 5.1 per cent Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation for the current financial year. However, the projection could be revised upward as there are upside risks to inflation due to the hardening of crude oil prices and domestic supply constraints. In the previous financial year, average inflation was 6.22 per cent. Neither are interest rates of fixed deposits going to increase anytime soon, at least not in the current financial year. The central bank has clearly said it would continue with its ultra-loose stance of the monetary policy by providing sufficient liquidity in the banking system and keeping interest rates low until economic growth revives on a sustainable basis. In such a scenario, what are the options for retail investors? Although limited, there are few options with similar risk profiles which offer better returns than bank fixed deposits. RBI bond: Such bonds are issued by the Government of India, hence much less risky than even bank fixed deposits. The interest of the bond, which is linked to the national savings certificate, is altered half-yearly. The interest rate between January 1 and June 30 is fixed at 7.15 per cent. Half-yearly interest is payable on January 1 / July 1. “If you can lock in money and are comfortable from a cash perspective, you can go for an RBI bond, which has a floating interest rate. The return will always be higher than the bank fixed deposit rate. At least you should be able to remain afloat as far as inflation is concerned, on a pre-tax basis,” says Surya Bhatia, a New Delhi-based financial investment advisor. The only drawback of this scheme is that money is locked in for seven years and five years for senior citizens. Post office Senior Citizen Savings Scheme (SCSS): This is an option for citizens above 60 years. At present, the interest rate offered is 7.4 per cent, paid quarterly. If an account holder does not claim the interest payable every quarter, such interest shall not earn additional interest. The maximum amount one individual can invest in this scheme is Rs 15 lakh. The account can be closed after five years from opening by submitting a prescribed application form with a passbook at the concerned Post Office. Bonds and NCDs: This is a scheme for someone who already has a regular income. These bonds and non-convertible debentures are available in the secondary market. Depending on the risk one is willing to take, the returns vary between 6.5-7 per cent to 9.5 -10 per cent. “An AA rated bond – for example, a Bank of Baroda perpetual bond – you will get at 7.5 per cent in the secondary market. The only thing is, it is available in the secondary market in the Rs 10 lakh lot, that is, one has to invest at least Rs 10 lakh in these bonds. So, to that extent, there is that constraint,” said Suresh Sadagopan, a certified financial planner. While there was an issue with the perpetual bonds of Yes Bank – when the SBI and other lender were helping revive the bank – the Additional Tier-I bonds were written down. Apart from institutional investors, retail participation was also there in those bonds that lost their money. Analysts see such an event as an exception. “Whatever has happened in Yes Bank probably is not going to happen in the case of Bank of Baroda,” says Sadagopan. Debt mutual funds: The risk profile of the debt mutual fund products is like fixed deposits. “For example, Bharat Bond fund has the potential to give 6.5-6.7 per cent. It is a debt mutual fund-long duration product - so the tax treatment beyond three years will be favourable. It has liquidity, which is at any point you can get out of that. The advantage is it is very secure because underlying investments are in AAA-rated PSU bonds. So, if you do not want income regularly, then this is an option – better than FDs, with minimal risk,” Sadagopan said. Another option is the government Gilt Funds. These are the schemes that invest in central and state government securities issued by the Reserve Bank of India. While returns were not very attractive last year, some funds with a moderate risk profile have given returns over 9 per cent in the three-year period. However, gilt funds can be volatile at times, so investors should take a medium to long term view. PSU bond index fund is also available for investment which is a high-quality bond. “If you hold it for five years, you are assured of getting a return of 6 per cent. And because it is a mutual fund, you can benefit from long term capital gains. The only challenge is you do not have an income given over there. In that case, you can start a systematic withdrawal plan,” Bhatia said. One suggestion that the financial planner offers is that, currently, one should invest in the short term because returns will be better after a year or so. “What we see today is not likely to go on forever. These are very unusual times,” Sadagopan said, indicating the current benign interest regime. “At some point in time, we will again start getting a higher return from fixed deposits. If real returns are not there, then banks will not be able to collect deposits. Either inflation has to come down, or the rate of return has to go up. One should start getting a real return on their fixed deposits,” he said. (The writer is a Mumbai-based journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/options-when-inflation-is-eating-into-your-fixed-deposits-1001325.html
25-06-2021||Opinion||Pujara pause||Precisely five months ago, the blue-chip Cheteshwar Pujara stocks touched an unprecedented high at what’s referred to as the Gabbatoir. On the most Australian of surfaces, against a hostile attack suddenly alive to the possibility of being vanquished in its fortress, India’s unflappable number three put on an exhibition for the ages. On show wasn’t a dazzling array of jaw-dropping strokes. That he left to the pretty young things, Shubman Gill and Rishabh Pant. What Pujara displayed was courage and steel above and beyond the call of duty. For five hours and 211 deliveries, he stood like the immovable rock in the ultimate tribute to the man he succeeded at the one-drop position, Rahul Dravid. Immovable, only because he decided so. Mitchell Starc, Josh Hazlewood and Pat Cummins unleashed a fusillade. Pujara met most of them with the broadest of blades; when the ball evaded his willow, he offered head, torso and limb as the second line of defence. A lesser man might have given up the ghost long, long back. Pujara, unflinching even as he was hurting all over, responded to every body blow with a neutral stare at the bowler, wrapped his hands tightly around the bottom of the bat handle and settled back into his stance, ready to put the body on the line again if so required. It wasn’t pretty, no sir; few things about Pujara are. But what he lacks in aesthetics, he more than makes up for with a bloody-mindedness unlikely to leave mate or opponent untouched. Pujara’s returns on that historic day when India chased down 329 and became the first team to conquer the Aussies at the Gabba since 1988 were 56. Gill kicked off the epic chase with a fluent 91, and Pant completed it with a masterful, cheeky, unbeaten 89. But Pujara was the glue that held the innings together even though he had no business standing after copping one sucker punch after another after another. It’s said, and not without reason that a batsman’s approach to his craft is indicative of his personality. Dashing and debonair on the park, Virender Sehwag is as carefree off it. Dravid’s meticulousness at the crease is mirrored by his carefully structured career path. VVS Laxman is as gracefully polite in person as he was apologetically dismissive of the cricket ball. Pujara off the field is understated, unassuming and uncomplicated. And yet, here Pujara is today, his career at the crossroads. Again. Five subsequent Tests and nine innings since Brisbane have produced just one half-century. But as much as the lack of runs at a pivotal position, it is his approach that’s under the microscope. To be fair, Pujara has done little differently from the past. Even in the most benign conditions and against less than threatening attacks, his has forever been a circumspect presence for the first couple of hours. It was only after he had bedded in, so to speak, did Pujara venture to parade his stroke-making abilities. India welcomed that version, if only because he made the time spent in the middle count at least four times out of ten. And it’s hardly a secret that when Pujara does so, he makes it count real big. If the harsh glare of the unforgiving spotlight is questioningly trained on him now, it’s because the law of diminishing returns appears to be catching up. He no longer kicks on from starts with the same frequency as before, and because the tall edifices are becoming increasingly conspicuous by their absence, Pujara’s almost static, run-free occupation of the crease at the start of his foray is becoming his Achilles’ heel. As far back as in 2015, in his first Test as full-time skipper, Virat Kohli backed his conviction and took the unpopular call of leaving Pujara out of the XI in Sydney because he felt the right-hander from Saurashtra wasn’t taking the game forward. Pujara only returned to the side because a place opened up at the very top of the order in Sri Lanka three Tests later, but from time to time, he has been reminded of the bogey of strike-rate by his captain, either privately or in public. Kohli’s latest comments in the wake of India’s loss to New Zealand in the World Test Championship final were cutting, even if he didn’t mention Pujara by name. “We will continue to reassess and continue to have conversations around what are the things required to strengthen our side and not follow or fall prey to certain patterns,” a visibly displeased skipper said. “You have to reassess and replan and understand what dynamics work for the team and how we can be fearless. Bring in the right people who have the right mindset to perform. We have to stay in sync with the momentum of the game and not let the game drift away too much.” Given Kohli’s penchant for positivity and Pujara’s efforts of eight off 54 balls and 15 off 80 in the two innings in Southampton, it’s not hard to see what the skipper’s hinting at. Pujara has been put on notice. Whether that translates to a couple of opportunities to fall in line with the team’s game plans, or time on the sidelines like at the start of the last Test tour of England in 2018, will become evident in five and a half weeks. (The writer is a Bengaluru-based senior cricket writer) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/pujara-pause-1001386.html
25-06-2021||Panorama||Ways to reduce hypertension||Hypertension is a widespread medical condition in India, and its prevalence is rising. Regular home monitoring of blood pressure (with a standard calibrated device) is easy and improves diagnosis. This can help rule out white-coat hypertension— high blood pressure measured in a doctor’s office and a normal reading at home, improve compliance to drug therapy and lead to better control of blood pressure. Most patients who are diagnosed with hypertension will need drug therapy. However, correcting dietary aberrations, lack of activity and incorporating other therapeutic lifestyle changes are fundamentals in the prevention and treatment of hypertension. Adopting effective lifestyle changes may delay or even prevent the need for drug therapy in those who fall under the category “grade I hypertension” (i.e. Systolic Blood Pressure (SBP) between 140-159 mm Hg or Diastolic Blood Pressure (DBP) between 90-99 mm Hg). Drug therapy should not be delayed in patients who have hypertension-mediated organ damage or high cardiovascular risk. Excessive dietary salt consumption is associated with an increased prevalence of hypertension. The WHO recommends that adults consume less than 5g (one small teaspoon) of salt per day. Studies have shown that the average salt consumption in India is more than twice as high. Reducing dietary salt consumption by approximately 4.4 gm of salt per day has been shown to reduce SBP by 5.4 mm Hg and DBP by 2.8 mm Hg in hypertensives. This effect is more significant in older patients, diabetics and those with chronic kidney disease (CKD) or metabolic syndrome. We believe that a gradual decrease in salt used for cooking is more likely to lead to a sustained reduction in salt consumption rather than an abrupt change. Also, beware of the myth that “only foods that taste salty have high salt content.” Other ingredients like sugar can often mask the taste of salt (e.g cakes or cookies). A healthy balanced diet is an essential part of the treatment of hypertension. The two dietary patterns found to have the most significant impact on lowering blood pressure are the DASH diet (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension) and the Lacto-Ovo vegetarian diet. The DASH diet is rich in fruits, vegetables, legumes and low-fat dairy products and is low in snacks, sweets, meats and saturated and total fat. The Lacto-Ovo vegetarian diet incorporates eggs and dairy products as protein sources. These two dietary patterns have been shown to lower SBP by 5.5 mm Hg. The Mediterranean diet also has been shown to improve cardiovascular outcomes in general; however, it did not have a comparable BP-lowering effect. Consumption of green or black tea may be associated with a slight decrease in BP. Sugar-sweetened soft drinks have been associated with metabolic syndrome and diabetes and should be avoided. For those who smoke, stopping it must be a priority. Moderation of alcohol consumption may also be beneficial for cardiovascular health. Hypertensive men who drink alcohol should limit consumption to 14 units per week and women to 8 units per week (1 unit equals 125 ml of wine or 250 ml of beer). Regular aerobic physical activity is beneficial for both the prevention and treatment of hypertension. Studies indicate that regular exercise can lower SBP by 3.5 mm Hg and DBP by 2.5, approximately. Hypertensive individuals should participate in at least 30 minutes of moderate-intensity dynamic aerobic exercise such as walking, jogging, cycling and swimming. Excessive weight gain and obesity are associated with hypertension. Meta-analyses indicate that an average weight loss of 5.1 kg may be associated with a reduction in SBP of 4.4 mm Hg and DBP of 3.6 mm Hg. Weight loss also improves the efficacy of antihypertensive medications and reduces cardiovascular risk. Therapeutic lifestyle changes are essential in preventing and treating hypertension and must go hand-in-hand with drug therapy. (The writers are assistant professors at departments of cardiology. Dr Rao at KMC Manipal, Karnataka and Dr Dhanse at MGM Medical College, Maharashtra)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/ways-to-reduce-hypertension-1001169.html
25-06-2021||Panorama||IMF has rescue plan for poor nations, but rich ones stand to gain||By Peter S Goodman and Alan Rappeport, In a global economy defined by extreme forms of inequality, the pandemic has widened the divide. The richest nations in North America and Europe are poised for robust recoveries, having used their wealth to rescue their economies and secure vast stocks of Covid vaccines. Poor countries are confronting the continued ravages of the coronavirus largely unprotected and with their resources strained by growing debts. Now, fears that the world may emerge from the pandemic more unequal than ever have prompted a substantial effort to close the gap: Under a proposal nearing completion, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) would issue $650 billion worth of reserve funds, essentially creating money that troubled countries could use to purchase vaccines, finance health care and pay down debt. Such a step would deliver “potentially the largest capital allocation since the end of World War II,” declared the administrator of the United Nations Development Program, Achim Steiner, speaking during a press briefing this week. But international development experts say that simply creating new reserves would be of limited benefit to poor countries unless wealthy nations voluntarily transfer some of their holdings to them — a course that IMF officials are seeking to bring about. The IMF’s executive board is expected to advance the proposal during a meeting on Friday before forwarding it for final approval to its board of governors, which comprises representatives of the fund’s 190 member nations. Officials hope it will gain final passage by August. A famously inscrutable institution ruled by unique conventions and unabashed reverence for technocratic jargon, the International Monetary Fund’s approach involves not money but so-called special drawing rights (SDRs) — reserve funds that the institution credits to the accounts of its member nations. Governments can swap these SDRs for regular currency, to spend as needed. Under the rules governing the IMF, member nations contribute to the institution’s coffers, with their obligations determined largely by the size of their economies, and their voting power commensurate to what they pay. The new reserves would be distributed according to this ranking, meaning that the largest economic powers like the United States would gain the biggest tranche. Absent a mechanism for wealthy countries to redirect some of their holdings, 58 high-income nations would capture $438 billion worth of the new reserves — more than two-thirds of the total — according to an analysis released on Thursday by the UN Development Program. By contrast, a group of 82 countries assessed as “highly debt-vulnerable” — among them, two dozen of the poorest countries — would receive only $54.5 billion, or about 8% of the total. That amounts to only 5% of their total external debt. Fund officials are crafting a plan under which wealthier member countries would transfer some of their reserves to poorer countries to allow an expansion of debt reduction and poverty-fighting programs. “We are working towards magnifying the impact of the new allocation,” IMF managing director Kristalina Georgieva said in a speech to the African Development Bank on Wednesday. She said the fund’s plan would rely on “encouraging voluntary channeling of some of the SDRs,” with a goal of yielding “$100 billion for the poorest and most vulnerable countries.” The United States is prepared to make available about one-fifth of its allocation, worth approximately $20 billion, said a Treasury official who spoke on condition of anonymity. The Biden administration is seeking to persuade other members of the Group of 7 to contribute similar shares. Poor countries that take loans from the fund could use the money to expand health care systems or address climate change in conjunction with existing IMF programs. The trust fund is expected to be a topic of discussion at the Group of 20 finance ministers meeting in Italy next month. In Washington, the universal nature of the proposed allocation has stirred up opposition from Republicans, who argue that it would burnish the finances of US adversaries like China, Russia and Iran while doing little to help poor countries. Sen. John Kennedy, R-La., this month introduced a bill that would block special drawing rights allocations from going to “perpetrators of genocide and state sponsors of terrorism” without approval from Congress. The Trump administration opposed the proposal on similar grounds, while the Biden administration has embraced the idea as a means of aiding developing countries at no cost to taxpayers. Debt is at the centre of concerns about low-income countries, given that many entered the pandemic already straining under severe burdens. In 2019, 25 countries — most of them in Africa and South Asia — were spending more on debt payments to major financial institutions in wealthy nations than on education, health care and support programs for impoverished communities, according to a UNICEF study. Zambia has seen its external debt payments surge from less than 2% of its total government revenues in 2011 to nearly 34% this year, according to data tabulated by the Jubilee Debt Campaign, an international advocacy group that argues for debt forgiveness. Pakistan’s external debt payments soared from less than 10% of government revenues to 35% over the same period. As the spread of Covid halted construction in the Persian Gulf and waylaid cruise ships worldwide, migrant workers from Bangladesh to the Philippines sent home diminished wages, depriving their communities of a vital artery of finance. Malnutrition worsened as labourers from India to Kenya lost income in the face of shuttered markets and abandoned streets. In short, just as millions of people have fallen ill with Covid, requiring expanded medical care, and just as livelihoods have been damaged, governments across the developing world have been sending increasing sums to creditors in financial centres like New York, London, Frankfurt and Shanghai. Members of the Group of 20 last year announced a debt relief initiative that encouraged creditors to allow borrowing nations to skip some payments. But that plan was merely a short-term reprieve. And private creditors have refused to participate. Overall, the initiative has delivered total debt relief of about $5 billion, according to the World Bank. By contrast, developing countries collectively face debt payments of $330 billion over the next five years alone, according to a recent study by the European Network on Debt and Development. For poor countries, the most immediate need is for Covid vaccines.  Many of the vaccines reaching the developing world have been produced by Chinese manufacturers whose products have yielded disappointing results. An infusion of reserves from the IMF would not alter the marketplace incentives that have tilted vaccines toward the world’s wealthiest people, but it could bolster the purchasing power of governments now forced to prioritise debt payments. “How many more waves do we need before we realise that there is no end to this pandemic before we get the world to vaccinate itself?” Steiner said. “We are in the midst of this nightmare right now and we actually can act faster.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/imf-has-rescue-plan-for-poor-nations-but-rich-ones-stand-to-gain-1001174.html
25-06-2021||Panorama||Do not use registration barriers to deny relief to workers in unorganised sector||The Supreme Court, in the suo motu PIL titled Problems and Miseries of Migrant Workers, recently passed an order concerning food security and social protection for migrant and unorganised workers. It emphasised the importance of registration of workers as a prerequisite to access social protection and urged the Central government to complete its work on the National Database of Unorganised Workers (NDUW). A litigation filed in 2012 to enable access to social security for domestic workers had first led to the court ordering the creation of such a database in 2018. Though the Central government committed to rolling out the infrastructure for registration to State governments by 2018, it has since sought an extension of time twice before the court. Registration of unorganised workers remains meagre to this date. Although it now appears that the database may be launched in a few months, the delays have already deepened the crisis. As the economy cripples, this order is certainly welcome and is a timely intervention from the Supreme Court. Registration of workers into a state system is a matter of critical importance and has been a long-standing demand from worker organiaations. It contributes in great measure towards asserting their identities as workers, building visibility as a workforce and demanding entitlements from the state and the industry. However, rendering income support for such a vulnerable population contingent on registration into a database, in the current moment, would greatly hinder their access to social protection, especially at a time when they are reeling under the impact of successive crises. Past experiences of extending social protection to unorganised workers based on registration show that the process is riddled with exclusion errors. For instance, millions of unorganised workers are covered by Central and state government-funded social protection schemes viz. pension, maternity benefits, health insurance, skilling and monetary support for children’s education. However, since the coverage is not universal, but targeted and registration-based, we have seen that migrant workers, a highly vulnerable sub-group, remain excluded from social protection in the destination states, as many schemes demand documents establishing residence proof as a qualifying criterion for registration. The source states often lack the financial capacity to extend social protection, besides, India currently lacks a mechanism for portability of social protection. This puts migrant households at an even greater risk of income and food insecurity, especially when employment opportunities have dwindled due to ‘soft lockdowns’ and market disruptions. In recent years, a clear push towards digitisation of registration is apparent, which further impedes the accessibility of unorganised workers. States like Karnataka have adopted an entirely digital system for the registration of workers in the Building and Other Construction Workers Act. The recently legislated Social Security Code emphasises the electronic registration of unorganised workers. Workers can self-register themselves (as opposed to being reliant on their employers or contractors) and there is also a parallel channel for registration by the state government. But these stipulated channels appear almost exclusively digital. The Occupational Safety Code, which seeks the creation of a national database of migrant workers, also echoes a similar provision enabling self-registration. The NDUW is expected to bring together the digital infrastructure for registration of unorganised workers, migrant workers and building and other construction workers (BOCW), though it is unclear whether or how existing registrations of BOCW and unorganised workers may migrate from the existing to the new system. In fact, very little information is available in the public domain about the contours of the NDUW, especially about the manner of its implementation and the law under which it will enable registrations. This has been further complicated due to the delay in the notification of the Labour Codes, leading to a situation of policy paralysis. It would be pertinent to note here that an earlier attempt at registering unorganised workers through a UWIN Card was abruptly abandoned after initial hiccups. India suffers from a deep digital divide and the current public and social restrictions make registration even more difficult. Waiting for registration to disburse social welfare is bound to deny relief to lakhs of eligible and vulnerable people, especially rural workers and women-led households. The effects of unequal digital access are perhaps evident from the inequity in access to vaccination, which is dependent on online registration. Fewer women have been able to access vaccination when compared to men and a similar class divide appears evident. The use of proxies might improve access. For instance, if registrations under other Schemes for BPL or vulnerable workers are treated as registration of unorganised workers, at least for the next 6 months, then immediate relief can be extended to them. Providing offline pathways through accessible means is vital to ensure the registration of the most vulnerable workers. The Supreme Court, recognising this inequity, directed the Delhi government to involve Resident Welfare Associations and paralegal volunteers in the registration of domestic workers in 2017— a formula that must be adopted across different sectors and at scale. As and when the registration process is initiated, clear identification of the line department in charge and setting up operational machinery would be very critical to ensure that enrollments take place at scale on the ground. Fundamental tenets of inclusive policy-making will have to be invoked to ensure that migrants and workers in the unorganised sector are able to access social protection benefits that have been granted to them by the Supreme Court. Universalisation of social benefits, activated through pathways that are unconditional and non-discriminatory, will be crucial to guarantee the workers, who power the engines of our economy, are able to emerge on the other side of this crisis with their dignity intact. (The writers are part of Aajeevika Bureau, a public service initiative to provide security and dignity to communities dependent on migration across Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/do-not-use-registration-barriers-to-deny-relief-to-workers-in-unorganised-sector-1001179.html
25-06-2021||Right in the Middle||'Phoren' exchange||Live and let live is my mantra while revelling in everyday experiences and through interesting interactions. Thus, I’ve enjoyed holistic absorption about my motherland through a life of seventy-one years in a middleclass neighbourhood. Never mind if my eyebrows rise at times or disbelief or annoyance creeps in at looks cast or questions asked. We are a mixed-up lot, yet a sameness in national identity. I was rather taken aback when recently the telephone linesman from BSNL asked me from which 'phoren' I hailed? I was in my usual homewear— a 'mithai' pink printed pyjama suit, ear drops to embellish my silvering 'crop' cut, as it is called. Did this appearance or my cottage with a display stand of unusual decorative empty liquor bottles, within a senior citizen home founded by the British, earn me the label, I wondered? Or are my name and surname that are as 'phoren' as can be? At times I do wish I’d been named Janaki appended with a Kamath as was the surname of my unconverted forefathers prior to the Portuguese era. I’m confused, because I conversed with the linesman in Tamil sufficiently fluent for the phone restoration task on hand, showed him my 'thol' (skin) was as 'karpu' (coloured) as his. In addition, hanging right above us was a photograph of my parents, mum draped in sari and dad in a bandh gala suit. I told him I’d worn a sari to work too as a bank manager. I conveyed that I hailed from Mangaluru, that Konkani was my mother tongue, although Bengaluru was where I grew up and made my home. Despite all this, he still seemed disinclined to believe I was not from 'phoren'. To give him an understanding of how folks like me ‘came to be’ should I enlighten him on the history of India and explain how the cultures of various rulers and religions through the centuries rubbed off and blended with our Indian regional customs and practices? His reaction is much like my maid’s amazed expression when I was showed her the video of a dog my friends in Australia had just got. Her response, "Ma, angae kuda nai irka?" (Ma’am, do they have dogs there too?). How I wish she could realise her dream to visit ‘phoren’. Was ignorance bliss at one time? Today with TV buzzing with news and views from all over the world and farfetched theories about our own being ‘videshi’ within our ‘desh’ aren’t we bound to breed a more than ever confused citizenry?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/phoren-exchange-1001168.html
25-06-2021||Second Edit||Government wants to be ‘Super Censor’||The amendments the government proposes to make in the Cinematograph Act are intended to give itself overwhelming powers to control the content of films and other works that come under the purview of the Act. The draft amendment bill gives the central government the power to order re-certification of a film which has already been certified by the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) as fit for public viewing. The power can be invoked by the government if there are complaints about the film from the public. The complaints may relate to the film being against the interests of the security of the State, public order, decency, morality, etc. In effect, the government becomes a ‘super censor’ and will have the last word on whether a film should be seen by the public or not. The move comes after the government has already abolished the appellate body for reviewing CBFC decisions.  The Centre’s power to reverse a CBFC decision has been tested in courts, which have ruled against it. The Karnataka High Court had in 1991 ruled that the government has no such power, in a case filed by Kannada filmmaker KM Shankarappa. The Supreme Court upheld the High Court ruling on an appeal by the government. The court said it was for the government to ensure that public order was not disrupted after a film was cleared through due process. The amendment is now being made, as the I&B ministry has made it clear, to override the court’s view. The ministry’s view that the power that is sought is derived from Article 19(2) of the Constitution which puts reasonable restrictions on freedom of speech is not right because the CBFC takes that into consideration before it takes a decision on a film.  There have been increasing complaints and protests against films in recent years on the ground that they hurt the sensibilities of particular castes, communities or other sections of people. Governments have usually supported such protests, instead of supporting freedom of speech and expression. Filmmakers, who have criticised the proposed amendment, have pointed out that in the last 14 months, at least eight films and web series have been attacked. The director of web series Tandav, Ali Abbas Zafar, was forced to issue an apology after cases were filed against him for hurting religious sentiments. In such an environment, the amendment would be a legal tool for the government to disallow what it does not like and allow only what suits its politics. It can shrink creative freedom. The move is part of the attempt to bring all media, including social media and digital news media, under the government’s control and to curb and abridge constitutional rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/government-wants-to-be-super-censor-1001178.html
25-06-2021||South||Kerala Women's Commission chief resigns after drawing sharp criticism for asking woman to 'suffer'||Kerala Women's Commission chairperson M C Josephine resigned from the post, a day after protest mounted against her over her alleged insensitive reply to a woman in distress to "suffer" domestic violence. Josephine, who is a CPM central committee member, reportedly resigned following pressure from the party. She was to hold the office of the chairperson for 10 more months. It was during a live phone-in programme on a Malayalam channel that Josephine asked a woman who rang up to complain of domestic violence to "suffer" it as she did not report it to the police. The live phone-in programme to consider petitions of women also invited criticism as it revealed the identity of many complainants. It was after visiting the family of a suspected dowry death victim in Kollam district on Thursday that Josephine stated that in case, dowry needs to be given it shall be credited to the bank account of brides. This invited criticism that the women's commission chairperson was favouring dowry. Even as Josephine tendered an apology, various political parties continued stirs demanding her resignation. She had also made a similar controversial statement earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-womens-commission-chief-resigns-after-drawing-sharp-criticism-for-asking-woman-to-suffer-1001342.html
25-06-2021||South||Have cancelled Class 12 board exam, will declare result by July 31: Andhra Pradesh tells SC||Andhra Pradesh government on Friday told the Supreme Court that it has cancelled Class 12 examination which was to be conducted by the state board and would declare result of internal assessment by July 31. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari was informed by senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for Andhra Pradesh, that he had discussed the matter with the chief minister on Thursday and the state government has decided to cancel the exam. The apex court had on Thursday told Andhra Pradesh government that it was not convinced of the precautionary measures suggested by the state for holding Class 12 board exams and had said unless satisfied that there will be no fatality due to Covid, it will not allow them. The bench was hearing a plea seeking directions to state governments not to hold board exams in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Considering the matter and the way it has progressed, although we had made full preparations for the examination …. looking at the sentiments expressed by the court, I had a discussion with the chief minister yesterday and I advised them. They have also decided to cancel the exam,” Dave told the bench during the hearing conducted through video-conferencing on Friday. Dave said in 10 days, a high-powered committee which will be constituted would devise the assessment scheme. “We will follow the timeline of July 31 and declare the results,” he said, adding that if the examination was conducted then the declaration of results would have gone in August. Dave said if the entire country is going in one direction, then state of Andhra Pradesh would also go the same way. “We appreciate the practical and very pragmatic stand taken by the state. We wish you could have appeared before us earlier,” the bench said, adding that “probably” what was discussed yesterday was “avoidable”. Dave said the bench was right and if something unforeseen would have happened, then it would “weigh on our hearts”. “This is very unpredictable and very harsh,” the bench said. Dave, while referring to election rallies and Kumbh mela in Uttarakhand, said that no one has taken the responsibility and common people have suffered during the Covid-19 pandemic. “We can end this proceeding on the note that all is well that ends well,” the bench observed, adding that the state has taken a decision which is good for everybody as the entire humanity is facing it. The bench was told that a notification regarding cancellation of state board examination in the state would be issued shortly. The top court said it was reiterating its direction passed on Thursday that all state boards would declare the results of internal assessment of Class 12 examination by July 31, as done in the matter of CBSE and CISCE. The bench had on Thursday said that state boards were free to formulate their own assessment scheme for evaluating students and there can’t be a "fit-all" scheme. The apex court had said it would not pass any direction for a uniform assessment scheme across the country for students whose board exams have been cancelled amid the Covid-19 pandemic. It had directed the state boards to ensure that schemes are formulated and notified at the earliest and not later than 10 days from Thursday. The bench, which had posed tough questions to the Andhra Pradesh government on its decision to hold Class 12 board examinations, had asked the state’s counsel to place before it the “snapshot of the file” giving reasons to hold the test. Later on Thursday, the Andhra Pradesh government announced the cancellation of the year-end examinations for Class 10 and intermediate. In its affidavit filed earlier in the apex court, the Andhra Pradesh government had said that it will be able to conduct Class 12 exams successfully as there are no reliable alternatives to assess the state board students. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/have-cancelled-class-12-board-exam-will-declare-result-by-july-31-andhra-pradesh-tells-sc-1001392.html
25-06-2021||South||Arrested commentator, teacher booked under Goondas Act||Kishore K Swamy, a social media commentator who was arrested recently for circulating defamatory contents against political leaders, and a teacher accused of sexually harassing his students were on Friday booked under the stringent Goondas Act. Chennai Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal issued separate orders to detain Swamy and Rajagopalan, the teacher who was suspended by a reputed school after students accused him of taking online classes by just draping a towel around him, under the Goondas Act. While Kishore was arrested on June 14 following a complaint filed by the Kanchipuram district IT Wing of DMK for posting derogatory comments against DMK founder C N Annadurai, M Karunanidhi, and Chief Minister M K Stalin. Later, she was arrested in two more cases filed by women journalists. Kishore, who has over 73,000 followers on Twitter and a self-proclaimed supporter of AIADMK, and BJP, was arrested twice in the past for his derogatory posts against women journalists. The social media commentator is a known DMK baiter and is in the habit of posting slanderous tweets against leaders from political parties other than the two parties he claims to support. One of his last tweets were against the DMK’s move to encourage women to become priests in the state. Swamy was booked under Sections 153 (Wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause a riot—if rioting is committed — if not committed), 505(1)(b) and 505(1)(c) of the IPC. Swamy was arrested in 2019 and 2020 – but released immediately – for his abusive tweets against women journalists. The teacher was arrested on May 25 after scores of students accused him of sexual misconduct. Rajagopalan was booked under various sections of the POCSO Act and IPC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/arrested-commentator-teacher-booked-under-goondas-act-1001461.html
25-06-2021||South||Tirupati reports first case of Delta Plus Covid-19 variant in Andhra Pradesh||The first Delta Plus variant Covid-19 case of Andhra Pradesh was detected in Tirupati. The patient, according to the state health minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, was treated and has also recovered, without the infection transmitted to others. “The person is safe now. The people of the surroundings and those who came in contact were tested but the strain was not traced in anyone else. There are no active cases of the Delta Plus variant in the state, as of now,” Alla said on Friday. The minister however said that the state health machinery is alert about the threat posed by the emerging strain, which some experts believe could accelerate the emergence of the third wave in the country. “We are prepared for the third wave, though there is no such situation as of now,” the minister, who participated in a Covid-19 review meeting with CM Jaganmohan Reddy on Friday, said. The Delta Plus is a variation of the Delta strain (B.1.167.2) of the SARS-CoV-2, the Covid-19 causing virus. Delta is stated as the variant largely responsible for the second wave cases in the country during April-May. Now, as the second wave is apparently receding in the country, the emergence of the Delta Plus – B.1.617.2.1/(AY1) is posing a new challenge to the scientists, and governments. The strain, whose characteristics are yet to be properly understood, is classified as a “variant of concern.” At-least 40 cases of Delta Plus have been identified in the country till now, and a few related deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tirupati-reports-first-case-of-delta-plus-covid-19-variant-in-andhra-pradesh-1001474.html
25-06-2021||South||Kerala doctor goes on leave protesting against delay in arresting assault accused||A doctor in Kerala has gone on long leave while doctors boycotted out-patient wings for one hour on Friday to protest against the delay in arresting a police officer accused of assaulting a doctor at a government hospital in Alappuzha. Dr Rahul Mathew of the Mavelikara government taluk hospital went on long leave in protest against the delay in arresting civil police officer Abhilash Chandran who was accused of assaulting the doctor. Chandran allegedly assaulted Dr Mathew after the former's mother died at the hospital on May 14. Despite protest by the doctors, the accused was not yet arrested by the police. On Friday the accused was also learnt to have obtained anticipatory bail. He was earlier placed under suspension. Kerala Government Medical Officers Association president Dr G S Vijayakrishnan said that Dr Mathew was upset over police inaction in the case. The police gave adequate time to the accused to move court and obtain anticipatory bail. The doctors would be forced to intensify the stir if stern actions were not initiated, he said. Health Minister Veena George said in a statement that stern action would be taken against the accused. Meanwhile, the police maintained that the accused was absconding. The police crime branch is investigating the case. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-doctor-goes-on-leave-protesting-against-delay-in-arresting-assault-accused-1001484.html
25-06-2021||South||Rangasamy to expand his cabinet on June 27; 2 BJP MLAs find place||Over 50 days after he was sworn in, Puducherry Chief Minister N Rangasamy will expand his cabinet on Sunday by inducting five members, including two from the BJP. A Namassivayam, a Congress who jumped the ship to the BJP on the eve of elections, will be the no. 2 in the six-member cabinet headed by Rangasamy. As reported by DH on June 24, Namassivayam and A K Sai J Saravanan Kumar will be the BJP nominees in the cabinet. The name of another turncoat A Johnkumar, who followed suit Namassivayam from Congress, does not figure in the list submitted by Rangasamy to Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. Being part of a coalition government in Puducherry is a giant leap for the BJP which had a negligible presence in the UT until about a few months ago. It poached leaders from the Congress, destabilized the then V Narayanaswamy government, and stitched up an alliance with AINRC. From the All India N R Congress, the senior partner, K Lakshminarayanan, C Djeacoumar and Chandira Priyanga will be the ministers. A gazette notification issued by Puducherry Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar made the names of the ministers’ public quoting an order from Govind Mohan, Additional Secretary in the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. The new ministers will be sworn in at a simple event at the Raj Nivas at 2.30 pm on Sunday. L-G Tamilisai Soundararajan will administer oath of office and secrecy to the ministers. With the official announcement on the swearing-in and names of the ministers to be sworn in, the nearly two-month-long political logjam between AINRC and BJP has come to an end. Rangasamy played the hardball with the BJP after it unilaterally nominated three party leaders to the Assembly without consulting him – the appointments were made when the Chief Minister was being treated for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Chennai. After several rounds of talks, issues between the two parties have been sorted out. Sources said Namassivayam, who is closely related to the Chief Minister, will be the no. 2 in the cabinet. However, he is unlikely to designated as deputy chief minister as demanded by the BJP. AINRC won 10 seats, while BJP emerged victorious in six seats and its strength in the assembly now stands at 9, thanks to the Centre’s power to appoint three nominated members. DMK won six, Congress (2), and Independents (six).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rangasamy-to-expand-his-cabinet-on-june-27-2-bjp-mlas-find-place-1001486.html
25-06-2021||South||Krishna water dispute: Telangana CM Rao plans new projects in retaliation to AP's lift irrigation scheme||The Telangana government which is resenting the Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme of Andhra Pradesh has now planned to build various water storage projects drawing water from the Krishna river, “to protect its farmer interests, come what may.” The water war between the two Telugu twins has intensified again in the last few days, with Jaganmohan Reddy reportedly going ahead with the water lift project at the Srisailam reservoir. The K Chandrasekhar Rao government has last week stated Andhra Pradesh's Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme and the RajoliBanda Diversion Scheme (RDS) right canal as “illegal constructions.” In retaliation, Telangana is now going for construction of various projects drawing water from the Krishna river, its tributaries. “The cabinet, which met on Saturday, has severely condemned the AP government approach not paying heed to the instructions of the National Green Tribunal and the Centre. In this backdrop, it was decided to go to any extent to protect the interests of Telangana farmers,” CMO officials said. Accordingly, a decision was taken to construct Jogulamba Barrage at Alampur on River Krishna to take 60-70 TMC of floodwater through pipeline and lift the same to Edula reservoir, which is part of the Palamuru Rangareddy Lift Irrigation Scheme of Telangana. It was also decided to construct Pulichintala Left Canal to supply water to two lakh acres in Nalgonda, Suryapet districts and a flood flow canal at Kusumarti where Krishna’s tributary Bhima enters Telangana. The storage capacities of the reservoirs under the Kalwakurthy Lift Irrigation Scheme would be increased by 20 TMC. A few other irrigation, drinking water schemes are also proposed and the irrigation department was instructed to initiate surveys and prepare Detailed Project Reports for execution of these projects, officials said. The Andhra Pradesh government had initiated RLIS in May last year to draw three TMC per day from the Pothireddypadu Head Regulator on the Srisailam reservoir and had allocated Rs 6829 crore for the scheme and supporting canal system. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/krishna-water-dispute-telangana-cm-rao-plans-new-projects-in-retaliation-to-aps-lift-irrigation-scheme-1001503.html
25-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu govt launches call centre to help and assist devotees||Tamil Nadu government on Friday launched a call centre to exclusively receive complaints or suggestions from devotees on issues related to temples that come under its control. The call centre will be run by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR & CE) department at its headquarters in Chennai. HR & CE Minister P K Sekarbabu said devotees can register their complaints or suggestions on the functioning of temples with the call centre from 10 am to 6 pm on all working days. This is yet another initiative by the department to ensure transparency in temple functioning and administration. The department has begun uploading documents of land belonging to temples and is planning to conduct drone surveys on temple lands to generate 3D maps. Sekarbabu said devotees can register all their complaints to the call centre and that they will receive a response within 15 days on the status of their concern. As many as 44,121 temples in Tamil Nadu come under the HR & CE department which manages and controls them. The decision to be transparent on temple properties, revenue, and documents comes at a time when a campaign is underway in Tamil Nadu to free temples from the control of the government. The campaign run by Coimbatore-based spiritual guru Jaggi Vasudev has received support from BJP and a few right-wing political outfits. The slew of decisions by the new DMK government also comes close on the heels of Finance Minister P T R Palanivel Thiaga Rajan launching a tirade on Vasudev, calling him a “publicity hound” and dismissed the campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-launches-call-centre-to-help-and-assist-devotees-1001532.html
25-06-2021||State||Not fair to discuss next CM Karnataka now: Kagodu Thimmappa||Veteran Congress leader and former minister Kagodu Thimmappa stated that the discussion on the next chief minister of Karnataka by Congress leaders is not fair before the next Assembly polls. He was addressing the party workers during the agitation against failures of the taluk administration in Sagar on Friday. "Congress leaders and workers must take up the issues of people and strive to address them till the next Assembly polls," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/not-fair-to-discuss-next-cm-karnataka-now-kagodu-thimmappa-1001422.html
25-06-2021||State||Offline classes: Private schools seek free Covid treatment for children, teachers||The private unaided schools, college managements and parents have demanded the state government to provide free Covid-19 treatment for students contracting the virus during offline classes. Following the recommendation by the Dr Devi Shetty committee which suggested for health insurance of Rs 2 lakh for schoolchildren, the representatives of private schools and college managements and parents opined that, “Rs 2 lakh is nothing compared to Covid-19 treatment expenses.” “We demand the government to ensure free Covid-19 treatment for every child who attends offline class because we are all aware how expensive the Covid treatment is,” said D Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka. Even parents have started inquiring with schools about the availability of health insurance for children. “The government should take the complete health responsibility of children before resuming offline activities. If in case any child is infected after attending offline class, then the government should extend necessary assistance for the treatment, starting from providing beds to bearing the cost of the treatment,” said Shashi Kumar. H K Manjunath, president, Karnataka State Government Secondary Schools Assistant Masters Association, said, “Even the government is aware of the problems pertaining to beds and ICUs during the second wave. Now, with experts repeatedly saying children below 18 years are vulnerable in the third wave, the government should keep things ready considering the number of school-going children, and announce free treatment for both students and teachers if they get infected after attending offline classes.” “There are reports about people getting infected with Covid-19 even after the two doses of vaccination. So, we teachers want assurance from the government about free treatment or reimbursement after the treatment,” said a teacher working with a government school in Bengaluru.  Meanwhile, some private unaided schools have started working out group insurances for teaching and non-teaching staff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/offline-classes-private-schools-seek-free-covid-treatment-for-children-teachers-1001546.html
25-06-2021||State||Income ceiling relaxed for housing scheme in Karnataka||The state government has relaxed the income limit for beneficiaries under the Chief Ministers' One Lakh Housing Scheme. Housing Minister V Somanna told reporters that those earning Rs 3 lakh or less per annum can apply for houses under the housing scheme aimed at the urban poor. Earlier, the limit was Rs 87,000 per annum. He said that the majority of applications received under the scheme were from those outside Bengaluru. Now, the government has imposed a condition that applicants under the scheme should prove that they are residing in Bengaluru for at least six months. Work on the scheme was hampered due to the Covid-19 pandemic as the government has planned to complete all the one lakh houses by July 30. "As of now, we have sanctioned around 46,000 houses. On August 15, the government will hand over 5,000 houses to beneficiaries," Somanna said. The government will identify all beneficiaries for the one lakh houses by the end of September this year, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/income-ceiling-relaxed-for-housing-scheme-in-karnataka-1001551.html
25-06-2021||State||Reopening offline classes: Edu dept mulls task force||The state government has decided to constitute a task force to explore options for the reopening of offline classes for schools. According to the official sources from the department, the first priority is to start offline classes and if it's not possible, plan B is to restart the Vidyagama programme for all schools in the state. This was discussed in the meeting chaired by Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar in Bengaluru on Friday attended by the representatives of various non-profit organisations and academicians. "The stakeholders at the meeting pressed for resuming offline classes in a phased manner. Most of them were for restarting the Vidyagama programme at the earliest," said an official source from the department. 'Resume Vidyagama ' Considering the fact that many government schools lack the infrastructure to hold online classes, many felt the need for resuming Vidyagama. "At least with Vidyagama, teachers can connect with students directly, and the learning process will continue," they said. In fact, the Dr Devi Shetty-headed committee report also mentioned the Vidyagama programme conducted during the previous academic year. Minister Suresh Kumar said in a press statement, "Most of them present in the meeting expressed their opinion to restart Vidyagama. We will be constituting a task force to decide about reopening of offline classes." It can be recalled that during the 2020-21 academic year the Vidyagama programme was withdrawn midway following reports of students and teachers testing positive for Covid-19 at several places.  The minister said several representatives and experts present in the meeting suggested the reopening of schools in phases. "Some representatives suggested unlocking of schools in a staggered manner similar to the unlocking system followed for districts based on Covid positivity rate. There were also suggestions to reopen schools from gram panchayat level," he added. To consult Health dept Meanwhile, despite the recommendation by the Devi Shetty panel to reopen schools and colleges, the Department of Primary and Secondary Education has decided to seek suggestions from the Health and Family Welfare department before taking a decision on reopening of offline classes. "Before taking any decision on reopening of offline classes we will consult the Health department and proceed further," said the minister. However, the discussions held in the meeting and suggestions given by various experts will be discussed in a video conferencing scheduled by the minister with deputy commissioners, Zilla panchayat chief executive officers and district health officers on June 28.  CCE for state school students The continuous comprehensive evaluation (CCE) will be conducted at the state board schools, starting this academic year, in line with other board schools. The CCE will be conducted periodically for three months, six months and an annual basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/reopening-offline-classes-edu-dept-mulls-task-force-1001555.html
25-06-2021||State||Anganwadi infrastructure woes: Karnataka HC to pass interim directions||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday said it would pass interim directions for providing infrastructure to Anganwadis in the state. A division bench headed by Chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka made this observation after expressing that the available infrastructure does not even cover 50% of the deficiency. The court was hearing a PIL registered in 2011 related to malnutrition issues. The state government has informed the court that out of 65,911 Anganwadi centres in the state, 14,948 centres lack electricity connection, 18,974 centres do not have fans and 13,690 centres require toilets. In an additional affidavit, the state government said that around 6,700 Anganwadi centres will be provided with electricity, 8,300 centres with fans and 3,524 centres with toilets, with the funds available. The counsel appearing for the intervening applicant said that according to the government, money earmarked for maintenance of Anganwadi centres is only 10 crore for the financial year 2021-22. The construction work of 1,700 toilets will be taken up after obtaining permission from the Finance Department. The advocate also pointed out that insofar as providing fans and electricity, the government stated that work will be undertaken as and when the budget is allocated. The bench posted the matter for passing an interim order after noting that not even 50% of the centres have adequate basic infrastructure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/anganwadi-infrastructure-woes-karnataka-hc-to-pass-interim-directions-1001556.html
25-06-2021||State||HC relief to Ayurveda PG students admitted sans entrance test||The High Court has granted relief to a batch of postgraduate Ayurveda students of 2017-18 batch, who were admitted without appearing for All India AYUSH Postgraduate Entrance Test (AIAPGET-2017). The petitions were filed by Dr Sontakke Kanchan Ramrao and three others. A division bench, headed by Justice Aravind Kumar, cited a recent Supreme Court order and said that the benefit of continuing the courses as a one-time exercise has to be granted to all the students who had been admitted to postgraduate courses before October 31, 2019.  In the case of the Federation of Self Financed Ayurvedic Colleges, the apex court held that the requirement for appearing in the entrance test was necessary. However, in that case, the apex court had extended the benefit to the students to continue their courses as a one-time exercise. The Central Council of Indian Medicine contended that the benefit granted by the apex court cannot be extended to the petitioners since it was an order limiting only to the students before the Supreme Court. The advocate also argued that extending similar relief to the petitioners would send wrong signals. However, the division bench noted that the apex court had also taken into consideration all the students who had been admitted before October 31, 2019. “In our view, since the apex court has extended the benefit not only to students who had been admitted under interim orders but also to students who were admitted without the intervention of the court, all the students who were admitted prior to 31.10.2019 without taking up the entrance test, would be entitled to the same benefit of continuing their courses,” the court said. The court also observed that the petitioners in the case were admitted to the academic year 2017-18, which makes the case of the petitioners stand on a better footing. The court disposed of the petitions directing the respondents to permit the petitioners to continue and complete their respective postgraduate courses in Ayurveda. “If the petitioners have already completed their courses successfully, the respondents are directed to issue them with necessary certificates in that regard,” the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-relief-to-ayurveda-pg-students-admitted-sans-entrance-test-1001560.html
25-06-2021||State||Kalasa RFO suspended over 'Mafi pass'||Kalasa range forest officer (RFO) J Vijaya Kumar has been suspended over issuing ‘Mafi pass’ for alleged felling of trees in Baluru Reserve Forest border. Principal chief conservator of forests Sanjay Mohan has issued an order in this regard. The order stated that the Kalasa RFO has failed to identify the border of Baluru Reserve Forest and ‘Mafi pass’ area. The felling of 96 trees in the survey numbers 4,6,9 and 10 in Haladagaka coffee estate, is found to be illegal. Vijay Kumar is entirely responsible for the flaw which has taken place in the accurate identification of the area which comes under ‘Mafi pass’ privilege. The official is involved in the illegal felling of trees and has shown discrepancy in his duties, the order stated. Related to the same case, the forest department had suspended seven staff of the forest department in February.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalasa-rfo-suspended-over-mafi-pass-1001561.html
25-06-2021||State||Bengaluru, Tumakuru bag awards among smart cities||Bengaluru has bagged the Covid-19 Innovation award while Tumakuru smart city got award in digital library solution in social aspects theme, among smart cities in the country. The Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry announced awards for smart cities under various categories. Among 100 smart cities, Surat and Indore have bagged the best award for their overall performance in 2020. While Uttar Pradesh won the state award, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu finished as the first and second runner up. Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Puri announced the award on Friday to mark six years of the Smart City Mission. This year, for the first time, the Centre has declared awards to states under overall performance of the smart cities. UP has got the first award for taking up the development of seven more cities on its own as smart cities.  Since the launch of the smart cities, of the total proposed projects under the mission, 5,924 worth Rs 1.78 lakh crore have been tendered so far and work orders have been issued for 5,236 projects costing around Rs 1.46 crore. It said 2,665 projects of Rs 45,080 crore have also been fully completed and are operational, the Minister said. Total 70 Smart Cities have developed and operationalised their Integrated Command and Control Centres (ICCCs),which are functioning as war-rooms for Covid management, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bengaluru-tumakuru-bag-awards-among-smart-cities-1001579.html
25-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to allow weddings at halls, resorts with 40 guests from June 28||Karnataka has decided to allow convention halls to host weddings from Monday, June 28 with a maximum of 40 guests. A decision to this effect was taken in a meeting Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa held with ministers and officials on Friday. All the guests will require a pass to attend the wedding, a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said. Along with convention halls, weddings can also be held in hotels and resorts, the statement added. At present, scheduled weddings are allowed to take place at home with 40 guests. The government's decision to allow convention halls to function comes after it allowed all shops to resume business and hotels to start dine-in services under Unlock 2.0. Also, with Delta variant cases increasing in Maharashtra and Kerala, he asked officials to strictly monitor the state’s borders and increase testing of those coming into Karnataka from these two states. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-allow-weddings-at-halls-resorts-with-40-guests-from-june-28-1001452.html
25-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||3,310 new Covid-19 cases, 114 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka on Friday reported 3,310 new cases of Covid-19 and 114 deaths, taking the caseload to 28,26,754 and toll to 34,539. The day also saw 6,524 discharges, continuing to outnumber fresh cases, raising the total number of recoveries to 26,84,997. Bengaluru Urban logged 614 new cases and 17 deaths. Active cases in the state now stand at 1,07,195. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 2.09 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was at 3.44 per cent. Mysuru reported 22 deaths, Dakshina Kannada (14), Ballari and Dharwad (9).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/3310-new-covid-19-cases-114-deaths-in-karnataka-1001491.html
25-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Be loyal to Congress, not individuals: D K Shivakumar to 'migrants'||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar on Friday said leaders from other parties were welcome to join the Congress, but the new entrants should not indulge in groupism.  He was addressing the newly-elected members of the Belur Town Municipal Council and those from other parties who were inducted by him. “Anyone who wants to join the party by believing in our ideology is welcome, but they shouldn’t come here and indulge in groupism. I don’t want such people,” he said. “We don’t want individuals to be worshipped. The only following should be of the Congress.”  This was perceived as a politically-loaded statement directed at Chamarajpet MLA BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan, who joined the Congress from the JD(S) in 2018. Khan has been projecting Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah as the next chief minister much to Shivakumar’s dismay. In fact, even Siddaramaiah joined the Congress from the JD(S) in 2006.  Shivakumar also claimed that many BJP leaders were in touch with him. “All BJP MLAs and ministers are convinced that their party will not return to power,” he said. “That being the case, we should make use of the situation and try to come to power,” he added||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/be-loyal-to-congress-not-individuals-d-k-shivakumar-to-migrants-1001548.html
25-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government readies Rs 40,000 crore potable water supply plan||Authorities have prepared a Rs 40,000-crore plan to provide functional tap water connections to over 63 lakh households by 2023. According to the authorities, it is a daunting task with the Centre breathing down the state’s neck.  The Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) Department has sent this plan to the Finance Department for approval under the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), which has been branded here as the Mane Manege Gange. The plan was presented to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa earlier this week.  Under JJM, Karnataka is doubling its effort to provide functional household tap connections (FHTC) to all rural households. Of the 91.19 lakh rural households, 28.15 lakh have been covered and the authorities hope to cover the remaining 63 lakh in the coming years. According to sources, the Centre recently pulled up Karnataka for slow progress under the scheme. The officials admit the slow progress, which is mainly because there simply aren’t sufficient sustainable water sources.  Karnataka, an arid state, largely depends on borewells for drinking water. “A functional tap connection, according to the Centre, should deliver 55 litres per capita per day (LPCD) to every household. Borewells in most parts of the state cannot sustainably provide that service level,” an official explained.  To get around this, the government is focussing on a bulk water supply scheme to provide tap connections. “Bulk water supply projects need time to prepare, approve, tender and execute,” the official said.  By 2023, the government has planned 6,760 single or multi-village schemes to cover 63.03 lakh households with a functional tap water connection. In the current financial year, the government is planning 161 multi-village water supply schemes. These schemes rely on water sources that are local (tubewells) and remote (canals or rivers). “Even for single-village schemes, since a large number of tenders have been called, we are not finding enough eligible contractors,” the official said, adding that the prices of pipes, cement and steel had substantially increased.  Another reason causing the delay, apart from the obvious Covid-19 pandemic, is the “severe capacity constraints” as many engineering posts in the RDPR department are vacant.  Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Tumakuru, Chikkaballapur and Kolar districts are marked as ‘red’ due to the unavailability of sustainable drinking water sources. “Of the Rs 40,000 crore, we have kept Rs 8,000 crore for projects in the red districts when they get water,” RDPR principal secretary LK Atheeq said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-readies-rs-40000-crore-potable-water-supply-plan-1001563.html
25-06-2021||West||Indian Rock Python burnt alive, culprit arrested||A heart-wrenching video of an Indian Rock Python being burnt alive has gone viral on social media platforms even as the Maharashtra Forest Department (MFD) registered an offence. The incident was reported from Nate Padwanewadi in Rajapur in Ratnagiri district of coastal Konkan belt. A family of three, agitated by the fact that the Indian Rock Python, had attacked a hen in their farm, took the extreme step on Sunday. They also made a video that went viral on social media. Eminent herpetologist Dr Varad Giri, a senior scientist with the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), expressed shock over the incident. “An Indian Rock Python was killed and burned alive by a villager in Ratnagiri District of Maharashtra. Images and a video of this heinous act were uploaded on social media. Prateik More, who is actively doing nature conservation in that area, brought this to our notice,” said Dr Giri. The MFD has taken immediate action and the culprit has been arrested. “Strong action should be taken against this person as the species is protected under Schedule I of the Indian Wildlife Protection Act. Such cases need to be taken seriously, otherwise people will kill wildlife like this. Alert citizens and active forest department officials can bring a strong positive change in curtailing crime against the wildlife,” he said. “But why such a cruel attitude towards snakes? Do we humans really deserve this wonderful planet?” he lamented.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-rock-python-burnt-alive-culprit-arrested-1001275.html
25-06-2021||West||ED raids Anil Deshmukh's residences; MVA hits back||Troubles continued to mount for former Maharashtra home minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh as the Enforcement Directorate (ED) carried out a raid at his Nagpur and Mumbai residences among other places on Friday. Deshmukh (70), a close aide of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, is already facing a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The ED raids against him come months after the CBI registered an FIR against him to probe allegations of corruption and misconduct. The ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi alliance, however, lashed out at the Centre and the BJP for targeting the state government. “We are neither surprised nor worried,” said Pawar, a former four-time Maharashtra Chief Minister and three-term Union Cabinet Minister. Deshmukh had to resign from the government after former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh, who is currently the Commandant General of Home Guards, wrote to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. According to the allegations, Deshmukh had fixed a collection target of Rs 100 crore per month for Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze, who was the then head of the Crime Intelligence Unit of the elite Crime Branch-CID of Mumbai Police. Singh later approached the Supreme Court and then at the apex court's instructions Bombay High Court ordered a probe into the allegations.  Vaze, who has now been dismissed, was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the twin cases of planting of a gelatin sticks-laden Scorpio near Antilia, the Carmichael Road residence of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani and the murder of the Thane-based owner of the SUV Mansukh Hiran. Meanwhile, the MVA allies – Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress accused the Centre of misusing powers for political purposes. Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said the Centre is misusing various probe agencies to target opposition parties’ and their leaders on flimsy charges. Congress general secretary spokesperson Sachin Sawant sought to know “what the ED is trying to search while raiding the residence of Anil Deshmukh” since both Param Bir Singh and sacked cop Sachin Vaze “never said money was given”. “If the ED feels that money was given, why no raids on Vaze and Singh who supposedly gave the money? Sad state of democracy… We must save democracy,” said Sawant. Besides Deshmukh, his personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde have come under the scanner of CBI and ED and their roles are being investigated by the two federal agencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-raids-anil-deshmukhs-residences-mva-hits-back-1001277.html
25-06-2021||West||Ceiling of south Mumbai building collapses, 35 rescued||Thirty-five persons were rescued after a major portion of the third floor ceiling in a five-storey building that was undergoing repairs, collapsed in south Mumbai’s Fort area on Friday, a fire brigade official said. Nobody was injured in the incident that occurred at Ashapura building on Vaju Kotak Marg in the morning, he said. “Major part of the ceiling of staircase and some other area on the building's third floor collapsed, due to which people residing on the floors located above that got trapped upstairs. All 35 persons, including a few women and children, were rescued,” the official said. A civic official said, the façade of the building is intact and no signs of damage appear from outside. Apart from the fire brigade, police and civic staff also reached the spot on being alerted. The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) is carrying out the repair work of this old building, he said. “The Mumbai civic body has provided man power and machinery to remove the debris...MHADA will take a call about whether to raze the building or to continue with the repair work,” the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ceiling-of-south-mumbai-building-collapses-35-rescued-1001294.html
25-06-2021||West||Maharashtra ACB begins open inquiry against Sachin Vaze in disproportionate assets case||The Maharashtra Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has initiated an open inquiry against dismissed Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze for allegedly amassing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income, an official said on Friday. The open inquiry has been started on the orders of the Director General of the ACB as the agency was informed that Vaze has been dismissed from police service, he said. “The ACB officials will investigate Vaze's movable and immovable assets as well as the sources of his wealth,” he said. Vaze was arrested in March this year by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for his alleged role in planting an explosives-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in south Mumbai on February 25 and the subsequent murder of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren, who was in possession of that vehicle. During the investigation carried out by the NIA into the case, Rs 1.5 crore were found in a bank account of a firm floated by Vaze, the official said. It also came to light that Vaze had allegedly given a total of around Rs 76 lakh to an aide in the recent past. After Vaze's arrest, the NIA had told a special court that it wanted to ascertain the source of this money and find out if he was extorting for himself or others. The central investigative agency said it also wanted to find out how an officer of Vaze's level could have so much money. “Two anonymous complaints of bribery and disproportionate assets were filed against Vaze in the past,” he said. Vaze, a 1990-batch officer of the Maharashtra cadre, who was also known as an "encounter cop", was dismissed from service last month, days after his suspension following the arrest by the NIA in the SUV-cum-murder case on March 13. Vaze, who was earlier suspended for 16 years in a case related to alleged custodial death of a bomb blast accused, was reinstated in the Mumbai police force in June 2020. Post-reinstatement, he was heading the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the crime branch and handling high profile cases, including the fake TRP case, fake social media followers case, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-acb-begins-open-inquiry-against-sachin-vaze-in-disproportionate-assets-case-1001296.html
25-06-2021||West||Goa to stringently monitor Delta Plus Covid variant at state borders||The Goa government on Friday said it will ensure “stringent monitoring” along the borders of the state so that it continues to remain free from the Delta Plus variant of coronavirus. Goa Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has directed the authorities to take the necessary measures. Delta plus has already been declared a 'variant of concern' by the Centre. On Monday, Rajesh Tope, the health minister of neighbouring Maharashtra, had said that 21 cases of the Delta Plus variant have been found in the state till then - nine in Ratnagiri, seven in Jalgaon, two in Mumbai, and one case each in Palghar, Thane and Sindhudurg districts. In a tweet, Rane said, “In view of the Delta Plus Variant cases found in the neighbouring states, we shall ensure that stringent monitoring is taking place at the borders. Hon'ble CM @DrPramodPSawant has already issued instructions on this matter.” “We need to ensure that our borders are secure to prevent the variant from entering the state of Goa. Till date, no cases of Delta Plus Variant has been found. Hon'ble CM and myself have been constantly monitoring the situation on ground to fight this pandemic unitedly,” the Goa minister said in another tweet. We need to ensure that our borders are secure to prevent the variant from entering the state of Goa. Till date, no cases of Delta Plus Variant have been found. Hon’ble CM & myself have been constantly monitoring the situation on ground to fight this pandemic unitedly. Goa has not reported even a single case of Delta Plus variant so far, while cases of Delta variant were detected in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-to-stringently-monitor-delta-plus-covid-variant-at-state-borders-1001303.html
25-06-2021||West||Maharashtra first state to administer over 3 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses||Maharashtra has become the first state in the country to cross the three-crore vaccination mark even as the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government gave a major push to the vaccination drive in the worst-affected state to prevent the spread of the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19. “At 1400 hrs on 25 June, the total Covid-19 vaccination doses administered in the state stood at 3,00,27,217,” said Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Dr Pradeep Vyas. The government has asked District Disaster Management Authorities (DDMA) to ensure that more people turn up for vaccinations. “Push vaccination through public awareness activities, attempt must be to achieve vaccination of 70 per cent eligible population at the earliest, encourage workplace vaccinations, especially of blue-collar workers,” says the fresh guidelines announced by the state. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-first-state-to-administer-over-3-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-1001346.html
25-06-2021||West||Gujarat government sets vaccination deadline for people engaged in 'professional activities'||The Gujarat government has made it mandatory for the people involved in “professional activities” in the state's 18 cities and towns, which continue to remain under coronavirus-induced night curfew, to get themselves vaccinated against the virus by June 30. The government has set the deadline of July 10 for vaccination of such people in the remaining parts of the state. However, the government is yet to decide what action it would take against those who do not get themselves vaccinated within the stipulated deadline. The decision was taken during a meeting of the Gujarat government’s core committee on Covid-19, headed by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, held on Thursday evening at his residence. “It is compulsory for directors, owners and staff of those involved in vyavasayik (professional) activities in 18 cities, where curfew will continue for next few days to get themselves vaccinated by June 30,” the state government said in a release. In other areas of the state, all those involved in professional activities will have to get themselves vaccinated by July 10, it added. A state government official said, “We are yet to decide about what action should be taken against those who will not get themselves vaccinated by the given deadline given.” The government’s aim is to get maximum number of those involved in professional activities vaccinated, he added. Talking about the order, Purshottam Kalal, a hardware trader in Bopal area of Ahmedabad city, said, “Traders feel that it will be difficult to get all those involved in professional activities vaccinated in the next five days in Ahmedabad…The government should extend the deadline.” After the core committee meeting, the government announced lifting of night curfew from 18 towns and relaxing its timing in the same number of urban centres by one hour. However, night curfew will continue in other 18 cities and towns, including Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot. The government also relaxed many curbs as the cases of coronavirus are declining in the state. Among a slew of relaxations in restrictions imposed earlier to curb Covid-19 cases, the government allowed the opening of cinema halls, multiplexes and auditoriums at 50 per cent capacity, permitted shops to do business till 9 pm instead of 7 pm and allowed buses to ply at 75 per cent of their seating capacity, the release said. So far, 2.39 crore vaccine doses have been given to the people of Gujarat. On Thursday, 4.44 lakh people were inoculated in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-government-sets-vaccination-deadline-for-people-engaged-in-professional-activities-1001355.html
25-06-2021||West||Police book owner of tugboat that sank during Cyclone Tauktae for culpable homicide||A case of culpable homicide has been registered in Mumbai against the owner of Varaprada tugboat that sank in the Arabian Sea during last month's cyclone Tauktae, in which 11 persons were killed, an official said on Friday. Barge P305 and Varaprada - both support vessels working for the state-run ONGC's offshore oilfields near Mumbai – had borne the brunt of cyclone Tauktae, which made landfall on Gujarat coast on May 17. "At least 11 personnel, who were working on the tugboat, had died in the incident. During the rescue operation, two of its workmen were rescued by the Navy teams," the official said. An FIR under IPC section 304 (2) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 34 (common intention) was registered against the tugboat owner on Thursday at the Yellow Gate police station on the complaint of chief engineer of the boat and one of survivors, he said. Nobody has been arrested in this connection so far and the probe is underway, he added. A total of 274 crew were reported missing on May 17 (261 from Barge P305 and 13 from Tug Varaprada). While 186 survivors from P305 and two from Varaprada were picked up at sea, 70 mortal remains (bodies) were recovered at sea by ships of Indian Navy and Coast Guard. Besides, eight bodies were recovered along the coast in Raigad district of Maharashtra and another eight bodies washed ashore the Gujarat coast near Valsad, officials had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/police-book-owner-of-tugboat-that-sank-during-cyclone-tauktae-for-culpable-homicide-1001357.html
25-06-2021||West||People residing in highly polluted areas of Maharashtra prone to Covid-19 infection: Study||A first-of-its-kind pan-India study has highlighted Mumbai and Pune among hotspots in the country, where high air pollution from the transport and industrial sectors have a visible relationship with a higher number of Covid-19 cases and casualties. The study titled – “establishing a link between fine particulate matter (PM2.5) zones and Covid-19 over India based on anthropogenic emission sources and air quality data” – provided the first evidence about how people living in highly polluted areas are vulnerable to Covid-19 infection. "Air has suspended particulate matter (PM) of different sizes. Many of these are a complex mixture of dust, pollen, soot and smoke and they are hazardous. Of this, PM 2.5 is the smaller kind, with a diameter, not more than 2.5 micrometres (fine particles). PM2.5 is considered to have a very significant health impact as it can stay in the air for days or weeks, and is small enough to invade the lung airways," the study notes. The authors of the study are Dr Saroj Kumar Sahu, PG Environment Sciences and Poonam Mangaraj, PG Environment Sciences from Utkal University, Bhubaneswar, Gufran Beig, Senior Scientist and Suvarna Tikle, Scientist from IITM-Pune, Bhishma Tyagi, National Institute of Technology, Rourkela and V Vinoj, IIT-Bhubaneswar. In the study, Covid-19 cases were observed between March 2020 to November 2020, while national PM 2.5 emissions load were estimated from the base year 2019. “Our findings suggest a significant correlation between the district level air pollution data and Covid-19 cases. We found that regions with huge amounts of fossil fuel such as petrol, diesel, and coal etc. combustion in transport and industrial activities, also experiences a lot more Covid-19 cases,” said Dr Sahu, Lead Author of the study, adding that the health impacts of air pollution and Covid-19 also had similar linkages.  Maharashtra recorded the second-highest emission load -- 828.3 Gigagram per year (Gg/Yr) of PM2.5 -- in India (Uttar Pradesh was the highest) based on the National Emission Inventory developed by us, said Dr Sahu. During the same period -- till November 5, 2020 -- Maharashtra recorded 17.19 lakh Covid-19 cases, which was the highest in the country. “However it is important to note that in terms of PM2.5 emission per person, Maharashtra is ahead of Uttar Pradesh,” said Dr Sahu. Among the 16 cities, Mumbai and Pune recorded the third and fourth highest -- 165 and 117 -- ‘bad air quality days’ respectively. Parallelly, Mumbai recorded 2.64 lakh Covid-19 cases and 10,445 deaths during this period, which was the highest in the country while Pune recorded 3.38 lakh Covid-19 cases and 7,060 deaths. Apart from Mumbai and Pune, the study also presented two other hotspots -- Nagpur and Chandrapur -- in Maharashtra that witnessed high pollution as well as higher Covid-19 cases and casualties. “Though these cities were not directly part of our study, both locations have the presence of industrial units and power plants that aggravate air pollution making them hotspots in Maharashtra,” said Dr Sahu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/people-residing-in-highly-polluted-areas-of-maharashtra-prone-to-covid-19-infection-study-1001380.html
25-06-2021||West||BJP using central investigative agencies to target political opponents, says NCP||The NCP on Friday slammed the BJP, saying that it has the “habit” of using the investigative agencies and “targeting” the political rivals. The leaders of the NCP, which shares power with the Shiv Sena and the Congress in Maharashtra, made the remarks a day after the state unit of the BJP passed a resolution demanding a CBI inquiry against state Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Transport Minister Anil Parab in connection with the cases related to senior IPS officer Param Bir Singh and former policeman Sachin Waze. Their statements come on the day the Enforcement Directorate (ED) carried out searches at former Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh’s premises in Nagpur and Mumbai as part of a money-laundering probe against him. Talking to reporters at Osmanabad, NCP’s Maharashtra unit chief Jayant Patil said, "The BJP has the habit of using the investigative agencies and its leaders are now passing resolutions in their state body meetings regarding inquiries. They have no work left now." "...BJP is now very much in the habit of using investigative agencies, like CBI and others. So much so that the Maharashtra body of their party is passing resolutions to seek inquiry,” he said after holding a meeting to review the irrigation projects in Osmanabad district. Patil asked why BJP leaders don't speak about the issues like Covid-19 or development of state. "The BJP’s state unit is passing resolutions to reach out to the CBI for inquiry into any allegation. They have this habit of using the investigative agencies and people of Maharashtra are watching,” he added. NCP MP Supriya Sule condemned the ED action against Anil Deshmukh and said such “misuse” of central investigative agencies was prevalent only during the Emergency. "Political vendetta was unheard of in Maharashtra until now. BJP is indulging in targeting of political rivals, rather than holding deliberations regarding ideology, prevailing political issues and the problems being faced by the people, in its state executive meeting,” she said in response to a question on the BJP’s resolution against Ajit Pawar and Anil Parab. "No matter what, the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) will not only continue for five years, but for 25 years by focusing on politics of development," Sule said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-using-central-investigative-agencies-to-target-political-opponents-says-ncp-1001394.html
25-06-2021||West||Maharashtra tightens curbs after first death from Delta Plus Covid-19 variant reported||On a day Maharashtra reported the first death from the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government on Friday brought the state to Level-3 restrictions and indicated “wider and stricter restrictions” in the days to come. Besides, it also decided to give a major boost to speed up the vaccination drive as the state crossed the 3-crore mark of administration of doses. Level-3 restrictions mandate shops are shut by 4 pm and there would be curbs on unnecessary movements while malls and theatres would be shut. The first death in the state from the Delta Plus virus was reported in Ratnagiri. “An 80-year-old patient from Ratnagiri district has died because of the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 infection,” state Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said. Speaking to reporters in Jalna, he said, so far only 21 cases of Delta Plus variant have been reported in the state. “Nine cases were reported from Ratnagiri, followed by seven from Jalgaon, two in Mumbai and one each in Palghar, Thane and Sindhudurg districts. While one patient has died, others are stable and some have been discharged,” said Tope. According to a fresh notification issued by Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte, new variants like Delta and Delta Plus have come to spread and are fuelling the potentiality of imminent – in four to six weeks – more severe third wave with wider geographical reach. “…mutatations to the virus and its continual evolution mean that unforeseen situations may unfold requiring wider and stricter restrictions though current indices taken into account for imposing administrative level restrictions may indicate so and this state-level triggers other than oxygen beds occupancy needs to be promulgated,” he said. The state government also asked the districts to push for 'Test-Track-Treat' methodology. The state called for safer workplaces with proper air ventilation because of the “airborne-droplet” nature of the coronavirus. Kunte said that Covid-appropriate behaviour needs to be followed and in case of violations, there should be heavy fines and penalties. Besides, the number of RT-PCR tests would be increased in the days to come. The government has also decided to give a major push to the vaccination drive. “At 1400 hrs on 25 June, the total Covid-19 vaccianation doses administered in the state stood at 3,00,27,217,” said Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Dr Pradeep Vyas. The government has asked District Disaster Management Authorities (DDMA) to ensure that more people turn up for vaccinations. “Push vaccination through public awareness activities, attempt must be to achieve vaccination of 70 per cent eligible population at the earliest, encourage workplace vaccinations especially of blue-collar workers,” says the fresh guidelines announced by the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-tightens-curbs-after-first-death-from-delta-plus-covid-19-variant-reported-1001431.html
25-06-2021||West||50 lakh could be infected in third Covid-19 wave in Maharashtra, says minister||As many as 50 lakh people including five lakh children could be infected in Maharashtra in a possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, state Food and Drug Administration Minister Rajendra Shingne said on Friday. Talking to reporters at Buldhana, the minister said a third wave could have eight lakh active cases at its peak. "About five lakh children may be infected, of which 2.5 lakh may need admission in government hospitals. All these possibilities were discussed during this week's cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray," he said. The Maharashtra government was taking steps to face a possible third wave by ramping up health infrastructure, ensuring adequate stock of medicines and keeping ready healthcare staff including pediatriacians for deployment, Shingne added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/50-lakh-could-be-infected-in-third-covid-19-wave-in-maharashtra-says-minister-1001564.html
