26-06-2021||First Edit||Kashmir meeting: A good start||The best outcome of Thursday’s meeting on Jammu and Kashmir convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the meeting itself. It may have shown that the political ice that has accumulated after the scrapping of Article 370 in August 2019 has started melting and it is possible to have some communication between the government and the political parties in Kashmir. That marks a comedown for the government which had reviled their leaders as the ‘Gupkar gang’ and ‘anti-nationals’. The government had also taken to repression and disinformation about Kashmir. In about two years it has thought of making an outreach for reasons that have been variously cited as pressure from the US and a change in the geo-strategic situation. Whatever the reason, the initiative has been widely welcomed and deserves to be taken forward. However, no clear road map was shown for taking it forward, though the Prime Minister promised to restore statehood to Kashmir some time in future. A bigger assurance was about holding elections there after the delimitation process, which is now being undertaken, is completed. The main aim of the government in holding the meeting was probably to get endorsement from parties for the delimitation process which, it is expected, will give more political weightage to the Jammu region in the Assembly. Kashmir has not had a representative government for three years, and it is necessary to restore the democratic process. The process needs to be free and fair. It should be noted that even in the District Development Council elections last year, which cannot be said to have been free and fair, the National Conference and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) proved their relevance and dominance. The different political voices of the former state need to be heard and heeded in the spirit of democratic accommodation if the government is serious about its outreach. The parties seem to have been happy with their interaction with the government, though some of them were disappointed that there was no concrete outcome. There are also differences over whether elections or statehood should come first. All issues of concern, like the scrapping of Article 370, change in regulations relating to residence and jobs, the holding of elections and even the need for wider talks, were raised at the meeting. Most leaders agreed, perhaps realistically, that a decision on Article 370 should be left to the Supreme Court. PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti stuck to her party’s known positions while the National Conference seems to have softened its responses. Others, too, voiced their views, and an early restoration of statehood was the most common demand. The government should respond positively, without sticking to its strong-arm agenda which has not yielded any good result.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/kashmir-meeting-a-good-start-1001626.html
26-06-2021||In Perspective||Sister Lucy needs a fair hearing||The dismissal of Sister Lucy Kalappura by the Franciscan Clarist Congregation (FCC), Kerala, ordering the nun to leave the convent has caused a flutter in the dovecote, raising a lot of questions. It is unfortunate that Sr. Lucy’s appeals to legal forums within the Catholic Church against her dismissal on “disciplinary grounds” were rejected without hearing her side of the story. The Vatican’s Apostalica Signatura, the supreme judicial authority in the Catholic Church, in May this year rejected Sr. Lucy’s third appeal, the FCC said in a letter, according to several media reports. Sr. Lucy has challenged her dismissal. A court in Wayanad has stayed her eviction from the convent. While only time will tell the outcome of this controversial case, it is pertinent to place some facts and put things in perspective as the case has now gained national attention. The FCC is categorical that the nun’s dismissal comes in the wake of several warning letters by the congregation accusing her of disobedience and breaking the vow of poverty, among other wrong-doings that include publishing a book, participating in TV channel discussions, buying a car and learning to drive without the permission of her Superior-General. It is a fact that Sr. Lucy published her autobiography Karthavinte Namthil (In the Name of Christ) in which, among other things, she has alleged that sexual abuse and assaults take place in convents and seminaries and called for institutional reforms. The book had ruffled many feathers in the Church and Sr. Lucy claimed that her harassment increased after her book was released. It is also true that Sr. Lucy bought a car and participated in TV channel discussions. All this is not uncommon because there are priests and nuns who write articles regularly, even books; take part in TV discussions, and ride two-wheelers or drive cars. Some also have the luxury of drivers. Hence, to single out Sr. Lucy for such reasons seems odd. One cannot recall any instance in recent times where a priest or nun has been dismissed by the Church for reasons such as those stated above. It must be pointed out that Sr. Lucy had participated in protests against Bishop Franco Mulakkal, who has been accused of raping a fellow nun several times between 2014 and 2016. The bishop was arrested in 2018 but was later released on bail. The case against the bishop is still ongoing. Many, including Sr. Lucy herself, are of the view that she is being victimised because of what she has said in her book and because she supported the agitation for the arrest of Bishop Mulakkal. As Sr. Lucy told the media, “Justice is being denied because I spoke the truth.” Is this the price one pays for speaking the truth and taking on the might of the Church, something that is unprecedented? This is a question that many are asking who believe that the Church should protect those who speak the truth and not punish them. It appears that the FCC couldn’t wait for Sr. Lucy’s ouster. The letter sent by the Superior-General to the sisters of the Convent about Sr. Lucy’s dismissal after her appeal was rejected, says: “Let us raise our hearts praising the Almighty for his unspeakable gift.” Reacting to the letter, Advocate A M Sodder of the Association of Concerned Catholics asked, “Is this what Christianity is all about? The Superior-General is rejoicing at Sr. Lucy’s dismissal.” Even retired Karnataka High Court Judge Michael Saldanha has slammed the dismissal, writing to the FCC that ordering Sr. Lucy to leave the convent is a matter of national shame. The nun’s case is sub-judice and she has the right to appeal, said Saldanha, who is determined to fight the legal battle for Sr. Lucy. In fact, no less a person than the Pope, who is the head of the Catholic Church, stated publicly in 2019 that the sexual abuse of nuns was widespread in the Catholic Church and that the victims, numbering in thousands, endured the outrage silently for ‘fear of reprisal’ from their powerful tormentors. The Pope also exhorted Catholics to stand by the nuns languishing in sexual slavery. Should not the Church protect and stand by victims and the likes of Sr. Lucy for speaking up for defenceless nuns? Or at least give her a fair hearing? The Church, given its stance, is only precipitating the situation because there will now be a judicial examination of the validity of the Canon law and the rules of the convent vis-à-vis the Indian Constitution. This has never happened before and the outcome of Sr. Lucy’s case, that many are closely watching, will shed light on this grey area of the Church laws and convent rules versus the law of the land.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/sister-lucy-needs-a-fair-hearing-1001625.html
26-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ramesh Jarkiholi meets RSS leader in Athani||Former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi visited the residence of senior RSS leader Arvindrao Deshpande at Athani town in Belagavi district and held discussions for about half an hour on Saturday. Jarkiholi, on his return from Mysuru on Friday, had stated that he would resign as MLA but would continue to remain in the BJP and teach lessons to a section of party leaders who conspired against him. He also said the BJP high command and RSS leaders treated him with respect. It's speculated that Jarkiholi discussed his his next political move and resignation. He refused to make any statement to the media regarding the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ramesh-jarkiholi-meets-rss-leader-in-athani-1001739.html
26-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka Legislative Council Chairman helps trio hurt in road accident||Karnataka Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti turned a good samaritan by helping three persons, who sustained injuries in a road accident, near Sirigere village on the Pune-Bengaluru national highway on Saturday. Horatti, who is a former minister and JD(S) leader from North Karnataka, was heading towards Hubballi from Bengaluru in his vehicle. Noticing the injured persons on his way, he immediately directed his driver to stop the vehicle and helped them get first aid in hospital. He also informed the local police about the accident. His timely response helped save the lives of the injured persons and conquered the hearts of people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-legislative-council-chairman-helps-trio-hurt-in-road-accident-1001759.html
26-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka transport dept suffered losses worth Rs 4,000 crore: Deputy CM Savadi||Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi said the transport department suffered losses worth over Rs 4,000 crore since March last year. Savadi told reporters on Saturday that after the first wave of Covid-19, KSRTC staff went on strike and by the time it ended, the second wave of the pandemic struck. Despite the department suffering revenue losses, employees have been paid full salaries. Around Rs 2,600 crore have been availed from the government to meet financial demands "Currently, 50% commuters have been allowed for buses. The revenue generated will not even meet the demands of fuel and salaries. We have to get money from the government to pay salaries and it was unavoidable," he added. Regarding employee unions threatening to go on strike after July 5, he said the union leaders have assured that they will not go on strike during these difficult times. "During discussions, union leaders accepted that they had fallen prey to conspiracy that led into going on strike. Now they want to join hands with the government," the deputy CM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-transport-dept-suffered-losses-worth-rs-4000-crore-deputy-cm-savadi-1001785.html
26-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Transport Department has suffered Rs 4k crore loss: Laxman Savadi||Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi said that Transport Department has suffered losses of over Rs 4,000 crore since March last year. He told reporters here that after the Covid-19 first wave, KSRTC staff went on a strike and by the time it ended, the second struck. Despite such a huge loss, full salary has been given to the department employees. The department has received Rs 2,600 crore to meet the financial demands, he added. Savadi said 50% of commuters are allowed in buses now. The revenue generated thus will not even meet the demands of fuel and salaries. Still, they have to get funds from the government to pay salary and it is unavoidable, he said. On employee unions warning about going on another strike after July 5, he said the union leaders have assured him that they will not go on a strike during these difficult times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/transport-department-has-suffered-rs-4k-crore-loss-laxman-savadi-1001907.html
26-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||DPI set to announce teacher transfer schedule||The department of public instruction (DPI) is ready with the final rules for teachers’ transfers and is expected to release the schedule soon.  The process was halted due to the petitions filed by teachers at Karnataka High Court questioning the amendments brought to the Karnataka State Civil Services (Teachers Transfer and Regulation) Act. To avoid further delays, the department has decided to file caveat in the court, before releasing the calendar for transfers. The DPI sources told DH that the officials are in the process of getting a legal opinion on filing a caveat application in the court to avoid a stay for the teacher transfer process.  As per the data available with the department, as many as 70,000 teachers have already submitted applications seeking transfers. The teacher transfer process was delayed during 2019 and 2020 due to Covid-19 pandemic and legal issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dpi-set-to-announce-teacher-transfer-schedule-1001915.html
26-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bus services to Mysuru to resume from Monday||In a big relief to people commuting between Bengaluru and Mysuru, the KSRTC is set to operate 500 buses from Monday, also easing problems of the the passengers in the neighbouring districts. Ever since the unlock measures began on June 21, transport services have been restored in all districts, except Mysuru, which had maintained restrictions due to the high positivity rate. KSRTC officials said more than 2 lakh passengers travelled between Bengaluru and Mysuru every day before the pandemic. If one added ridership from Ramanagara, Mandya and Maddur, the number goes up further. Except for Kodagu, bus services between the neighbouring districts will be restored. "Kodagu is allowing bus services within the district but restricted inter-district movement. We expect the rules to be relaxed in the next few days," KSRTC chief traffic manager Prabhakar Reddy said. The Mysuru Urban and Rural divisions together operated 1,100 schedules, which had been reduced to 900, during last year's unlock period. On Monday, the Corporation plans to run 500 buses and scale it up in the coming days after assessing the demand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bus-services-to-mysuru-to-resume-from-monday-1001916.html
26-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka may get two ministerial berths in Union Cabinet: Eshwarappa||Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa exuded confidence that Karnataka is likely to get two ministerial berths in the Union Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the expansion.  Speaking to media persons here on Saturday, he said Karnataka lost one post of union minister after the death of Suresh Angadi (Former Belgaum MP). "We would appeal to the Centra leadership to accord one more ministerial berth to Karnataka." He also made it clear that he had no idea whether Shivamogga MP B Y Raghavendra would become part of the union cabinet. He also said there was nothing special about Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar's visit to Delhi. Is it written in Indian constitution that state ministers must not go to Delhi, he questioned and said the visit had nothing to do with politics.   He said he was happy that former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi would not retire from electoral politics. Jarkiholi has made it clear that he would remain with BJP even if he retires from politics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-may-get-two-ministerial-berths-in-union-cabinet-eshwarappa-1001849.html
26-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||JD(S) to stage protest against price hike of essential commodities||The JD(S) will stage a protest in Bengaluru on Monday against rise in prices of essential commodities.  The prices of essential commodities have gone up causing inconvenience to the public. The party has raised the issue earlier, too, and a few protests have been staged in other parts of the state by the party leaders. On Monday, party leaders in Bengaluru will gather together to take out a protest from Anand Rao Circle to the DC's office where an official memorandum against the price hike will be submitted, said party's state president H K Kumaraswamy. The Yuva Janata Dal leaders will also take part in the protest. JD(S) youth wing leader Nikhil Kumaraswamy said it was unfortunate that the price hike came amidst the pandemic, when people had already suffered personal and financial losses. All the protesters will follow Covid-19 protocol, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jds-to-stage-protest-against-price-hike-of-essential-commodities-1001908.html
26-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Major overhaul of blocks, DCCs on cards, says D K Shivakumar||Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar said on Saturday that a major overhaul of the party's organisational structure was on the cards as "inactive" leaders will be shown the door.  Shivakumar discussed this in a meeting with his working presidents Saleem Ahmed, Eshwar Khandre, Ramalinga Reddy, Satish Jarkiholi and R Dhruvanarayana.  "We discussed changing inactive presidents of block-level and district-level units," Shivakumar told reporters.  According to Ahmed, the reorganization process had started. "At the block-level, those who have completed two terms as presidents will be promoted to the district units," he said. Satish said he pitched for fresh faces to be given opportunities.  Later, Shivakumar held a virtual meeting with party leaders to discuss the massive month-long outreach programme starting July 1. AICC general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala, who is in charge of the party's affairs in Karnataka, participated in this meeting briefly as he was travelling. "We will visit the homes of every family affected by Covid-19 - farmers, labourers, drivers and all sections of society," Shivakumar said. "We will instill confidence in them and try to address their grievances," he added.  '3 lakh Covid deaths in state' Congress will also take up a campaign to ascertain the real extent of Covid-19 deaths. "According to us, more than three lakh people have died against the government’s claim of 30,000. Our workers will go to homes that have suffered a Covid death and help them get compensation from the government," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/major-overhaul-of-blocks-dccs-on-cards-says-d-k-shivakumar-1001914.html
26-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||CM face divide threatens to dwindle poll dividend for Congress in Karnataka||It is anybody’s guess how one-upmanship between two tall leaders from the same party will play out in politics. For the Congress, Karnataka’s principal opposition party, the palpable rift between the leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and its state president D K Shivakumar has divided the party, with less than two years remaining for the next assembly elections. Over the past week, several Congress legislators have been openly promoting Siddaramaiah as the next chief minister, a wish whose fruition depends on the party winning the next election. Siddaramaiah’s projection comes much to the chagrin of Shivakumar, who is also nursing chief ministerial ambitions. A recent tweet by the official Karnataka Congress handle supporting Shivakumar’s chief ministerial candidature is believed to be the latest trigger, irking the supporters of Siddaramaiah, leading them to assert his standing in the party. After all, Siddaramaiah is Congress’ tallest mass leader right now. He became the first CM in 40 years to complete the full term (2013-2018). The latest rift has not gone down well with leaders in the party. Expressing disappointment, a senior leader said the controversy was completely “untimely”. The Congress hopes to turn the infighting within BJP into its favour ahead of the next elections. But dissidence within its own ranks has dampened these efforts. The situation is not unfamiliar for Congress. Its prospects in the 2018 elections were dented and the Congress-JD(S) coalition government collapsed in 2019 because of factional rifts. “The party has not been faring well for quite some time now. We won in 2013 only because B S Yediyurappa split from BJP and floated KJP. In the 2018 elections, the party suffered because of derogatory statements that were made (by Siddaramaiah) against leaders from the Vokkaliga, Lingayat and Nayaka communities - H D Kumaraswamy, Yediyurappa and Sriramulu,” a Congress MLA explains. “Voters from these communities deserted us. Except for Dalits and Muslims, the Congress is hard-pressed to find its voter base today.”  A strong sentiment against “outsiders” in the Congress also ensues with one section of leaders believing that Siddaramaiah and a few others who migrated from Janata Dal cannot relate to efforts that have gone into building the Congress.  According to political analyst Muzaffar Assadi, those projecting Siddarmaiah as the next CM face are overreading the anti-incumbency trend in Karnataka. “An anti-incumbency trend is slowly developing, but it can swing either way ahead of the elections. Overemphasizing it now could be political suicide. Projecting one CM face will lead to leaders from different communities staking the claim. It will divide the voter base,” he pointed out. Nonetheless, Siddaramaiah is crucial to Congress. While Shivakumar is known for his electoral strategy and organizational skills, Siddaramaiah has a mass appeal. “Mass appeal is not something that anyone can cultivate. Siddaramaiah’s public appeal cannot be matched by Shivakumar,” another legislator says, adding that unless the high command figures out a way to accommodate both of them equally, this conflict will work against the party. Traditionally, the KPCC president automatically enters the race for the CM’s post. As president, this is the closest Shivakumar will come to becoming the CM, if the Congress wins in 2023. However, Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar have much work to do. Sources say Siddaramaiah is scouting for a “safe seat” to contest from in the next election as Badami, where he won by a thin margin, will be risky. Shivakumar has the task of holding the cadre together and consolidating the voter base while refurbishing his own public image. There is also speculation that the demand for a Dalit to be made the CM, which has haunted the Congress in the past, will gain momentum again. That will certainly throw a wedge into many chief ministerial machinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cm-face-divide-threatens-to-dwindle-poll-dividend-for-congress-in-karnataka-1001919.html
26-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Ibrahim says sorry to Vokkaligas over party leader remarks||Senior Congress leader and MLC C M Ibrahim has tendered an apology to JD(S) supremo HD Deve Gowda, former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy and the Vokkaliga community. "I am pained to know that certain recent statements made by leaders from my party and my community against Kumaraswamy and Vokkaliga community have hurt their sentiments. I want to apologise to Deve Gowda, Kumaraswamy and the entire Vokkaliga community," Ibrahim said in a video statement. While Ibrahim did not take names, he was understood to be referring to statements made by Congress' Chamarajpet MLA B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan who recently attacked Kumaraswamy. Recently, Khan had made personal comments on Kumaraswamy's skin colour and his politics, addressing him in the singular. "Muslims and Vokkaligas have lived in harmony from time immemorial in rural parts of Karnataka. Such statements will not dent the trust between the communities," Ibrahim said. Politically attacking someone is acceptable but no one should personally comment on any leader, Ibrahim added. "Kumaraswamy took up several good initiatives when he was the chief minister," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ibrahim-says-sorry-to-vokkaligas-over-party-leader-remarks-1001932.html
26-06-2021||Main Article||Distorted and distorting||There is much jubilation at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) being ranked the top research university in the world in the Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) rankings this year. I am delighted that IISc is ranked at the top as now one can look at the rankings critically without my criticism being looked at as a case of sour grapes. So, we should take a look at the ranking process and ask ourselves how justified IISc's rank vis-à-vis those ranked at par or below it in research is. These other universities include MIT, Harvard University, Caltech, Stanford University, University of California-Berkeley and Cambridge University. Therefore, it is vital to analyse the validity of these rankings and not place so much importance on IISc's rank that we become complacent about our research performance. It is quite ludicrous that the performance of entire universities can be quantified and reduced to a single number, much like an individual's abilities are quantified by his/her IQ. Education and research involve the interplay of creativity, innovation and mentoring, and are much too complex to be reduced to a single performance metric. Human nature is to compare and quantify, and as long as people are willing to value rankings, there will be companies to do the task. But it is for people in decision-making positions to view these critically and not make major decisions only based on the rankings. The QS ranking system works by considering six criteria — 1) academic reputation; 2) reputation as perceived by employers; 3) faculty/student ratio; 4) citations per faculty; 5) the ratio of international faculty to national faculty; and 6) the ratio of international students to national students. Academic reputation is decided by a survey conducted among about 100,000 experts in teaching and research. The subjective perception of these experts governs the score for academic standing, yet this criterion carries the most weight – 40% — in determining rankings. A similar survey conducted among about 50,000 responses from employers regarding the second criterion contributes 10% weight to the ranking system. Thus, half of the intangibles decide maximum ranking points. The remaining four criteria can be quantified based on the data provided by universities. The faculty-to-student ratio of a university carries a weight of 20%. However, a larger faculty-to-student ratio does not always translate to better instruction for students. In many research institutes, support faculty such as scientific and technical officers are counted as teaching faculty, although they are only marginally involved in teaching. In many universities and institutes, well-established senior faculty are less accessible to students. They are often less involved in the institution's academic activities as they tend to be busy working in various committees, nationally and internationally. Another criterion is the citations per faculty, and this parameter constitutes 20% of the ranking points. Citations are the number of times other publications cite a published paper. However, in scientific circles, to boost citations for one's papers, one has to circulate among scientists by attending conferences, inviting other scientists for seminars and personally socialising one's ideas. So, the number of citations may scale more with the visibility of the paper than the true scientific impact of the work. It is also not uncommon to see citing a work to discredit it; this counts as a citation, nevertheless. Notwithstanding these well-known drawbacks, the number of citations remains one of the leading metrics used by the research community and funding agencies to judge research performance. For the QS rankings, the citations received per faculty over the five years starting from seven years before the assessment are considered. Citation count is normalised against the total citations in the field, as not all fields have the same number of researchers or total publications. Citations can sometimes lead to incorrect conclusions. An example is Panjab University, which was ranked the top Indian university in the Times Higher Education ranking in 2013, upstaging all other institutions that had continuously outperformed Panjab University on almost all metrics. The anomaly was attributed to many citations received by a few faculty members and their students who were joint authors on papers on the discovery of the Higgs boson at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) run by CERN in Switzerland. A few thousand authors from a few hundred universities and institutions authored these papers. Besides such anomalies, usually the impact of a paper is not realized within the span of a few years of its publication. The impact of a paper is judged better by the longevity of its citations. Thus, restricting citations of publications to just a few years is flawed. Instead, the total citations received by all papers published from the beginning of an institute or university over the previous five years may be a better metric. Although I am generally opposed to the idea of ranking itself, this new way of reckoning citations score will weigh pioneering publications that have remained important over long periods. In another ranking system, the number of papers published by an institute was used as a parameter in deciding rankings. This led to an anomaly in the rankings in 2010 involving the University of Alexandria. In that year's rankings, the University of Alexandria was placed surprisingly high. This anomaly was traced to a single professor's practice of misusing his position as an editor of a journal to publish a large number of articles in that journal. The remaining two metrics, namely the fractions of international faculty and international students, are driven by sociological, financial and geographical aspects of where an institute is located. Although these two criteria have the least weight, they can impact ranking over mostly non-academic reasons. The question whether it is necessary and desirable to rank universities and institutes is a moot point. Many universities resort to window-dressing data to improve their rankings. Often, they have personnel entrusted with finding ways to improve the rankings and embellish the achievements of students and faculty. Many a time, scarce resources are frittered away in showcasing the institute. Critical evaluation of the ranking system has become important as funding agencies find it an easy metric to base their decisions on. The ranking process is further encouraged by the scientific publishing machinery (which is already a money-spinning business). It has a lot more to profit when researchers tend to increase their publication numbers to improve the institute's ranking, besides contributing to increasing their own individual metrics. I believe that just as we should do away with marks and ranks for students in exams, we should also do away with the ranking of universities. Instead, it is sufficient to divide universities into different tiers and let the clientele, who need to decide, delve deeper to find out what suits them. Such a tier-based division can also be done for specific categories such as best faculty, best campus, best peer group and so forth. It will help prospective students and their parents make decisions based on categories they care most about, instead of bestowing bragging rights for institutes or universities to advertise themselves. (The writer is an Emeritus Professor and an INSA Senior Scientist, IISc)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/distorted-and-distorting-1001623.html
26-06-2021||National||DH Toon | PM Modi said he wants to remove 'dil ki doori and Dilli ki doori': Omar after meet on J&K||Prime Minister Narendra Modi conveyed to a group of leaders from Jammu and Kashmir that he wanted to remove "dil ki doori and Dilli ki doori" -- distance between hearts and the distance with Delhi -- National Conference leader Omar Abdullah said after a meeting to chalk out the future course of action in the union territory on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-pm-modi-said-he-wants-to-remove-dil-ki-doori-and-dilli-ki-doori-omar-after-meet-on-jk-1001641.html
26-06-2021||National||Twitter 'withholds' 35 tweets after legal request from India||Twitter has "withheld" about 35 tweets following a legal request from the Indian government, as per information on the Lumen database. Twitter received a legal request from the Indian government on June 21 for action against 37 tweets, a document on Lumen database showed.  Given that the tweets have been withheld, the content could not be independently verified.  Upon clicking on the blocked URLs listed on the Lumen database, a message saying the tweet has been "withheld in IN in response to a legal demand" is displayed for 35 tweets. Two links displayed the message "This Tweet is unavailable". Lumen database is an independent research project studying cease and desist letters concerning online content, and requests received by Twitter for withholding content are published on its site. When contacted, a Twitter spokesperson said: "As explained in our Country Withheld Policy, it may be necessary to withhold access to certain content in response to a valid legal demand or when the content has been found to violate local law(s)."  The spokesperson noted that the withholdings are limited to the specific jurisdiction/country where the content is determined to be illegal.  The account holder is notified directly -- by sending a message to the email address associated with the account(s), if available -- so that the user is aware that Twitter has received a legal order pertaining to the account.  "The legal requests that we receive are detailed in the bianual Twitter Transparency Report, and requests to withhold content are published on Lumen," the spokesperson added. Twitter had restricted 50 tweets recently after a legal request dated June 17. The US-based company has been in the eye of a storm over failure to comply with the new IT rules in India, which mandates, among other requirements, the appointment of three key personnel -- chief compliance officer, nodal officer and grievance officer by social media platforms with over 50 lakh users. All the three personnel have to be resident in India.  While the rules came into effect on May 26, Twitter is yet to adhere to the social media guidelines, despite repeated reminders from the government. Twitter on Friday briefly blocked IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad from accessing his account over an alleged copyright violation, ratcheting up tensions with the government as it came under renewed attack for not following local laws. The government had earlier slammed Twitter for deliberate defiance and failure to comply with the IT rules, which has led to the US giant losing its legal shield as an 'intermediary' in India and becoming liable for users posting any unlawful content.  Twitter has an estimated 1.75 crore users in India, as per data cited by the government recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-withholds-35-tweets-after-legal-request-from-india-1001645.html
26-06-2021||National||Delta Plus: Centre asks states to undertake containment measures||The Union Health Ministry on Friday asked eight states including Karnataka with Delta Plus variant of novel coronavirus to undertake containment measures in districts reporting such cases and send adequate samples for genome sequencing. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to the Chief Secretaries of Andhra Pradesh (Tirupati district), Gujarat (Surat), Haryana (Faridabad), Jammu and Kashmir (Katra), Punjab (Patiala and Ludhiana), Karnataka (Mysuru), Tamil Nadu (Madurai, Kanchipuram, Chennai) and Rajasthan (Bikaner) informing them on the potential risks posed by the Delta Plus variant and what needed to be done. “The public health response, while broadly remaining the same, has to become more focused and stringent. You are requested to take up immediate containment measures in these districts and clusters including preventing crowds and intermingling of people, widespread testing, prompt tracing as well as vaccine coverage on a priority basis,” wrote Bhushan. Maharashtra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh were informed earlier this week because of the Delta Plus cases in Jalgaon and Ratnagiri (Maharashtra), Palakkad and Pathanamthitta(Kerala) and Bhopal and Shivpuri(Madhya Pradesh). The districts have also been asked to ensure supplying adequate samples of positive persons to the designated laboratories under the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genome Consortium to establish the new variant’s clinical and epidemiological links if any. The Delta Plus variant has three characteristics – (1) increased transmissibility (2) stronger binding to lung cells and (3) potential reduction in response to monoclonal antibody treatment. “At this time we need to know how it is spreading. For that, strategic sequencing of representative samples is needed from places it has appeared in, as well as randomly in other states,” senior virologist Shahid Jameel from the Ashoka University told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delta-plus-centre-asks-states-to-undertake-containment-measures-1001655.html
26-06-2021||National||Nizamuddin-Madgaon Rajdhani derails inside tunnel near Ratnagiri||The front wheel of the loco of 02414 Hazrat Nizamuddin -- Madgaon Junction Rajdhani Superfast Special derailed in Ratnagiri district of Konkan region in the wee hours of Saturday. The incident took place at  04:15 hours at km 190/3 between Ukshi and Bhoke station inside Karbude Tunnel in Ratnagiri region of Konkan Railway due to boulder fall.  A Rail Maintenance Vehicle (RMV) has reached the site and an Accident Relief Medical Van (ARMV) with rerailing equipment has left for the site from Ratnagiri for early restoration. The Konkan Railway officials have also rushed to the site for early clearance of the line.  So far there are no reports of injuries or casualties. More details are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nizamuddin-madgaon-rajdhani-derails-inside-tunnel-near-ratnagiri-1001664.html
26-06-2021||National||Indian woman admits stabbing minor daughter to death at home in UK over Covid-19 worry||A 36-year-old Indian woman in the UK has pleaded guilty to manslaughter by diminished responsibility after she admitted killing her five-year-old daughter at their home because she was terrified of dying from Covid-19 and thought the little girl could not live without her, according to a media report. Sutha Sivanantham stabbed her daughter Sayagi in the bedroom of their south London flat 15 times before severely injuring herself on June 30 last year, the Metro.co.uk reported. Her husband said she had been 'petrified' about catching the virus and the lockdown restrictions may have 'pushed her over the edge,' the report added. Appearing at the Old Bailey on Thursday, Sivanantham denied murder but admitted manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility and will be kept in hospital indefinitely. Sivanantham, who had been living in the UK since 2006 after an arranged marriage, complained of mystery ailments for almost a year before the tragedy. She developed a 'morbid concern' she was seriously ill and had become convinced she was going to die, prosecutors said. On the day of the attack, she begged her husband not to go to work and called friends to tell them she was unwell. At around 4 pm neighbours went to the flat in Monarch Parade, Mitcham, and found Sivanantham with stab wounds to her abdomen. Sayagi, who was lying on the bed, had been stabbed several times in the neck, chest and abdomen. Sutha was also found to have suffered self-inflicted stab injuries and was taken to hospital, where she remained for more than two months receiving treatment before being discharged into police custody. Sainsbury’s worker Suganthan Sivanantham was called at the supermarket to be told that his wife had killed their daughter at their home, the report said. He sobbed loudly in the dock as his impact statement was read to the court. It said, ‘I get very emotional having to relive what has happened to my daughter and my wife.’ He said before the killing the family had lived a ‘happy fulfilling and blissful life.’ Since then he has had to give up work and ‘each day is a struggle.' Sivanantham said he has not spoken to his wife but accepts she was not responsible for her actions. ‘I know that if she was well she would not have been able to kill our daughter,’ he said. One psychiatrist who has treated Sivanantham found that the social isolation and stress caused by the Covid-19 lockdown contributed to her serious mental illness. She was sent to be treated in hospital under sections 37 and 41 of the Mental Health Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-woman-admits-stabbing-minor-daughter-to-death-at-home-in-uk-over-covid-19-worry-1001669.html
26-06-2021||National||India records 48,698 new Covid-19 cases, 1,183 deaths||A single-day rise of 48,698 Covid-19 infections took India's case tally to 3,01,83,143 while the weekly positivity rate declined to 2.97 per cent, according to Union Health Ministry data on Saturday. The death toll climbed to 3,94,493 with 1,183 more people succumbing to the viral disease in a day. The number of active cases has further declined to 5,95,565 and now accounts for 1.97 per cent of the total infections, the data updated at 8 am showed. Recoveries outnumbered daily new cases of Covid-19 for the 44th consecutive day with the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surging to 2,91,93,085. The case fatality rate stood at 1.31 per cent. While the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.72 per cent, the weekly case positivity rate has come down to 2.97 per cent. According to the Health Ministry data, the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.79 per cent. It has been less than 5 per cent for 19 consecutive days. India administered 61.19 lakh vaccine doses in a day taking the cumulative number of jabs given so far under the nationwide inoculation drive to 31.50 crore, according to immunisation data published at 7 am. Also, 17,35,781 tests were conducted on Friday for the detection of Covid-19, taking the total number of tests conducted so far in the country to 39,95,68,448. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore total Covid-19 cases on May 4 this year and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-48698-new-covid-19-cases-1183-deaths-1001674.html
26-06-2021||National||EAM Jaishankar talks regional, global issues with his Greek counterpart||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar held a productive informal discussion on regional and global issues with his Greek counterpart Nikos Dendias as he arrived in Greece for the first visit by an Indian foreign minister since 2003. Jaishankar is on a two-nation visit to Greece and Italy. He met Dendias on Friday. "Thank FM @NikosDendias for a warm welcome to Greece. A productive discussion on regional and global issues. Greece is an important partner in our broader EU engagement. Look forward to our formal talks tomorrow," Jaishankar tweeted on Friday. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi on Thursday said that Jaishankar will embark on a two-nation visit to Greece and to Italy. In Greece, he would make a bilateral visit on June 25 and 26 for talks with his Greek counterpart apart from other engagements. It will be the first visit to Greece at the level of the external affairs minister since 2003. After Greece, he will travel to Italy to attend G20 ministerial meetings. The G20 summit is scheduled to be held in Italy in October. India is expected to hold the presidency of the G20 in 2022. The G20 is an influential bloc that brings together the world's major economies. The G20 member countries are Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, Japan, India, Indonesia, Italy, Mexico, Russia, South Africa, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Turkey, the United Kingdom, the United States and the European Union.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eam-jaishankar-talks-regional-global-issues-with-his-greek-counterpart-1001676.html
26-06-2021||National||Covid-positive prisoner escapes from Assam hospital||A prisoner, undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at the Diphu Medical College and Hospital in Assam's Karbi Anglong district, escaped, police said on Saturday. The prisoner was admitted to the Covid ward of the hospital on Thursday afternoon after he tested positive, they said. He escaped from the hospital on Friday night, they added. He was arrested on June 12 from Matipung in the Diphu police station area after huge quantities of drugs were seized from him. He was in judicial custody. A massive hunt was launched by the police to nab the prisoner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-positive-prisoner-escapes-from-assam-hospital-1001680.html
26-06-2021||National||Dawood's brother Iqbal Kaskar gets one-day NCB custody in drugs case||A court at Bhiwandi in Maharashtra's Thane district has remanded Iqbal Kaskar, brother of fugitive underworld don Dawood Ibrahim, in the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) custody for one day in a drugs case. Magistrate M M Mali on Friday remanded Kaskar in the anti-drugs agency's custody. Kaskar's alleged involvement in the case surfaced following the recent seizure of 27 kg of hashish. The NCB officials had sought his custody for examination in the case, an official has said. The NCB had recently arrested seven persons in two cases in which 27 kg hashish was recovered. During investigation, it came to light that the narcotics drug was sourced from Jammu and Kashmir. Also, the alleged role of Kaskar, lodged in a Thane jail, surfaced in the case, following which his custody was sought. "On perusal of the remand report and case diary, it appears that the case is of serious nature triable by special court. Hence, sufficient opportunity of investigation is required," the magistrate said while handing over his custody to the NCB. In 2017, the Anti-Extortion Cell of the Thane police had arrested Kaskar in connection with an extortion case. He had been deported from the United Arab Emirates in 2003. Kaskar was said to be operating his brother's real estate business in Mumbai. The Thane police had earlier booked him under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime (MCOCA) Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dawoods-brother-iqbal-kaskar-gets-one-day-ncb-custody-in-drugs-case-1001694.html
26-06-2021||National||Some countries wilfully providing safe havens to terrorists, India tells UN||India has told the UN that it has been a victim of terrorism, especially from across the border, over the last several decades and that there are countries “clearly guilty” of aiding, supporting terrorist activities and offering safe havens to militants, a thinly-veiled reference to Pakistan. In his opening remarks to the virtual high-level side event Countering Financing of Terrorism in the Post Covid-19 Landscape during the 2nd Counter-Terrorism Week, India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti has said that preventing terrorists from accessing financial resources is crucial to successfully counter the threat of terrorism. “India has been a victim of terrorism, particularly cross-border terrorism, over the last several decades,” Tirumurti said Friday. He noted that while some states lack the legal-operational frameworks and necessary capacities for countering the financing of terrorism, “there are other States that are clearly guilty of aiding and supporting terrorism, and wilfully providing financial assistance and safe havens to terrorists. While we must enhance capacities of the former, the international community must collectively call out the latter and hold them accountable.” The remarks appeared to be an apparent reference to Pakistan. Tirumurti also emphasised the need for international collaboration to counter financing terrorism, support and strengthen the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) and provide greater funding to UN Counter-Terrorism architecture. India co-hosted the side-event along with the Permanent Mission of France, UN Office of Drugs and Crime, UN Office of Counter-Terrorism and the Security Council Counter-Terrorism Committee Executive Directorate. Tirumurti voiced concern that the Covid-19 pandemic has brought forth new risks to the efforts of Countering Financing of Terrorism (CFT), with fake charities, fake Non-Profit Organisations (NPOs), and crowdfunding particularly becoming more frequent sources of terror-financing. “Terrorist organisations have also begun to exploit the anonymity afforded by blockchain technology for fundraising and finances,” he said adding that as part of the National Risk Assessment (NRA), an NPO Risk Assessment in 2020 and 2021 was conducted. "Identifying linkages between various individuals, NPOs and terrorist outfits active in the region have been given due weightage,” he said. “While we remain vigilant to the risk posed by the misuse of emerging technologies for terrorist purposes, the benefits of many of these technologies far outweigh the risk and need to be harnessed to strengthen our CFT efforts,” he said. Tirumurti told the event that India is in process of upgrading its Financial Intelligence Network or FINNET by introducing machine learning or artificial intelligence, chatbots, virtual assistants, natural language processing, locational intelligence and spatial analytics, orchestration and threat intelligence, to perform advanced analysis, strengthen the financial intelligence infrastructure and ensure quicker dissemination of terror-financing cases to law enforcement agencies (LEAs). India has developed the necessary capabilities to counter-terrorism, including legal and institutional framework and technical capability to combat terrorism in its various forms and manifestations, particularly countering the financing of terrorism, he said. Tirumurti further said that cash couriers have remained one of the major terror-financing methods to avoid audit trials. Pointing out that India has incorporated the role of cash couriers in its NRA, he said the Government’s steps towards lowering cash transactions through Banks are proving to be effective in containing cash flow through Banks. “During an investigation of cases of terror funding, earnest efforts are made to unearth the trail of funds and disrupt the entire network so as to give a severe blow to the terrorists and terrorist organisations,” he said adding that India follows international standards for assessment of the risk posed by terrorism to its financial sector and undertakes preventive and mitigation measures. India has been a member of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) since 2010 and in line with recommendation 1 of the FATF, National Risk Assessment related to terror financing is undertaken regularly to assess the emerging, and dynamic threats posed by terrorists, to identify methods and instruments used by terrorists or terrorist groups in order to attract, move or use funds for criminal purposes, he said. India performed National Risk Assessments in 2019 and 2020 and has made “tremendous progress" in implementing the recommendations of FATF commensurate with its Money Laundering and terror-financing risks. Tirumurti said India is gearing up for its upcoming evaluation of FATF. India has been contributing proactively to further international cooperation to combat the financing of terrorism at the regional and international level. In 2018, India contributed USD 550,000 to the UNOCT's programmes targeting capacity building of countries in East and Southern Africa. This year too, India has contributed half a million dollars to further strengthen these efforts, Tirumurti said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/some-countries-wilfully-providing-safe-havens-to-terrorists-india-tells-un-1001700.html
26-06-2021||National||Over 1.45 crore Covid-19 vaccines available with states, UTs: Centre||More than 1.45 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and union territories and over 19,10,650 jabs are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. The states and union territories have so far got over 31.17 crore vaccine doses through the free-of-cost channel of the central government and direct procurement. Of these, the total consumption, including wastage, has been 29,71,80,733 doses, the ministry said. "More than 1.45 crore (1,45,21,067) balance and unutilised Covid vaccine doses are still available with the states/UTs to be administered," the ministry said. "Furthermore, more than 19,10,650 vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by the states/UTs within the next 3 days," the ministry said. The new phase of universalisation of the Covid-19 vaccination commenced on June 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-145-crore-covid-19-vaccines-available-with-states-uts-centre-1001705.html
26-06-2021||National||Addiction not a style statement, says PM Modi on International Day against Drug Abuse||On the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for realising the vision of a drugs-free India, noting that they bring darkness, destruction and devastation. He tweeted, "Today, on International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, I laud all those working at the grassroots to eliminate the menace of drugs from our society. Every such effort to save lives is vital. After all, drugs bring with it darkness, destruction and devastation." He added, "Let us reiterate our commitment to share facts on drugs and realise our vision of a drugs free India. Remember- addiction is neither cool nor a style statement." The prime minister also shared an old Mann Ki Baat episode which contained many aspects of overcoming the drugs menace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/addiction-not-a-style-statement-says-pm-modi-on-international-day-against-drug-abuse-1001717.html
26-06-2021||National||Top BJP leaders hold meeting at party headquarters||Senior BJP leaders, including Union ministers Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh and party president J P Nadda, held a meeting here on Saturday. The meeting, held at the party headquarters, was attended by several other senior leaders, including those handling organisational charges, sources said. The ruling party leaders have been holding deliberations for some time over a number of issues, ranging from the Covid-19 vaccination exercise to various governance and political matters. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also attended many meetings, which were held at his residence and attended by several Union ministers besides Nadda.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/top-bjp-leaders-hold-meeting-at-party-headquarters-1001718.html
26-06-2021||National||Dharamsala BJP MLA accused of mentally, physically torturing wife||Dharamsala BJP MLA Vishal Nehriya has been accused by his HPAS officer wife of physical and mental torture. In an 11-minute video that has gone viral on social media, the 2020-batch Himachal Pradesh Administrative Services (HPAS) officer Oshin Sharma alleged that the BJP legislator slapped her thrice on Thursday. Sharma, posted as the block development officer at Nagrota Suriyan in Kangra district rural development agency (DRDA), claimed that Nehriya had physically and mentally tortured her several times. Nehriya and Sharma were married two months ago on April 26. Sharma said she has now returned to her maternal house. The HPAS officer claimed that Nehriya had also beaten her in February this year at a Chandigarh hotel. The BJP MLA neither answered calls nor replied to messages sent to get his version. Nehriya (32) was elected as MLA from Dharamshala in a by-election on October 24, 2019. Sharma also alleged that her husband had expelled her from his house on the fourth day of their marriage when she tested positive for Covid-19. She said she had agreed to return then as he threatened to harm himself. The HPAS officer also stated that she knew Nehariya since their college days. She said she had ended her relationship with him then as he used to beat her even during those days. However, Nehariya asked Sharma to marry him in 2019 after becoming the MLA and she agreed as she thought he was genuinely interested in her, according to the officer. Sharma also accused her in-laws of demanding dowry and said that her parents had given them a gold chain worth Rs 1.20 lakh and a ring worth Rs 1 lakh at the time of marriage. She added that her husband’s family had also levelled allegations of torture against her. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dharamsala-bjp-mla-accused-of-mentally-physically-torturing-wife-1001724.html
26-06-2021||National||Unemployment during Covid-19: Federal Bank gives 400-odd part-time jobs in Kerala||Federal Bank on Saturday said it has provided 400-odd part-time jobs with a monthly salary of Rs 18,000 at its branches in Kerala so far, in a bid to help those who lost their employment due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Designated as 'Covid Wardens', these people were hired to manage crowds, provide masks and sanitiser to the public visiting the branches in the state, it said. The livelihood enhancement project was started as part of its corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative in August 2020 and is continuing even now. Speaking to PTI, Federal Bank Chief Human Resource Officer Ajith Kumar K K said: "This is a part-time job given to tide over the situation, not a full-time employment." The bank hired these people at a monthly salary of Rs 18,000 per month. About Rs 6 crore has been spent towards salary in the last 10 months, he said. Since many had lost jobs due to the pandemic in the state there were requests for creating part-time jobs from several agencies and organisations. "We thought of finding a way to provide livelihood to people who lost jobs due to the pandemic and help them tide over the economic hardship. That's why we decided to hire such people," he added. Kumar further said crowd management at branches had become a big issue during the pandemic as the Kerala government has restricted entry of not more than five people at a particular time. "Therefore, we thought hiring part-time 'Covid Wardens' will be helpful to both. We provided jobs to about 400-odd people in Kerala," he said. Hiring was done in Kerala because the state was having many positive cases at that time and moreover the footfall in branches were also high. Whereas in other states, 'Covid Wardens' were not hired as there were security guards managing the crowd at bank branches, Kumar added. Asked if the initiative will continue, Kumar said the bank will discontinue if the Covid-19 positivity rate falls below five per cent in a particular locality. "We are keeping a close watch on positivity rate in the state," he said. Kumar also mentioned that the needy people were hired irrespective of their education qualification through reputed agencies and organisations, and the salary is being paid through these agencies. Although there is a jobless situation in many sectors due to the pandemic, the bank however cannot take care of all jobless people, Kumar said adding that "we are playing our small part under our CSR initiative". The Kochi-based Federal Bank said it spent the entire allocated CSR funds of Rs 35 crore during the 2020-21 fiscal. The bank expects the CSR budget for the current year would be around Rs 40 crore. The bank has been implementing CSR initiatives for the last 10 years through the Federal Bank Hormis Memorial Foundation. Among other CSR initiatives, the bank has spent Rs 4 crore on setting up a separate 100-bed ward with ICU facility in a hospital in Kochi. It is operating an outreach programme 'Sanjivini Vehicle' in five districts to create awareness about vaccination. Besides, the bank provides scholarships for higher studies to 150 students, supplies to select health institutions, equipment required for treatment of neurological disabilities besides running skill academies to train local youth. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unemployment-during-covid-19-federal-bank-gives-400-odd-part-time-jobs-in-kerala-1001730.html
26-06-2021||National||Tamil Nadu reports first Delta Plus Covid variant death||Tamil Nadu has registered its first death due to the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 with a person from Madurai succumbing to it, according to the state health department. Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma Subramanian said three positive cases of the new Delta Plus variant were identified of which two have recovered. Those who tested positive for the Delta Plus variant include a 32-year-old nurse from Chennai and another individual from Kancheepuram district. "After the death of the Madurai patient, the samples were collected, which confirmed that it was Delta Plus variant," he said. However, the patient's contacts have tested negative. According to the Union health ministry, after Maharashtra with the maximum of 20 cases of Delta Plus, nine people in Tamil Nadu have tested positive for the new variant as of Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-reports-first-delta-plus-covid-variant-death-1001734.html
26-06-2021||National||Farmers march: Delhi police beef up security at border points||The Delhi Police on Saturday tightened security arrangements across borders of the national capital in view of the anticipated protest march by farmers, officials said. Saturday marks the completion of seven months of the protests by the farmers, ever since they began their stir by camping at Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana. The other two protest sites on the national capital's borders are Tikri and Ghazipur. The protesting farmers have demanded the withdrawal of the Centre’s new farm laws and that a new law be made to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. The Delhi Metro has decided to shut its three main stations on the Yellow Line for four hours on Saturday. "As advised by Delhi Police, in view of security reasons, three Metro stations of Yellow Line namely, Vishwavidyalaya, Civil Lines and Vidhan Sabha will remain closed for public from 10:00 am to 2:00 pm tomorrow i.e, 26.06.2021 (Saturday)," the DMRC had tweeted Friday night. According to a statement by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions protesting at various Delhi border points, “Kheti Bachao, Loktantra Bachao Diwas” (save agriculture, save democracy) is being marked all over India on Saturday on the completion of seven months of the farmers’ protests and 46 years after promulgation of Emergency in India in 1975. Thousands of farmers across India plan to march in rallies to Raj Bhavans in different states on Saturday. As an expression of solidarity, one such rally is also being planned in Massachusetts, USA, it said. Thousands of farmers from Saharanpur and Sisauli in western Uttar Pradesh reached Ghazipur Gate led by BKU chief Rakesh Tikait. Protests by farmers growing wheat, sugarcane, mango, apple, green gram, paddy, jowar and others continue in different parts of the country for remunerative guaranteed prices, the statement said. The representatives of farmers will also seek to submit memoranda to governors in various states on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-march-delhi-police-beef-up-security-at-border-points-1001743.html
26-06-2021||National||States need more financial support from Centre, says S&P||Indian states’ weaknesses outweigh their strengths as they battle the pandemic and they need financial support from the federal government, which is already dealing with drastically reduced revenue, according to S&P Global Ratings. The pandemic has ravaged revenues of both the federal and state governments and threatens to slow the economy’s recovery from an unprecedented contraction last year. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is on course to borrow about $22 billion this year to pay states for their loss of income due to a shortfall in a nationwide consumption tax collection. Still, in the next two years Indian states will struggle to consolidate their deficits, which will run at more than 25% of revenue, according to the analysts, who expect a meaningful consolidation in the year ending March 2024. That could affect the pricing and eventual cost of bonds sold by states, the S&P analysts wrote. “Covid-19 will create some permanent scars on states’ balance sheets,” Phua and Malhotra said in the report. “As the central government’s revenues stabilize further and gains from tax reforms start to materialize, we expect it to pass on some of the benefits to states via shared taxes and grants.” Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-need-more-financial-support-from-centre-says-sp-1001753.html
26-06-2021||National||Momentum towards heralding Ayodhya to next leap of progress must begin now, says PM Modi||Reviewing Ayodhya development plan with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanth and Deputy Chief Ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma of poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said while developmental works in Ayodhya will continue in the foreseeable future, "the momentum towards heralding Ayodhya to this next leap of progress must begin now". "It is our collective endeavour to celebrate the identity of Ayodhya and keep its cultural vibrancy alive through innovative ways," Modi said adding that Ayodhya should manifest the finest of traditions and the best of developmental transformation and its human ethos must be matched by futuristic infrastructure, which is beneficial for everyone. At the virtual meeting to focus on ongoing construction work of the Ram Temple and the larger development roadmap for Ayodhya, Modi described Ayodhya as a city that is etched in the cultural consciousness of every Indian and said that the coming generations should feel the desire to visit Ayodhya at least once in their lifetime. The meeting at which Uttar Pradesh government officials made a presentation which encompassed various aspects of Ayodhya's development, also kicked up a political row with Aam Aadmi Party Sanjay Singh telling the Prime Minister that he hopes he will ask from those attending the meeting who all benefited from the alleged "scam" and "loot of donation in the name of purchasing land for Ram temple" being carried out by members of BJP and Ram Temple trust. "The construction of Ram temple is delayed by one and a half years. It is the BJP and the donation loot carried out by them, which is responsible for this delay in Ram temple construction," he said Modi was briefed in the meeting about an upcoming Greenfield township, a world-class museum and airport to be constructed at Ayodhya. Modi said he wants Ayodhya to be developed as a spiritual centre, global tourism hub and sustainable smart city. Modi said the momentum towards heralding Ayodhya to the next leap of progress must begin now and the development works of Ayodhya should be guided by a spirit of healthy public participation, especially by the youth. Modi informed that special attention is being devoted to the development of infrastructure around the Saryu river and its ghats. Cruise operation on the Saryu river will also be made a regular feature while other upcoming projects to improve connectivity with Ayodhya include expansion of railway station, bus station, roads and highways. An upcoming Greenfield township was discussed which includes lodging facilities for devotees, space for Ashrams, Maths, Hotels, Bhavans of various states. A tourist facilitation centre, a world-class museum will also be built.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/momentum-towards-heralding-ayodhya-to-next-leap-of-progress-must-begin-now-says-pm-modi-1001756.html
26-06-2021||National||Poor connectivity affecting justice delivery: CJI||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Saturday expressed concern that the poor connectivity in rural, tribal, remote, and hilly areas was adversely impacting the pace of justice delivery and was also depriving thousands of young lawyers across the country of their livelihood. "A whole generation of lawyers is being pushed out of the system due to digital divide," the CJI lamented.  Justice Ramana said the matter of connectivity figured prominently in the two-day conference of CJs of High Courts held recently. He disclosed this during the course of the panel discussion on the launch of a book 'Anomalies in Law and Justice' by former Supreme Court judge, Justice R V Raveendran. Justice Ramana said that he recently wrote to the Minister of Law, Communications, and IT highlighting the issues and requested him to initiate steps on priority to bridge the digital divide and also to evolve a mechanism to help the advocates who have lost livelihood due to pandemic and who are in dire need of financial assistance.  "The need to declare the legal professionals and associated functionaries as frontline workers and the need to vaccinate them all on priority was also highlighted in a communication addressed to the minister," he said. Earlier, Justice Ramana praised Justice Raveendran, saying he continued to be humble and discharged his duties with distinction and commitment.  Justice Raveendran believed in Lord Denning's words “that the best judge is one who is less known and seen in the media", the CJI said while releasing the book by a former Suprme Court judge. "Through this book, Justice Raveendran undertakes to explain in simple terms, various deficiencies in the law which require to be overcome, so that common man does not lose faith in the judiciary and the legal system," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/poor-connectivity-affecting-justice-delivery-cji-1001769.html
26-06-2021||National||Fact-check: Video of man beaten in Amravati after road accident given false communal spin||A video of a mob beating a man has been shared widely on social media. AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan shared the video and wrote, “This is how new records are being reached in the new India. If you have some humanity in you, you will be saddened by such incidents. As always, the individual sporting the skullcap, kurta, and beard becomes the victim of such atrocities. The BJP may have failed in its mission to bring about development, but it has succeeded in spreading hatred. How unfortunate!” Khan also shared the video on Facebook, logging over 10 lakh views as of publishing. From the account of one Usama Ibrahim Qasmi, the clip drew 17,000 views. “Show this video to those Muslims who are cremating the dead bodies of Hindus with great enthusiasm,” he wrote. Fact-check A user shared a newspaper clipping in a reply to the AAP legislator’s tweet. The clipping states that a crowd of people in Amravati thrashed a van driver. The driver Faizan A. Kalam had reportedly rammed his vehicle into a motorcycle parked on the side of the road. A June 15 report by Marathi media outlet Lokmat said that the van dragged the two-wheeler for 3 km. Mahendra Bapurao Basavanathe, residing in a rented accommodation in Gurudevnagar, had parked his motorcycle outside his house. Bystanders who witnessed the van dragging his bike chased and caught Kalam and beat him. Kalam is a resident of Mahuli Jahangir. Tivsa police has registered a case against him.  The police booked Kalam under Section 185 of the Motor Vehicles Act, according to Maharashtra Times.  Alt News reached out to police inspector Rita Like from Tivsa police station who confirmed that the incident was not religiously motivated. “A van driver had dragged a motorcycle parked on the road for 2.5-3 km. The vehicles in front of the car narrowly escaped a collision. Locals chasing the van managed to stop the driver and beat him up when he was caught. The driver seemed to be in an inebriated condition. The police have registered a complaint against the driver and those who beat him. But there is no communal angle. The van driver was thrashed by an angry mob over the accident,” she explained. AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan and other social media users falsely gave a communal spin to a video of a mob in Amravati beating up a van driver following an accident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-video-of-man-beaten-in-amravati-after-road-accident-given-false-communal-spin-1001778.html
26-06-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination of 60-plus population sluggish after initial high; experts raise concerns||The pace of vaccination of the 60-plus population has become sluggish in the past few weeks after an initial high, with healthcare experts attributing it to mobility issues and misinformation and unsubstantiated apprehensions about the jabs. The 60-plus population in India was projected to be at 14.3 crore in 2021, so that would imply that just 16 per cent of them have been fully vaccinated till now. Vaccination for those over 60 years of age and those of 45-plus with co-morbidities started from March 1 at both government and private centres. On an average about 80.77 lakh vaccine doses were given to the 60-plus population per week between March 13 and April 2, but the weekly figure dropped to about 32 lakh between June 5 to 25, according to the data. Healthcare experts expressed concern over the slow place of vaccination of the 60-plus people who are more prone to have co-morbidities and remain more susceptible to severe disease. Dr Sujeet Ranjan, Executive Director of The Coalition for Food and Nutrition Security (CFNS), said myths, misconceptions and rumours about Covid-19 vaccines are the biggest hurdle to vaccination coverage. "Some people think they will never contract Covid-19, others believe that the virus itself is on the way out. Irrational mistrust of scientifically approved vaccines is also a factor. While vaccine hesitancy has always been a phenomenon in our country, today it tends to accentuated by opinions on social media, where even people with no subject expertise but having wide following can influence people," he said. "Some people in rural areas believe that Covid-19 is mostly for urban people. Also, many people have heard on the social media that the vaccine and its side-effects will show up two to three years from now. These rumours, suspicion and fear are making it harder to remove vaccine hesitancy," he added. He said it has also been observed that most public places in rural areas lack senior citizen-friendly infrastructure. Hospitals have expressed concern over the slow pace of vaccination of 60-plus people who also suffer from the maximum number of comorbidities. Dr. Shuchin Bajaj, Founder Director, Ujala Cygnus Group of Hospitals, said vaccine hesitancy in the elderly population is a very real issue. "Among many factors, one is a fear that people with previous heart disease will have some issue because of some unfortunate videos that were circulating around. Some people have done their CRP (c-reactive protein) tests also to see if that was raised and then they feel that they should not take the vaccine," Bajaj said. Bajaj said mobility is also a very big issue for the 60-plus age group. "The most important problem is mobility because they are not really able to visit the vaccination centres themselves and also they have a fear that if they go into a crowded place, they will catch Covid. We need to ensure that we educate them about the various risk factors and try to provide vaccination to them at their doorstep," he said. Dr. Piyush Goel, Senior Consultant- Pulmonary and Critical Care, Columbia Asia Hospital, Palam Vihar, Gurugram, said for mass-scale vaccine coverage, vaccine hesitancy is one of the biggest hurdles. "As there has been a recent drop in the pace of vaccination among people above the age of 60, there are fears that this vaccine hesitancy can hamper the coverage of this population group most vulnerable to Covid-19," he said. Dr. Roshan Palresha, Consultant - Emergency Medicine, Columbia Asia Hospital, Pune, said the recent drop in Covid vaccine coverage among the 60-plus group of people is a cause of concern as they are more prone to have comorbidities, and remain more susceptible to severe disease. “People aged 60 and more must understand that while the number of infected people may go up or down, their vulnerability to the disease and chances of mortality remain the same, and can be reduced only with vaccines," he said. "In the past we have successfully reduced cases of HIV/AIDS and polio through sustained and focussed media campaigns, and it should help this time too. Government representatives must engage in dialogue with these people and may also come up with non-financial incentives to encourage people," he suggested. Dr. HK Mahajan, Anesthesiologist, Indian Spinal Injuries Centre, Vasant Kunj, said focus should be on getting across two key vaccine messages -- vaccines provide protection against Covid-19 and vaccines are safe. Mahajan said vaccine hesitancy in people over the age of 60 years in India could also be because of misinformation, myth and skepticism. To counter this, Mahajan suggested that front-line health workers and hospitals should issue statements in favour of vaccination. "Influential people like film actors, famous personalities should also be tapped to appeal to the public to get vaccinated," he said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-of-60-plus-population-sluggish-after-initial-high-experts-raise-concerns-1001787.html
26-06-2021||National||BMC ropes in Salman Khan to spread awareness about Covid-19 vaccine||In a video message shared by BMC's Twitter handle, Khan requested people to not indulge in misinformation related to the Covid-19 vaccine. "Vaccine is the most effective weapon against the coronavirus," he says in the clip.  Be our 'partner' when it comes to quashing misinformation around vaccines - stop the chain of forwards. "On one side, the government is trying its best to ensure vaccination for all. On the other side, some are indulging in spreading rumours and misinformation about the vaccine, creating doubts in people's minds," he said.  He also said by getting a shot of a vaccine, "you are not only protecting yourself but also your family, society and the country." Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bmc-ropes-in-salman-khan-to-spread-awareness-about-covid-19-vaccine-1001793.html
26-06-2021||National||Two Indian Ayurveda doctors get UAE's coveted Golden Visa||Two Indian Ayurvedic doctors have received the UAE'S coveted Golden Visa, according to a media report on Saturday. Dr Shyam Vishwanathan Pillai and Dr Jasna Jamal, both from Kerala, were granted Golden Visas by the UAE's Federal Authority for Identity and Citizenship (ICA), Khaleej Times reported. Pillai, CEO of Vaidyashala at the Burjeel Day Surgery Centre in Abu Dhabi, was granted the Golden Visa under the medical professionals and doctors category on June 17. “My sincere gratitude to the rulers and policymakers of UAE for the kind support to Ayurveda and Ayurveda practitioners,” Pillai said. “I truly appreciate their vision in integrating the Ayurveda for the wellbeing of UAE residents and at the same time keeping in place strong measures to ensure the quality delivery of Ayurveda practice,” he added. Pillai, who belongs to Kollam in Kerala, came to Dubai in 2001. “After I completed my MD in Ayurveda, I received a platform in Kempinski Hotels, in 2001, to integrate Ayurveda therapies in their wellness and spas. However, I later realised that Ayurveda was not a recognised system of medicine in the UAE, though there was a great demand for it. "Ayurveda got recognised as an (alternative) medicine treatment in UAE in 2002, under the department of Traditional Complementary and Alternative Medicine of the Ministry of Health,” said Pillai. A resident of Al Mamzar in Dubai, Dr Jasna Jamal was given the Golden Visa on June 24. “By the Grace of God, I have been honoured with Golden Visa. It is a great pleasure...I sincerely thank the UAE leaders for this wonderful opportunity,” she said. Jasna hails from Thrissur in Kerala. She moved to the UAE 12 years ago soon after getting married to an architect in Dubai. She is thankful to the authorities for giving importance to the Ayurvedic practices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-indian-ayurveda-doctors-get-uaes-coveted-golden-visa-1001794.html
26-06-2021||National||CBSE team visits Kargil, holds maiden talks with stakeholders||A three-member team of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) visited the district and held detailed deliberations with LAHDC Kargil besides representatives of private schools and other experts, a spokesperson said on Saturday. In March, Lt Governor R K Mathur had held a meeting with CBSE Chairman Manoj Ahuja and discussed the need for a school education board in Ladakh. Mathur had also highlighted the need for an interim arrangement for the next two-three years, and asked Ahuja to consider sending a team to the union territory for a detailed survey and to discuss the roadmap ahead. Earlier, an official panel for the review of school education boards in Kargil had suggested an alternative plan due to the difficulty in managing the administrative affairs of the Jammu and Kashmir State Board of School Education. There was a provision in the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill, 2019 for continuing with the same board but the erstwhile state was bifurcated into Union territories, making it difficult to manage the board's administrative affairs, the panel had said, adding that an alternative plan should be placed for the future. An official spokesman said Chairman and Chief Executive Councillor, LAHDC, Kargil Feroz Ahmad Khan chaired the meeting held on Friday with the CBSE team comprising joint secretaries Sanjib Das, Hilal Ahmed and Shyam Kapoor. Councillors, education experts and representatives of private schools also attended the meeting. He said detailed deliberations were held on issues pertaining to constraints that educational institutions in the district might face in case of affiliation with the central board, administrative issues in view of the district's remote location, current as well as future academic and examination sessions, formalities regarding affiliation process, and other matters about private schools. Khan apprised the visiting team about the major concerns of all stakeholders and stressed on the need to have a considerate view on all issues, the spokesman said. He said the major issues underlined by the CEC Kargil included the need for a separate academic and examination session for UT Ladakh, the establishment of a CBSE sub-board office in Kargil, allocation of exam centres to ensure that no child is left behind, extended relaxation for private schools in terms of renewal of provisional affiliation, relaxed norms in respect of land and infrastructure requirements for CBSE affiliation. The spokesman said the visiting team also put forth its views on the issues raised during the meeting, and said that the CBSE, being the most child-friendly board, would make every effort to ensure convenience of all students. To ensure holistic development of students, the team said schools need to adhere to basic essential requirements as stipulated in the CBSE norms. However, relaxations in certain aspects may be considered keeping in view the tough terrain and remote location of schools. The team assured that it would put forward the stakeholders' concerns to higher authorities for redressal, the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-team-visits-kargil-holds-maiden-talks-with-stakeholders-1001796.html
26-06-2021||National||Upon return from Delhi, Farooq says there is 'a level of mistrust' in J&K||National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah Saturday said there was "a level of mistrust" in Jammu and Kashmir and it was for the Centre to remove it, even as his son and former chief minister Omar Abdullah demanded restoring Jammu and Kashmir's statehood before holding Assembly polls. Speaking to reporters upon their return from Delhi after attending an all-party meet convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Jammu and Kashmir, Farooq said he would hold discussions with his party leaders and PAGD constituents before making any further statement on the meeting. He said the country's first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru promised plebiscite to the people of J&K, but went back on it. He also said that before the 1996 elections, the then prime minister P V Narasimha Rao had promised autonomy from the floor of the house. "Narasimha Raoji before elections promised us autonomy and said sky is the limit, but not independence. We said we never asked (for) independence, we have asked for autonomy. He promised us from the floor of the house. Where is that?" Farooq asked. "There is a level of mistrust....We should wait and see what they (the Centre) do... Whether they will remove the mistrust or let it continue," he added. The former CM said even senior Congress leader Karan Singh has called for the restoration of statehood to Jammu and Kashmir before holding elections. He said that at the prime minister's meeting, all invited persons put forth their views. "This was the first step from their side that somehow the situation is improved in Jammu and Kashmir and a political process is restarted," he said. The Srinagar Lok Sabha MP dismissed suggestions that the June 24 meeting with the Prime Minister signalled the end of People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) -- a Six-party amalgam of mainstream parties formed after the Centre abrogated Article 370 and split Jammu and Kashmir into two union territories in August 2019. "Why should it be the end of the alliance?" Omar, meanwhile, told reporters it was made clear to the Centre during the PM's meeting that the statehood should be restored to Jammu and Kashmir before holding of Assembly elections. "(Ghulam Nabi) Azad sahib spoke on behalf of all of us that we do not accept this timeline. We do not accept delimitation, election, statehood. We want delimitation, statehood and then election. If you want to hold polls, you will have to restore statehood first," he told reporters soon after returning from Delhi. On the process of delimitation, he said the National Conference had authorised its president Farooq Abdullah to take a view as and when the party is approached by the delimitation commission again. Dismissing suggestions that the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) was weakened after the meeting, Omar said that in the all-party meet alliance members said nothing which was outside the spirit of the grouping. "We maintain that we do not accept the August 2019 decisions and we will continue to fight them legally, democratically and peacefully," he said. Referring to some leaders refusing to talk about the restoration of Article 370 as the matter was subjudice, Omar said it should not come in the way of discussing the issue. "Firstly, only two persons said the matter is subjdice -- Azad and Muzaffar Hussain Baig -- and they both are not part of the PAGD. The matter is before the Supreme Court does not mean we cannot talk about it. The Babri Masjid case was before the Supreme Court but the BJP raised the Ram Temple issue all along,” he said. He said the leaders were invited to the all-party meet at party level and not as an alliance. "Had we been invited as an alliance, then only one person would have been invited," he added. The National Conference vice president said they would continue to strive for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, irrespective of how long it takes. "It took 70 years for the BJP to succeed in their agenda of abrogation of Article 370. We won't back off from our mission, even if it takes us 70 weeks or 70 months or more time," he said. He said the leadership should take steps that provide some respite to the people from harassment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/upon-return-from-delhi-farooq-says-there-is-a-level-of-mistrust-in-jk-1001799.html
26-06-2021||National||Farmers' agitation enters 8th month; Centre appeals to call off protests||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar appealed to the farmers to end their anti-farm laws agitation that entered the eighth month on Saturday and join talks with the government to address their concerns. Tomar’s fresh appeal came on a day the farmers’ unions marched to Raj Bhawans in several state capitals to hand over a memorandum demanding immediate repeal of three farm laws. “I want to urge all the farmers’ union to end their agitation. The Government is ready to discuss and address concerns over any provision of the farm laws,” Tomar told reporters in Bhopal. The three protest sites in the national capital – Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders – were buzzing with activity as farmers rode tractors from their villages to express solidarity with the agitation. “We had written to the government about re-starting talks. Their response was that the farm laws will not be repealed, but they were ready to talk,” Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said addressing supporters at the Ghazipur border here. He said there was no solution in sight for the seven-month agitation. Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of 40 farmer unions spearheading the agitation, observed “save agriculture, save democracy day” across the country on Saturday to mark the completion of seven months of farmers protest and 46 years of the declaration of Emergency. As demonstrations by farmers continued at the Ghazipur protests site, rumours swirled about Tikait’s arrest raising tensions in the region. However, Tikait himself came forward to issue a clarification that he was present at the protest site and not taken into custody by the Delhi Police. “Fake news! News related to the arrest of Rakesh Tikait is incorrect. Pl stay away from such fake news/tweets. Action will be taken for spreading such false news/tweets,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Priyanka Kashyap said on Twitter. A group of farmers marched to the Raj Niwas here to submit a memorandum to Lt Governor Anil Baijal demanding repeal of the farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-agitation-enters-8th-month-centre-appeals-to-call-off-protests-1001802.html
26-06-2021||National||It's an interim report, oxygen needs change from day-to-day: AIIMS chief on oxygen controversy||Amid controversy over a report on Delhi's oxygen needs submitted by a Supreme Court-appointed panel headed by him, AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria on Saturday said it is an interim one and oxygen requirements are dynamic and change from day-to-day. In the report, the five-member sub group headed by Guleria said that Delhi's oxygen needs were "exaggerated" by four times during the second Covid wave. "It is an interim report. The oxygen needs are dynamic and change from day to day. The matter is subjudice," AIIMS chief told PTI. Following the report, the BJP had on Friday had accused the Arvind Kejriwal dispensation of "criminal negligence", while the AAP government in turn charged the saffron party with "cooking up" such a report. On Saturday, Kejriwal sought to move on from the controversy and called for everyone to work together to ensure there is no shortage of oxygen in the next Covid wave. "May we work now if your fight over oxygen is finished? Let us together make a system so no one faces shortage of oxygen in the third wave,” Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi. "There was an acute shortage of oxygen in the second wave. It should not be so in the third wave. Corona will win if we fight with each other. The nation will win if we fight together," he added. The sub-group constituted by the Supreme Court to audit oxygen consumption in hospitals in the national capital during the second wave said the Delhi government "exaggerated" the consumption of oxygen and made a claim of 1,140 MT, four times higher than the formula for bed capacity requirement of 289 MT. The five-member panel said the Delhi government had made the claims for allocation of 700 MT oxygen on April 30 of medical grade oxygen using a "wrong formula". Two members, B S Bhalla, Delhi government's principal home secretary, home, and Max Healthcare’s Clinical Director Sandeep Budhiraja, questioned the conclusions. Bhalla gave his objections and comments on the 23-page interim report shared with him on May 30. The report has an annexure of communication sent by Bhalla on May 31 in which he said a reading of the draft interim report makes it “painfully apparent” that the sub-group, instead of focussing on the task, delineated from the terms of order of the Supreme Court dated May 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/its-an-interim-report-oxygen-needs-change-from-day-to-day-aiims-chief-on-oxygen-controversy-1001806.html
26-06-2021||National||PM Modi reviews Covid-19 vaccination drive's progress||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday held a meeting to review the ongoing Covid vaccination drive. Held via video-conferencing, the meeting comes days the Central government extended the free vaccination drive to cover everyone above the age of 18 years. The government has expressed confidence that it will have enough doses to fully vaccinate the country's adult population by December-end. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-reviews-covid-19-vaccination-drives-progress-1001827.html
26-06-2021||National||3 civilians injured in grenade attack by militants in Srinagar||At least three civilians were injured in a grenade attack by militants on security forces in the Barbarshah area of the city on Saturday, police said. Militants lobbed a grenade at a joint party of the CRPF and J&K Police at Barbarshah falling under Kralkhud police station around 6 pm, a police official said. He said the grenade exploded on the roadside, resulting in injuries to three civilians. The area has been cordoned off by security forces and a manhunt launched for the assailants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-civilians-injured-in-grenade-attack-by-militants-in-srinagar-1001838.html
26-06-2021||National||Special Covid vaccination drive started for workers at Central Vista redevelopment project site||A special Covid vaccination drive has been started by the New Delhi district administration for 1,500 workers employed at the Central Vista redevelopment project site here, officials said on Saturday. The vaccination drive, started on Friday, will continue for 8-10 days, they said, adding that the administration has set a target of inoculating 200 people daily. "We vaccinated 190 people on Friday. The were administered Covishield vaccine. The workers just have to show their Aadhaar card or other identity detail to get themselves inoculated. There are approximately 1,500 construction workers at the site, and for most of them it would be their first dose," said an official. The district administration would be launching the drive to administer the second dose as well, he noted. The redevelopment of the Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a new parliament building, a common central secretariat, revamping of the three kilometres-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, new office and residence of the prime minister, and a new vice president enclave.  Till Friday, the city had administered 69,54,942 vaccine doses, out of which 53,09,546 people have been given the first dose and 16,45,396 have received both the jabs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/special-covid-vaccination-drive-started-for-workers-at-central-vista-redevelopment-project-site-1001869.html
26-06-2021||National||MP farm protests: Activists allege house arrest, cops deny charge||Several activists planning to mark the completion of seven months of farm protests against the Centre's three new laws on Saturday claimed they were held under house arrest in Madhya Pradesh, an allegation refuted by police authorities. Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh national convener Shiv Kumar Sharma 'Kakkaji' told PTI that police was deployed outside his house at around 8:30 am with the intention of keeping him inside. "They did not tell me about house arrest but I gauged that their intention was to keep me inside the house. Several colleagues told me the situation was similar at their homes with police remaining present outside. At 12:30 pm, a delegation was allowed to submit a memorandum at a government office," Sharma said. In a statement, Badal Saroj of Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha said over 100 activists and farmers, including Medha Patkar and Dr Sunilam of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, were held under house arrest till 4pm at Gandhi Bhawan. The statement claimed police allowed just five people to submit a memorandum of their demands after much insistence from activists and farmers present. "But the delegation was not allowed to enter Raj Bhawan by the police and had to return from the gate," Saroj said. Refuting the allegations, Bhopal Range Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) A Sai Manohar told PTI that none of the activists were kept under house arrest. “There was no agitation possible in the pandemic due to protocol. If they were arrested, how could the activists reach the gate of Raj Bhawan? Nobody was placed under house arrest,” he said. Meanwhile, Sharma said, after Mission Bengal, protesting farmers will also take part in the Uttar Pradesh polls scheduled to be held next year. adding that they will not campaign for any party but will make people aware of the anti-people nature of the three agri marketing laws passed by the Centre. He claimed mustard oil prices have gone up from Rs 70 per litre to Rs 200 per litre due to these new laws that allow traders and corporates to hoard limitless quantities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-farm-protests-activists-allege-house-arrest-cops-deny-charge-1001881.html
26-06-2021||National||Rajnath Singh to visit Ladakh on June 27 to review India's operational preparedness||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, accompanied by the Army chief, will begin a three-day visit to Ladakh from Sunday to carry out a comprehensive review of India's operational readiness amid a stalemate with China on the next stage of disengagement at several friction points in eastern Ladakh, official sources said. Singh's visit with Army Chief Gen MM Naravane comes two days after India and China held a fresh round of diplomatic talks to resolve the prolonged military standoff that began in early May last year. Sources said the defence minister will visit various key formations and high-altitude bases in eastern Ladakh to assess the ground situation as well as to boost the morale of the troops guarding the Line of Actual Control in a hostile environment. The defence minister will be given a detailed briefing about the overall situation in eastern Ladakh at the Leh-based headquarters of the 14 Corps of the Army which is tasked to guard the LAC in the Ladakh sector, sources said. It will be Singh's first visit to eastern Ladakh after the Indian and Chinese militaries pulled back troops, tanks, infantry and other equipment from the Pangong lake areas in February as part of an agreement. The disengagement process in the remaining friction points including Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang is deadlocked as China is reluctant to withdraw its troops from these areas. Sources said the defence minister will also visit certain forward areas to take stock of the implementation of a number of key infrastructure projects. At a virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs on Friday, India and China agreed to hold the next round of military talks at an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement in remaining friction points. After the WMCC meet, the external affairs ministry said,"the two sides agreed to hold the next round of the senior commanders meeting at an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement from all the friction points along the LAC in the western sector in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols." The government refers to the eastern Ladakh region as the western sector. Singh's visit to the sensitive region also comes amid fresh sparring between India and China over the standoff. India on Thursday blamed China for the standoff saying its amassing of a large number of troops close to the border and attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo along the LAC last year were responsible for seriously disturbing peace and tranquillity in the region. India's response came after China said its military deployment in the region is a normal defence arrangement aimed at "preventing and responding" to "encroachment and threat" on Chinese territory by India. India and China were locked in a military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year. However, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. India has been particularly pressing for disengagement of troops in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. According to military officials, each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control in the sensitive sector. There was no visible forward movement in disengagement of troops in the remaining friction points as the Chinese side did not show flexibility in their approach on it at the 11th round of military talks. Last month, Gen Naravane said that there can be no de-escalation without complete disengagement at all friction points in eastern Ladakh and that the Indian Army is prepared for all contingencies in the region. The army chief also said that India is dealing with China in a "firm" and "non-escalatory" manner to ensure the sanctity of its claims in eastern Ladakh, and that it was even open to initiating confidence-building measures. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-to-visit-ladakh-on-june-27-to-review-indias-operational-preparedness-1001893.html
26-06-2021||National||INS Tabar deployed for naval exercises in Africa, Europe||In a bid to enhance military cooperation with friendly nations, stealth frigate INS Tabar commenced its prolonged deployment and will visit a number of ports in Africa and Europe till the end of September. During port visits, Tabar will conduct professional, social and sporting interactions. The ship will also participate in a number of joint exercises with friendly navies. During the deployment, Tabar will transit across the Gulf of Aden, Red Sea, Suez Canal, Mediterranean Sea, North Sea and Baltic Sea, while making port calls at Djibouti, Egypt, Italy, France, UK, Russia, Netherlands, Morocco, and Arctic Council countries like Sweden and Norway. In addition to Passage Exercises (PASSEX) with host navies of countries being visited, the ship is also scheduled to participate in bilateral exercises like Ex Konkan with the Royal Navy, Ex Varuna with the French Navy and Ex Indra with the Russian Federation Navy. The deployment will also see the ship participate in the Russian Navy Day celebrations from July 22-27. The ship will operate in conjunction with the friendly navies, so as to build military relations, develop interoperability and project long-range sustenance. IN undertakes regular overseas deployments particularly in the maritime areas of primary interest. These engagements are aimed to further strengthen maritime security in the region and to consolidate combined operations against maritime threats. These interactions will also offer an opportunity to navies to observe and imbibe the ‘Best Practices’ followed in each other’s Navy. INS Tabar, is a Talwar-class stealth frigate built for the Indian Navy in Russia. The ship is commanded by Captain M Mahesh and has a complement of 300 personnel. The ship is equipped with a versatile range of weapons and sensors and is among the earliest stealth frigates of the Indian Navy. The ship is part of the Indian Navy’s Western Fleet which is based at Mumbai under the Western Naval Command.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ins-tabar-deployed-for-naval-exercises-in-africa-europe-1001894.html
26-06-2021||National||India administers over 58.1 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses on Saturday; tally crosses 32 crore||India's cumulative Covid vaccination coverage has crossed 32 crore doses with over 58.10 lakh jabs being administered on Saturday, the Union Health Ministry said. About 36,68,189 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 1,14,506 vaccine doses given as second in the 18-44 years age group Saturday, the ministry said in a statement. Cumulatively, 8,30,23,693 people across the country have received their first dose and a total 18,48,754 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive, it said. Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years for the first dose, the ministry said. As many as 58,10,378 lakh doses were administered on Saturday, as per the 7 pm provisional report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-administers-over-581-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-on-saturday-tally-crosses-32-crore-1001895.html
26-06-2021||National||NCB busts international drug trafficking network operating via darknet; using cryptocurrency||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday claimed to have busted an international drugs trafficking syndicate with the arrest of eight people and seizure of 22 lakh psychotropic tablets and at least 245 kgs of similar drugs that were being allegedly peddled over the darknet. The central anti-narcotics agency said the illegal trade was unearthed after multiple raids were carried out by officials of the Delhi zonal unit in the National Capital Region, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh over a two month period. NCB deputy director (operations) K P S Malhotra said, "22 lakh pyschotropic drugs like Tramadol, 70,000 codeine-based cough syrups and 245 kgs of other category of drugs have been seized till now. A total of eight people have been arrested". The officer, who also heads the NCB's Delhi unit as its zonal director, said the accused deployed the "modus operandi of getting the orders through the darknet, created secret websites and delivered the narcotics items through dedicated shippers to create anonymity between the receiver of the order and the logistics people." Darknet denotes to a hidden network within the internet that can only be accessed with specific software and tools like the onion router. Digital forensics show that the syndicate has shipped at least one lakh orders to places in the US, UK, Europe and some other countries under the label of herbal supplements, he said. Malhotra said the agency questioned the arrested accused and found that a good chunk of the psychotropic drugs was being diverted from a Haridwar-based pharmaceutical manufacturing company. The agency also issued a statement to say that the syndicate was spread across Delhi-NCR, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand and has links abroad like in the US, UK, Canada and the Philippines. The NCB claimed that at least nine websites operating on the darknet, that were being used by this syndicate, had their IP addresses located outside India. The illegal trade, it alleged, was being run using crypto currencies and it has been found that some monetary transactions took place in accounts "based out of India." Malhotra said the syndicate members were using the difficult-to-track voice over internet protocol (VoIP) telephony to stay in touch and avoid the surveillance of anti-narcotics agencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncb-busts-international-drug-trafficking-network-operating-via-darknet-using-cryptocurrency-1001901.html
26-06-2021||National||7 months of farmer protests: Leaders in no mood to relent, say will end stir if farm laws repealed||As their agitation completed seven months, farmer leaders on Saturday stuck to their demands, saying they will call off their protest if the government repeals the three farm laws even as Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar appealed to them to end their stir and offered to resume talks. Yudhvir Singh, general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union, an umbrella body of farm unions that is spearheading the agitation, said farmers will end the protest once the agri laws are repealed. "The government does not talk about minimum support price. The government always talks about amendment in the laws. However, we want them to repeal the laws. We also want them to introduce a law on MSP," Singh said. Shiv Kumar Kakka, national president of the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh, said they will not hold talks under any precondition. "We have lost over 600 farmers in last seven months and they (government) are telling us to end this agitation. There will be no dialogue under any preconditions. "If the government repeals the three farm laws and makes a new one with the guarantee of minimum support price (MSP), we will thank them and head back to our respective places," Kakka said. The government and farmer unions have held 11 rounds of talks so far, the last being on January 22, to break the deadlock and end the farmers’ protest. Talks have not resumed following widespread violence during a tractor rally by protesting farmers on January 26. Jamhuri Kisan Sabha general secretary Kulwant Singh said they also want to go back home as soon as possible. "The government is asking us to end the protest as they are ready for talks. We have already asked the government several times to repeal the three laws. If they do so, we will head back home as soon as possible from the borders. We do not like doing this and staying out of home for months," Singh said. The Supreme Court had put on hold the implementation of the three laws till further orders and has set up a committee to find solutions. The committee has submitted its report. "I want to convey through your (media) that farmers should end their agitation. ....Many are in favour of these new laws across the country. Still, some farmers have any issue with provisions of the laws, Government of India is ready to listen and discuss with them," Tomar tweeted on Saturday. He said the government held 11 rounds of consultations with protesting farmer unions. The government has increased the minimum support price (MSP) and is procuring more quantity at MSP. On Saturday, hundreds of farmers from interiors of Uttar Pradesh, many of them on tractors, reached Ghazipur on Delhi’s borders to mark the completion of seven months of the protest. Led by Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, a group of protesters submitted a memorandum of their demands at the office of DCP Northeast Delhi after a virtual meeting with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal. The farmers had given a call for a protest march from Civil Lines metro station to the Raj Bhawan, a senior police officer said, adding that the Delhi Police tightened security across borders of the national capital in view of the anticipated march. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's borders for seven months now in protest the three laws that they say will end state procurement of crops at MSP. Farmers’ protest had started on November 26 last year and has now completed seven months notwithstanding the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/7-months-of-farmer-protests-leaders-in-no-mood-to-relent-say-will-end-stir-if-farm-laws-repealed-1001903.html
26-06-2021||National||Poor as well as multi-millionaire of 18 years and above to get free Covid vaccine: Centre to SC||A 375-page affidavit was filed by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in response to a slew of questions raised by the apex court in its May 31 order while hearing the suo motu case related to Covid management in the country. A bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud had slammed the Centre's Covid vaccination policy, describing as "prima facie arbitrary and irrational" allowing states and private hospitals to charge those in the 18-44 age group while the jabs were offered free for groups in the first two phases, and ordered its review. Seeking to scrutinise the Covid vaccination policy in detail, the top court had also asked the Centre to provide information including as to how Rs 35,000 crore, earmarked for vaccines, has been spent so far, and to place on record all relevant documents and file notings reflecting its thinking culminating in the policy. Bringing the revised "Covid-19 Vaccine Operational Guidelines" on the record, the Centre's reply affidavit said, "Under the revised guidelines, government of India will procure vaccine and supply free of cost to the states/ UTs to vaccinate all persons above 18 years of age from 21.06.2021 and this will ensure that 18-44 years persons will also receive free vaccine from government Covid vaccination centres." "To put the same position differently, a person below poverty line and a multi-millionaire are equally entitled for the very same vaccine in the age group of 18 years and above free of cost," the affidavit said. Only those who have the ability to pay and voluntarily chose to pay are encouraged to use private hospitals' vaccination centres so that the stress on public utilities can be reduced to the extent possible, it said. The sum total of revised and reviewed vaccination programmes is that the Central government will procure vaccines and make every effort possible to ensure that the people of India have access to safe and effective vaccines at the earliest, the reply affidavit said. It said more than 31 crore vaccine doses have been administered across the country and the government has allowed on-site registration for vaccination to bridge the digital divide and solve the issue pointed out by the top court. The affidavit also dealt with the issue of shortage of medicines like Amphotericin to deal with Mucormycosis and Remdesivir. The apex court's May 31 order, uploaded on its site on June 2, was critical of the Centre's decisions on liberalised vaccination policy, differential pricing of vaccines for Centre, states and private hospitals, basis of such a norm and mandatory registration on CoWIN app for booking slots for jabs in view of huge digital divide between rural and urban India and sought response from the government on its queries in in two weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/poor-as-well-as-multi-millionaire-of-18-years-and-above-to-get-free-covid-vaccine-centre-to-sc-1001926.html
26-06-2021||National||Zydus Cadila's Covid-19 vaccine for 12 to 18-year-olds soon: Centre to Supreme Court||The Centre on Saturday told the Supreme Court that Zydus Cadila, which is developing DNA vaccines, has concluded its clinical trial for the age group of 12 to 18 years. Subject to the statutory permissions, the vaccine may be available in near future for children. The Centre added that on May 12, 2021, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) permitted Bharat Biotech to conduct clinical trials on healthy volunteers between two years to 18 years for Covaxin.  The government also informed the apex court that 31 crore Covid-19 vaccines have been administered across the country by Friday and 135 crore vaccines are projected to be available by December 2021 to cover the entire eligible population. In a fresh affidavit, the Union government said the Prime Minister announced the revised vaccination policy on June 7 after receiving a request from Chief Ministers of 13 states as well as Health Ministers of various States with the objective of "maximising vaccination in the minimum possible time under the most extraordinary and unprecedented circumstances faced by the humanity in general and India in particular". The Union government has earlier on June 2 faced rap from the top court, which found its vaccination policy as "prime facie arbitrary and irrational" for making states pay for procuring jabs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/zydus-cadilas-covid-19-vaccine-for-12-to-18-year-olds-soon-centre-to-supreme-court-1001935.html
26-06-2021||National||Revised vaccine policy on requests from chief ministers, Centre tells SC||The Centre on Saturday told the Supreme Court that 31 crore Covid-19 vaccines have been administered across the country by Friday and 135 crore are projected to be available by December 2021 to cover the entire eligible population. In a fresh affidavit, the Union government said the Prime Minister announced the revised vaccination policy on June 7 after receiving requests from Chief Ministers of 13 states as well as Health Ministers of various states with the objective of "maximising vaccination in the minimum possible time under the most extraordinary and unprecedented circumstances faced by the humanity in general and India in particular". The Union government has earlier on June 2 faced rap from the top court, which found its vaccination policy as "prima facie arbitrary and irrational" for making the states pay for procuring jabs. With the new policy, which came into effect on June 21, all persons above 18 years of age throughout the country are entitled to get free vaccination irrespective of their financial position, it said. "To put it differently, a person below the poverty line and a multi-millionaire are equally entitled to the very same vaccine in the age group of 18 years and above free of cost," the 380-page document said. It also said walk-in vaccination is permissible for all and digital divide is not a constraint. The government also introduced a new concept in the reviewed policy to make private vaccination centres accessible to economically weaker sections of the society by the use of “Non-Transferable Vouchers”.  "Any person, institution, industry or NGO having the financial ability can purchase such “non-transferable electronic vouchers” and give it to their staff or other economically weaker sections of the society. Such pre-paid vouchers can be redeemed by the recipient at private vaccination centres and can get free vaccination in private hospitals," it said, adding, many industries or others can use this for their staff. It said the total population of the country aged 18 years and above is approximately 93-94 crore. After having ensured 35.6 crore doses as of date, the government made a projected availability of 135 crore vaccine doses for complete vaccination to the eligible population. The Centre also pointed out on May 12, 2021, the Drugs Controller General of India has permitted Bharat Biotech to conduct clinical trials on healthy volunteers between two years to 18 years for Covaxin. Besides, Zydus Cadila, which is developing DNA vaccines, has concluded its clinical trial for the age group of 12 to 18 years. Subject to the statutory permissions, this may be available in near future for children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/revised-vaccine-policy-on-requests-from-chief-ministers-centre-tells-sc-1001943.html
26-06-2021||National||No question of anyone being left out in Covid-19 vaccination due to digital divide: Centre tells SC||There is no question of anyone being left out in the Covid-19 vaccination drive due to "digital divide" and the Co-WIN system is designed to provide required flexibilities to states and Union Territories to overcome barriers to access, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Saturday. In an affidavit filed in the apex court in the suo motu case on distribution of essential supplies and services during the Covid-19 pandemic, the Centre said there is "no impediment" on vaccination based on availability or otherwise of digital device or internet. Online registration, prior self-registration and booking of appointment on Co-WIN is also not mandatory to avail vaccination services, it stated. A bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud had in its May 31 order observed that a vaccination policy exclusively relying on digital portal Co-WIN for inoculating those aged between 18 to 44 years would be unable to meet its target of universal immunisation due to "digital divide" and marginalised sections of society would bear the brunt of "accessibility barrier". "It is submitted that the Co-WIN system is inclusive and has been designed to provide the necessary features and the required flexibilities to states/UTs and their officials to overcome the challenges posed by various state specific problems and barriers to access," the government said in its affidavit. "There is no question of any person being left out due to any digital divide. Thus, it may not be correct to conclude that the technology or methodology adopted is resulting in exclusion of some persons or any particular class," it said. It is submitted that, as on June 23, that of the 32.22 crore beneficiaries registered on Co-WIN, 19.13 crore (59 per cent) beneficiaries have been registered in the onsite — walk-in or non-digital — mode, it said. The affidavit said if a person having no access to either internet or digital devices or does not wish to self-register wants to be vaccinated, he or she can visit the nearest vaccination centre where a health worker would register him in the device of the respective centre on the Co-WIN platform and the person would be vaccinated. It said that all the necessary features to ensure that every eligible individual has access to vaccination, regardless of any of physical, digital or socio-economic barriers to access, have been incorporated in Co-WIN. The affidavit said that on-site registrations, also known as walk-in registration, and vaccinations have been permitted for all beneficiaries through a May 23 circular. "Therefore, on and from May 23, 2021, any person above the age group of 18 years can visit any vaccination centre and get vaccinated without himself/herself pre-registering on Co-WIN platform," it said. The affidavit said it is understandable that rural and tribal areas in the country have lower access to digital mediums and internet, and the Centre is fully cognisant of the same. The Centre, being aware of the situation, has adopted various other modes to provide citizens with the vaccine in such areas, it said. The affidavit said that "as reported by states on Co-WIN, in the period from May 1, 2021 till June 23, 2021, out of the total 1,31,204 Covid Vaccination Centres (CVCs) providing vaccination services, 33,342 are operated at sub-health centres, 28,168 at the primary health centres and 9,932 at the community health centres, amounting to 54.45 per cent of the total vaccination centres". "The CVCs at the sub-health centres, the primary health centres and the community health centres are in rural areas," it said and also mentioned that a feature for tagging vaccination centres as rural or urban has been introduced in Co-WIN with effect from June 5. "Out of the total 1,24,969 vaccination centres so far classified by state governments on Co-WIN as rural centre or urban centre, 93,044 vaccination centres i.e. 74.45 per cent, are located in rural areas," it said. The affidavit said that according to data available on Co-WIN, as on June 23, out of the total 29.68 crore vaccine doses recorded on Co-WIN, 23.12 crore doses (nearly 78 per cent of all vaccine doses) have been administered through onsite or walk-in vaccination. It said that as on June 23, 1,50,988 persons without identity cards have been vaccinated as per the prevailing system. The affidavit said that "39,01,126 beneficiaries have been vaccinated through the functionality of near-to-home vaccination sessions, introduced recently". It said that according to data available on Co-WIN, as on June 23, vaccination per million population in tribal districts is better than the national average. The government in its affidavit said that "97 out of 176 tribal districts are performing better than all India vaccination coverage" and added that "more walk-in vaccinations are happening in tribal districts as compared to the national average". It said in order to further improve access for citizens as well as field functionaries operating the Co-WIN portal, multi-lingual citizen and user interfaces are now available in 12 languages on Co-WIN, including Hindi, Marathi, Malayalam, Telugu, Oriya, Gurumukhi, Bengali and English. The affidavit said that several measures have already been taken to improve access for those who are visually challenged. "Directions are given to all district level officers for providing assistance to differently-abled persons for matter related to Covid-19," it said, adding that "in addition, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has recently issued directions to states/UTs to facilitate differently-abled persons and senior citizens in Covid vaccination".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-question-of-anyone-being-left-out-in-covid-19-vaccination-due-to-digital-divide-centre-tells-sc-1001946.html
26-06-2021||National||Government launches website for 'Nasha Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan'||The central government launched a website for its Nasha Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan (NMBA), a campaign against substance abuse, on Saturday to mark the International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. The website was launched by Social Justice and Empowerment minister Thawarchand Gehlot in the presence of ministers of state Krishan Pal Gurjar, Ramdas Athawale and Ratan Lal Kataria. Raising concerns over the issue of drug addiction, Gehlot said that as per the National Comprehensive Survey conducted by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, there are more than 60 million drug users in the country, of which a large number are in the age group of 10-17 years. "There are more than 500 voluntary organisations across the country which are assisted financially under the National Action Plan for Drug Demand Reduction scheme of the ministry," he said. These NGOs have been actively involved in the implementation of the drug-free India campaign, the minister said. Volunteers and outreach workers of these organisations have gone door to door, village to village and nearby localities to educate people about the ill-effects of drug abuse and have assisted the rehabilitation of victims of substance abuse, he added. Social Justice and Empowerment Secretary R Subrahmanyam said a lot of work has already been done under the NMBA, and soon over 100 districts will be declared drug-free. "About 272 high burden districts were selected under NMBA. Nearly 8,000 youth volunteers have been going door to door and canvassing against substance abuse. We hope that as a part of the celebration of 75 years of Independence, we will soon be able to declare at least 100 districts drug-free," the secretary explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-launches-website-for-nasha-mukt-bharat-abhiyaan-1001962.html
26-06-2021||National Politics||ED arrests two aides of Anil Deshmukh in PMLA case||The Enforcement Directorate has arrested former Maharashtra Home Minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh’s Personal Secretary Sanjeev Palande and Personal Assistant Kundan Shinde in the wee hours of Saturday. Deshmukh has also been summoned to appear on Saturday; however, his lawyers have sought more time – and a fresh date would be given to him by the agency. Deshmukh (70), a senior politician, is facing a probe by ED in connection with the allegations made by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh, who is now the Commandant General of Home Guards. According to the allegations, Deshmukh had fixed a collection target of Rs 100 crore per month for Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze, who was the then head of the Crime Intelligence Unit of the elite Crime Branch-CID of Mumbai Police. Singh later approached the Supreme Court and then at the apex court's instructions Bombay High Court, which ordered a probe into the allegations. Vaze, who has now been dismissed, was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the twin cases of planting of a gelatin sticks-laden Scorpio near Antilia, the Carmichael Road residence of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani and the murder of the Thane-based owner of the SUV Mansukh Hiran. Initially the CBI registered an FIR into the case and subsequently the ED has joined the investigations. Palande and Shinde were grilled for 9 hours before they were arrested. The arrest of Deshmukh’s two aides comes barely hours after he said that the allegations were baseless and he was cooperating with the two federal agencies. The duo were produced before a special PMLA court on Saturday, which remanded them to ED custody till  1 July. While the ED has not specified any details, the current investigation involves a financial trail of Rs four crore that is believed to have been collected from Vaze. NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, however, had said: “We are neither surprised not worried….This is being done only to harass Deshmukh… This is a new political pattern (of misuse of its agencies)  by the Centre. They will get nothing, we are not worried by such investigations”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ed-arrests-two-aides-of-anil-deshmukh-in-pmla-case-1001646.html
26-06-2021||National Politics||Opposition alliance at national level incomplete without Congress: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Saturday said that work is on to bring all opposition parties together at the national level, and this alliance will be incomplete without the Congress. He said that the Congress will play an important role in the alliance that aims to provide a strong alternative to the present dispensation. Raut’s statements come four days after leaders of eight opposition parties, including TMC, SP, AAP, RLD and the Left, assembled at NCP chief Sharad Pawar's residence in New Delhi and discussed various issues facing the country. Speculation has been rife that the agenda of the meeting, for which no Congress leader was present, was to discuss a possible alliance which could be an alternative to the BJP. Talking to reporters here, Raut said, "There is no need of the third front or any other front. Sharad Pawar has already made it clear. Similarly, Shiv Sena through (party mouthpiece) Saamana has voiced similar sentiments. And I have also read that the Congress has endorsed this view.” "The Congress will play an important role in the alliance. It will be a strong alternative to the present dispensation...Work is in progress to bring all the opposition parties together, which will not be complete till the Congress is roped in," he said. Sharad Pawar on Friday claimed that formation of any national alliance was not the topic of discussion at the meeting of eight opposition parties hosted by him, but also said that if any such coalition emerges, its leadership will have to be "collective". A day after that meeting, Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole had said that any attempt to form an 'anti-BJP front' without his party will indirectly help the BJP. On Friday, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) conducted raids at former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s premises in Mumbai and Nagpur as part of a money-laundering probe against him. It also arrested Deshmukh’s two aides in this connection. Without naming the BJP, Raut said, “The ED action against Anil Deshmukh amounts to targeting political rivals out of frustration since they were unable to form the government in the state. Sharad Pawar has also said the same thing." "The state investigation agencies can also probe important cases, but attempts are on to target NCP, Shiv Sena and Congress. We will also see," Sena's Rajya Sabha member said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-alliance-at-national-level-incomplete-without-congress-sanjay-raut-1001726.html
26-06-2021||National Politics||Coronavirus will win if stakeholders fight with each other: Kejriwal after oxygen controversy||The virus will win if there is a fight among stakeholders, Kejriwal tweeted, a day after his Aam Aadmi Party and the BJP hit out at each other over the report that said Delhi’s oxygen needs were “exaggerated” four times over during the second Covid wave. "May we work now if your fight over oxygen is finished? Let us together make a system so no one faces shortage of oxygen in third wave,” Kejriwal said in his tweet in Hindi. ऑक्सिजन पर आपका झगड़ा खतम हो गया हो तो थोड़ा काम कर लें? आइए मिलकर ऐसी व्यवस्था बनाते हैं कि तीसरी वेव में किसी को ऑक्सिजन की कमी ना हो। दूसरी लहर में लोगों को ऑक्सिजन की भीषण कमी हुई।अब तीसरी लहर में ऐसा ना हो। आपस में लड़ेंगे तो करोना जीत जाएगा। मिलकर लड़ेंगे तो देश जीतेगा “There was an acute shortage of oxygen in the second wave. It should not be so in the third wave. Corona will win if we fight with each other. The nation will win if we fight together," he added. While AAP leaders accused the BJP of "cooking up" the report from the Supreme Court-appointed committee, the saffron party charged the Delhi government with "criminal negligence". Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia alleged that the "bogus" and "misleading" report was "cooked up" at BJP's office and submitted by the Centre in the apex court. The sub-group constituted by the Supreme Court to audit oxygen consumption in hospitals in the national capital during the second wave said the Delhi government "exaggerated" the consumption of oxygen and made a claim of 1,140 MT, four times higher than the formula for bed capacity requirement of 289 MT. The five-member panel, headed by AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria, said the Delhi government had made the claims for allocation of 700 MT oxygen on April 30 of medical grade oxygen using a "wrong formula". Two members, B S Bhalla, Delhi government's principal home secretary, home, and Max Healthcare’s Clinical Director Sandeep Budhiraja, questioned the conclusions. Bhalla gave his objections and comments on the 23-page interim report shared with him on May 30. The report has an annexure of communication sent by Bhalla on May 31 in which he said a reading of the draft interim report makes it “painfully apparent” that the sub-group, instead of focussing on the task, delineated from the terms of order of the Supreme Court dated May 6. The manner in which the proceedings of the sub-group were conducted, he said, suggested that the purpose of proceedings was to satisfy a “preconceived and predetermined conclusion and narrative to recommend a lower quantity of LMO to Delhi”. It was also aimed at further portraying an impression that the assessment by the GNCTD (Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi) before the high court and the Supreme Court was “exaggerated or not genuine”, Bhalla added. He said in his note that there is no gainsaying that this kind of exercise does not further the “spirit, intent and objective” of the order of the Supreme Court under which the sub-group was constituted. Bhalla also objected to the finding of the sub-group that medical oxygen consumption as per actual bed occupancy was 250 tonnes in late April, 470-490 MT in the first week of May and 900 MT as claimed on May 10. “This para should be deleted as it is neither correct nor based on verified data. With the number of new positive cases peaking in the first week of May, and hospital bed occupancy continuing to rise even after that, the Oxygen requirement based on occupancy was around 625 MT at the end of April and 700 MT in the first week of May,” he said. Regarding the finding that “exaggerated” oxygen requirement claims were made by the Delhi government, Bhalla said the GNCTD clarified that the calculation for 700 MT has been made in accordance with standard oxygen requirement specified by the government of India/ICMR, which is 24 litres per minutes (LPM) for ICU beds and 10 LPM for non-ICU beds. “Doubts about the percentage of non-ICU beds that need oxygen can only be resolved through an actual on-ground audit of hospitals, which the audit sub-group is yet to do,” he said. As controversy spiralled on Friday, Kejriwal reacted to developments saying his only "crime" was that he "fought for the breath of two crore people" of Delhi. "...When you were doing an election rally, I was awake all night arranging for oxygen. I fought, pleaded to get oxygen for people." "People have lost their loved ones due to lack of oxygen. Don't call them liars, they are feeling so bad," Kejriwal said on Twitter. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-will-win-if-stakeholders-fight-with-each-other-kejriwal-after-oxygen-controversy-1001767.html
26-06-2021||National Politics||Top BJP leaders discuss preparations for assembly polls in 5 states in 2022||Preparation for the assembly polls in five states early next year was the main agenda of a meeting of senior BJP leaders, including several Union ministers, on Saturday as they deliberated on political and governance issues linked to these states. Party president J P Nadda and Union ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh, Nirmala Sitharaman, Narendra Singh Tomar, Smriti Irani, and Kiren Rijiju were among those who attended the meeting, party leaders said. "Preparation for the assembly polls in five states were the main agenda of the meeting," a party leader said after the meeting. Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa are slated for early next year. The BJP is in power in all these states except Punjab, and has been holding a series of meetings of its senior leaders as it works to put up an impressive show in the next round of elections. Uttar Pradesh is especially crucial to the BJP's political fortunes as the party has been the dominant power in the country's largest state since Prime Minister Narendra Modi led it to power in 2014. The ruling party leaders have been holding deliberations for some time over a number of political and governance issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/top-bjp-leaders-discuss-preparations-for-assembly-polls-in-5-states-in-2022-1001768.html
26-06-2021||National Politics||Bengal's 'Khela Hobe' reaches Uttar Pradesh, albeit in Bhojpuri||The slogan 'khela hobe', which was made popular by Trinamool Congress president and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee during the recently concluded Assembly polls there, has reached Uttar Pradesh, albeit in 'Bhojpuri' version, where Assembly elections are due early next year. Apparently buoyed by the success of the TMC, which made it a popular catchphrase in West Bengal, in the polls, the opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) has re-coined the term in Bhojpuri as 'khela Hoi'. The slogan 'khela hoi' could be seen on the walls and hoardings in Varanasi, the Lok Sabha constituency of prime minister Narendra Modi, and also in Kanpur. Former SP MLA from Varanasi Abdul Samad Ansari said that the slogan was liked by the people of West Bengal and they gave their support to the TMC. ''We are certain that the people of UP will also like the slogan....they too will ensure BJP ouster from power in the 2022 assembly polls,'' Ansari said. The walls of Samad's house in the city displayed the slogan 'khela hoi'. Similarly in Kanpur town, SP leaders have put up hoardings displaying the slogan in Bhojpuri. ''The game is on in UP also,'' said a senior SP leader here on Saturday. SP leaders in Lucknow, however, chose not to comment on whether the slogan would be used by the party in the state in the next Assembly polls. ''We have many slogans....the people are fed up with the BJP and are looking for an alternative...we will provide that alternative,'' said another SP leader. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bengals-khela-hobe-reaches-uttar-pradesh-albeit-in-bhojpuri-1001803.html
26-06-2021||National Politics||BJP top brass hold meeting to discuss poll strategy ahead of multiple state elections||Setting the ball rolling for party preparations for upcoming polls in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat, Goa and Manipur, BJP chief J P Nadda and senior ministers of Modi government on Saturday chalked out a strategy to reach out to different sections and beat the anti-incumbency in the states. Barring Congress-ruled Punjab, where the contest could now be triangular, BJP is in power in all other states. BJP's erstwhile Punjab ally Shiromani Akali Dal has tied up with BSP in Punjab while Congress state unit is marred by internal dissension. In UP, questions have been raised about Covid management by the Yogi Adityanath government. There was also a tussle recently, which was paper over with the active involvement of BJP and RSS top brass. Winning UP, which has 80 Lok Sabha seats is crucial for BJP with an eye on 2024 Lok Sabha polls as well. Besides having the Parliamentary constituency of the Prime Minister, UP has three Hindu temple towns, Ayodhya, Mathura and Varanasi, pivotal to the Hindutva politics of BJP. The meeting was attended by Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and other Union Ministers and Amit Shah, Smriti Irani, Kiren Rijiju, Rajanth Singh, Nirmala Sitharaman Pralhad Joshi, Piyush Goyal, Baijayant Jay Panda, Mansukh Lal Mandaviya and others ahead of an imminent Cabinet reshuffle in the Union government as well as a party overhaul including elections due in party's apex decision making body BJP Parliamentary Board. The party also announced new state chiefs for Assam, which the BJP won for the second time this year, and election-facing Manipur. Bhabesh Kalita and Sharda Devi will head the Assam and Manipur units, respectively. Kalita replaces Ranjeet Kumar Dass, who has become a minister in the newly-formed government in the state led by Himanta Biswa Sarma, while Sharda Devi succeeds Saikhom Tikendra Singh, who succumbed to Covid-19 last month. The meeting at the party headquarters, which also took stock of Covid relief works done by BJP workers across the country with a special focus on poll-bound states, is the first such marathon high-level exercise aimed at a forward movement before the polls at a time there are indications of the emergence of attempts to forge a larger opposition unity. Many BJP leaders, who are handling organisational charges, also took part in the meeting, which comes after several small group meetings held by senior BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Shah, who appear keen on addressing the dissent in several poll-going states, including UP, and find allies to shore up their vote base. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-top-brass-hold-meeting-to-discuss-poll-strategy-ahead-of-multiple-state-elections-1001823.html
26-06-2021||National Politics||Carry momentum forward, ensure pace of testing doesn't go down: PM Modi at Covid-19 vaccination review meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked officials to ensure there is no dip in the momentum of vaccination and the pace of testing, days after the government expressed confidence that it will have enough doses to fully vaccinate the country's adult population by the end of December, during a high-level review meeting here on Saturday. 128 districts in the country have vaccinated more than 50 per cent of the 45-above population, while 16 districts have vaccinated more than 90 per cent of the same population, Modi said. The Prime Minister, who held a high-level meeting to review the progress of vaccination, expressed satisfaction at the rising speed of vaccinations this week and stressed that it is important to carry this momentum forward. The meeting noted that 3.77 crore doses have been administered in the last 6 days, which is more than the entire population of countries like Malaysia, Saudi Arabia and Canada. Officials briefed the Prime Minister about the age-wise vaccination coverage as well as coverage among healthcare, frontline workers and the general population in various states. The vaccine supply in the upcoming months and efforts being made to increase production were also discussed in the meeting during which officers told the PM that they were in touch with state governments to explore and implement innovative methods to reach people for vaccination. Modi underlined the need to involve NGOs and other organisations in such efforts and asked the officers to work with the states to ensure that the pace of testing does not go down as testing remains a very important weapon to track & contain rising infections in any region. After officers told the PM about the rising interest in Cowin platform globally, Modi said that efforts should be made to help all countries who have expressed interest with India’s rich tech expertise in the form of Cowin platform.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/carry-momentum-forward-ensure-pace-of-testing-doesnt-go-down-pm-modi-at-covid-19-vaccination-review-meet-1001863.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Not correct to say AAP exaggerated Delhi's oxygen needs by 4 times: AIIMS chief Randeep Guleria||As the BJP and AAP spar over Delhi's alleged 'inflated' oxygen demands, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria said it would not be correct to say the Delhi "exaggerated" its oxygen needs by four times during the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Patra had cited a report by the Guleria-headed panel, which suggested that the Delhi government had made claims for allocation of 700 MT of oxygen on April 30 using a "wrong formula". "The matter is in the Supreme Court. We need to wait and see what the top court says about it. Undercounting of active cases and other factors need to be considered," Guleria told the publication. BJP leaders, including East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir and former minister Kapil Mishra, have slammed the Delhi government over the issue and demanded an apology over what they call is "criminal negligence". BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra termed it a "heinous crime". मेरा गुनाह-मैं अपने 2 करोड़ लोगों की साँसों के लिए लड़ा जब आप चुनावी रैली कर रहे थे, मैं रात भर जग कर Oxygen का इंतज़ाम कर रहा था। लोगों को ऑक्सिजन दिलाने के लिए मैं लड़ा, गिड़गिड़ाया लोगों ने ऑक्सिजन की कमी से अपनों को खोया है। उन्हें झूठा मत कहिए, उन्हें बहुत बुरा लग रहा है (With PTI inputs) Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/not-correct-to-say-aap-exaggerated-delhis-oxygen-needs-by-4-times-aiims-chief-randeep-guleria-1001721.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||MP man climbs tree to escape taking Covid-19 vaccine||Fear of Covid-19 vaccines has led a man in Patankalan village of Rajgarh district in Madhya Pradesh to climb a tree with his wife’s Aadhaar card to stop her from getting the vaccine along with him. He climbed a tree along with his wife’s Aadhaar card to make sure that she stays unvaccinated too. His wife wanted to take the vaccine. Kanwarlal stayed on the tree until the camp was closed for the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-man-climbs-tree-to-escape-taking-covid-19-vaccine-1001728.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Newly-wed woman alleges gang-rape by husband, brothers-in-law in UP||A newly-wed woman, battling critical injuries in a hospital, has alleged that she was gangraped by her husband and two brothers-in-law and brutally tortured by other members of his family over demands for dowry, police said on Saturday. The husband she had married to only for three days has been arrested and cases filed against seven people, officials said. The 20-year-old, admitted at the district hospital, alleged that she was sexually assaulted, her private parts burnt and was also tortured with a stick. Detailing her trauma, she also alleged that there were attempts to make her have a cold drink laced with poison. On receiving the information, the woman's father reached her house with a police team and admitted her to the hospital. According to her complaint at the Zarifnagar police station, the woman from Kotwali Sahaswan area was married to a resident of Usmanpur locality in Zarifnagar on June 22. Budaun Senior Superintendent of Police Sankalp Sharma told reporters on Friday night that further action in the case will be taken based on investigation and medical examination of the woman.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/newly-wed-woman-alleges-gang-rape-by-husband-brothers-in-law-in-up-1001741.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Jammu's biggest grain market observes voluntary weekend lockdown due to Delta Plus Covid variant||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on June 20 announced the lifting of the weekend curfew from eight districts, including Jammu, owing to a significant improvement in Covid-19 situation. All shops and business establishments in the Nehru Market and adjoining areas including Asia Chowk and Vikram chowk remained closed in response to the call given by Traders Federation Ware House Nehru Market. "We have decided to continue the weekend lockdown for the next three weeks as a precautionary measure in view of the detection of the first Delta Plus variant case and the apprehension of the third wave," the federation president Deepak Gupta said. On June 23, the principal of Government Medical College (GMC), Jammu, Shashi Sudhan Sharma said the first case of the Delta Plus variant, classified as variant of concern, was detected in Katra township of Reasi district. Gupta hailed the efforts of the Union Territory administration in bringing down the curve of daily case count and deaths but said "we all should take extra care and strictly follow the SOPs to win this war against Covid-19." "Although administration has lifted the weekend lockdown and allowed us to open shops for the whole week, as a responsible trade organisation, we have decided to continue the weekend lockdown for the next three weeks," he said. He said all shops would remain closed on every Saturday and Sunday during this period. Meanwhile, the shops and business establishments reopened in most parts of Jammu district along with Samba, Kathua, Reasi and Udhampur in Jammu province and Shopian, Ganderbal and Bandipora in Kashmir in accordance with the government order. However, these establishments remained closed in the rest of the 12 districts across Jammu and Kashmir owing to the weekend lockdown restrictions, officials said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammus-biggest-grain-market-observes-voluntary-weekend-lockdown-due-to-delta-plus-covid-variant-1001742.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||News of BKU leader Rakesh Tikait's arrest fake: Delhi Police||The Delhi Police said on Saturday that reports about the arrest of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait were fake. Police also said action will be taken against those spreading such fake news. "Fake news! News related to arrest of Rakesh Tikait is incorrect. Pl stay away from such fake news/tweets. Action will be taken for spreading such false news/tweets," Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Priyanka Kashyap tweeted. BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik also said that Tikait was not arrested. "Tikait was not arrested by police. He's still at the Ghazipur protest site where demonstration is underway against the farm laws. No conflict situation at the protest site," Malik said. The Delhi Police on Saturday tightened security arrangements across the borders of the national capital in view of the anticipated protest march by the farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws. On June 26, representatives of farmers will seek to submit memoranda to governors in various states. Delhi's Raj Niwas is located in the Civil Lines area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/news-of-bku-leader-rakesh-tikaits-arrest-fake-delhi-police-1001745.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Mehbooba Mufti, Omar Abdullah won't contest polls unless conditions met||With two former chief ministers of Jammu and Kashmir - Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti - making their participation in Assembly elections conditional after their recent meeting with the Prime Minister, it may further delay the poll process in the Union Territory. Mehbooba, the president of the regional PDP, who was among 14 J&K leaders who held a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on June 24, after coming out of the meeting made the restoration of J&K's special status a pre-condition to participate in elections. "This issue is not merely a political slogan and I will not contest any election till 35A and 370 are restored," she said. "Be it months or years, we'll restore Article 370 in J&K as it's a matter of our identity." Similarly, Omar - vice president of the National Conference (NC) - has made the restoration of statehood to J&K a pre-condition for his participation in the Assembly polls.  Omar, a former union minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, had last year also made the same assertions. However, both the NC and the PDP contested district development council (DDC) polls held in J&K for the first time in November-December last year. A senior PDP leader, on condition of anonymity, said that Mehbooba's condition for participation in polls could put the party in a tight spot. "We have seen in the past also when we boycotted panchayat and municipal polls in 2018 that it only harms the interests of Kashmiris and our party. If Mehboobaji stays away from the polls, there is no face in the PDP," he said. "In my opinion, it is an immature statement by Mehboobaji to link her participation in the polls to the restoration of the special status of J&K. As we know restoration of special status is next to impossible, the party president's condition can damage the PDP further," the leader rued. A political observer commenting on Omar's and Mehbooba's conditions said, "Not only Omar but almost all the parties except BJP are on the same page when it comes to restoration of statehood. However, Mehbooba's condition is next to impossible for the Centre to fulfill." "In all likelihood, these statements will further delay the democratic process in J&K. The two leaders are under pressure from the voters. They just want to show their voters that they are not going to participate in the elections on New Delhi's terms and that is why they have kept such conditions," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mehbooba-mufti-omar-abdullah-wont-contest-polls-unless-conditions-met-1001755.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt to run plantation drive for next 15 days: Gopal Rai||The Delhi government will run a tree plantation drive across the national capital for the next 15 days as part of "Van Mahotsav", Environment Minister Gopal Rai said on Saturday. Rai, who inaugurated the "Van Mahotsav" at Ghari Mandu on Yamuna Bank, said the government aims to plant 33 lakh saplings this year as part of its goal of planting two crore trees in its five-year term. "During the next 15 days, we will run the plantation program in all 70 assembly constituencies led by the respective MLAs. And we are hoping to meet most of our aim of planting 33 lakh saplings this year during this drive," Rai said. He added that all the departments involved in plantation drives have been given directions for audit of the earlier programs. "The audit report from the forest department will soon be made public," the minister said. Also, to control the pollution problem in the national capital, he said, agencies have been finalised that will monitor replantation of the trees that are cut due to development works. "The agency will make sure the trees and plants removed during any development work are planted at another location," Rai said. The move is part of the new tree plantation policy that was cleared last year to prevent felling of trees due to development works in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-to-run-plantation-drive-for-next-15-days-gopal-rai-1001760.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi cops pose with murder accused Sushil Kumar flouting Covid-19 norms||Ignoring professional ethics, some Delhi police personnel were seen posing for camera with murder accused wrestler, Sushil Kumar. The pictures have now gone viral on social media. In the photos, Kumar was seen smiling while the police personnel were enjoying their fan moment. The group could be clearly seen violating Covid-19 norms as none of them wore face masks or maintained social distancing. After the photos went viral on Friday, an enquiry has reportedly been set up by the Delhi Police. “However, on Friday, apart from sharing the photos with their seniors, the cops on duty started sharing the pictures on their official WhatsApp groups, and with their relatives,” they added. Kumar, who was arrested on May 23 for alleged murder of a young wrestler, has been shifted to Tihar jail no 2 from Mandoli jail, according to DG (Tihar) Sandeep Goel. On Friday, the court extended judicial custody of Kumar till July 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cops-pose-with-murder-accused-sushil-kumar-flouting-covid-19-norms-1001763.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Police use water cannon as farmers break through barricades at Chandigarh-Mohali border||Scores of protesting farmers from Punjab and Haryana on Saturday took out protest marches against the Centre's three farm laws even as police used a water cannon to disperse cultivators as they broke barricades at the Chandigarh-Mohali border. Farmers had planned to march towards Punjab and Haryana Raj Bhavans here and submit a memorandum to mark the completion of seven months of their agitation against the three central agri-marketing laws on June 26. A heavy police force was deployed in and around Chandigarh to stop protesters from heading towards Punjab and Haryana Raj Bhavans, said officials. Barricades were put up at many places to prevent farmers coming from Mohali and Panchkula to go towards Chandigarh. However, agitating farmers, coming from the Mohali side, entered Chandigarh after forcing their way through barricades put up at the Chandigarh-Mohali border while facing water cannon. A protester could be seen climbing to the top of a water cannon vehicle. Earlier, a large number of farmers from several parts of Punjab assembled at Gurdwara Amb Sahib in Mohali before moving towards the Punjab Governor House. Similarly, farmers from several parts of Haryana also gathered at Gurdwara Nada Sahib in Haryana's Panchkula. They headed towards Haryana Raj Bhavan. Farmers in Panchkula forced their way through a layer of barricades but they were not allowed to enter Chandigarh and stopped at the Chandigarh-Panchkula border where Haryana police had deployed water cannon and trucks. Farmers coming from the Mohali side were led by farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal while protesters from the Haryana side were led by Haryana BKU (Chaduni) leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Samyukt Kisan Morcha member Yogendra Yadav. Carrying farmer outfits’ flags and raising slogans against the BJP-led government, farmers, including women and youths, coming from Mohali marched towards Chandigarh on tractors, vehicles and walked on foot. They were stopped near sector 17 by police where some buses were parked on the road to prevent protesters from heading towards Punjab Raj Bhavan. Rajewal there submitted the memorandum to the Chandigarh Deputy Commissioner for giving it to the Punjab Governor. Similarly, Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Yogendra Yadav gave a memorandum to another official to submit it to the Haryana governor. After the submission of memorandums, farmer leaders appealed to protesters to return. Though traffic was diverted to alternative routes, commuters in Chandigarh faced inconvenience. The majority of farmers were without masks and not following Covid- appropriate behaviour. Chandigarh Senior Superintendent of Police Kuldeep Chahal praised the police personnel for handling the situation with patience and maturity and not allowing the situation to go out of hand. Meanwhile, gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana, who was booked for his alleged involvement in violence that ensued at the Red Fort on Republic Day, could also be seen participating in the farmers' protest programme. Earlier addressing the gathering at Gurdwara Amb Sahib, Rajewal slammed the Modi-led government over the three farm legislation and alleged that the Central government intended to “hand over farming” to corporate houses. Independent MLA from Haryana Sombir Sangwan, who was present at Gurdwara Nada Sahib, said the farm laws will “destroy” the farming community. Farmers have been protesting against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. They have been camping at Delhi borders since November last year demanding the withdrawal of these three laws and that a new law be made to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. Several rounds of talks between the farmers and the government have failed to break the deadlock over these contentious laws. The government last held talks with farmer leaders on January 22. The talks between the two sides came to a halt after a January 26 tractor parade by farmers in Delhi turned violent. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-use-water-cannon-as-farmers-break-through-barricades-at-chandigarh-mohali-border-1001780.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||8 Delta Plus Covid variant cases found in Madhya Pradesh||At least eight persons have been found infected with the Delta Plus variant of coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh so far, state Medical Education Minister Vishwas Sarang said on Saturday, adding none of the contacts of these patients was found to be infected with this strain. According to officials, two persons who died in May this year were found to be infected with the Delta Plus variant. Speaking to reporters, Sarang said the patients infected with the Delta Plus variant are being tested as per protocol and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has been regularly sharing information with the state in this regard. "At least eight cases of the Delta Plus variant of coronavirus have been brought to our notice so far. Our constant focus is to ramp up testing," Sarang said. The authorities had carried out contact tracing of these patients and none of the contacts was found to be infected with this variant, he said. The minister further said Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has decided to set up a laboratory in Bhopal for genome sequencing so that people infected with different mutations of coronavirus can be detected at the earliest. Once a genome sequencing machine is installed in Bhopal, the test reports for various mutations of coronavirus can be received within five days, he said. Meanwhile, officials said two persons who died in May this year were found to be infected with the Delta Plus variant. They were residents of Ashoknagar and Ujjain. While the deaths had occurred in May, their reports of being infected with Delta Plus variant were received later, it was stated. The Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) of Ashoknagar Himanshu Sharma on Saturday told PTI that the person found infected with the Delta Plus variant was being treated in Bhopal after testing positive for coronavirus in May, and had died on May 13. A couple of days earlier, it was found during a random genome sequencing test that he had been infected with the Delta Plus variant, he said. Earlier on Friday, Ujjain Collector Ashish Singh had confirmed that a 59-year-old woman, who died of Covid-19 on May 23, was infected with the Delta Plus variant. She had tested positive for coronavirus on May 17. Madhya Pradesh on Friday recorded 50 new cases of Covid-19 and 22 casualties that pushed the tally of infections to 7,89,611 and took the toll to 8,871, as per the state Health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/8-delta-plus-covid-variant-cases-found-in-madhya-pradesh-1001782.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Republic-day violence: Delhi court grants Lakha Sidhana interim protection from arrest||A Delhi court on Saturday granted interim protection from arrest to gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana in connection with his alleged involvement in violence which ensued at the Red Fort here on Republic Day. On January 26, protesting farmers had clashed with police during their tractor rally and stormed into the Red Fort, hoisting religious flags on its domes and injuring scores of policemen.   Fearing arrest, Sidhana moved Delhi's Tis Hazari court seeking anticipatory bail in the case, with his counsel asserting that he has no role to play in the incident.  Additional Sessions Judge Neelofer Abida Perveen posted the matter for July 3 and directed the police to not arrest him until then. This came after the police sought more time to make submissions on his pre-arrest bail plea.  Sidhana had earlier denied involvement in the Republic Day violence. Several cases had been registered against him in Punjab and he was jailed many times. He had also unsuccessfully contested the 2012 state assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/republic-day-violence-delhi-court-grants-lakha-sidhana-interim-protection-from-arrest-1001784.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Worried about vacillating stand of national parties on J&K special status: Tarigami||There appears to be unease among a section of Kashmiri leaders about Congress' reluctance to push for restoration of special status for Jammu and Kashmir with senior CPI(M) leader Yousuf Tarigami saying he is "worried" about the "vacillation" of national parties on the issue. Tarigami, also the spokesperson of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, who on Thursday was invited to a meeting of Kashmiri leaders with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, made the remarks during a media interaction with a select group of journalists. Demanding restoration of special status and constitutional rights of people, he said the Governor cannot represent the constitutional position or constitutional rights of people in Kashmir or any area. "We want restoration...We want the Prime Minister to consider it. You are talking to Nagaland. How are you doing it? Obviously not by bulldozing. Why can't that be followed in Kashmir? Even national parties are vacillating (on special status). I am worried about that," he said. Tarigami did not name any party. He said some parties had cooperated with the government when special status was revoked, but this action "compromised" the federal structure of the country. The revocation of the special status should be seen as an attack on the basic structure and one "should not see this in isolation", he added. Tarigami said he welcomed the idea of the meeting, but told the Prime Minister during the meeting that such an exercise should have happened before August 2019 when the Centre "unilaterally" moved to revoke special status and bifurcate the state into two Union Territories. The senior CPI(M) leader, who was among the 14 Kashmiri leaders who attended the Thursday meeting, also questioned the Centre's insistence of going ahead with delimitation before an election in Jammu and Kashmir, pointing out that the exercise was announced in four other states along with Jammu and Kashmir. "Assam was one of the states. But when Assembly polls was announced recently, an exception was given to Assam and the elections were held without delimitation. Then why is it necessary that delimitation be a condition for polls in Jammu and Kashmir? This is creating doubts in the minds of people," he said. He said there is a demand cutting across party lines for restoration of full statehood and the CPI(M) stand is that the demand for full statehood includes Ladakh. Home Minister Amit Shah told the meeting that the Prime Minister and himself had assured on the floor of Parliament, and outside, that statehood will be restored, but at an appropriate time. But "our question is what is this appropriate time", Tarigami asked. While welcoming the initiative to hold a meeting, CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury said nothing tangible had emerged from the deliberations. He said it appeared that the meeting was called more due to international pressure rather than domestic issues with the United States withdrawing from Afghanistan. "We had seen the Track-2 diplomacy with Pakistan, details of which we are not privy to. There is some concern in the United States regarding India-Pakistan relations. The question is whether it is only to address an international audience. That we will have to wait and see," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/worried-about-vacillating-stand-of-national-parties-on-jk-special-status-tarigami-1001791.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||4 sarpanches among 8 booked for flouting Covid norms during protest in J&K's Doda||Dozens of villagers led by the sarpanches had on Friday stopped the cavalcade of Farooq Khan, an advisor to Lt Governor Manoj Sinha, for nearly two hours during his visit to Bhaderwah town in Doda district to review developmental works, they said. Irked over the delay in the construction of a 1.5 km-long road to their villages, the residents of Kursari, Lamote and Kapra staged a dharna on the highway near Kulsari petrol pump and dispersed only after getting an assurance from the advisor that the issue would be resolved on priority. However, protests broke out on Saturday again as the news of eight people being booked by police spread. An FIR under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code (IPC), 51 Disaster Management Act Read with Section-3 of Epidemic Diseases Act was registered at the Bhaderwah Police Station on Friday following the protest, a police officer said. He said the eight people named in the FIR include sarpanches Sajid Mir (Kulsari), Raju (Sungli), Yasir (Nalthi) and Ayaz Khan (Dandi) and teacher Kuldeep Kumar besides Majid Khan, Anchal Singh and Firdous Ahmad Butt. The official said the protesters violated guidelines imposed to curtail the spread of Covid-19 virus and blocked the road at a time when the advisor was on his way to Bhaderwah on an official visit to address public issues. The villagers said they are faced with tremendous hardships due to the non-availability of the road. "We are demanding a basic right as road connectivity is a must for the development of any area. For the last 10 years, we are being given only false promises,” Sarpanch Sajid Mir said. Condemning the registration of an FIR, senior Congress leader and former MLA Naresh Gupta said the peaceful protest is a fundamental right of the people to seek redressal of their grievances. He said the police action has caused resentment among the people who are on the roads. The FIR must be revoked immediately and efforts should be made to fulfil the long pending demand of the villagers, Gupta said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-sarpanches-among-8-booked-for-flouting-covid-norms-during-protest-in-jks-doda-1001797.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan BJP takes swipe at Congress over Gehlot aide's 'hiring pilots' tweet||The BJP latched onto a tweet by Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's economic advisor Arvind Mayaram about "hiring pilots" to take a swipe at the state's ruling party over dissidence within its ranks. Mayaram's tweet came amid a tussle between Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot. While many Twitter users termed the tweet an attempt of a sycophant to please his boss, BJP leaders linked it to the infighting in the ruling party. In his tweet on Thursday, Mayaram shared a cartoon whose caption said, "I don't have a pilot license or any flying experience. Recruit me for the cancelled flights." Along with the image, he wrote, "Wicked wit." Responding to it, BJP MLA and Deputy Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Rajendra Rathore said, "Wow! What a wonderful timing...CM @ashokgehlot51 ji's economic affairs advisor is now playing a role of political advisor also. Lack of political advisor in CM's camp is worrying. By the way, one pilot is enough to trouble the government." जब बिना लाइसेंस के पायलट और आ गए तो हालात क्या होंगे। हो सकता है कार्टून वाले पायलट के पास योग्यता व लाइसेंस ना हो लेकिन सरकार के लिए मुसीबत बने पायलट के पास योग्यता भी है और लाइसेंस भी। ऐसे में अब बिना योग्यता व लाइसेंस के पायलटों की भर्ती सरकार के लिए गले की फांस बन सकती है। In another tweet, he added, "What will be the circumstances when more pilots without license come in? The pilot in the cartoon may not have the qualification and license, but the pilot who has become a problem for the government has both, qualification and license. In such a situation, recruitment of pilots without qualification and license can be a thorn in the flesh for the government." Mayaram later clarified and wrote, "My post isn't political. It is a reflection on the state of sundown economy with destruction of over 1 crore jobs. Demand has also been destroyed. That's why flights are being cancelled all the time. Wake up and smell coffee." Dissidence has resurfaced in Rajasthan's ruling party nearly a year after it managed to stave off a rebellion by the Pilot camp.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-bjp-takes-swipe-at-congress-over-gehlot-aides-hiring-pilots-tweet-1001801.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh woman entrepreneur dies after traffic stopped for President's visit||A woman entrepreneur, who was suffering from post-Covid complications, allegedly died in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur town after her vehicle was stuck up in a traffic jam following a blockade during President Ram Nath Kovind's visit. The entrepreneur, later identified as Vandana Mishra, who was also an office-bearer of the women's wing of the Indian Industries Association (IIA), was declared dead on arrival at the hospital. According to sources, Mishra, who had recently recovered from Covid-19, had developed some complications on Friday. She needed to be admitted to the hospital immediately, but her car was stopped near Govind Nagar area in the town as a special train carrying the President was scheduled to pass through the overbridge. Sources said Mishra remained stuck in her car for around an hour. The delay allegedly proved fatal; by the time she reached the hospital, she had already passed away. Family members said they requested the cops to allow her vehicle to pass, but they refused, citing security reasons. Kanpur police commissioner Aseem Arun visited the residence of the victim on Saturday and apologised for the tragedy. ''It is an unfortunate incident. It should not have happened. We will take measures to ensure that such incidents don't recur,'' he said. Sadly, this is not the first instance of ailing people losing their lives after being stuck in the traffic due to VIP movements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-woman-entrepreneur-dies-after-traffic-stopped-for-presidents-visit-1001804.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||At 85, Delhi logs lowest Covid-19 cases spike this year||The national capital recorded 85 fresh cases of coronavirus, the lowest daily count this year, and nine more deaths on Saturday, according to data shared by the Health Department here. The positivity rate dipped to 0.12 per cent, it said. The nine new fatalities have pushed the death toll in the city to 24,961. On Monday, Delhi had reported 89 coronavirus cases with a positivity rate of 0.16 per cent, while 11 people had died, the data showed. Ninety-four people had been diagnosed Covid positive on February 16 while the daily tally was 96 on January 27, according to official figures. The 89 cases recorded on Monday was the first time, the daily count of coronavirus cases had gone below the 100-mark since February 16. Delhi had recorded 111 cases and seven deaths on Wednesday, while the positivity rate stood at 0.15 per cent. On Thursday, 109 Covid-19 cases and eight deaths were recorded while on Friday, 115 cases and four deaths, lowest since March 21, were reported. The infection rate which had reached to 36 per cent in the last week of April, has come down to below 0.20 per cent now. Despite fall in daily cases in the last several days, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had recently cautioned that the chances of the third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic were quite real, while he asserted that his government was preparing on a "war-footing" to combat it. Delhi had been reeling under a brutal second wave of the pandemic, claiming a massive number of lives daily, with the recent oxygen supply shortage issue at various hospitals, adding to the woes. Since April 19, both daily cases and single-day deaths count had been spiralling up, with over 28,000 cases and 277 deaths recorded on April 20; rising to 306 fatalities on April 22. On May 3, the city registered a record 448 deaths, the official data showed. However, the number of cases have shown a downward trend and the positivity rate too has been shrinking in the last several days. The number of deaths per day has also been showing a decline in the last couple of days. On May 15, Kejriwal had said, "The virus is reducing in Delhi slowly and steadily, and I hope it diminishes completely and does not rise again. However, we are not going to become negligent in anyway", while sounding a tone of caution. The Delhi government had earlier announced reopening of restaurants with 50 per cent capacity and one weekly market per municipal zone from June 14. With close gathering of shoppers in markets and restaurants resuming business amid phased unlock in the national capital, doctors have cautioned that Delhi could face a "worse than second wave situation" of Covid-19 if people do not adhere to safety norms or lower their guards. A total of 72,920 tests, including 50,839 RT-PCR tests and 22,081 rapid antigen tests, were conducted a day ago, according to a health bulletin released on Saturday. The total number of cases on Saturday stood at 14,33,675. Over 14 lakh patients have recovered from the virus. The number of active cases decreased to 1,598 on Saturday from 1,680 a day before. The number of people under home isolation decreased to 4,94 from 503 on Friday while the number of containment zones dropped to 1,817 from 2,048 a day before, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/at-85-delhi-logs-lowest-covid-19-cases-spike-this-year-1001816.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police initiates inquiry after its personnel seen clicking photos with Sushil Kumar||The incident happened on Friday at Mandoli Jail premises when Kumar was being shifted to Tihar prison in the presence of the Delhi Police's Special Cell team and the Third Battalion of Delhi Armed Police, officials said. The photos of Kumar and the police personnel, all without masks, were widely shared on social media. "A suo motu inquiry has been initiated into the matter and based on its outcome, further course of action will be taken," a senior police officer said. The Delhi Police's Special Cell and the Third Battalion are conducting their own internal inquiries as personnel from both departments involved in clicking selfies with the two-time Olympic medallist wrestler. A Delhi court had on Friday extended the judicial custody of Kumar till July 9 in connection with the killing of the young wrestler. "Usually, in cases of undertrial prisoners who are deemed high-risk, a dedicated team of personnel from the third battalion videograph the procedure and it is also used for academic purposes. The staff is provided with a handicam," the police officer said. On Friday also, personnel were deployed to videograph the procedure. But a few employees among them were seen clicking pictures and selfies with their mobile phones. This was not a professional attitude and an inquiry is underway to ascertain the fact of the matter, the officer added. He said police personnel are constantly briefed about being professional and about maintaining the dignity of the uniform. Kumar is facing charges of murder, culpable homicide, and kidnapping. According to the counsel of the accused, he has been shifted to Tihar jail number 2 from Mandoli jail, where he was earlier lodged. Kumar, along with his associates, allegedly assaulted Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends at the stadium on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over an alleged property dispute. Dhankar succumbed to the injuries later. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-initiates-inquiry-after-its-personnel-seen-clicking-photos-with-sushil-kumar-1001817.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt issues circular for teaching-learning activities in its schools till they reopen||The Delhi government's Directorate of Education (DoE) on Saturday issued a circular about conducting teaching-learning activities for 2021-22 in government and its aided schools from nursery to Class 12 till they reopen. The action plan for the session, encompassing the ''approach and implementation strategy" and divided into three stages, includes a staggered approach for students to ease into the teaching-learning process, read an official statement. "With the onset of the pandemic, learning loss has been massive. This year, we not only need to reduce the learning loss but also provide deep emotional support to our children. They need to be mentally prepared for any teaching-learning activities," said Delhi Education Minister Manish Sisodia in a statement. "This year, we will have close alignment between teaching-learning strategies and assessment so that the dependency on one time exam for year-end results is reduced," he added. He reiterated that while schools will remain closed until the situation of the Covid pandemic eases, the engagement between teachers and students will resume immediately, using "online and semi-online approach". The three stages will start from June 28, July 5 and August, respectively, it said. During the first stage, the teachers would update their students' contact details, make Whatsapp groups and prepare a list of those with smartphone, mobile phone or no phone, in the second stage they will introduce light activities like reading, writing and numeracy in classes up to eighth through worksheets, it said. "In classes 9 to 12, the focus would be recapitulating and understanding where the child currently is through online classes and worksheets, apart from supporting emotional wellbeing. The second stage will be till the end of July," it noted. The stage three, which will begin from August, would focus on class specific activities to bridge the learning loss. So where nursery to class 8 will receive generic and subject-specific worksheets, for classes 9 to 12, online classes by the respective subject teachers shall be conducted, it explained. According to the circular, short notes capturing important points of the online classes will be provided to students of 9 to 12 class having difficulty in accessing  digital devices.  "These notes can be collected by the parents from the school on a weekly basis. The parents who do not have smart phones can collect the worksheets on a weekly basis from the school of their child," it said. Also, according to the circular, this year, special emphasis would be given to assess students by conducting regular "monthly assessments" and using innovative approaches to understand the participation level and learning of students. "The nature of these assessments will be based on Project / Activity / Assignment. The record of such assessment shall be maintained by the schools which will be uploaded on students' modules as part of Internal/External assessment for the session 2021-2022," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-issues-circular-for-teaching-learning-activities-in-its-schools-till-they-reopen-1001822.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh Congress demands suspension, arrest of BJP MLA Nehria for 'torturing' his wife||Congress leaders and workers held a protest here on Saturday demanding suspension and arrest of BJP MLA Vishal Nehria over allegations of torturing his wife. Congress has also demanded a high-level inquiry into the matter. Two months after the marriage, Oshin Sharma, the wife of Dharamsala MLA Nehria, lodged a police complaint on Friday accusing her husband of physical and mental torture. She also released an 11-minute video that has gone viral on social media. Sharma, a Himachal Pradesh Administrative Service (HPAS) officer, alleged that her husband had physically and mentally tortured her several times. Nehria and Sharma got married on April 26 this year. A police official said Nehria met the Kangra SP and submitted his statement on Saturday. When asked to comment on the matter, BJP spokesperson Randhir Sharma said, "The video has gone viral on this issue. A written complaint has also been made to the police. The police will take action according to that complaint. The government is not going to put any kind of pressure on this subject." "The incident is unfortunate, it should not have happened. It is a family matter, the matter of husband and wife. The police administration will proceed with seriousness and the government will not put any kind of pressure on this. I assure you that," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-congress-demands-suspension-arrest-of-bjp-mla-nehria-for-torturing-his-wife-1001826.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: No provision for ex-gratia by Finance Commission, Centre tells SC||The Union government has told the Supreme Court that though Covid-19 has been notified as a disaster, the Finance Commission did not make any recommendation to grant ex-gratia payment to those who died of the disease. It also submitted that various state governments are paying ex-gratia to Covid-19 victims, but none are paid from the Disaster Relief Fund. The Union government also said there was no policy or scheme at present for national insurance coverage of deaths due to Covid-19, nor has there been any deliberation to include the pandemic for risk insurance coverage against natural disasters. The Centre clarified the position in written submission to the top court in a couple of PILs seeking four lakh ex-gratia to Covid victims after declaration of pandemic as one of the notified disasters. The government side-stepped a query by the court whether there was a conscious decision taken by the Prime Minister-headed National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) against framing of a scheme for ex-gratia to kin of those died of Covid-19. The submission said the central government, on March 14, 2020, by way of a special one-time dispensation, decided to treat Covid-19 as a notified disaster for the purpose of limited assistance towards quarantine, sample collection and screening, procurement of essential equipments, and labs. Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/science-and-environment/coronavirus-may-have-existed-over-20000-years-ago-1001723.html Further, to deal with problems of migrant labourers, it allowed use of state funds on March 28, 2020, for setting up relief camps and to provide food, water, etc to migrant workers and other stranded people. Subsequently, it had on September 23, 2020 further allowed use of funds by the states for oxygen generation for Covid-19 patients, to strengthen transport services for transporting oxygen, and setting up containment zones, Covid-19 care centres. "Ex-gratia payment under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 is available to persons who have died, in case of 12 notified disasters and other local natural disasters which are notified by the state governments. However, Covid-19 has not been recommended by the XVth Finance Commission for financing of relief measures from SDRMF/ NDRMF, which includes ex-gratia payment," the Union government said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-no-provision-for-ex-gratia-by-finance-commission-centre-tells-sc-1001839.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh BJP MLA lashes out at Maneka Gandhi for remarks against Agra vet||BJP MLA in Madhya Pradesh Ajay Vishnoi on Saturday called party MP and animal rights activist Maneka Gandhi "contemptible" for her alleged objectionable remarks to a veterinary doctor. Veterinarians across the country had observed a `black day' on Wednesday to protest against her over the issue. “The words Maneka Gandhi used against veterinarian Dr Vikas Sharma recently won't prove Veterinary College Jabalpur to be contemptible. But they do prove that Maneka Gandhi is an absolutely contemptible woman. I am ashamed that she is my party's MP (not leader)," Vishnoi tweeted. The original tweet by Vishnoi — himself an alumnus of the Jabalpur college — used the Hindi epithet 'ghatia' for the former Union minister. Asked what action would be taken against Vishnoi for his outburst against a senior party MP, the BJP's Madhya Pradesh in-charge Muralidhar Rao said, “Necessary discussion will take place in the party on the issue.” Gandhi drew the ire of the Indian Veterinary Association (IVA) after purported audio clips of her phone calls to three veterinarians went viral on social media. In a purported audio clip of her phone conversation with Dr Vikas Sharma, Gandhi is heard accusing him of carrying out a shoddy surgical procedure on a dog.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-bjp-mla-lashes-out-at-maneka-gandhi-for-remarks-against-agra-vet-1001844.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Kotkapura police firing: Sukhbir Badal questioned for 4 hours by SIT||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday was questioned for around four hours by a Special Investigation Team probing the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) dubbed the SIT investigation as “malicious”. Badal reached the Punjab Police Officers' Institute at Sector 32 here around 11 am following a summons by the SIT. Badal was the deputy chief minister and holding the home portfolio when incidents of desecration of religious texts and the subsequent police firing at people protesting against it had taken place in Faridkot in 2015. Several senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders, including Bikram Singh Majithia, Balwinder Singh Bhundar, N K Sharma and Daljit Singh Cheema, reached the Punjab Police Officers’ Institute in a show of support to Badal. After his questioning, Badal came out of the institute at 3.10 pm and then waved at the Akali Dal workers from his vehicle. “I am indebted to the party workers for giving so much love and respect,”Badal tweeted. ਐਨਾ ਪਿਆਰ ਸਤਿਕਾਰ ਦੇਣ ਲਈ ਮੈਂ ਪਾਰਟੀ ਵਰਕਰਾਂ ਦਾ ਦਿਲੋਂ ਰਿਣੀ ਹਾਂ। On Tuesday, the SIT led by Additional Director General of Police (Vigilance Bureau) L K Yadav had questioned Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch and former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal for two-and-a-half hours. The Punjab government had formed the new SIT to probe the Kotkapura police firing incident following the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The new SIT is investigating the two FIRs registered on October 14, 2015 and August 7, 2018 in connection with the Kotkapura incident. The High Court had on April 9 this year quashed a report by an earlier Punjab Police SIT into the firing at people protesting in Kotkapura in 2015 over the alleged desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib in Faridkot district. Police had also opened fire at a similar demonstration in Behbal Kalan, also in Faridkot, where two people were killed. A separate probe is underway in that case. Meanwhile, Akali Dal leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal told reporters, “It is a malicious investigation." Earlier in the day, Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu slammed Sukhbir Singh Badal and said the new SIT "inches closer to justice for Punjab's soul". Sidhu tweeted, "6 Yrs since sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib Ji. No Justice in 2 yrs of your rule. No Justice in the following 4.5 yrs.. Today, New SIT inches closer to Justice for Punjab's Soul & you cry of political interference. Political interference was that which delayed Justice by 6 yrs." Sidhu tagged the tweet of Sukhbir Singh Badal in which the former deputy chief minister accused Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh of implicating the SAD leadership in false cases at the alleged instance of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. "While farmers suffer, CM is busy keeping Gandhi family happy & has accepted @RahulGandhi's directive to implicate SAD leadership in false cases. New SIT formed after old one was indicted over political interference, is being run by state vigilance dept, so nothing has changed,” Sukhbir had said in a tweet on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kotkapura-police-firing-sukhbir-badal-questioned-for-4-hours-by-sit-1001847.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||15 ex-IPS officers laud Modi govt's action in J&K, 'exemplary' all-party meet in open letter||A group of 15 retired Indian Police Service (IPS) officers including four from Gujarat have written an "open letter" to Prime Minister Narendra Modi "appreciating" the central government's policies on Kashmir. The newly formed collective called, "Track The Truth", has praised the Modi government for "painstaking, courageous and decisive efforts at attempting to resolve the complex Kashmir issue." Out of 15 ex-IPS officers, four are retired Director General of Police (DGP) from Gujarat cadre, including A K Singh, from 1985 batch, Geetha Johri, 1982, P P Pandey, 1982 and Shivanand Jha from the 1983 batch. Among the ex-officers is controversial M Nageswara Rao, from Odisha cadre, who briefly headed CBI. A K Singh was last posted as Director-General, National Security Guard, Delhi while Johri, who was charge-sheeted in Sohrabuddin Sheikh encounter case and was later discharged by the court, retired as incharge DGP. Pandey was arrested and charge-sheeted by CBI as a key accused in the Ishrat Jahan encounter case. He had to resign as in-charge DGP following a court order and was later discharged from the trial on merit as well as want of government sanction to prosecute him. The other ex-officers are Badri Prasad Singh from UP cadre, K Aravinda Rao, Andhra Pradesh cadre, K Rajendra Kumar, Jammu and Kashmir cadre, K B Singh and Prakash Mishra, both from Odisha cadres, S K Rout, Madhya Pradesh, SP Vaid, Jammu and Kashmir, Vikram Singh, Uttar Pradesh cadre and Vivek Dube from Andhra Pradesh cadre. The officers' open letter read, "The Central government’s most recent initiative at reaching out to political stakeholders and countering the twin elements of “Dil ki doori” (distance from the heart) and “Dilli ki doori” (distance from Delhi), in order to enhance trust, is exemplary, reflecting a dynamic approach to policy-making. We are hopeful that you will fulfil your promise of bringing economic development to J&K, with all the robust investment plans that have been finalised. Some of your excellent achievements in Kashmir over the years are listed in the Annexure, meant for some of those who are always unhappy with whatever your government does." The annexures in the letter list out 2015 alliance of BJP with the PDP irrespective of ideological views, development package for the region, infrastructural development, implementation of government schemes, surgical strikes on 'terror camps' across the Line of Control, NIA unearthing the alleged nexus of separatists with Pakistan and terrorism, among others. When contacted, Singh confirmed this and said, "...I fully agree. As head of NSG, I have analysed the Kashmir challenge in detail and have been appreciative of this policy breakthrough. It has been a game-changer in controlling cross border terrorism and integration of Kashmir in India." "It is a matter of national pride that over these years, the Central government tried all means possible to achieve this goal. The momentous decision to annul Article 35A and read-down Article 370, (which gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir) was efficiently implemented, with all necessary precautions to prevent the loss of life and property. The complete integration of Kashmir with the Union of India was a long-pending unfinished task since India adopted the Constitution of India in 1950. Now, a citizen of Kashmir can proudly call himself/herself Indian and receive all benefits that the Indian State bestows on its citizens. It is a matter of great satisfaction, that the Government’s ability to foresee future events and to plan for all kinds of possibilities, led to tight control over crime, terrorism and public order since August 5, 2019," the open letter stated. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-ex-ips-officers-laud-modi-govts-action-in-jk-exemplary-all-party-meet-in-open-letter-1001867.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||'Inflated' oxygen need: Kin of people who died due to oxygen shortage demand fair probe||A day after the Delhi government came under fire for purportedly inflating the city's needs for oxygen, families of people who lost their lives due to shortage of the life-saving gas in the national capital during the second Covid wave have demanded a fair probe into it. The panel said the Delhi government had made the claims for allocation of 700 MT oxygen on April 30 of medical grade oxygen using a "wrong formula". Erick Massey, whose mother Delphin Massey, died at the Jaipur Golden Hospital allegedly due to oxygen shortage, said he doesn't feel there was an exaggeration in requirement. "It was not just us who were victims of the oxygen shortage. All over, there were friends and relatives who were struggling to get oxygen cylinders. Some people even bought them for Rs 1 to Rs 1.5 lakh. "We don't think there was an exaggeration. There were entire families affected by the virus and there were so many hospitals who raised SOS," he said. Gaurav Gera lost both his parents within an hour gasping for oxygen. His father, Charanjit Gera, was admitted to Jaipur Golden Hospital while his mother, Sonu Rani, was at Ambedkar Hospital. "There are so many people who have lost their family members due to lack of oxygen. At Jaipur Golden Hospital, we were told the patients could have been saved had there been an adequate supply of oxygen. In fact, I feel that many more people died due to oxygen shortage than the numbers which were reported," he said. Jagjyot Singh's mother Sarabjeet Kaur was one of the 20 casualties on the fateful night of April 24 when the Jaipur Golden Hospital in the city waited for its oxygen stock to be replenished. He the Delhi government accountable for failing to read the situation properly. "The Delhi government did not have a vision and did not know how much oxygen was required to be supplied to hospitals. This meant that there was not a proper supply. There needs to be a proper investigation into the matter. "My mother was on the path of recovery. We arranged medicines and everything that the hospital asked us for. Their job was only to give her medicines and oxygen and they could not do that," Singh said. Demanding an investigation on the loopholes which might have led to the crisis, he said they have also approached the Delhi High Court demanding a court-monitored probe. At Batra Hospital, 12 patients, including a senior doctor of the facility, had died due to a dip in oxygen supply. Dr Sudhanshu Bankta, executive director of the hospital, said there was a huge oxygen crisis at that time, but refused to comment on the report, which has put the Delhi government on the dock, contending that he is not privy to the entire data of oxygen supply and demand. "From our own experience, we can say there wasn't an adequate amount of oxygen. It seems to be a political fight rather than something which is driven by facts. "There was a huge oxygen crisis. There was a problem everywhere. If you go through the WhatsApp records of all hospitals which are in official Delhi government groups, everyone was crying for oxygen. I cannot comment on the motive of the report but the situation at that time was really scary," he said. Delhi was hit severely by a brutal second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in April and May, claiming a massive number of lives daily, with a shortage in oxygen supply at various city hospitals adding to the woes. The panel in its report pointed out that four model hospitals in Delhi -- Singhal Hospital, Aruna Asaf Ali Hospital, ESIC Model Hospital and Liferay Hospital -- have claimed extremely high Oxygen consumption with very few beds and the claims appeared to be clearly "erroneous, leading to extremely skewed information and significantly higher Oxygen requirement for the entire state of Delhi". However, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria said on Saturday the report, submitted by the Supreme Court-appointed panel headed by him, is an interim one and not the final word. Two members, B S Bhalla, the Delhi government's principal home secretary, home, and Max Healthcare's Clinical Director Sandeep Budhiraja, questioned the conclusions. Bhalla gave his objections and comments on the 23-page interim report shared with him on May 30. The report has an annexure of communication sent by Bhalla on May 31 in which he said a reading of the draft interim report makes it "painfully apparent" that the sub-group, instead of focussing on the task, delineated from the terms of order of the Supreme Court dated May 6. The BJP has charged the Delhi government with "criminal negligence" after the report came into the public domain on Friday, while AAP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia alleged that the "bogus" report was "cooked up" at BJP's office. The virus will win if there is a fight among stakeholders, Kejriwal tweeted. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/inflated-oxygen-need-kin-of-people-who-died-due-to-oxygen-shortage-demand-fair-probe-1001885.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Over 3 crore doses of Covid vaccine administered: UP govt||The Uttar Pradesh government said it has administered over three crore doses of coronavirus vaccine since January, with more than eight lakh people vaccinated on Saturday, according to an official release issued here. The state crossed the milestone around 1.30 pm on Saturday, it said, adding that the maximum 13,70,405 doses have been given in Lucknow. With the supply of vaccine increasing after the Centre announced the vaccination for all, the state is in a position to further scale up the operations, it said. From July onwards, the state aims to administer 10-12 lakh doses a day in order to achieve the target of 10 crore doses by the August-end, the release added. We have already given three crore doses and can deliver another seven crores in next two months, a health official said. The statements said over 5,000 centres have been set to vaccinate people aged from 18 to 44 in Uttar Pradesh. For those above 45, there are over 3,000 contres operating in the state, it said, adding that pink booths have been set up in each district to vaccinate women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-3-crore-doses-of-covid-vaccine-administered-up-govt-1001890.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Kullu clash: DIG submits report; DGP issues advisory asking officials to always remain calm||Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG), Central Range, Madhusudan has submitted a preliminary fact-finding report with respect to an ugly spat between senior police officers in Himachal Pradesh's Kullu district during Union Cabinet Minister Nitin Gadkari's visit on June 23, a statement issued by the state DGP office said on Saturday. Meanwhile, Director General of Police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu has issued an advisory to IPS and HPS officials to “always remain calm and poised” while interacting with other fellow officers and the general public and to ensure high standards of professionalism and graceful conduct. The DGP office said a preliminary inquiry report regarding the Kullu clash was received on Saturday and the same is being examined in the police headquarters (PHQ). After studying the preliminary fact-finding report, the yellow book (government of India guidelines on security protocol to highly vulnerable persons) and other evidence on record, the PHQ will send a report in the matter to the state government, it added. Kullu district police personnel and men from the Himachal Pradesh chief minister's security staff came to blows near the Bhuntar airport on Wednesday, in a scuffle involving an SP and an ASP. In videos that surfaced on social media, Kullu SP Gaurav Singh is seen slapping Additional SP Brijesh Sood, who is Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur's security in-charge. At this, CM’s Personal Security Officer (PSO) Balwant Singh kicked the SP. In a statement, the police headquarters in Shimla had said the incident took place during the visit of CM Thakur and Union minister Nitin Gadkari to Kullu. According to reports, the brief clash took place after some locals gathered there raised slogans favouring Gadkari as prime minister. On Saturday, the DGP in a two-page advisory to IPS and HPS officers said, “There is no gainsaying that the image of the HP Police has taken a beating after the recent incident of an ugly spat between senior police officers in front of dignitaries at Kullu.” “It is also obvious that it has undone the cumulative good work by the HP Police during the last one year,” it added. Not only has the incident become viral on social media, it has also elicited a negative and highly uncharitable public response, the advisory said. All efforts in ensuring better service delivery to the public, all the unprecedented drug seizures and all the effort put into fighting the COVID-19 pandemic by the Himachal Pradesh Police have been overshadowed by this visibly public sparring of officials, it added. The advisory further stated, “Such conduct is totally unwarranted and undesirable. It is unprofessional to the point of dereliction of duty and also raises issues of compromises in the VVIP security.” Therefore, regardless of the outcome of the present inquiry, it is important that we examine all the relevant issues to avoid such incidents in the future, it added. The DGP advised all police officers “to always remain calm and poised, no matter what the provocation is”, while interacting with other fellow officers and the general public. He said their demeanour during the course of their duties must always be courteous and polite but firm. The advisory further stated, “One has to think on one's feet and be innovative. The general idea is to solve a problem and not to aggravate it.” “In a nutshell. I would like to say that such stray incidents not only tarnish the image of HP Police and open us up for ridicule but also completely obliterate the good work done and the goodwill accumulated with years of painstaking efforts,” the DGP said. “Therefore, we need to strive as a cohesive team to reestablish our image and also to ensure that such incidents never happen in the future,” he added. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kullu-clash-dig-submits-report-dgp-issues-advisory-asking-officials-to-always-remain-calm-1001902.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh to lift 'Sunday curfew' as pandemic under control, says CM Chauhan||With Madhya Pradesh recording a steady decline in Covid-19 cases, the state government has decided to lift the “corona curfew” on Sundays, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Saturday. However, the night curfew will remain in force in the state. Chouhan also said Madhya Pradesh has set a record for one more time with 9,64,756 doses of vaccines being administered till 7.30 pm since Saturday morning. “We are lifting Sunday's corona curfew with immediate effect. Those who want to open their shops, continue their economic activities, can do so in accordance with Covid-19 protocol,” Chouhan tweeted. The pandemic has come under control in Madhya Pradesh as not a single Covid-19 positive case was registered in 35 districts in the state, he said. “For the first time, the number of active cases has fallen below 1,000. The case positivity rate has come down to 0.06%. In such a situation, it seems unreasonable to impose #coronacurfew on Sunday as well,” he said. Chouhan also said vaccination will continue at a fast pace. “Till 7.30 pm on Saturday, 9,64,756 doses have been administered since morning. Madhya Pradesh has again set a record,” he said. Madhya Pradesh on Saturday recorded 46 new cases of Covid-19 and 25 casualties that pushed the tally of infections to 7,89,657 and took the toll to 8,896, as per the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-to-lift-sunday-curfew-as-pandemic-under-control-says-cm-chauhan-1001920.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi allows banquet halls to open from June 28||The Delhi government on Saturday allowed weddings at banquet, marriage halls and hotels with 50 people in attendance, and reopening of gyms and yoga centres at 50 per cent capacity under the phased unlock process initiated with an improvement in the city's Covid-19 situation. In an order issued late Saturday night, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said marriages will continue to be permitted in courts or at home with a ceiling of 20 people with strict compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour. "Further, the marriages will also be permitted at banquet halls, marriage halls, hotels with a ceiling of 50 persons and subject to strict compliance of Covid Appropriate Behaviour," the order said. Owners of banquet halls, marriage halls and hotels will be responsible for ensuring strict compliance of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour like wearing of face masks and social distancing. "In case, any violation is found strict penal/criminal action will be taken against the owner of the premises as well as against the individual and the premises will be sealed forthwith," the DDMA warned. As per the order, gymnasiums and yoga institutes in the city will be permitted to open with up to 50 per cent capacity, and owners of these facilities will be responsible for ensuring compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour on the premises. "In case, any violation is found strict penal /criminal action shall be taken against the owner of the gymnasium and yoga institute as well as against the individual and the premises shall be sealed forthwith," it said. Schools, colleges and educational institutes, cinemas, multiplexes, swimming pools, and entertainment and amusement parks will remain closed, and banquet halls for any purpose other than weddings will remain prohibited, the order said. The new relaxations will come into effect from 5 am on Monday. All existing prohibited and restricted activities will continue to be so up to 5 am on July 5, said the DDMA order. Gyms and banquet halls were closed on April 19 when Delhi was facing the brutal second wave of Covid-19. In second week of May, weddings were permitted at home and in courts with not more than 20 people in attendance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-allows-banquet-halls-to-open-from-june-28-1001921.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Oxygen report seemed to have been sent to Centre without required changes: Delhi Principal Secretary||The interim report of a Supreme Court-appointed panel that led to a controversy over Delhi's oxygen demand during the second Covid wave seemed to have been sent to the Centre without required changes and formal approval of the sub-group, Delhi government's principal secretary (Home) B S Bhalla has said. Bhalla, one of the five members of the panel, on Friday said in a note that he had sent his detailed written objections and comments on the draft interim report on May 31 to the sub-group with a request to revise it and send it for approval of members. "However, the interim report seems to have been sent to the Government of India without making the requisite changes, without sharing again with the members of the sub-group, and without their formal approval," Bhalla said in his note sent to all members of the sub-group. The AAP government in Delhi came under fire from the BJP and the Congress on Friday over the interim report which said Delhi's oxygen needs were "exaggerated" by four times during the second Covid wave. Besides Bhalla, Max Healthcare's Clinical Director Sandeep Budhiraja, had questioned the conclusions. In his note on Friday, Bhalla said his detailed objections and comments were added at the end the interim report "just for posterity", leaving it to the reader to make the effort to interpret the entire report together and make conclusions.   "This is unfortunate and unacceptable as it is likely to result in formation of views based on part information," Bhalla said citing a news report that highlighted the "exaggerated" oxygen demand by Delhi government during the second Covid wave. Bhalla in another note sent earlier on May 31 had claimed that the manner in which the proceedings of the sub-group were conducted, suggested that the purpose was to satisfy a "preconceived and predetermined conclusion and narrative to recommend a lower quantity of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) to Delhi". It was also aimed at further portraying an impression that the assessment by the GNCTD (Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi) before the high court and the Supreme Court was "exaggerated or not genuine", he had said. Referring to his comments on oxygen demand of Delhi, the principal secretary(Home) said in his note on Friday that the actual oxygen consumption of 214 hospitals was 474 MT. In addition, his comment on the draft interim report mentioned that "the requirement of oxygen for oxygen cylinders with home isolation patients, refillers and certain other establishments has also to be taken into account. Also, oxygen for non-Covid requirement and some buffer component need to be factored in while calculating the total oxygen requirement of Delhi" Bhalla said. Due to the usage pattern observed for the additional requirements, a buffer of around 75 MT may be considered, he had said.  "Hence, the total oxygen consumption for Delhi was 550 MT around May 12-13, 2021, about 10 days after the peak of Covid in the capital," he said in the note. He said "in the fourth meeting of the panel on May 13, it was discussed that there is a gross discrepancy (about four times) in that the actual oxygen consumption claimed (1,140 MT) was about four times higher than that calculated by formula for bed capacity (289 MT)."  It was noted that four hospitals in Delhi claimed "extremely high" oxygen consumption with very few beds and the claims appeared to be "clearly erroneous" leading to extremely skewed information and significantly higher oxygen requirement for entire state of Delhi, he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/oxygen-report-seemed-to-have-been-sent-to-centre-without-required-changes-delhi-principal-secretary-1001922.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Sought time from RSS chief to hand over proof of scam in Ram temple trust's land deal: Sanjay Singh||AAP leader and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh on Saturday said that he has written to Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat and asked for time to meet him and handover all "proof" of the alleged corruption in a land deal by the Ram temple trust in Ayodhya. Singh and former SP MLA from Ayodhya Pawan Pandey had recently alleged that a piece of land worth Rs 2 crore was purchased by the Shriram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust in Ayodhya at an inflated price of Rs 18.5 crore. At a press conference, the AAP leader said that Bhagwat, who claims himself to be the "upholder of Hinduvaad" should take note and objectively clear his stand on the allegations. "I have written a letter to RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat ji and have asked for time to meet him. I will hand over all these documents as proof of the scam related to land and corruption by the BJP and the members of the trust to him," Singh said. He further said that even though the alleged corruption in the land deal is in the public eye, "where are all the investigation agencies and why are they not acting". "The prime minister (Narendra Modi) convened a meeting with the members of the trust today. Did he ask why the scam happened and why is the construction of the temple halted?" the Rajya Sabha MP posed. Singh and Pandey had alleged money laundering in the deal and demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The Shriram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust's general secretary Champat Rai strongly dismissed the allegations, claiming the land was purchased at a price much lower than the prevailing market rate. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sought-time-from-rss-chief-to-hand-over-proof-of-scam-in-ram-temple-trusts-land-deal-sanjay-singh-1001923.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||Samajwadi Party ousts its 11 district chiefs||The Samajwadi Party on Saturday sacked the presidents of its 11 district units with immediate effect, the party said here on Saturday. In a statement, SP’s state unit president Naresh Uttam said presidents of Gorakhpur, Moradabad, Jhansi, Agra, Gautam Budh Nagar, Mau, Balrampur, Shravasti, Bhadohi, Gonda and Lalitpur districts have been removed with immediate effect. The action has been taken on the directives of the party president Akhilesh Yadav, he added. Though no reason was cited in the statement release for the party’s action against its district unit chiefs, reports reaching here from some districts said the party's nominees in many districts did not turn up for filing their nomination papers for the post of zila panchayat chairman. In Bhadohi, the party's nominee, Shyam Kumari Maurya, whose candidature was announced about a month ago, did not turn up for filing her nomination. In Gorakhpur, SP candidate Jitendra Yadav was also not able to file his papers. On Saturday, nominations were filed in all districts of the state for the post of zila panchayat chairman and the polling will take place on July 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/samajwadi-party-ousts-its-11-district-chiefs-1001924.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||First case of Delta Plus variant detected in Chandigarh||The first case of Delta Plus variant of coronavirus was detected in Chandigarh on Saturday, according to an official statement. A total of 50 samples were sent to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) lab for whole genome sequencing (WGS). "Out of the results received, variant of concern (VOC) has been detected in 35 samples. One Alpha variant (B.1.1.1.7), 33 Delta variant (B.1.617.2) and one Delta Plus variant (AY.1) have been reported in the samples sent for WGS,” the statement said. The sample of a 35-year-old resident, who tested positive for Covid-19 on May 22, has been detected with Delta Plus variant (AY.1), it said. Samples of four high-risk family contacts, who tested positive for the infection in May, have been sent to the NCDC on Saturday. Also, 29 samples for the period of June have been sent to the NCDC and the results are awaited, the statement said. The Delta Plus variant has increased transmissibility, stronger binding to receptors of lung cells and potential reduction in monoclonal antibody response.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/first-case-of-delta-plus-variant-detected-in-chandigarh-1001927.html
26-06-2021||North and Central||UP zilla panchayat chairperson polls: Nomination papers filed in all districts||Nomination papers for the election of zilla panchayat chairpersons were filed in all the districts of Uttar Pradesh on Saturday. The State Election Commission (SEC) had fixed Saturday (June 26) as the date for filing of nomination papers for the election in all the 75 districts of the state. Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav in a tweet alleged that SP nominees were "prevented" from filing nomination papers at many places. According to reports received from different districts, candidates belonging to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Samajwadi Party, Apna Dal (S) and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and independents filed their nomination papers. According to the commission, in 17 of the total 75 districts only one nomination paper has been found valid. The party also removed district unit president of 11 districts with immediate effect. These are the districts where its (Samajwadi Party) nominees could not file their nominations, SP sources said. The SP president alleged, "The way in which the BJP government has prevented the Samajwadi Party candidates from filing nominations for the election of panchayat chairperson in Gorakhpur and elsewhere, it is a new administrative tactic of the defeated BJP to win the election. The people will not even give as many seats in the Assembly to the BJP as they will make panchayat chiefs." Sources in the SEC office said a detailed report of the nominations is being collected from all the districts and the details will be known later. State Election Commissioner Manoj Kumar said that candidates can withdraw their nominations till June 29 and polling will take place on July 3, from 11 am to 3 pm, following which counting of votes will be taken up. According to a statement issued by the commission, senior officials have been made observers in all the districts to ensure peaceful and transparent polling and counting of the election to the post of zilla panchayat chiefs. All the observers have been asked to reach the headquarters of the districts assigned to them by July 2 morning and hold a meeting with local officials for making necessary arrangements for the polling and counting, Kumar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-zilla-panchayat-chairperson-polls-nomination-papers-filed-in-all-districts-1001956.html
26-06-2021||Opinion||Ambani and Adani race to fulfil India's green ambition||By Andy Mukherjee, Mukesh Ambani’s rivals should be relieved, though perhaps not too much. The petrochemicals czar has just told shareholders that he’s undertaking his life’s “most challenging” mission by investing Rs 75,000 crore ($10 billion) in clean power and fuel over three years. It doesn’t appear to be a big capital commitment from India’s most powerful businessman, certainly not when he’s just raised $44 billion of capital during a pandemic and made the $180 billion balance sheet of his flagship Reliance Industries Ltd. free of net debt. But these are still early days for a decisive change in the energy mix of India’s largely coal-fueled economy. Ambani’s plans could easily turn as aggressive as his 4G telecom venture, initially dismissed by naysayers as a me-too entry into a crowded field of a dozen players. In just five years, Ambani’s digital startup has acquired 420 million-plus subscribers, bankrupted several other operators and will soon launch one of the world’s cheapest smartphones in partnership with Alphabet Inc.’s Google. If he displays a similar hunger in solar energy, other aspirants might have to rethink their strategies. Among them may be France’s TotalEnergies SE, which has picked up a 20% stake in Adani Green Energy Ltd. and invested directly in some of the projects in the firm’s 25 gigawatt solar-energy portfolio, which has grown by 50 times in three years. Gautam Adani, who earlier this year took his spot behind Ambani as Asia’s second-richest man, wants to be the world’s largest renewable energy producer by 2030.  Will Ambani get in his way? Until now, the two billionaires, both hailing from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state of Gujarat, have largely operated in their separate spheres. Ambani has leaned toward data-driven consumer businesses like retail and telecom, whereas Adani has focused on infrastructure and utilities. Clean energy would see them overlap. Although Ambani’s initial plans aren’t overly dominant — he wants to meet 100 gigawatts of Modi’s green energy target of 450 gigawatts by 2030 — that’s probably because he’s yet to scope the policy terrain. After spending $90 billion over the past decade, Reliance Industries says it has the “capacity to catalyze” another $200 billion in investment over the next 10 years. From a renewed focus on gas exploration to e-commerce over WhatsApp, India’s largest business enterprise has many irons in the fire beyond clean energy. It also has deep pockets, and influential friends like Google and Facebook Inc. Yasir Al-Rumayyan, the head of Saudi Arabian Oil Co., is joining the Reliance board. The goal, which is running behind schedule, is to have Aramco as a strategic partner in Reliance’s cash-spewing refinery on India’s west coast and reposition it at the centre of a low-carbon oil-to-chemicals empire.  To support those initiatives, Reliance has $13 billion of annual earnings before interest, depreciation, tax and amortisation. Its foreign-currency debt is rated BBB by Fitch Ratings, a notch higher than India’s government. Meanwhile, the listed entities in the Adani Group have a little more than $3.5 billion of annual Ebitda and combined net debt in excess of $19 billion. After a spectacular surge over the past year, the smaller group’s share prices have wobbled recently amid concerns around some opaque foreign funds’ outsize exposure. That bout of nervousness has underscored the crucial role financing will play for Adani to realise his sprawling ambitions spanning India’s ports, airports, coal mining, power generation and transmission, gas supply, warehousing and data centres.  It’s equally possible that the wealthier tycoon is spreading himself a tad too thin. Reliance is battling Amazon.com Inc. and Walmart Inc. in e-commerce and will soon be challenging Xiaomi Corp. with JioPhone Next, custom-built by Google for the 300 million Indians still on 2G devices. Then there’s the foray into the unfamiliar world of technology services: Not only does Ambani want to be the first off the block with 5G in India, he also aims to sell to other telecom operators globally, competing perhaps with Huawei Technologies Co. Adani is impatient to grow because he wants to diversify cash flows beyond his successful port business, and catch the inevitable resource boom as the average earnings of India’s 1.4 billion people go from low-middle-income to high-middle-income. What is Ambani’s hurry? To stuff clean energy into a packed catchall shows that the 64-year-old may be getting serious about succession planning. Mukesh Ambani’s own past battle with younger brother, Anil, for a division of family assets would be a reminder that he needs to use Reliance’s cost-of-capital advantage to nurture self-sustaining conglomerates for each of his three grown children to manage. That’s another reason to expect that the four giga factories Ambani announced this week — one each for solar panels, batteries, green hydrogen and fuel cells — is just the beginning. The push could very quickly become a shove.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/ambani-and-adani-race-to-fulfil-indias-green-ambition-1001675.html
26-06-2021||Opinion||UEFA's tryst with hypocrisy and homophobia||Back in April, when the world's wealthiest clubs had decreed to "save football" through the European Super League, UEFA and its president Aleksander Čeferin were swift to condemn the revolutionary breakaway. Čeferin, posing as the vanguard of resistance, had observed that "competition structures (like the Super League) give with one hand while taking away with five. Solidarity, and not self-interest, must prevail." By standing up to the Super League, UEFA had suddenly become the safe keeper of the beautiful game, defiantly challenging the avarice of superclubs. Or so UEFA thought. Not a matter of pride Then came a bewildering choice to "look into" German captain Manuel Neuer's rainbow armband (which he sported during recent matches) to assess whether Neuer's gesture (during Pride month) had offended (UEFA did not bother mentioning to whom). UEFA's peculiar actions sparked social media outrage, with Thomas Hitzlsperger, the gay former German international, tweeting, "Come on, UEFA...you can't be serious, can you?" UEFA subsequently buried the issue. Another baffling move followed in which UEFA rejected permission to illuminate Munich's Allianz Arena with rainbow colours during Germany's clash with Hungary. UEFA, whose official tweets from yesteryears have celebrated Pride, declined the lighting request since it is "a politically and religiously neutral organisation" (maybe outlawing national anthems before kick-off is next on the agenda). UEFA also cited that a stadium decked in the hues of the rainbow would send "a message aiming at a decision taken by the Hungarian national parliament." This decision pertains to a law passed by the Hungarian parliament that bans the depiction of homosexuals in school materials or television shows for minors. Hobnobbing with strongmen In March 2020, the UEFA executive committee allotted the 2022 final of the Europa League, UEFA's second most important club competition, to Budapest (the 2021 edition was in Poland's Gdańsk). In addition, it handed the 2023 Super Cup to Russia and named Minsk, the Belarusian capital, as the venue for the 2021 UEFA Congress (later scrapped due to Covid-19). Ever since Čeferin, a Slovenian, took over as UEFA president in 2016, there has been a slow but sure pivot towards nations in eastern Europe. In theory, such an orientation brings with it chances of empowering the second string of European football. In practice, however, this has meant UEFA cosying up to strongmen such as Hungary's Viktor Orbán, Poland's Andrzej Duda, Belarus's Alexander Lukashenko, and Russia's Vladimir Putin. None of these associations with obviously anti-democratic regimes has come with any caveats from UEFA, caveats that could have addressed the suppression of mass protests in Belarus and Russia or the discrimination against the LGBTQI+ community in Hungary and Poland. Instead, as always with UEFA, priorities remain strictly commercial. Morally bankrupt Why should an organisation in charge of regulating football care about marginalised communities, democratic dissent or other building blocks of civic society? Is simply doing what is best for football or business (the same thing nowadays) not good enough? The short answer to this is no. But, like any other sport, football is not played in a societal vacuum, and organisations like UEFA, which enjoy massive leverage and visibility, cannot abandon all civic responsibility. After all, how can UEFA claim to be acting in spectators' interest if they do not create an inclusive environment for all at football stadiums? How can UEFA protect players' rights if their rights as citizens are endangered in the first place? How can UEFA pose as a body with moral scruples and keep tweeting sweet-nothings if they lack the courage to walk the walk when it matters? The problem, of course, is not just with UEFA. Federations across sports have been repeatedly exposed as morally bankrupt even as their coffers get heavier by the day. But with social media activism gaining momentum and players and fans becoming more outspoken by the day, it remains to be seen how much longer organisations like UEFA can sustain their tryst with hypocrisy. Sooner or later, it seems inevitable that governing bodies will have their reckoning with basic governance principles. (The writer is a freelance journalist writing on politics, culture and sport)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/uefas-tryst-with-hypocrisy-and-homophobia-1001729.html
26-06-2021||Opinion||What to expect from Ebrahim Raisi's presidency  ||Election of the hardline Iranian judiciary chief, Ebrahim Raisi, as the president of Iran last week through behind the scene manipulation by Iran's Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei and the Council of Islamic Guardians (a 12-member body of jurists aligned with the Supreme Leader) bodes ill for Iran's economic growth. Moreover, it could lead to a return of political instability in the Middle East. With Raisi's win, Iran's leading institutions, from the presidency, military to parliament and judiciary, have passed into the hands of the conservatives, shifting the country towards a one-party state. Voter turnout was 48.8 per cent, which was significantly less from the 2017 elections (73.33 per cent), indicating that most people were uninterested in participating, given the considerable backing of the Supreme Leader behind Raisi. Raisi has made bold promises to tackle inflation, create one million jobs annually, promote transparency, and fight corruption to improve his low popularity. While on foreign policy issues, the new Iranian president has taken a hardline position (like Khamenei). Raisi has said he would not meet US President Joe Biden and the Iranian ballistic missile programme, and its regional policies were "non-negotiable". Khamenei, now 82, wants to protect his legacy and family. However, it is a moot point whether Raisi and other organs of state power, particularly the Revolutionary Guards, would back Mojtaba after his father's death. While Iran is negotiating a new nuclear deal with the US, the two sides have agreed on several issues, but some trickier ones remain. The Biden administration is keen to reach a comprehensive agreement with Iran to roll back Tehran's missile programme and curtail the influence of its regional militias. On its part, Iran has insisted on a written commitment that no future American administration would withdraw from the deal. Closure of the deal without a more comprehensive agreement will make President Biden open to attacks from the Republicans. The Supreme Leader decides the critical foreign policy issues, but Raisi's election will further weaken the influence of moderates who represented a ray of hope for political and economic liberalisation. Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett, another hardliner, has called Raisi a "hangman" who participated in the execution of many innocent Iranians. Saudi Arabia, the UAE and others don't trust (despite some token improvement of relations recently) the Iranian regime. They believe it is bent upon exporting its Shiite revolution to their countries. As the old allies of the US, these countries want a preferred solution that muzzles Iran's nuclear programme and its support to regional militias, which have worked to their detriment. Raisi's election indicates that Iranians' aspirations for a better life are at odds with a regime that appears unreformable and unbreakable. So long as Iran's security forces back the regime, they would be willing to kill dissenting protestors, and Iran's society remains divided, keeping the tipping point in the regime's favour. Its authoritarian methods will increase schisms, instability, forcing more Iranians to leave the country, thus retarding economic growth. Like other autocrats, Khamenei is more interested in preserving his regime than seeking solutions for Iran's stunted economic growth. India has been keen to improve its stuttering cooperation with Iran despite the US sanctions on Iranian oil and other economic purchases. It has been working on the early completion of the Chabahar port to improve transportation and connectivity with Afghanistan and the Central Asian states. Since 2018, the port has handled 123 vessels, 13,752 containers and 1.8 million tonnes of cargo. India is now expanding the Shahid Beheshti terminal's capacity from 8.5 million tonnes to 13 million tonnes. Lifting US sanctions will provide new opportunities to India to develop its political and economic linkages with Iran given the country's strategic location, India's substantial energy, trade and other interests and moderate China's growing influence in the country. The writer is a former Ambassador. Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-to-expect-from-ebrahim-raisis-presidency-1001757.html
26-06-2021||Opinion||Veterans of politics, amateurs at solving problems||The world’s largest vaccination programme. There’s even a hashtag for it in the pronouncements we see in the press and elsewhere. #WorldsLargestVaccineDrive. There has been no official data showing that India’s population has already surpassed that of China, but since it’s close enough and there isn’t much point in advertising the second largest one, a little fudge is alright, I suppose. We have the most people, sort of, and therefore will be the largest at anything that depends on that headcount. But it’s also among the world’s slowest vaccination programmes. The ‘drive’ in the hashtag is barely a walk. Among the major industrial nations of the world, we are bringing up the rear by a considerable distance. At the current pace of vaccination, we will finish giving the second dose to all adults by sometime in the middle of 2022. That means that if -- and most likely when -- the third wave hits, we will still have lots of people who are vulnerable to it. And that’s assuming the vaccines we have continue to work on future variants of the virus. How did we land up in such a bad situation? There are lots of explanations, most of them focusing on some technical thing or the other. Procurement, production, regulation, transportation, personnel, etc. But above all of these is a sweeping reason that cuts across all of them. The people we have entrusted to do the job don’t know how to do it. The science of the virus is too much for our low level of governance to tackle. The public has been making heroes out of all sorts of leaders based on their ability to win elections. But when it comes to winning real world battles, most of them are down and out. Admittedly, the virus is considerably bigger than any problem that political leaders anywhere have seen, but our relatively weak response shows that we are more vulnerable because of our weak governance. For several months, we simply refused to acknowledge that there is an order in which we have to tackle this -- science, health, then administration. We reversed the order, believing that some magically new and better administration by our respective favourite leaders will somehow defeat the virus, forgetting that the whole world was doing something else, with the exception of lampooned quacks like Jair Bolsonaro. Now, belatedly and with our backs to the wall, we are forced to confront all the things we have been blind to -- slow vaccination, variants, lack of genome sequencing, no public data, weak logistics, and so much more. And it’s becoming painfully obvious that it’s not blindness that afflicts us. Our leaders have closed their eyes, afraid to open them but pretending in bravado that we can defeat the virus with our eyes closed -- and hoping that no one can see that. Or at least, since their eyes are closed, they can’t see that everyone can see that. The evidence from the pandemic is stark and immediate, but the failure is visible more widely even when we look at other aspects of development. Consider education, nutrition, women’s participation in public life and workforces...the slow progress is all-round. And while various leaders have appeared on the stage as champions of causes, after 75 years in which they’ve been running the country, it’s very hard to look back at any of them and point to specific things they did to bring India anywhere close to ‘developed’ status. Day in and out, news reports are full of ‘senior’ leaders who are veterans of politics. Maybe, but apart from a small few, they are amateurs at solving problems. In fact, most of them cannot even describe the problems that confront us properly and articulate a solution to them. This is the reason we have fallen behind so many countries in coming out of the pandemic. It’s also the reason why some countries that we once looked down at are now passing us in development indicators. Competence matters. And not just during a pandemic. It’s alright to live with a few exaggerations; that happens in every country’s politics. But what we’re doing is bizarre. We have become used to repackaging evident and widespread failure as success, and celebrating leaders who have delivered that. This is a huge pit we have fallen into, and coming out of it will not be easy. Why? Because the public is also guilty of this. We find it easier to pretend that our leaders are achieving great things, even when it’s evident from objective data that they are not. Going along with their dubious claims seems easier than acknowledging that we’ve put such people in elected office repeatedly, and that it’s up to us to start changing that. So, sitting in the passenger seat of the car and observing that the driver has shut his eyes, we too have closed ours, hoping that the dangers we don’t see don’t exist. Partisan politics is feeding the emergence of political leaders who simply aren’t up to the complex jobs they need to do today, to serve the public properly and to keep India competitive with the rest of the world. Citizens know that such leaders are not up to the task, but we are also accomplices to this charade. The politicians are veterans of non-performance, and we are veterans of hailing their non-performance. Together, we have constructed amateurish responses to complex and serious problems. (Ashwin Mahesh is a social technologist and entrepreneur, founder of Mapunity and co-founder, Lithium, wakes up with hope for the city and society, goes to bed with a sigh,  repeats cycle  @ashwinmahesh)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/veterans-of-politics-amateurs-at-solving-problems-1001938.html
26-06-2021||Opinion||Can public officials block you on social media?||Recently, I noticed that I could no longer tag the official handle of Karnataka Director General of Police (DGP) Praveen Sood -- @DGPKarnataka -- to my posts on Twitter. On further examination, I realised that I had been blocked by the DGP’s office from following his official handle or viewing his posts. For the uninitiated, blocking is broadly of two kinds. One, the government can direct social media intermediaries such as Twitter to block accounts for promoting ill-will, waging war against the State or such weighty reasons (though in reality, the provision is often used merely to silence the government’s critics). Two, an individual can block anybody else from viewing his posts or interacting with him on the platform. In my case, I suspect I was blocked because I was strident in my criticism of police brutality during the lockdown and the recent instances of custodial torture, which might have caused some discomfort to the police top brass. But the action seems to be the handiwork of some flunky down the line, because Sood has not blocked me from his personal account. Nonetheless, it raises an important question: Whether those in public service can impose such restrictions on people in order to snuff out criticism? Though this continues to be a grey area in India, the issue has been repeatedly flagged by courts in the United States. Several courts have ruled that the public has the right to access information on social media, the denial of which amounts to a violation of the US First Amendment. Among other rights, the First Amendment protects “freedom of speech, the press, assembly, and the right to petition the government for a redress of grievances.” In the Knight First Amendment Institute v. Donald Trump case, a court held that blocking people, based on their viewpoints, from accessing even private accounts of public persons that are used for official purposes is a breach of the First Amendment. Another court had held that the essential character of a Twitter account is not fixed forever as “private accounts can turn into government ones, if it becomes an organ of official business.” However, all personal accounts of those in government service cannot automatically be deemed to be public, especially if they are used strictly for private purposes. In India, such restrictions conflict with Article 19 (1)(a), the Right to Freedom of Speech and Expression, which is our equivalent of the First Amendment. Though social media facilitates a two-way interaction with the public, most politicians and bureaucrats use it merely as a platform to blow their own trumpet. While there are avenues to initiate action against those indulging in personal and malicious attacks or character assassination, blocking those highlighting the failures of the government, officials or elected representatives is an act of gross impropriety and is regressive in nature, though it may not be illegal as of now. Senior IAS officer P Manivannan had amply demonstrated how social media could be employed in effective governance when he was at the helm of affairs of the Information & Publicity Department. The department’s Twitter handle @KarnatakaVarthe had become popular as any issue or complaint raised there would be resolved within a day. Such proactive measures increase the confidence of ordinary people in the government machinery. Unfortunately, most public servants have failed to harness the true potential of social media as a platform to receive and act upon feedback and criticism. They should perhaps take a leaf out of leadership strategist Glenn Llopis’ words, “Leadership is not a popularity contest. Criticism is a natural part of leadership. If no one is criticising your leadership, you are not leading correctly.” (M Gautham Machaiah has traversed across print, electronic and digital media donning both journalist and corporate robes  @GauthamMachaiah)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/can-public-officials-block-you-on-social-media-1001939.html
26-06-2021||Opinion||When the member from Kolar insisted on speaking in Kannada||T Chennaiah, a freedom fighter, later a Karnataka government minister and Rajya Sabha member, was a member of the Constituent Assembly. Born to a poor Dalit family in Kolar, his rise was meteoric by the standards of the day, though his contributions to the state are not well known these days outside of Kolar. Among them was how he weighed in on the language debate in the Constituent Assembly. During a discussion on the legislative powers of Parliament on August 25, 1947, Chennaiah, somewhat out of the blue, delivered his intervention in the debate in Kannada. This startled the other members since the official languages of the Constituent Assembly were English and Hindi. However, members were allowed, with the permission of the President (in this case, Rajendra Prasad) to speak in a language of their choosing. Some members insisted that Chennaiah switch to English (which he knew sufficiently well as we see from his other speeches in the Assembly). He refused to do so. Rajendra Prasad said he would not stop Chennaiah, only pointing out that if he continued to speak in Kannada, he wouldn’t be understood, and the point of his intervention would be lost. Chennaiah, nonetheless, chose to continue in Kannada. We don’t know what Chennaiah said since the Constituent Assembly Debates do not record his speech in Kannada or a translation of it. To the best of my knowledge, no audio recording of his speech exists, so we are left to guess the content of his speech. However, in speaking in Kannada, Chennaiah probably wanted to make a point that went beyond his immediate intervention on Centre-State relations. Chennaiah was, in fact, not the first to speak in a native language other than Hindi in the Constituent Assembly. Two other Dalit members of the Assembly had done so -- Govinda Dass (from the then Madras Province) had spoken in Telugu and P Kakkan in Tamil prior to this. Chennaiah was the third speaker who had reverted to a Dravidian language at the risk of not being understood by the rest of the Assembly. The politics and symbolism of this are hard to miss, especially given the acrimonious debate that took place two years later over the bid to anoint Hindi the ‘national language’. When the first draft of the Constitution was presented, there was some consternation that it only provided for Hindi and English as ‘official’ languages. This left members from North Indian states and provinces dissatisfied -- they had expected Hindi to be declared the national language and argued for the same. Stiff resistance to this was put up by members belonging to the South Indian states, pointing out that Hindi was acceptable only to a certain part of the country and could not be declared a ‘national language’ only on the basis of numerical strength alone. They argued, persuasively, that any ‘national language’ could only evolve over a period of time with usage, it could not be imposed top-down by the government. The debate over language took place over several days in September 1949 and are worth reading. The compromise that was eventually worked out was that Hindi and English would continue to be official languages of the Union government, and the need for English would be re-examined after 15 years. Deferring the question of continuing with English was a quiet acceptance of the idea that a ‘national language’ could not be imposed, unless it found sufficiently wide acceptance from the people. Needless to say, Parliament has not found any reason after that to do away with the use of English as an official language. Hindi is one of the 22 languages listed in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution and continues to be designated as the ‘official’ language of the Union government alongside English. Even today, some speakers of Hindi insist that it’s the ‘national language,’ though the Constitutional position is otherwise! Even after the redrawing of states on linguistic lines, the political battles over language have not ended. The Union government’s efforts to “promote” Hindi have gone hand-in-hand with a tendency to use only Hindi, excluding other regional languages. We only need to look at the examples of India’s neighbours to learn what happens when majoritarian linguistic nationalism goes too far. Just as wiser counsel prevailed in the Constituent Assembly on this question, perhaps it is time for the Union government also to recognise the futility and dangers of attempting to impose one language on the nation. (Alok Prasanna Kumar is the co-founder, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy, uses his legal training to make the case that Harry Potter is science fiction and Star Wars is fantasy.  Alok.P.Kumar)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/when-the-member-from-kolar-insisted-on-speaking-in-kannada-1001940.html
26-06-2021||Opinion||Where has all the critical thinking gone?||Having lived most of my life in Australia’s highly individualistic culture, adapting to the traditionally collectivist culture in India posed some challenges. Growing up, the goal was to become independent and self-sufficient. Like most teenagers, by choice, I had a casual job so I could start earning my own money. It was empowering. After university, as expected, I left home to pursue my career and lead my own life. I valued the autonomy and flexibility to do as I pleased. If I didn’t move out of home, I would’ve had to pay rent to my parents. To society, it would’ve looked like my parents had failed to raise a responsible, fully-functioning adult who was capable of looking after herself. Not surprisingly, it took me a while to come to terms with India’s hierarchical system, social structures, and need to act in accordance with the greater good of the community. In a collectivist society, belongingness and acceptance are important. I was acutely aware of how all of this contrasted with my strongly individualist mindset. However, the past year of the pandemic has left me wondering whether the distinction between individualistic and collectivist cultures is as great, and as fixed, as it seems. What has shocked me the most is how rare it is for people to think for themselves. The world has been taken over by a herd mentality that happily goes along with the mainstream narrative being fed to it. Anyone who questions the narrative is likely to be called a conspiracy theorist or Covid denier. (Evidence that the virus came from a lab just keeps on growing though). Is a desire to fit in and not be ostracised driving people to conform to the norm, even in supposedly individualistic societies? Look at what happened to Sweden, the outlier country which shunned strict lockdown and was globally condemned for it. Or did people never actually think critically in the first place? A society’s individualistic or collectivist view is said to influence the extent to which it accepts government involvement and cooperates with laws. Australians perceive themselves as easy going and anti-authority but most obediently gave up their rights and freedoms for the “common good”, in return for “being kept safe and protected”. (The Victoria state premier was labeled a dictator by some, but his overall popularity grew in proportion to the extent of restrictions). The widespread conversion to collectivism in Australia during the pandemic has enabled the government to introduce rules so draconian that no one is allowed to leave the country unless they obtain a rarely-granted exemption. Meanwhile, the pandemic has stoked India’s individualism, with many people ignoring health guidelines and finding ways of getting around the system, in some cases out of necessity to try and earn a living and survive. How can there be a common good in India when mass measures such as lockdowns are detrimental to a substantial part of the population? What’s more, instead of having faith in the government, people felt abandoned during the worsening second wave when political rallies continued to take place across the country and very little support was forthcoming. Everyone had to focus on looking after themselves and their immediate families in whatever ways they could. Admittedly, I remain stubbornly individualistic. I like to do my own research and make my own decisions instead of relying on authorities for direction or assistance. I guess there will be limited place for me in the world as the pandemic spells the end of western individualism as it was known. Transformation into a global collectivist society is well underway with increased government surveillance mechanisms aimed at tracking, monitoring and controlling people at all levels. Think digital identifications linked to health/vaccine records. There’s no going back from that. As former US president Herbert Hoover once said, “Every collectivist revolution rides in on a Trojan horse of emergency”. (Sharell Cook is a travel writer from Down Under who has made Mumbai her home and is trying to make sense of India one ‘Like That Only’ at a time)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/where-has-all-the-critical-thinking-gone-1001941.html
26-06-2021||Opinion||The quiet revolutionary||If you had to pick an original work that tells a fascinating story of a scientific revolution in enchanting prose, there is but one choice: ‘On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection’ (The Origin), by Charles Darwin. First published in 1859, The Origin is simply beautiful and true, and transformed the zeitgeist of the early 19th century, ushering in an ideological step-change. Darwin founded fundamental principles for a secular view of life: the modern conception of evolution, the common descent of all species of living beings from a single primordial source, and the process of evolution as ‘Natural Selection’. Charles Robert Darwin, born in England in 1809, graduated from Christ’s College, Cambridge in 1831 and in the following year, went aboard the HMS Beagle as a Naturalist, in what was a four-year definitive voyage that altered the course of modern biology. Darwin was not just genius at work; he was the quiet revolutionary who transformed science and society. He eliminated the idea of ‘God’, as commonly accepted in the day, in the origin of life and provided scientific rationale to explain all organic phenomena, setting in motion a powerful intellectual revolution. In a delicious irony, Charles Darwin had been pinned down by his father to a career in the Church, before he accepted the offer to sail aboard the HMS Beagle. Just as well, for what was the Church’s loss became Science’s greatest gain. While surveying the Galapagos Islands in 1832, Darwin made perspicacious observations that were to form the bases for his celebrated theory of evolution by ‘Natural Selection’. “The natural history of these islands is eminently curious,” he wrote in his journal. It indeed was: The 10 rocky islands were home to many plants and animals, but with great variety. Each island appeared to have its own species. Could this extraordinary diversity really be explained by an origin myth -- that God had created all the species on Earth? On his return, Darwin turned his attention to the study of barnacles and came up with one extraordinary insight that had foundational influence on his thinking. Barnacles are usually hermaphroditic, with each having both kinds of sex organs. It was Darwin who discovered first one and then several species, in which there were two distinct sexes. “I never should have made this out,” writes Darwin, “had not my species theory convinced me that a hermaphrodite species must pass into a bisexual species by insensibly small stages”. Despite being on the cusp of a transformative scientific discovery, Darwin delayed publication of The Origin fearing public outrage because he was refuting the core religious teachings regarding the origins of life on earth. At its heart, the process of Natural Selection was a profound philosophic advance, unknown in the two thousand years of the progress of human knowledge: unknown to the Greeks, to classical Rome, to Europe’s renowned philosophic tradition; indeed, unknown even to the great body of knowledge nearer us, the Upanishads. It was Darwin who first asserted, and I quote, “All the organic beings which have ever lived on this earth have descended from some one primordial form into which life was first breathed”. The true greatness of Darwin’s principle of Natural Selection is that it finally set at rest the absurd question ‘why’, and made unnecessary the Aristotelean invocation of ‘final causes’ guiding humans toward a particular end, typified in the purposes of life that religions invoke. In one swell swoop, Darwin had demolished the worldview that organised religion had carefully constructed and had come to rule the minds of gullible men and women. For over a century and a half, Darwin’s theory of evolution, with minor modifications based on the advances in genetics, is the most scientific that we have. Modern biology began with Darwin, yet the ambivalence towards one of the greatest scientists and the knowledge he generated points to the crisis of the scientific temper, weakened as it is with its incessant battles with bigotry, and the power of myth and superstition on our minds. Science and faith respond to completely different kinds of questions. People should acknowledge that sacred scriptures are not science, and that Darwinian science has nothing to do with faith. The Origin is one of the most influential scientific texts ever written, so what might we draw from it: Life is first, chance and then, necessity. There is no supreme design preceding existence. In the march of human progress, many Gods have died to give birth to new. After all, God is an idea, the idea of perfection. We therefore need to take responsibility for our own actions. The meaning of life is simply, ethical action -- each contributing to the work of ongoing creation of a better world, embracing the scientific temper, diversity, and somecommon sense. (Gurucharan Gollerkeri: The former civil servant enjoys traversing the myriad spaces of ideas, thinkers, and books)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-quiet-revolutionary-1001942.html
26-06-2021||Right in the Middle||Childhood chapters||The 18th-century English writer Dr Samuel Johnson once said, "When a man is tired of London, he is tired of life." He obviously meant adults. When I was growing up in England, although I occasionally found trips to its capital tedious, the boredom did not dampen my childhood. Besides, the Tower of London housed an extraordinary exhibit, a little diamond diadem.  It had belonged to Queen Victoria, who felt that a small-sized crown befitted her widowhood. My request for that miniature marvel— a perfect fit for my head— was refused. Earlier, I was disappointed when I hoped to adopt a baby elephant in Ceylon. A biblical passage talks of children’s wishes being granted. Unfortunately, when it came to both animals and ornaments, my parents did not fulfil their scriptural obligations.  What they did, with enormous enthusiasm, was sightseeing. We lived in Cranfield, where my IAF father was pursuing a course at the College of Aeronautics. When he was free, we set out on exploratory expeditions. London was about 70 km away but our county of Bedfordshire had a stately edifice of historical interest. Woburn Abbey had been the family seat of the Dukes of Bedford for 400 years. In the 1950s, the then holder of the title opened his residence to the public. We paid to view its splendid interior and sprawling gardens. On our return to India, our souvenir mug embossed with a crest went unnoticed. Nobody had heard of the Duke of Bedford. Everyone had heard of William Shakespeare; everyone, that is, except me. I could not understand the need to spend several hours at his birthplace. I recently came across a faded snapshot that was taken on a visit three months before my 4th birthday. It shows me at Stratford-upon-Avon, walking away from a statue of Shakespeare instead of posing for a picture. I was unable, however, to escape being photographed with characters from his plays. I may be seen standing beside a sculpture of Hamlet, a suitably sullen companion for the melancholy Prince of Denmark. Looking back, I am appalled at my indifference, born of ignorance. Of course, in 1958, I could hardly have foreseen that and in time to come, I would be devoted to the dramatist for decades. Rephrasing Dr Johnson, "the day I tire of Shakespeare, let me retire from life."||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/childhood-chapters-1001618.html
26-06-2021||Second Edit||Misguided policy with communal tinge||The proposals being pursued by two state governments to deny the benefits of welfare schemes to people with more than two children are wrong and unjust. Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has said his government will gradually implement a two-child policy, linking it to welfare schemes. He also specifically mentioned Muslims in the context of the state’s policy. The Uttar Pradesh Law Commission is preparing a law that will limit welfare benefits to those with only two children. Both are BJP-ruled states. Assam has already implemented a wrong policy in the case of government jobs, by denying them to people with more than two children. Some states have made the two-child norm a condition for contesting elections to local bodies. Such linkages are based on a wrong understanding of population growth and amount to a denial of the civic and political rights of people. They also have a communal dimension. There is no need for India to enforce a population policy centred around a coercive two-child norm. Population growth is no longer a matter of serious concern as it was in the last century. India’s population is likely to peak around 2050 and then to start declining. The Total Fertility Rate (TFR) has declined from 3.4 in 1992-93 to 2.2 in 2015-16, according to data from the National Family and Health Survey. The trend has been seen among all communities, including Hindus and Muslims. The decline is steeper for Muslims than for Hindus. In some states like Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, the TFR among Muslims is at or below the replacement level of 2.1, and in many other states it is close to that. Wherever the TFR level of Muslims is high, it is because of socio-economic reasons like poverty, low literacy and poor health facilities. The narrative of a runaway Muslim population outgrowing or disadvantaging the country’s Hindus is therefore wrong. Even in times of high population growth, using the stick to control population is bad policy, with undesirable consequences. China relaxed its strict one-child policy five years ago and is now allowing three children in a family. The denial of jobs, welfare benefits and democratic rights with an intention to curb population growth is flawed policy and can harm the country. Such a policy will hit the poor, marginalised and less educated people who need these rights and benefits more than others. Improving the socio-economic conditions of the poor and backward sections of the population by investing in human capital, health and education is the best family welfare policy. The plans now being made by the two state governments are more about politics than about population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/misguided-policy-with-communal-tinge-1001627.html
26-06-2021||South||Kamal Haasan announces new appointments, to become MNM General Secretary||In a post-poll shake-up following the drubbing in the April 6 Tamil Nadu Assembly elections, Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder-president Kamal Haasan on Saturday announced new appointments, and will also be the party General Secretary. The changes come in the wake of a spate of resignations, including then vice president R Mahendran, after the elections where the party, along with its allies, could not return even a single legislator. Two key political advisors, as many vice presidents, three State Secretaries, an additional Central Governing Body member, Coordinator of the Narpani Iyakkam (welfare) Wing were appointed today, a party release quoting Haasan's virtual interaction with functionaries said. "More such appointments will be made in the days to come. The newly appointed state secretaries have represented the party in the 2021 TN State Assembly elections," he said. "The Party President shall take the additional responsibility of General Secretary" of MNM, it added. The appointments come in the wake of an exodus in the party following its poor show in the April 6 polls, with then close confidante of Haasan, R Mahendran, calling it quits from the organisation blaming lack of democracy. More senior functionaries, including former IAS officer Santhosh Babu who contested the polls, had also left the party, some citing personal reasons as well. Haasan had earlier announced that he will take measures to strengthen the party. Veteran politician Pala. Karuppiah and former aide of ex-President, the late APJ Abdul Kalam, Ponraj Vellaisamy have been appointed political advisors while A G Mourya and Thangavelu are vice presidents, Organisation and Implementation and Activation, respectively. Senthil Arumugam, Siva Elango and Sarath Babu, a well-known entrepreneur, are State Secretaries with different responsibilities. While Haasan appointed Sripriya Sethupathi as Central Governing Body member, G Nagarajan is Coordinator of Narpani Iyakkam Wing. "Join me in welcoming these new appointees who have dedicated their life to serving the people. They will work with you to strengthen the party. Cooperate with them to the fullest. The Local Body elections are coming soon, we must get ready to face it," Haasan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kamal-haasan-announces-new-appointments-to-become-mnm-general-secretary-1001754.html
26-06-2021||South||Petrol crosses Rs 100 in Tamil Nadu after steep hike in fuel rates||Petrol price soared past Rs 100-a-litre mark in Tamil Nadu after fuel prices were hiked again on Saturday. Petrol and diesel prices were hiked by 35 paise per litre each - the steepest in recent times, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The increase took rates across the country to fresh highs with Tamil Nadu becoming the latest state to see petrol cross Rs 100-a- litre mark. In Delhi, petrol hit an all-time high of Rs 98.11 a litre, while diesel is now priced at Rs 88.65 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as value-added tax (VAT) and freight charges. While petrol had crossed Rs 100-a-litre mark in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, and Ladakh, several towns in Tamil Nadu including Salem, Vellore and Cuddalore saw that level after the steep price hike. In Chennai, petrol is priced at Rs 99.19 a litre while diesel comes for Rs 93.23 per litre. Among metro cities, petrol is already above Rs 100 in Mumbai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru. In Mumbai, petrol now costs Rs 104.22 a litre and diesel comes for Rs 96.16. Rate of diesel, the most used fuel in the country, had crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in Sri Ganganagar and Hanumangarh in Rajasthan as well in a couple of places in Odisha. The hike on Saturday is the 30th increase in prices since May 4, when state-owned oil firms ended an 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during assembly elections in states like West Bengal. In 30 hikes, the price of petrol has risen by Rs 7.71 per litre and diesel by Rs 8.12 a litre. Oil companies revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on the average price of benchmark fuel in the international market in the preceding 15 days, and foreign exchange rates. Oil prices have climbed on optimism of a quick recovery in fuel demand. Brent crude soared past the $75 per barrel mark, the first time since April 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/petrol-crosses-rs-100-in-tamil-nadu-after-steep-hike-in-fuel-rates-1001764.html
26-06-2021||South||CM Stalin announces evaluation criteria for Tamil Nadu class 12 students||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Saturday announced the evaluation criteria for class 12 students in the state, giving 50 percent weightage to class 10 board examination scores. The government had earlier announced cancellation of exams to the Plus Two board for 2020-2021 due to the covid-19 pandemic. Later, the government constituted a committee comprising officials including the Principal Secretary of the Department of Higher Education, the Vice Chancellor of Madras University and the headmasters of schools to submit a report to the government on the system of evaluating marks for students. Accordingly, the 10-member committee recommended the evaluation criteria with different weightage. The chief minister announced how the Plus Two results will be computed this year. An official release quoting Stalin said 50 percent weightage will be given to class X board exam marks (average of three subjects with high marks) while 20 percent (written in each subject) weightage will be accorded to Plus One board exam and 30 percent will be given to Class 12 practicals and internal assessment. The students who have failed in Class 11 will be given 35 percent marks. The marks of each student will be computed in the above manner and published on the Department's website by July 31 as per the order of the Supreme Court. Also, the government said it would provide an opportunity to the aggrieved students, who otherwise felt they could have scored more had they written the exam, to appear for the test. "Students who feel that they have obtained less marks as was calculated through this evaluation criteria will be given an opportunity to appear for the Class 12 written examination if they wish. The marks they score in the examinations so conducted will be declared as final," the release said. The exam will be conducted in due course once the pandemic subsides. The timetable for this examination will be announced later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cm-stalin-announces-evaluation-criteria-for-tamil-nadu-class-12-students-1001828.html
26-06-2021||South||Fearing Covid-19, Maoist couple surrenders before Telangana police||Fearing the spread of coronavirus among Maoist cadre, a Maoist couple surrendered before the police in Bhadradri Kothagudem district of Telangana on Saturday. Police said Surender, an area committee member of Manuguru LOS (local organisation squad) and his wife, a dalam member of Manuguru LOS, gave themselves up. Both of them feared for their lives due to harassment by the Maoist leadership and also the spread of coronavirus among the cadre, the police said. The recent death of central committee member (CCM) Hari Bhushan and some others due to Covid-19 has put fear in the Maoists, said Bhadradri Kothagudem District Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt. Negligence and human rights violations of Maoist party cadre by central committee members and other senior party leaders were the reasons for the cadre to leave the banned outfit, according to the SP said. The senior police official appealed to all Maoists to surrender. The police have said, "We will ensure their proper medical treatment and rehabilitation as per government policy." Surender and his wife, both aged 23, were working for the banned CPI (Maoist) party since 2018 and 2016 respectively and were currently working as guards to Azad, Telangana State committee member, the police said. On Friday, landmines planted by the naxals to kill a police posse in Koppusuru forest area in Mulugu district were dug out safely and defused during a joint operation comprising the police and the CRPF. The operation was carried out based on information that Maoist leaders Bade Chokka Rao alias Damodar and other senior leaders of Telangana State Committee of CPI (Maoist) party, dalam members and militia had planted the landmines, the police said. Explosives and accessories used for making landmines, including detonators, black slurry (explosive), electrical wire, small bolts and tiffin boxes were seized from the spot and a case was registered, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fearing-covid-19-maoist-couple-surrenders-before-telangana-police-1001832.html
26-06-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh govt dispenses with interviews for future recruitments in govt service||More than twenty months after taking the decision, the Andhra Pradesh government on Saturday issued a formal order dispensing with the process of interviews for all future recruitments into government service, including the executive posts. It was on October 17, 2019 that Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, at a high-level meeting on recruitments, took the decision to do away with personal interviews for all recruitments through the AP Public Service Commission. Accordingly, APPSC Secretary P S R Anjaneyulu wrote to the General Administration Department on October 21, seeking necessary action on the issue. A top official in the General Administration Department said the new initiative was a "major reform", aimed at improving transparency and reducing subjectivity in all the recruitments in government cadre. In an order on Saturday, Principal Secretary (Services and Human Resources Management) Shashi Bhushan Kumar said the government decided to dispense with the interview process "to maintain utmost transparency and ensure complete trust of the competing candidates in the entire selection process". The new system, wherein only written examinations would be conducted for all categories of posts, including Group-1 services, would be applicable for all recruitments to be notified from now on. In 2011, the then united AP government headed by N Kiran Kumar Reddy did away with the interview process for all subordinate services as part of the reforms introduced in APPSC recruitments. The reforms were implemented as per the recommendations of a high-level committee headed by the then Special Chief Secretary J Satyanarayana. Written tests and interviews were, however, retained for executive posts like deputy collector, Deputy Superintendent of Police, commercial taxes officer, regional transport officer and the like. Henceforth, these recruitments too will happen through written examination only. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-govt-dispenses-with-interviews-for-future-recruitments-in-govt-service-1001836.html
26-06-2021||South||Stalin announces Rs 3 crore to Olympic gold medallists from Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Saturday announced a purse of Rs three crore to sportspersons from the State, who clinch gold at the Tokyo Olympics. He also announced a cash award of Rs 2 crore for those winning silver and Rs one crore to bronze medallists at the multi-national event next month. "The government is duty-bound to encourage sportspersons who distinguish themselves at global meets. These cash awards will be given on behalf of the government," he said. Also known as Tokyo 2020, the 2020 Summer Olympics is scheduled from July 23 to August 8, 2021 in Japan after it was postponed to this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Speaking after inaugurating a special Covid vaccination camp for sportspersons at the Nehru stadium here, Staliny said, "Team spirit is very important to win in sports. Success can be achieved while working together as a team." Sportspersons like M S Dhoni, Sachin Tenduklar, P T Usha and Karnam Malleswari, who shone in their fields, become icons of inspiration to others, he said and urged the participants to strive hard and fetch laurels for Tamil Nadu. "The State government will always support and encourage sports," he added. The vaccination camp was held under the aegis of the Department of Youth Welfare and Sports, Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu, Health Department, and Tamil Nadu Olympic Association. Ensuring that the Sports Department did not remain for namesake, his government has committed itself to fostering sports and promoting sportspersons, he said. "Athletes need physical endurance and motivation. We had promised in the DMK election manifesto that Olympic Academy will be established in four zones in Tamil Nadu. Our promises will be fulfilled," Stalin said. The Chief Minister said sportspersons are the pride of the country and the State government would always support them. He distributed cash incentive of Rs 5 lakh each to six participating athletes -- Nethra Kumanan, Varun Thakkar and K C Ganapathy, who have qualified for sailing at the upcoming event in July, paddlers G Sathian and A Sarath Kamal and paralympian T Mariappan. Tamil Nadu's C A Bhavani Devi who became the first- ever Indian fencer to qualify for the Tokyo Olympic was already provided the incentive of Rs 5 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-announces-rs-3-crore-to-olympic-gold-medallists-from-tamil-nadu-1001848.html
26-06-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh Chief Secretary granted extension||The Central government on Saturday granted a three-month extension in service to Andhra Pradesh Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das. The 1987 batch IAS officer is due for retirement on June 30 on attaining the age of superannuation. The state government, however, wrote to the Centre last month requesting that Das services be extended by three months from July 1 in view of the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. The Department of Personnel and Training issued an order today accepting the request and granting the extension to Das. Accordingly, the Chief Secretary would continue in office till September 30. Official sources said the State government is seeking to bring back 1985 batch IAS officer Reddy Subrahmanyam to the State cadre from Central deputation. Subrahmanyam is now the Secretary in the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. Indications are that Subrahmanyam would be made the Chief Secretary to succeed Das. The Jagan government overlooked Subrahmanyam in December last year while appointing Das, an officer two years junior, as the State Chief Secretary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-chief-secretary-granted-extension-1001861.html
26-06-2021||South||Lok Sabha MP Revanth Reddy appointed Telangana Congress chief||Effecting a generational change, Congress on Saturday elevated Lok Sabha member A Revanth Reddy as the President of its Telangana unit. Fifty-one-year-old Revanth, who was the working president of the state unit, succeeds N Uttam Kumar Reddy, who had quit as the Telangana Congress chief after the party’s dismal performance in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections last year. Revanth is a Lok Sabha member from Malkajgiri constituency. The Telangana Congress will have five working presidents – Mohammad Azharuddin, J Geetha Reddy, M Anjan Kumar Yadav, T Jagga Reddy and B Mahesh Kumar Goud. Former Lok Sabha member and AICC Secretary Madhu Yashki Goud has been named as the Chairman of the Campaign Committee for the assembly elections that will be held in December 2023. Former Andhra Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister C Damodar Rajnarasimha has been named as the chairman of the election management committee. Both Revanth Reddy and Madhu Yashki are considered close to Rahul Gandhi, ties that would hold them in good stead as they attempt to rebuild the party in the state that was created in the final days of the UPA government. Congress was hoping to perform well in Telangana after carving out the state from Andhra Pradesh, but lost out to Telangana Rasthra Samithi helmed by K Chandrasekhara Rao, who won two consecutive assembly elections. Congress has been pushed to the margins in state politics as BJP is trying to make inroads in the southern state. In Revanth Reddy’s appointment, Congress President Sonia Gandhi has ignored the argument of veteran leaders including Hanumantha Rao who had expressed his opposition to the young leader citing the Enforcement Directorate chargesheet against him in the ‘cash for vote’ scam. The issue dates back to 2015 when Revanth was caught while allegedly offering a bribe to an MLA to swing the vote in favour of Vem Narender Reddy in the Telangana Legislative Council elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lok-sabha-mp-revanth-reddy-appointed-telangana-congress-chief-1001864.html
26-06-2021||South||No evidence on seriousness of Covid-19 caused by Delta Plus variant yet, says Shahid Jameel||As of now among nearly 50,000 samples sequenced in India, Delta Plus has been seen in 49 cases sporadically in Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh. More than 200 sequences of AY.1 lineage have been detected worldwide, with the USA and UK having over half the known cases. In an interview noted virologist Shahid Jameel, director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University spoke to DH’s Kalyan Ray on the new variant. Here are some excerpts: Is there any evidence on the perceived seriousness of the Delta Plus variant of SARS-CoV-2? No, there is no evidence that Delta Plus causes more or less serious illness compared to Delta or another Variant of Concern (VoC). There are only about 250 sequences in the public database, including seven from India (but we know there are more than 40 sequences from India by now). This is too few a number to know if it is more infectious/transmissible or causes more serious illness. That is one incident of death out of over 40 known Delta Plus confirmed cases in India. That says nothing. Is there any link with increased positivity in western Maharashtra districts that has seen one death? Hard to say at this time, but more transmission will give it a chance for more mutations. It is also possible that it was introduced there and spread in a cluster. I believe more epidemiological analyses are ongoing. The most talked-about mutation in Delta Plus was there in another VoC. So why the concerns now It is of concern because a key mutation from the Beta VoC is now added into the Delta VoC. We don't yet know if for vaccine effectiveness, this acquisition is going to stay neutral or become additive or the new variants will behave as more than the sum of its parts. What should be the public health responses? At this time we need to know how it is spreading. For that strategic sequencing of representative samples is needed from places it has appeared in, as well as randomly in other states. It is bound to spread at least as well as Delta. The UK is using a genotyping assay for Delta Plus that is cheaper and faster than sequencing. We should also consider that as well. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-evidence-on-seriousness-of-covid-19-caused-by-delta-plus-variant-yet-says-shahid-jameel-1001868.html
26-06-2021||South||Renowned ENT surgeon Kameswaran passes away||Renowned ENT surgeon and Padma Shri awardee Dr S Kameswaran died here on Saturday due to old age, sources close to him said. He was 97. His end came this morning. He is survived by a son and a daughter. Condoling the death, Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit said Kameswaran spent his lifetime for the welfare of the people. He was a doctor with a social consciousness and he was honoured with many awards, said the Governor. "His contribution to the development of the medical field will always remain unforgettable," the Governor said. Chief Minister M K Stalin, conveying his condolence and sympathies to the bereaved family, said Kameswaran had served the public with dedication. He was an unparalleled long-time acquaintance of late former Chief Minister M Karunanidhi, Stalin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/renowned-ent-surgeon-kameswaran-passes-away-1001930.html
26-06-2021||State||NCB officials bust Alprazolam drug racket, arrest five||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has busted a drug racket operational in Karnataka and Telangana that manufactured and sold the contraband Alprazolam. Officials arrested five people involved in the racket and seized Rs 62 lakh in cash and 91 kilograms of Alprazolam worth Rs 2 crore in the black market. NCB officials in Bengaluru had been monitoring the Alprazolam manufacturing and trafficking network in Karnataka, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh for the past few months. Based on the intelligence gathered, officials from the Bengaluru zone and Hyderabad sub-zonal unit intercepted a mini truck carrying Alprazolam at the Kolhar Industrial Area in Bidar and seized 91.5 kilograms of the drug. Officials also raided the factory of Indu Drugs Pvt Ltd where the drug was being manufactured and found remnants of Alprazolam powder. A simultaneous search was also conducted at the residence of a person by name N V Reddy in Hyderabad. Reddy, arrested along with S Bhaskar, Y V Reddy, S Menon and Amruth, was running the Alprazolam factory. Cash amounting to Rs 62 lakh, believed to be the proceeds from selling the drug, has been seized from Reddy’s house. Bhaskar, the kingpin of the operation, and Y V Reddy, the chemical expert, were arrested after a high-speed chase as they tried to escape. Amit Ghawate, Bengaluru zonal director, NCB, said the seized Alprazolam was meant for sale in Telangana. Alprazolam is a psychotropic drug belonging to the benzodiazepines class, which are anti-depressants. The drug has also been trafficked for recreational purposes worldwide. It is also used as a cutting agent for toddy in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Alprazolam-laced toddy is dangerous enough to cause serious health complications and even death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ncb-officials-bust-alprazolam-drug-racket-arrest-five-1001905.html
26-06-2021||State||Karnataka HC grants bail to man served notice under CrPC Section 41A||The Karnataka High Court has said that apprehension of arrest is always there when police issue notice under section 41-A of Criminal Procedure Code and the courts cannot evade to entertain the plea seeking anticipatory bail. The court made this observation while granting bail to an individual who moved a plea for anticipatory bail after being issued notice in a forest offence case.  The petition was moved by one Ramappa alias Ramesh, a resident of Jamakhandi taluk in Bagalkot district. He was served with a notice under section 41-A of CrPC from Range Forest Officer, Banahatti, to appear for enquiry with regard to offences under sections 80, 84, 86 and 87 of Karnataka Forest Act, 1963 and section 379 of IPC, following the seizure of motorcycle and two sandalwood billets. Justice Shivashankar Amarannanavar noted that in the case on hand, the investigation is still in progress and the offences alleged are punishable with imprisonment for 10 years.  "Therefore, there is an apprehension of arrest of the petitioner since the Investigating Officer may collect evidence and record reasons against the petitioner and may arrest him. More so, the petitioner has not complied with the notice issued under Section 41A. Therefore, the petitioner is entitled for grant of anticipatory bail with conditions," the court said. The court has directed the petitioner to execute a personal bond for Rs one lakh with a surety and asked him to voluntarily appear before the investigating officer within 15 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-grants-bail-to-man-served-notice-under-crpc-section-41a-1001909.html
26-06-2021||State||Home department to bring changes in rules for implementing NDPS Act ||The home department has initiated the process of bringing changes in the rules of implementing and compliance of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act to further empower and strengthen enforcement agencies, said Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday. Bommai participated in the International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking at the office of the Commissioner of Police here. He, along with senior police officials, took oath to fight continuously against drug trafficking and gave a start to destroy seized drugs.   Addressing reporters, Bommai said, "we cannot bring the changes in the central act, but we can bring changes in implementing and compliance. We have already started discussing the possible changes to be made, with experts of National Law College. Soon, we will be implementing the changes."  After launching a special drive against drug trafficking and abuse last year, a huge quantity of drugs have been seized in Bengaluru and across the state. Drugs worth around Rs 50.23 crore will be destroyed according to court orders across the state. "This is only 60% of the quantity seized last year, which is the highest in the history of Karnataka policing. For the remaining 40% of the drugs, we are yet to get the FSL report, court permission. Other procedures too are pending. Soon, we will destroy them too," Bommai said.    During 2020, the police have booked around 4,066 cases across the state and arrested over 5,291 people involved in drug trafficking and consuming. Bommai pointed out that peddlers use sophisticated technology and various enforcement agencies, including the state cyber crime police and the economic offences and narcotic wings, are involved in cracking down on drug trade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/home-department-to-bring-changes-in-rules-for-implementing-ndps-act-1001911.html
26-06-2021||State||Land to Amrutanandamayee Trust: Karnataka HC raps state govt for modifying conditions||The High Court of Karnataka has taken a serious view of the state government’s decision altering the conditions of the land grant to Matha Amrutanandamayee Trust at Kasavanahalli in Bengaluru East taluk, 21 years after the land was granted. The government order allotting the land was issued in 2000 and a modified order issued in April 2021, ignoring the court direction in a PIL. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was hearing the PIL filed by Kavita and others in 2019 alleging that instead of constructing super speciality hospital, houses for poor widows, the trust is running an engineering college on the property. A report was submitted by the state government on February 22, 2021, recording that a large number of violations had been committed by the Trust of the terms and conditions on which the property was allotted. Subsequently, on April 23, 2021, the court had directed the Deputy Commissioner to initiate appropriate action against the Trust for violating conditions in the order dated September 20, 2000. However, a fresh government order was passed on April 29, 2021, modifying the conditions of the grant, stating that the land can be used for educational purposes. "Thus, prima facie we are of the view that the order dated 29 April 2021, has been passed by the state government for overreaching the orders passed by this court, especially the order dated 23 April 2021," the bench said. The court directed the principal secretary, the revenue department, to file an affidavit explaining the conduct of the government. The court has posted the matter for further consideration to July 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/land-to-amrutanandamayee-trust-karnataka-hc-raps-state-govt-for-modifying-conditions-1001934.html
26-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre cautions Karnataka over Delta Plus Covid-19 variant, directs to prevent crowding||Close on the heels of Maharashtra government slowing down the unlock process in Mumbai, the Union Health Ministry on Friday alerted the Karnataka government over the possible surge of ‘Delta Plus' variant. The Centre has directed the state government to prevent crowding and intermingling of people in districts that have reported the new variant of Covid-19. In a communication by Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Ministry to the Karnataka Chief Secretary, the Centre said, “The public health response has to become more focussed and stringent.” It further said, “Take up immediate containment measures in the districts and clusters including preventing the crowd and intermingling of people, widespread testing, prompt tracing as well as vaccine coverage on a priority basis.”    Besides Karnataka, the Centre has also cautioned neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu regarding the outbreak of the new variant. States have also been told to send adequate samples of positive cases to designated laboratories of INSACOG for the establishment of clinical epidemiological correlations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-cautions-karnataka-over-delta-plus-covid-19-variant-directs-to-prevent-crowding-1001722.html
26-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Vidhana Soudha to get new Basavanna statue||Vidhana Soudha, Karnataka’s seat of the legislature, will get a new statue of Basavanna, the 12th-century social reformer. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has directed the Kannada & Culture department to draw up a formal proposal for the installation of Basavanna’s statue in the sprawling Vidhana Soudha premises. “It is only befitting for the democratic system to install a statue in Vidhana Soudha of Basavanna, who laid the foundation of democracy by establishing the Anubhava Mantapa in the 12th century,” Yediyurappa stated in a note to the Kannada & Culture department earlier this month, which has come to light now. There are no details available on how this statue will look or how much it will cost.   It was only last August that Yediyurappa unveiled a statue of Basavanna at Chalukya Circle (Basaveshwara Circle), not very far from Vidhana Soudha, renovated at a cost of Rs 1.5 crore. Basavanna is widely credited as the founder of the Lingayat sect. However, this sect is considered to have been an existing tradition also known as Veerashaiva. Yediyurappa belongs to the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community, which is politically influential. In 2017, the then chief minister Siddaramaiah ordered Basavanna’s photo to be displayed in all government offices. Yediyurappa himself has been bullish on the Anubhava Mantapa project, a Rs 500 crore structure to recreate Basavanna’s original Anubhava Mantapa at Basavakalyan in Bidar district. The Yediyurappa administration has also established the Karnataka Veerashaiva-Lingayat Development Corporation for which Rs 500 crore has been allocated. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vidhana-soudha-to-get-new-basavanna-statue-1001758.html
26-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Seized narcotics worth Rs 50 crore destroyed in Karnataka||Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said narcotic substances worth over Rs 50 crore seized by the police are being destroyed in all the districts. "Today, we are destroying narcotic substances worth more than Rs 50 crore as per court orders. This is only 60 per cent, the remaining 40 per cent are at various stages like the FSL (Forensic Science Laboratory) report has to come, court permission has to be taken in some cases. We will destroy the remaining 40 per cent at the earliest," Bommai said. Speaking to reporters here after attending an event as part of the International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, he said the war against drugs would continue and would be intensified. "On getting to know about activities such as transportation of narcotic substances and storing, among others, using the Covid situation, our drive against drugs has been intensified, and it is notable that large amounts of seizures were done during the pandemic," he said. The Home Minister said those involved in international crime do not bother about global pandemics or Covid and continue with their activities, so the officials concerned have decided to track them and bring them to justice. There is NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) Act against such activities, which is a central Act that cannot be amended by the State, but rules for its implementation can be changed as required and that process is on, he said. "We are getting a study done by the National Law School as to what all the changes have to be made, how to go about it within the ambit of the Act. Following which necessary action will be taken," he said. Bommai further said that by breaking through the dark web, officials have been able to gather new information based on which several raids have been conducted and international players involved in these activities have been arrested. According to officials, the drugs were being destroyed today as per prescribed procedure, and they were seized during the last 12 months. During 2020, a record 4,066 cases were booked under the NDPS Act which led to massive seizures and arrest of 5,291 people, they said. The drugs destroyed include ganja, poppy, brown sugar, opium, heroin, hashish, charas, cocaine, MDMA powder, MDMA tablets, Amphetamine and LSD strips. The Home Minister lauded the swift action of the Bengaluru police in nabbing the five accused involved in the murder of former BJP corporator Rekha Kadiresh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/seized-narcotics-worth-rs-50-crore-destroyed-in-karnataka-1001781.html
26-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Nothing political in Delhi visit: C P Yogeshwar||Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar, who identified with the anti-Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa camp, on Saturday said he reached the national capital on personal work and there is no politics in it. "Whenever I came to Delhi there is political speculation in media. But there is no politics in the present visit. I have no plan to meet any party leaders also," Yogeshwar told reporters here. Yogeshwar, who earlier demanded the removal of Yediyurappa, came to Delhi on Friday night and stayed at a private hotel instead of Karnataka Bhavan. Before leaving Delhi, he told the media in Bengaluru that "I have written exam and waiting for result." Media speculated that the Minister's statement was linked to his persistent demand to unseat Yediyurappa. Clarifying his earlier statement, he said it was nothing to do with the removal of the Chief Minister. Earlier in the day, BJP National General Secretary C T Ravi was also in Delhi to attend national level party leaders' meeting to discuss the issue related to reaching out social welfare ministry schemes to common people and vaccination drive. The meeting was chaired by Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP National President J P Nadda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nothing-political-in-delhi-visit-c-p-yogeshwar-1001815.html
26-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Hypoxia key factor in driving mucormycosis: Researchers||A rapid response to an article on black fungus (mucormycosis) in the British Medical Journal has said low oxygen saturation levels in patients is a key trigger for the fungal infection. A rapid response is an online comment by a third party. The rapid response has been written by six doctors from Karnataka, three of whom are members of a sub-committee on mucormycosis set up by the state government. The doctors said oxygen was critical to several biochemical processes, making survival under hypoxic conditions a factor of increased virulence for some human pathogenic fungi. This could explain why some patients, despite not having high sugar levels or not having been exposed to a hospital setting, still developed the fungal infection. The authors include Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences' Vice Chancellor Dr S Sachchidanand (Chairman of the State Covid-19 Expert Committee), Dr Sampath Chandra Prasad and Dr Vishal Rao, who are both members of the state Covid task force. Dr S Sachchidanand told DH, "Patients who are hypoxic offer a conducive environment for the fungus to grow. In fact, it is one of the leading causes of mucormycosis." Karnataka, as of June 25, has 3,146 cases and 257 deaths; Bengaluru accounts for 1,026 cases and 80 deaths. Speaking to DH, Dr Vishal Rao, Dean, Centre for Academic Research, HCG (which has more than 60 patients) said, "The sub-committee on mucormycosis is trying to understand the cause behind jump in cases. The factors that were at play in the second wave that were absent in the first wave were the rise in Covid cases needing oxygen and the delta variant. We looked at diabetes and steroid use as factors too. What we came to understand is hypoxia is one of the main factors driving the infection rather than oxygen being the culprit. Hypoxia is a key determinant that activates fungal elements." In May, an expert panel had submitted a report to Health Minister K Sudhakar that use of industrial oxygen for medical purposes and sharing of oxygen cylinders by two patients for a few hours each were some of the causes driving the fungal infection in the State. "At the peak of the second wave, when oxygen supplies were in short, oxygen was being rationed, hospitals were trying to maintain patients at low oxygen levels between 90 and 94. Low oxygen concentration becomes an ideal environment to nurture fungus growth. This is a hypothesis," added Rao. Dr Sampath Chandra Prasad Rao, a skull base surgeon at Manipal Hospital (which has 57 patients), and a co-author of the rapid response said, "This rapid response was from our collective experience of treating patients at various centres. It will be statistically validated soon. We've proposed a scoring system (which includes history of hypoxia among 30 data points) now for Mucormycosis which the state government has accepted. Majority of those who were scored at Manipal, for example, had hypoxia. Currently, unless we provide culture report or hispathology report, the patients are not allocated Liposomal Amphotericin B by the government. But Mucormycosis is notorious for throwing up a false negative report." "So now, if the scoring is high, the patients will be categorised as probable or likely to have mucormycosis. Based on this the government will consider them eligible for Liposomal Amphotericin B. We have also developed a Mucor App where data can be collected from various centres based on the scoring system," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hypoxia-key-factor-in-driving-mucormycosis-researchers-1001820.html
26-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka BJP plans big cadre drill ahead of panchayat polls||The BJP in Karnataka is planning to provide basic healthcare training to two lakh workers as part of a massive organizational exercise over the next two-and-a-half months in the run-up to the zilla and taluk panchayat elections. According to BJP general secretary (organization) Arun Kumar, two lakh party workers, including those from the booth level, will be given training on using oximetres, measuring blood pressure, handling Covid-19 kits, and providing emergency care.  Kumar was speaking at the BJP state executive meeting held on Saturday.  The party will also scale up its 'Seva Hi Sangathan' and workers will be engaged in the vaccination drive. “Every booth should become a vaccinated booth,” Kumar said, according to a statement.   Hybrid executive meetings will be held in all districts between July 1 and 15. From July 16 to 30, hybrid executive meetings will be held in the mandals.  Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, who inaugurated the meeting, urged party workers to start preparing for the upcoming zilla and taluk panchayat elections that are likely to be held in December. In view of these polls, the party is likely to convene a meeting of all gram panchayat presidents and vice-presidents.  BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel directed mandal and district units to felicitate party workers who conducted 4,531 last rites of people who succumbed to Covid-19.  The state executive also passed two resolutions, according to BJP spokesperson Ganesh Karnik. One resolution was passed condemning the Congress’ noncooperation with the government and “anti-people policy” during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah isn’t visiting his constituency while tweeting political criticism,” Karnik said.  The other resolution was against West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. “We passed a resolution in solidarity with BJP workers who’ve died in West Bengal and scores of families facing oppression and violence, and urging the Centre to take action,” Karnik added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bjp-plans-big-cadre-drill-ahead-of-panchayat-polls-1001870.html
26-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 4,272 fresh Covid-19 cases, 115 deaths  ||Karnataka on Saturday reported 4,272 fresh Covid-19 cases and 115 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 28,31,026 and the toll to 34,654. The day also witnessed 6,126 discharges as the total number of recoveries in Karnataka went up to 26,91,123. The total number of active cases in the state now stands at 1,05,226. While the positivity rate increased slightly to 2.58%, the case fatality rate was 2.69%. Among the fresh infections reported in the state, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 955 cases followed by Mysuru 647, Hassan 320 and Chikkamagaluru 200. Mysuru accounted for the highest number of fatalities in the day with 22 deaths. Bengaluru Urban saw 16 deaths while Dakshina Kannada and Belagavi reported 14 and 10 fatalities. A total of 3,36,73,392 samples have been tested for Covid-19, out of which 1,65,010 were carried on Saturday. As per the Co-WIN dashboard at 8.35 pm (June 26), the state has administered 2,64,781 doses on Saturday. So far, it has jabbed 2,16,16,523 doses. While 1,80,84,358 have received the first dose, 35,32,165 have been fully vaccinated. While BBMP administered 1,15,093 doses, Bangalore Urban jabbed 7,380 persons, on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-4272-fresh-covid-19-cases-115-deaths-1001876.html
26-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka BJP to train 2 lakh workers in basic healthcare||Karnataka BJP on Saturday said it is planning to provide basic healthcare training to about two lakh workers at the booth-level on the use of oximeters, Covid kits, checking blood pressure, and emergency medical help, among others. The party, which held its State executive meeting today on hybrid mode, also decided to hold its district executive meetings between July 1 and 15 in a hybrid mode, State BJP secretary (Organisation) Arun Kumar was quoted as saying in a release. It has also been decided to have mandal-level executives in a similar format between July 16 and 30, it added. Expecting Taluk and Zilla Panchayat elections in December, BJP has planned to hold a conference of Gram Panchayat members and a conference of their presidents and vice-presidents at the State-level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bjp-to-train-2-lakh-workers-in-basic-healthcare-1001936.html
26-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Cut-off marks likely for professional courses in Karnataka||Following concerns raised over the state government’s recent decision to consider only Karnataka Common Entrance Test (KCET) scores for admissions to professional courses, the Higher Education Department is planning to set cut-off marks in KCET to ensure there is no compromise on competency. All these years, the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) allotted KCET ranks for all the students who scored above 45% in PUC 2/Class 12 examinations. But this year, the cancellation of PUC2 exams has made KCET the sole assessment tool.  After concerns over the quality of professional education were raised, the matter was discussed in the recent meeting of the department where officials expressed the need to fix cut-off marks for admissions to professional courses through KCET. The meeting was chaired by Higher Education Minister C N Ashwath Narayan. He directed KEA officials to work out minimum eligibility marks to be scored by students in KCET. A senior official from the department told DH, “By allotting rankings based solely on KCET scores, we will be opening floodgates to professional courses which will definitely damage the quality of professional education. Keeping this in mind, we were told to work out minimum eligibility marks to be scored by students in KCET for every course.” All these years, KEA had allotted ranks to all students who appeared for KCET and scored a minimum of 45% marks in PUC 2. “Though there were two lakh applicants for KCET, around 1.50 lakh plus used to get KCET ranks based on their PUC 2 performance. But, this year if we go only by KCET scores and allot ranks, all the two lakh plus students would get eligibility for admissions to professional courses,” explained a source. According to officials, engineering courses are a big worry. “Though there are several other courses where admissions are based on KCET, maintaining quality in engineering is a biggest worry as the number of seats and colleges are more compared to other courses,” source said. Glancing at the previous years’ KCET results, during 2020 as many as 1,53,470 students got eligibility to get admission to engineering courses and during 2019 this number was 1.40 lakh.  This year, KEA is expecting an increase in the number of applications itself. The online application process has been on since July 14. KCET will be conducted for Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics and Biology subjects with 60 marks each. The KCET is conducted for a maximum of 180 marks and now the officials are working out minimum marks to be scored by students to get ranking.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cut-off-marks-likely-for-professional-courses-in-karnataka-1001951.html
26-06-2021||West||ED summons Anil Deshmukh in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate has summoned former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh to appear before it on Saturday for questioning in a money laundering case related to charges of bribery of Rs 100 crore, officials said. They said the 71-year-old NCP politician has been asked to depose before the investigating officer of the case at the Enforcement Directorate (ED) office in Ballard Estate area here. The summons have been issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and state that he should depose by 11 am, they said. The central agency had Friday night arrested his personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde after it carried out raids against them and Deshmukh in Mumbai and Nagpur. The two were brought to the ED office following the searches. They will be produced before a special PMLA court in Mumbai on Saturday where the ED will seek their remand for custodial interrogation, officials said. The ED case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI first carried out a preliminary inquiry followed by a regular case being filed on the orders of the Bombay High Court. The court had asked the agency to look into the allegations of bribery made against Deshmukh by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh, who had resigned from his post in April following the allegations, has denied any wrongdoing. Singh was shunted out from the post after the role of assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, who has since been dismissed from service, surfaced during investigation into an explosive-laden SUV that was found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in Mumbai. In his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was removed from the police commissioner's post, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked Vaze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Deshmukh, a leader of the NCP, was the home minister of the state in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government headed by Thackeray. The CBI booked Deshmukh and others under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections related to criminal conspiracy and section of the Prevention of Corruption Act for "attempt to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty". Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-summons-anil-deshmukh-in-money-laundering-case-1001687.html
26-06-2021||West||Police detain former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis during OBC reservation protests||Former Maharashtra Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis has been detained during a protest held by BJP workers in support of Other Backward Classes (OBC) reservation, according to news agency ANI. The Maharashtra unit of the BJP on Saturday held 'chakka jam' protest across the state to press for its demand of restoring reservation for the OBC in local governing bodies. The party had earlier announced that it would hold agitation at 1,000 locations across the state. Fadnavis participated in the protest in his home district Nagpur, while Leader of Opposition in the Council Pravin Darekar took part in the agitation in Thane, due to which the road connecting the city with Mumbai got blocked for some time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/police-detain-former-maharashtra-cm-devendra-fadnavis-during-obc-reservation-protests-1001738.html
26-06-2021||West||Maharashtra BJP holds statewide protests to demand OBC quota in local bodies||The Maharashtra unit of the BJP on Saturday held 'chakka jam' protest across the state to press for its demand of restoring reservation for the Other Backward Classes (OBC) in local governing bodies. The party had earlier announced that it would hold agitation at 1,000 locations across the state. Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Devendra Fadnavis participated in a protest in his home district Nagpur, while Leader of Opposition in the Council Pravin Darekar took part in an agitation in Thane, due to which the road connecting the city with Mumbai got blocked for some time. Former minister Pankaja Munde, who led a protest in Pune, said if the BJP’s demand are not met, the party will launch bigger protests in future. The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state has failed to retain political reservation for the OBCs, she alleged. "The government failed to get OBC reservation, which is necessary for the community's uplift,” she said. Munde alleged that the state government kept deferring various elections, including those in the cooperative sector, when the case regarding the OBC reservation was pending in the court, and it was only after the court scrapped the quota, the elections were announced. "We are demanding that the OBC reservation be restored and till then no elections should be held. We want the government to approach the Election Commission along with us with a demand to postpone elections," she said. "If the elections are held without the OBC reservation, then we will resort to bigger protests. This ‘chakka jam’ protest is just a trailer," she added. Another BJP leader and former state minister Girish Mahajan and MLA Mangal Prabhat Lodha held a protest outside Mantralaya, the state secretariat in Mumbai, over the issue. The BJP-Shiv Sena government in 2019 had allotted political reservation to OBCs in local governing bodies, but in March this year, the Supreme Court had read it down. The BJP has alleged that the case was lost only because of the inaction of the Shiv Sena-led MVA government, in which NCP and Congress are partners. The State Election Commission has announced bypolls at Dhule, Nandurbar, Washim, Akola and Nagpur districts, and there are 85 seats of Zilla Parishad and 144 panchayat samiti seats for which elections is going to be held. The BJP on Friday demanded that the state government approach the Supreme Court immediately requesting a postponement of the ZP bypolls in five districts. The Supreme Court had in its March 4 order said that reservation in favour of OBCs in concerned local bodies in Maharashtra cannot exceed aggregate 50 per cent of the total seats reserved for Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and OBCs taken together. The apex court, while reading down section 12(2)(c) of the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act 1961, which provided 27 per cent reservation for persons belonging to backward class, also quashed the notifications issued by the state election commission in 2018 and 2020 providing reservation exceeding 50 per cent in local bodies of some districts. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-bjp-holds-statewide-protests-to-demand-obc-quota-in-local-bodies-1001740.html
26-06-2021||West||Maharashtra's Pench Tiger Reserve, UPK wildlife sanctuary open for day safaris||The Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR) and Umred Pauni Karhandla Wildlife Sanctuary (UPKS) in Maharashtra have opened for day safaris from Saturday onwards, a forest official said. The core area of Pench will remain open till June 30, while buffer zones of Nagalwadi, Pauni and Karhandala gate of the UPKS will stay open even after July 1 during the monsoon, subject to closure anytime due to heavy rains and road damage, a release issued by the field director of Pench Tiger Reserve Nagpur stated. However, only a limited number of routes will be opened and 50 per cent of vehicle quota of the gates will be operated during this period, it was stated. According to the release, Sillari and Khursapar core gates of the PTR will remain open till June 30. Meanwhile, the Bor Tiger Reserve will remain shut due to heavy rains and damaged roads. Considering the order by the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), Nagpur about restricted movements, the morning and afternoon safaris have been rescheduled to 6 am to 9.30 am and 1 pm to 4 pm, till the time the curbs are in effect. All safari booking will take place offline only, and tourists are requested to refer to the website www.mahaecotourism.gov.in to know more about gates, rates and contact details, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-pench-tiger-reserve-upk-wildlife-sanctuary-open-for-day-safaris-1001750.html
26-06-2021||West||Navi Mumbai civic body to give financial aid to kids orphaned by Covid-19||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) in Maharashtra announced on Saturday that it will provide financial assistance to the local children, who were orphaned due to the coronavirus pandemic. Besides this, monetary assistance will also be provided to those women, who lost their husbands due to the health crisis. The assistance to orphans will be in the range of Rs 1,000 to Rs 6,000 based on the age of the child. Women who have lost their husbands due to Covid-19 will get Rs 1.5 lakh and they will be provided equipment worth Rs 1 lakh for self-employment, the NMMC said in a statement. Talking to reporters, Municipal Commissioner Abhijit Bangar said, "The future of many children may become bleak if they don't get support immediately after they lose their parents. However, it is also true that it is impossible to compensate for the loss the children suffer due to the death of their parents and women who lose their husband." "It is a social commitment of the corporation to provide welfare schemes to such children and women for their education, employment and financial independence so that they live with dignity" he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/navi-mumbai-civic-body-to-give-financial-aid-to-kids-orphaned-by-covid-19-1001766.html
26-06-2021||West||Will retire from politics if BJP fails to bring back political reservation for OBCs: Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday said his party will restore reservation for OBCs in local bodies if given power, and if not, he will retire from politics. Addressing BJP workers during a protest held at Variety Square chowk as part of the party's 'chakka jam' (block the traffic) agitation for the restoration of OBC quota, the Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly alleged the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government was misleading the people by saying that it will raise this issue in Parliament. "The fact is that this issue can be resolved at the state level. The state government can restore the reservation by formulating a law. There is no need for any act of the Central government. That is why OBC reservation is prevalent in other states except in Maharashtra. You (MVA) will have to make a law. We will not stop until we expose their lie. This protest is held to condemn this government on the issue," he said. The Supreme Court had in its March 4 order said that reservation in favour of OBCs in concerned local bodies in Maharashtra cannot exceed aggregate 50 per cent of the total seats reserved for Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and OBCs took together. The apex court, while reading down section 12(2)(c) of the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act 1961, which provided 27 per cent reservation for persons belonging to the backward class, also quashed the notifications issued by the state election commission in 2018 and 2020 providing reservation exceeding 50 per cent in local bodies of some districts. Fadnavis, who represents Nagpur South-West seat in the Assembly, said OBCs are being purposely deprived of the political reservation. "I want to appeal to all the OBC ministers in the MVA government. There is no enmity between us and them. If you are honest towards the cause of the OBCs then regardless of party lines we are ready to stand with you. I want to tell you with full confidence that within the next three to four months we can bring back the OBC reservation. If you give us power...I want to tell you with confidence that if I fail to bring back the political reservation for OBCs, I will retire from politics," the former chief minister said. Earlier in the day, the Maharashtra unit of the BJP held 'chakka jam' protest across the state. The party had earlier announced that it would hold agitation at 1,000 locations across the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-retire-from-politics-if-bjp-fails-to-bring-back-political-reservation-for-obcs-fadnavis-1001790.html
26-06-2021||West||True leader knows when to protest: Maharashtra CM Uddhav's veiled barb at Fadnavis||In a veiled barb at the state BJP leadership, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said knowing what is the right moment to stage a protest and when dialogue is a better option is the hallmark of a "true leader". He was speaking at a virtual function to mark the birth anniversary of Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj, the reformist ruler of the erstwhile princely state of Kolhapur. There were legal hurdles in the implementation of the Maratha quota — quashed by the Supreme Court in May — and a legal solution needs to be found, Thackeray said. Protesting on the streets should be avoided during the Covid-19 pandemic, and "taking an appropriate decision on when to protest and when to have dialogue is the hallmark of a true leader," he said. "A true leader is one who protects the community in terms of employment, education and health. Spreading the virus through a show of strength is not right. We are doing all we can to fight the legal case. A review petition has been filed," he said. "Taking to the streets for rightful and just demands is in the blood of the Shiv Sena. But we know that when there is unanimity and agreement over an issue, protest should stop and dialogue should take place,'' the chief minister said. "Several people are still protesting, and it is better not to talk about them," he added, while praising BJP Rajya Sabha member Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati for deferring his agitation for Maratha quota and agreeing to talk to the government. The BJP is trying to corner the government over the issues of Maratha quota in education and government jobs and political reservation for OBCs. On Saturday it held protests across the state on the issue of reservation for OBCs in local government bodies. The chief minister on this occasion also inaugurated the Kolhapur sub-centre of SARTHI. The Pune-based Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Research Training and Human Development Institute (SARTHI) works for research, policy advocacy and training for social, economic and educational development of the Maratha community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/true-leader-knows-when-to-protest-maharashtra-cm-uddhavs-veiled-barb-at-fadnavis-1001805.html
26-06-2021||West||Anil Deshmukh's 2 aides remanded in ED custody till July 1||A court here on Saturday remanded two aides of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in Enforcement Directorate (ED) custody till July 1 in connection with a money laundering case lodged against the NCP politician. Deshmukh's personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde were arrested after about nine hours of questioning under provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), an official said on Saturday. The duo was produced before a court here, which remanded them in ED custody. In a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was removed from the post of Mumbai police commissioner, IPS officer Param Bir Singh had alleged that Deshmukh, state home at the time, had directed dismissed policeman Sachin Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore per month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. The ED case against Deshmukh and others is borne out after the CBI first carried out a preliminary enquiry (PE), followed by the filing of a regular case on the orders of the Bombay High Court. The CBI had booked Deshmukh and others under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections related to criminal conspiracy and the Prevention of Corruption Act for "attempt to obtain undue advantage for the improper and dishonest performance of public duty".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anil-deshmukhs-2-aides-remanded-in-ed-custody-till-july-1-1001818.html
26-06-2021||West||Testing ramped up at Goa borders to filter out Delta Plus cases: CM Sawant||Even as neighbouring states as Karnataka and Maharashtra have reported cases of the deadly Delta plus Covid variant strain, the Goa government has now allowed private companies to set up path labs along all its road borders for screening of persons entering the state, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Saturday. Sawant on Saturday visited the Keri check-post along the Goa-Karnataka road border to oversee the screening process at the borders, while also visiting the path laboratory operated by private company Thyrocare. "Those who test positive are immediately sent to isolation centres. Only people who are Covid negative are allowed to proceed to their destination," Sawant told reporters. Sawant said that persons who do not carry Covid negative certificates or have not been doubly vaccinated have to mandatorily test themselves at the borders. "It does cause them some inconvenience. But that is something we have to do in order to be on guard against the Delta Plus variant," Sawant told reporters. The Goa government already increased screening capacity at the Goa-Maharashtra and the Goa-Karnataka borders in wake of several Delta plus Covid variant cases being detected in both the neighbouring states. Till date, not a single case involving a Delta plus variant has been reported in the state according to health authorities. State Health Minister Vishwajit Rane has urged the people of the state to get themselves vaccinated and maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour in anticipation of the third wave of infections. "As we anticipate the third wave, I would like to assure the citizens that we have all the medical infrastructure in place to tackle it. However, it still remains our duty to follow Covid appropriate behaviour at all times. I also urge all the citizens to get themselves vaccinated," the Health Minister said in a public message on Facebook. Sawant on Saturday also visited the Keri border checkpost to take stock of the mechanisms put up by the North Goa district administration to streamline entry of persons into the state. "Those who test positive are immediately sent to isolation centres. Only people who are Covid negative are allowed to proceed to their destination," Sawant told reporters. Sawant also said that private labs had also been set up at all borders in order to test people entering the state on the spot.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/testing-ramped-up-at-goa-borders-to-filter-out-delta-plus-cases-cm-sawant-1001831.html
26-06-2021||West||Goa's warm climate not suitable for ganja plantation: Anti-Narcotics official||Goa's warm climate is not suitable for growing ganja plants on a commercial scale, a senior Goa Police official said on Saturday, adding that along with cocaine and MDMA, ganja was one of the top seized drugs in the state. "I would say it was an attempt to grow some plants of ganja in their galleries creating some sort of a greenhouse and some three four pots we found on some terraces and galleries like that. But there is no such growth or plantation on a mass scale because the climate in Goa is definitely conducive for growing such ganja plants. They require a very cold climate," Goa Anti-Narcotics Cell chief Superintendent of Police Mahesh Gaonkar told reporters on the occasion of International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, which is observed on June 26. Over the last three years, various agencies of the state police department, including the Anti-Narcotics Cell, have raided 11 ganja plantations in the state, especially in the tourism-friendly coastal belt. "The drug which is commonly found in Goa is cocaine, MDMA we have found, we have been catching ganja or marijuana and charas," Gaonkar further said. The police official also said that several African nationals were booked by the agency for possession of drugs in commercial quantity. "We found some groups, especially people from African countries who stay here and their main purpose is drug peddling. We worked out strategies our people went into deep investigation and we could book some of these people," Gaonkar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goas-warm-climate-not-suitable-for-ganja-plantation-anti-narcotics-official-1001845.html
26-06-2021||West||Anil Deshmukh had received over Rs 4 cr from bar owners and channelled them to his trust: ED||The then Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh had received over Rs 4 crore from bar owners in Mumbai and channelled that money to his trust in the form of donations through various dummy companies, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) told a court on Saturday. The ED made this claim during the remand hearing of Deshmukh's personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde. Palande and Shinde were arrested in connection with a money laundering related to an alleged multi-crore bribery-cum-extortion racket that led to Deshmukh's resignation in April, officials said, adding the duo was booked under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). They also handed over a letter written by Deshmukh to the investigators. The ED told the court that Palande and Shinde were instrumental in assisting Deshmukh in money laundering. The ED case against Deshmukh and others is borne out after the CBI first carried out a preliminary enquiry (PE) followed by a regular case being filed on the orders of the Bombay High Court. While seeking remand of the duo, the ED told the court that some bar owners/managers said in their statements that a meeting was held by Sachin Vaze, the then head of crime intelligence unit (CTU), with the bar owners at his office regarding collection of money for smooth functioning of their orchestra bars after restricted hours without any restrictions on the performance artists. It can be gathered from these statements that Vaze had collected Rs 4.70 crore from various orchestra bar owners across Mumbai, the ED said. Later, Vaze said in a statement that he used to get direct instructions from the then home minister in a number of police investigations, the ED told the court. According to Vaze, he was given a list of bars and restaurant owners in a meeting held at the official residence of then Maharashtra home minister, the ED said. Vaze said he had been asked to collect Rs.3 lakh per month from each bar and restaurant and therefore a meeting was arranged with various bar owners, the ED said, citing the sacked police officer's statement. Vaze has also stated that he had collected approximately Rs 4.70 crore from various bar owners between the months of December, 2020 and February, 2021, which he handed over to Kundan Shinde in two installments, the ED said. Vaze is currently under judicial custody in connection with the recovery of an explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in south Mumbai and the subsequent murder of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran probed by the NIA. The ED said it came across Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha, a charitable trust, run by the Deshmukh familyduring the probe. Anil Deshmukh is the chairman of this trust and his family members are trustees and members. The trust is running engineering, MBA, and polytechnic colleges in Nagpur. However, scrutiny of bank statements of the trust revealed that there are a number of entries of cheques amounting to approximately Rs 4.18 crore in the recent past, the ED said The court was told that this amount was received by the trust from various companies based in Delhi. The ED investigation has so far revealed that these companies exist only on paper and they work for providing "transfer entries". During the searches conducted at four locations Delhi, it emerged that these companies are owned by Surendra Kumar Jain and his brother Virendra Jain, the ED said. Their statements revealed that a person from Nagpur had contacted them and asked for transfer/adjustment entries in the garb of donation to the trust. Accordingly, money was received in the form of cash from that person on the instructions of the Deshmukh family and the same was channelized through a web of companies to the trust in the garb of donations, as per the ED. Approximately Rs 4.18 crore was diverted to the trust in the garb of loans/donations, the ED said. "Accordingly, it is apparent that Deshmukh by virtue of his earlier position as state home minister had received amounts to the tune of approx Rs 4.70 crore from the orchestra bars owners and the amount was apparently used by him through his son Hrishikesh for providing the cash to Delhi-based (on) paper companies. After layering, the same (money) was routed to the Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha Trust in the form of donation," the anti-money laundering agency said. The ED's probe until now also revealed that there are 11 companies which are directly controlled by family members Anil Deshmukh. Further, another set of 13 companies are in the names of close associates of the Deshmukh family. From the analysis of accounts of these companies it is clear that there is no rationale for transfers and it can thus be said that these series of transactions were meant for inflating the balance sheets and layering of money from one company to the other, the ED said. The ED also stated it is apparent that Kundan Shinde is instrumental in collecting cash from Vaze on the behalf of Deshmukh and assisted him in laundering the money. Further, it has also emerged that Palande was instrumental in passing on the instructions of Deshmukh in regards to transfer, postings and collection of money from orchestra bars (to police officers). As per the ED, Palande also played a role in analyzing and assessing the work of collection of tainted money through police officers. Shinde and Palande had also received the money in the form of cash which needed to be investigated further, the ED said, adding Shinde and Palande were directly involved in the offence of money laundering. Their custodial interrogation is the need of the hour in the interest of the ongoing investigation, the ED said. The allegation of collection of about Rs 100 crore was made in this case. The entire money trail requires to be established in order to bring the guilty to book, it added. The probe agency said the involvement of a foreign angle may not be ruled out at this stage. The ED said Shinde and Palande have emerged as the important cog in the wheels and it is therefore imperative for the investigation to interrogate the duo in order to draw a logical conclusion in this case, it added. In a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was removed from the post of Mumbai police commissioner, IPS officer Param Bir Singh had alleged that Deshmukh, state home minister at that time, had directed dismissed policeman Vaze to extort over Rs 100 crore per month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. The ED case against Deshmukh and others is borne out after the CBI first carried out a preliminary enquiry (PE), followed by the filing of a regular case on the orders of the Bombay High Court. The CBI had booked Deshmukh and others under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections related to criminal conspiracy and the Prevention of Corruption Act for "attempt to obtain undue advantage for the improper and dishonest performance of public duty". Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anil-deshmukh-had-received-over-rs-4-cr-from-bar-owners-and-channelled-them-to-his-trust-ed-1001872.html
26-06-2021||West||Covid-19 curfew in Goa extended till July 5||The Goa government on Saturday announced that the current state-level curfew, which was imposed in light of the Covid-19 pandemic, will be extended till July 5. The coronavirus-induced curfew, which was first imposed on May 9, has since been extended from time to time considering the number of infections in the coastal state and was set to end on June 28. Taking to Twitter, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said that the Goa government had decided to extend the curfew till 7 am on July 5. Goa on Saturday recorded 235 new cases of coronavirus and five casualties that took the tally of infections to 1,65,883 and toll to 3,032. The coastal state is now left with 2,604 active cases. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-curfew-in-goa-extended-till-july-5-1001891.html
26-06-2021||West||ED summons former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh for questioning next week||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has been asked to appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for questioning early next week after he sought a fresh date for appearance in a money laundering case related to an alleged multi-crore bribery-cum-extortion racket that led to his resignation in April, officials said. The 71-year-old Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader was asked to depose before the investigating officer at the agency office in Ballard Estate here by 11 am. However, he did not turn up and instead sent his lawyers to the ED office seeking case documents and a fresh date for appearance.  Official sources said Deshmukh has now been asked to appear next week by Tuesday. Earlier, lawyers of Deshmukh handed over a letter written by the politician to the investigators. "He (Deshmukh) will not appear today. We have not been given documents related to this case and we have given a letter to ED demanding these documents and case details in which he is to be questioned. We will furnish our reply accordingly," lawyer Jayvant Patil told reporters outside the ED office. The central agency early on Saturday arrested his personal secretary Sanjeev Palande (51) and personal assistant Kundan Shinde (45) after it carried out raids against them and Deshmukh in Mumbai and Nagpur on Friday. The aides were brought to the ED office for questioning following the searches and arrested subsequently. They were sent to ED custody till July 1 by a special PMLA here. The ED case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI first carried out a preliminary inquiry followed by a regular case being filed on the orders of the Bombay High Court. The court had asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to look into the allegations of bribery made against Deshmukh by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh, who had resigned from his post in April following the allegations, has denied any wrongdoing. Senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Singh was shunted out from his post after investigators revealed the role of assistant police inspector Sachin Waze in the stationing of an explosive-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's Mumbai residence that triggered a terror scare. Waze has since been dismissed from service. In his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was removed from the police commissioner's post, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. According to the ED, about 10 bar owners in Mumbai recorded statements before it alleging that they had paid about Rs 4.7 crore "bribe" in cash in a three-month period to be handed over to Deshmukh through police officials. Deshmukh was the home minister in the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra headed by Thackeray. In his letter, Singh also alleged that Palande was present when Deshmukh had asked Waze to extort money. Palande and Shinde had been questioned by the CBI in the past. The role of the two in the operation of certain shell firms is being looked into by the ED. The CBI booked Deshmukh and others under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections related to criminal conspiracy and the section of the Prevention of Corruption Act for "attempt to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-summons-former-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-for-questioning-next-week-1001904.html
