27-06-2021||First Edit||Lose no time in protecting our lakes||A recent survey ordered by the Bengaluru Urban Deputy Commissioner has revealed that 4,500 acres or 20% of lake land in and around the city have been encroached upon. This could just be the tip of the iceberg as details of encroachment in the buffer zone are yet to be collated. While most lakes are maintained by Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, Bengaluru Development Authority and the zilla panchayat, 125 lakes were found to be orphans, that is, they did not have any caretaker. Of the 837 lakes, only 91 were free from encroachment. The 20% encroachment does not include many of Bengaluru’s lakes that were flattened by the government itself to create public utilities like housing colonies, playgrounds, stadiums and bus stands. Besides the ecological devastation this has caused, the filling up of lakes and meddling with the natural contours leading to them, have resulted in flooding of Bengalure after every downpour. Several such studies in the past have flagged the massive encroachment of lake land. The Lakebed Encroachment Committee headed by K B Koliwad, set up by the Karnataka legislature in 2014, had found that 11,000 acres of land in Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts were encroached, mostly by private builders who had constructed massive housing and office structures. The committee had recommended criminal action against 24 prominent builders and government officers who had connived with them in fabricating documents. Like all other previous reports, this one too has been gathering dust. Sometime ago, the Supreme Court had struck down the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) order banning construction within a 75-metre buffer zone around lakes in the city and had restricted the distance to 30-metre. In reality, even the reduced buffer zone is not maintained around most lakes.  Whenever the authorities act against encroachments, it is only hutments that are evicted, while illegal sky-scrapers continue to stand tall.  In 2020, four high-rise apartments were demolished through implosion in Maradu village of Kerala under orders from the Supreme Court for violating Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) rules. Perhaps, some such tough action is required in Bengaluru too where builders, with the active collusion of  politicians and bureaucrats, have had a free run for far too long, with utter contempt for local laws and even court orders. The failure of the authorities to act has only emboldened them. Unless the government deals with errant builders and their conspirators with a heavy hand, what is still left of Bengaluru’s greenery and water bodies may be permanently lost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/lose-no-time-in-protecting-our-lakes-1002235.html
27-06-2021||In Perspective||India’s influence in Nepal politics shrinks||At a time when Nepal is battling with the Covid-19 pandemic, its political stability, once again, has been pushed to the brink. Khadga Prasad Sharma Oli (K P Oli), the care-taker Prime Minister of Nepal lost a vote of confidence which he sought on May 10, 2021. Ironically, Oli had dissolved the House of Representatives in December 2020 which was later reinstated by the Supreme Court. In the confidence vote, 93 MPs voted for Oli while 124 were against him. Out of the total strength of 271 members in the Lower House, 28 members of K P Oli’s party, CPN-UML, including two former prime ministers - Jahlnath Khanal and Madhav Nepal - remained absent, and 15 other members remained neutral in the voting procedure. Reappointed as the PM as per Article 76(3) of the Constitution, K P Oli, again, failed to prove majority despite carving out an alliance with a terai-based Madheshi Janata Samajwadi Party. As the political scenario turned grim, the President dissolved parliament on May 22 and declared fresh elections to be held on November 12 and 19. While such political fitfulness hardly surprises anymore, factionalism in Nepal politics does not seem to have lost its charm.  Following the promulgation of the Constitution in September 2015 and subsequent parliamentary elections in 2017, the CPN-UML and the Maoist Centre led by Prachanda emerged victorious to form a majority government under a merger banner of Nepal Communist Party (NCP). The merger was perceived as an end to factionalism in Communist politics. The unholy alliance, which could barely last two years, was poised with the personal and competing ambitions. Within the UML, Oli was constantly threatened by his fellow partymen and former prime ministers Jahlnath Khanal and Madhav Nepal. Similarly, Prachanda was also not out of the personal ambition of acquiring the PM position. The merger was a calculated risk because the UML-led government preceding the present one had collapsed with Prachanda’s withdrawal in 2017. Apart from the constitutional safety net for two years, Oli’s assertion of territorial nationalism against India could not yield much to his luck as factionalism only intensified to topple his government. Factionalism among the Communists in Nepal goes back to the 1960s when the party witnessed splits on the pro-Soviet versus pro-China lines. During the three decades of the panchayat regime, Nepal witnessed seven major Communist parties functioning under the United Left Front (ULF). The UML— a merger of two important constituents of the ULF— that has headed four governments since 1994, has always been a victim of factionalism. The Maoists have also gone through many episodes of splits. In its present form, under the leadership of Prachanda, the party does not have the leaders like Baburam Bhattarai. While the role of the Maoists in bringing down the centuries-old monarchy and introducing democracy remain as their most important contributions to the Nepalese state, their current position in Nepal politics has been drastically minimised. Nepalese media The (in)direct role of India and China have also been important factors in sustaining factionalism and contributing to political instability in Nepal. In the latest political episode, Nepalese media highlighted active roles that the Chinese and Indian diplomats played in unifying or dividing the political parties. Similarly, Oli was desperately trying to strike a balance between his pro-Chinese stand and as a new friend of India. A ‘Modified’ Oli, as Nepalese media observed, was getting closer to India in the last few months. As two Asian giants are into a not-so-discreet confrontation against each other, their roles in contributing to factionalism in Nepal politics cannot be undermined. The promulgation of the new Constitution in 2015 following years of uncertainty and the subsequent Parliamentary elections were seen as movements towards political stability that the Himalayan state had been aspiring for a long time. However, the political culture guided by personal ambitions of the political elites leading to extreme factionalism has only contributed to jeopardising the aspirations of common Nepalese. While resorting to anti-Indian rhetoric by the governments in the past and the present one alike has proved to be furthering the political ambitions of the power elite, Nepal still struggles to get a stable government, at least for a five-year term. The prolonged political instability adds to the already deep-rooted anti-India sentiment among the political elites. With the active involvement of China, India’s position in Nepal seems to be shrinking substantially. As world’s largest democracy, India should only support the spirit and principles of democracy that would contribute developing a stable political culture. A stable and democratic Nepal would best serve its citizens and the bilateral interests of India. At this point of time when the political scenario looks precarious, factionalism continues to triumph in Nepal. (The writer is Associate Professor, National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/india-s-influence-in-nepal-politics-shrinks-1002227.html
27-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Direct flights from Hubballi to resume from July 1||Direct flights from Hubballi to Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru, Goa and Cochin, which were cancelled in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, will resume from July 1. Indigo Airlines’ Hubballi-Mumbai flight will take off from Hubballi Domestic Airport at 1:00 pm and reach Mumbai at 2:45 pm. The return flight will commence its journey at 3:15 pm and reach Hubballi at 4:40 pm. The Chennai-Hubballi flight will take off from Chennai at 6:00 am and reach Hubballi at 8:10 am. The flight will make its return journey at 5:20 pm and reach Chennai at 7:10 pm. The direct flight to Bengaluru will commence its journey from Hubballi at 11:40 am and reach its destination at 1:00 pm, while the return journey is scheduled at 8:30 pm and reach Hubballi at 9:55 pm. Similarly, two connective flights from Bengaluru, which starts their journey at 7:15 am and 3:30 pm will reach Hubballi in 1 hour 20 minutes. To Cochin, a flight from Hubballi will take off at 8:35 am and reach its destination at 10:20 am and its return journey will start at 10:50 am and reach here at 12:40 pm. A flight to Goa will start its journey from Hubballi at 9:00 am and reach Goa at 9:50 am, and return to Hubballi at 11:10 am. Alliance Airlines will start its Hubballi-Hyderabad flight from July 9, while Indigo Airlines will commence its flight on the same route from August 2, informed Union Minister Pralhad Joshi on his Facebook page. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-direct-flights-from-hubballi-to-resume-from-july-1-1002200.html
27-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Decision on reopening schools likely today in Karnataka||The government is likely to take a decision about reopening schools for physical classes on Monday. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar will convene a meeting with deputy commissioners, chief executive officers of Zilla panchayats, district health officers and officials from the primary and secondary education department to discuss resuming offline classes for the 2021-22 academic year. This follows a report by the expert committee headed by Dr Devi Shetty, which recommended the reopening of schools and also suggestions by experts and academicians who favoured resuming offline classes in a phased manner. At a recent meeting called by the minister, a majority of the participants batted for restarting the Vidyagama programme. Sources said this will also be discussed at the meeting. Meanwhile, private school managements have urged the government to take a decision keeping in mind all schools and not just government schools. However, officials from the department said that, at the meeting, the focus will be on conducting SSLC examinations in a safe environment and vaccinating all teaching and non-teaching staff deputed for examination work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/decision-on-reopening-schools-likely-today-in-karnataka-1002212.html
27-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Heavy rains pound Kalyana Karnataka dists; flash floods in Mantralaya||Heavy rain in the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday in Raichur and Adoni regions triggered flash floods in Mantralaya bringing the temple town to a standstill. The overflowing Ramapur stream flooded Karnataka Bhavan and all the roads leading to the Raghavendra Swami Vrindavan. Scores of people were evacuated from the Karnataka Bhavan after the water level rose to knee height. The temple town returned to normal after floodwaters receded in the afternoon. The overnight showers threw normal life out of gear in Raichur city and parts of the district. Maski town was the worst hit with four wards going under water. More than 500 houses in Gandhinagar were flooded with rainwater as the occupants were forced to spend the night draining water out of their homes. The local body staff, using earthmovers drained floodwater and cleared the rain mess on Sunday Five Bengaluru-bound youths from Devadurg had a lucky escape while crossing an overflowing Halapur stream in their bikes in the early hours of Sunday. Alert locals pulled the stranded youths to safety using ropes. Two bikes, however, were swept away in the stream. The overflowing streams affected traffic at several places till Sunday afternoon in Raichur, Maski, Manvi, Sindhanur, Devadurg and Lingasugur taluks.While the overnight showers brought misery to people in towns, Other Kalyan Karnataka districts also experienced moderate to heavy showers since Saturday night. Parts of coastal districts and north and central Karnataka also experienced intermittent rains. The IMD has forecast more rains in Kalyana Karnataka region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/heavy-rains-pound-kalyana-karnataka-dists-flash-floods-in-mantralaya-1002217.html
27-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka leaders object to changing of Kannada names in Kerala's Kasargod district||A row has erupted over a decision by the Kerala government to rename some Kannada names of villages in Kasargod district to Malayalam. The villages are located in Manjeshwar and Kasargod taluks, the Kannada-speaking regions of Kerala. The Kannada Development Authority and JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy were among those opposing the proposal by the Kerala government, as the decision came under sharp criticism from social media users in Karnataka. The Karnataka Border Area Development Authority (KBADA) has written to ministers in Kerala to stall the process by considering the cultural significance of these regions to Karnataka. Speaking to DH, Dr C Somashekara, Chairman, KBADA, said that he was alerted about the process of changing names in Kasargod by local Kannada activists. "They have proposed to change the names of nine to 10 villages. I have written to the Revenue and PWD ministers to stall the process," he said. Among the villages whose names are proposed to be changed include Manjeshwar, which is of great cultural, literary and historic importance to Karnataka as great Kannada poet 'Rashtrakavi' Govind Pai was from the place, he said. Apart from a letter to the ministers, he has also petitioned Karnataka Chief Secretary P Ravikumar to write to his counterpart in Kerala to withdraw the decision. The proposal by the Kerala government triggered a debate on social media on Sunday, riling Kannada activists who sought Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's intervention in the issue. One activist, Mahadev Talwar from Karnataka Rakshana Vedike said that the move was an insult to Kannada and Kannadigas. "The CM should take action immediately," he said. JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy said that he was of the view that it was the responsibility of both governments - Karnataka and Kerala - to safeguard the traditional sensibilities of people in Kasargod district. "The names of these villages, it appears, are being transliterated to Malayalam," he said, urging the Kerala government to withdraw its decision and ensure that the Kannada names of these places are safeguarded. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-leaders-object-to-changing-of-kannada-names-in-keralas-kasargod-district-1002158.html
27-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||CM choice: Congress committee mulls action against MLAs||The KPCC disciplinary committee is likely to issue notice to MLAs over their remarks on Congress’s next CM candidate. The committee has registered a suo motu complaint over the statements issued by MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan and others, and is mulling action against them. Speaking to reporters, chairman of the committee K Rahman Khan said that statements issued by some MLAs had violated the discipline of the party. “There is no scope for anyone in the party to float personal opinions (about the next CM candidate). We will soon take a call on issuing notices and initiating disciplinary action,” he said. The committee held a virtual meeting on Sunday, during which detailed discussions were held on the statements issued by the MLAs. “Right now, the committee does not have paper clippings or other evidence about their statements. Time was sought to collect all evidence. A meeting will be held next week, after which we will take a call,” he said. If any party representative has views on who the next CM should be, they can communicate it to national or state president, Khan said. Such statements in public hurt party prospects, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cm-choice-congress-committee-mulls-action-against-mlas-1002211.html
27-06-2021||Main Article||Are we prepared?||The recent announcement of Karnataka Higher Education Minister Dr Ashwath Narayan that admission processes to colleges would commence shortly was accompanied with enthusiasm about the government’s intent to implement the New Education Policy 2020 starting immediately.  When a policy on such an important matter as education is proudly put forth with intentions to implement right away, such enthusiasm quite naturally raises our expectations.  Indeed, this seems rightly placed, for the policy addresses the state of higher education as prevailing currently and the need to bring radical changes so that our youth can graduate out of college feeling that they’ve learnt something and can be gainfully employed or pursue advanced degrees in an area of their choice.  But a cursory examination of the conditions of our undergraduate institutions, and their preparedness to be the custodians of a new education approach to be implemented overnight as it were, is a source of much concern. If implemented hurriedly, it is likely to lead to a crisis and impasse in ensuring an effective shift to new ways in the education process; at best, it would reduce such implementation to a mere ritualistic exercise. Among the welcome changes that the new policy advocates are the need to develop curricula and teaching practices that encourage active learning over mere rote learning and in an environment that is multi-disciplinary. This is so that graduating with a college degree means that one has undergone a broad-based education, imbibing from scholarship from the sciences and humanities alike at the formative stage specialising in later years in any particular branch. The subjects offered are meant to align with developments that can lead to innovation and equip them with thinking and practical skills, ideas etc, that can contribute to advancements in different spheres of knowledge, and which address local and global needs alike. It is well established that the requirement of an education of value demands receiving a broad-based liberal education at preliminary stages and specialising in a particular field at a later stage.  Thus, an undergraduate majoring in say, physics, would do courses alongside curricula offered in the humanities, or the arts, as one may choose through introductory courses, while learning the core requirements in physics. A sense of inter-disciplinarity is infused into the curriculum through advanced courses that are often taught by multiple faculties sourced from different disciplines and departments. Multi-disciplinary institutions are an absolute must to nurture and train our young to become innovators and contribute to knowledge, with skills that are shaped by wide exposure and rigorous training in the discipline that the student majors in. Colleges and universities must transform into being repositories of knowledge creation and training.  This demands an environment wherein autonomy for the faculty and university administration is a critical requirement to create an atmosphere of open-minded learning, fearless questioning and critical inquiry. Even a cursory examination of the state of our higher education institutions and the state of faculties in all the departments there - most critical for institutions to grow and flourish - sadly reveals how ill-prepared these institutions are in their current state to rise to meet the demands of a re-engineered curriculum and infrastructure. Most colleges in the liberal arts, basic sciences or commerce, are mono discipline type, which means they are colleges that specialise in single subjects either in arts, sciences or commerce.  The policy that advocates universities with all disciplines under one banner, or formation of clusters that help this process, including engineering and medical education, is sure to face stiff resistance from the professional colleges and universities.  Business interests The reasons are several, not least of which include a sense of professional exclusivity of the fraternity that are shaped by old schools of thought, and possible disruptions in the professionalised education currently dictated largely by business interests. Multi-disciplinary courses are introduced motivated by research and insights about current trends and prevailing practices that exist globally. Several stories are recounted in the corridors of educational institutions of disastrous ventures in ushering in multi-disciplinary approaches by floating ill-conceived undergraduate level programmes in biotechnology, or nanotechnology, at beginners’ levels just because these were the prevalent buzz words at the time. The subtlety that a multi-disciplinary course is not forged through a mere concatenation of disciplines from different domains is certainly lost on colleges and universities already teetering on the brink of collapse due to lack of trained faculty. Temporary faculties are depended on to running entire programmes and courses. Our institutions like the Higher Education Council, an advisory body that can play an extremely useful role by conducting workshops and seminars to examine what the implications are as well as carry out exercises that go into the nitty-gritty of this major paradigm shift in higher education, has so far limited itself to conducting functions and programmes of little or no consequence for addressing the real problems that our crumbling institutions face. Unless we wake up to reality and prioritise the urgent needs of bringing in talent into our public institutions following rigorous and clean hiring procedures and staff our now-empty colleges and universities, unless managements of our private colleges realise that starting new courses solely following market trends is no longer adequate in forging excellent globally competitive programmes for long term gains, implementing the recommendations of the NEP right away is likely to result in a big mess. That this can lead to major disruptions in whatever is present now is anybody’s guess. It has also the danger of trivialising the notion of multi-disciplinary education itself by doing it wrongly. It’s common wisdom that one shouldn’t put the cart in front of the horse. (The writer is Professor, School of Physics, Hyderabad Central University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/are-we-prepared-1002226.html
27-06-2021||National||Study documents relation between Warli people and 'Waghoba'||The indigenous Warli people of Maharashtra have a unique relationship with Waghoba. A form of both the tiger and leopard, Waghoba is worshipped primarily for protection from these big cats. Long histories of sharing space and resources have built complex, robust, and enduring relationships between humans and wildlife in many communities across the world – and Warli-Waghoba is a perfect example. Researchers documented 150 shrines dedicated to Waghoba in their study titled – “Sharing Spaces and Entanglements With Big Cats: The Warli and Their Waghoba in Maharashtra, India”. Authored by Ramya Nair, Dhee, Omkar Patil, Nikit Surve, Anish Andheria, John D.C. Linnell and Vidya Athreya, this paper was recently published in a special issue of the journal Frontiers of Conservation Science-Human-Wildlife Dynamics called Understanding Coexistence with Wildlife. The study was conducted by researchers from WCS-India, NINA, Norway, Inland Norway University of Applied Sciences, Norway and supported by Wildlife Conservation Trust. Fieldwork was conducted across Mumbai Suburban, Palghar and Thane districts in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) of Maharashtra in 2018-19. The study revealed that the Warlis believe in a reciprocal relationship, where Waghoba will protect them from the negative impacts of sharing spaces with big cats if the people worship the deity and conduct the required rituals, especially at the annual festival of Waghbaras. Researchers suggest that such relationships facilitate the sharing of spaces between humans and leopards that live in the landscape. The study also addresses the ways in which the range of institutions and stakeholders in the landscape shape the institution of Waghoba and thereby contribute to the human-leopard relationship in the landscape. “This is relevant for present-day wildlife conservation because such traditional institutions are likely to act as tolerance-building mechanisms embedded within the local belief system. Further, it is vital that the dominant stakeholders outside of the Warli community (such as the Forest Department, conservation biologists, and other non-Warli residents who interact with leopards) are informed about and sensitive to these cultural representations because it is not just the biological animal that the Warlis predominantly deal with,” the authors were quoted saying in the study. The main aim of the study is to diversify the way we understand and approach human-wildlife interactions. It does so by shedding light on how local institutions that contribute to co-existence are not devoid of conflict, but have a role in negotiating the conflicts that arise. Locally-produced systems that address issues surrounding human-wildlife interactions may exist in several other cultures and landscapes. While conservation interventions have shown a movement toward the inclusion and participation of local communities, we have to recognise that landscapes have a history before our own point of entry into them. An ethnographic approach was taken to collect data wherein researchers conducted semi-structured interviews and conducted participant observation (particularly attending worship ceremonies) concurrent to documenting Waghoba shrines. Questions were asked to explore narratives on the role of Waghoba in the lives of the Warli, the history of Waghoba worship, associated festivals, rituals and traditions, and the ties between Waghoba and human-leopard interactions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/study-documents-relation-between-warli-people-and-waghoba-1002004.html
27-06-2021||National||The young Indian chef taking the 'world's best butter chicken' global||The coal-fired tandoor oven sends a mouth-watering scent wafting through the Mumbai kitchen as celebrity chef Saransh Goila, maker of the world's "best butter chicken" according to MasterChef Australia, takes a break from Covid-19 relief efforts and resumes work. Although the pandemic has done little to slow the global appetite for his delivery-only signature dish, business has been the last thing on his mind of late with India battling a brutal second wave of infections. Much to his shock, Goila -- who has over a million Instagram and Twitter followers -- started getting dozens of messages daily from Covid-19 patients and their families, asking for assistance sourcing healthy meals. "You don't think of people being stuck for home-cooked meals in India," he told AFP. "We are a country where you have your neighbours, friends, family always ready to help". But with the coronavirus forcing people into isolation and making entire families sick, those networks were of little use. So Goila launched a non-profit platform called Covid Meals for India in April to connect thousands of volunteer home cooks with coronavirus patients and frontline workers in around 400 cities. Somehow, he also managed to open his second overseas kitchen in London's trendy Shoreditch neighbourhood last month, five years after launching his business. His menu includes innovative -- or sacrilegious, depending on who you ask -- spins on the traditional dish. Diners can order a butter chicken biryani, a butter chicken burger, chips with -- you guessed it -- butter chicken gravy, and even a butter chicken khichdi, a rice-and-lentil gruel usually served to sick people. Goila found his calling early, winning a televised cooking competition aged 25 that led him to host a travel programme showcasing regional Indian cuisine. It was then, while covering a distance of some 20,000 kilometres (12,400 miles), that he realised butter chicken had a universal appeal that cut across India's diverse cultures. So the bearded chef, who prefers vegetarian food himself, decided to establish the world's first global butter chicken brand. His profile exploded in 2018 when he was invited by former MasterChef Australia judge George Calombaris -- a fan of Goila's cooking -- to be a guest on the hit show, with contestants asked to recreate his signature dish. Even before the pandemic, the popularity of the creamy tomato-based curry has defied every health trend going -- there are no vegan or low-calorie options on his menu -- with eight outlets across India and Britain. Butter chicken's reassuring familiarity has long made it an Indian restaurant staple, while its mild flavour is unlikely to sting even the most sensitive taste buds. Quite simply it is, as Goila puts it, "a hug in a bowl". But Covid-19 has turned up some unexpected challenges, with extended lockdowns transforming even fine dining restaurants into delivery businesses offering discounted meals. The fierce competition has chipped away at Goila's margins, slashing orders at his Indian outlets by 30 percent and forcing him to lay off 10 percent of his staff. "It's a tricky, tricky spot for the hospitality industry," he said. But his overseas outlets -- both in London -- have given him something to cheer about, serving up dozens of orders daily. London is only the first stop on his international wish list, which includes New York, Los Angeles and Melbourne. As India's latest coronavirus outbreak eases, Goila's relief initiative is still going strong, operating at a scale that leaves the usually chatty chef temporarily lost for words. "I mostly use social media for my own benefit, you know, to promote my work... But this is different", he said. "You can actually make a change if you want to. That's what I have realised."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-young-indian-chef-taking-the-worlds-best-butter-chicken-global-1002007.html
27-06-2021||National||India's active Covid cases fall to 5.86L; 50K single-day infections, 1,258 deaths||A single-day rise of 50,040 fresh Covid-19 infections took India's tally to 3,02,33,183 while the number of active cases reduced to 5,86,403, according to Union Health Ministry data on Sunday. The death toll climbed to 3,95,751 with 1,258 more people succumbing to the viral disease in a day. The number of active cases has further declined to 5,86,403 and now comprises 1.94 per cent of the total infections, the data updated at 8 am showed. Recoveries outnumbered daily new cases of Covid-19 for the 45th consecutive day with the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surging to 2,92,51,029. The case fatality rate stood at 1.31 per cent. While the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.75 per cent, the weekly case positivity rate has come down to 2.91 per cent. According to the Health Ministry data, the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.82 per cent. It has been less than 5 per cent for 20 consecutive days. India administered 64.25 lakh vaccine doses in a day, taking the cumulative number of jabs given so far under the nationwide inoculation drive to 32.17 crore, according to immunisation data published at 7 am. Also, 17,45,809 tests were conducted on Friday for the detection of Covid-19, taking the total number of tests conducted so far in the country to 40,18,11,892. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore total Covid-19 cases on May 4 this year and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-active-covid-cases-fall-to-586l-50k-single-day-infections-1258-deaths-1002009.html
27-06-2021||National||Non-BJP states fear new E-commerce rules may have negative impact on jobs, MSMEs||Some states, mostly those ruled by non-BJP parties, are apprehensive about the new set of e-commerce rules proposed by the Union Consumer Affairs Ministry to check mis-selling and fraudulent discounts, as they fear there could be a negative impact on jobs and market access for MSMEs created by various digital platforms in recent years. These state governments plan to suggest strong safeguard measures in the proposed rules to ensure that any changes in the Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020 do not hamper their economic growth engines and revenue collections, officials from those states said. However, it would be kept in mind that their suggestions do not come in way of the proposed rules enhancing the overall consumer protection framework, they asserted. Declining to be identified, these officials said it is a sensitive matter that needs to be tackled carefully as protecting consumers' interest is as important as safeguarding jobs, MSMEs and lakhs of self-employed individuals including artisans, weavers and those in agriculture and allied sectors who have been benefiting immensely from the growth of the e-commerce sector. The officials said formal suggestions on the draft rules would be made to the Centre, which has invited suggestions till July 6, would be made after deliberating all the issues and after consulting all stakeholders. A large number of foreign and domestic investors and other business entities, who have either invested in various e-commerce platforms or are doing business with them, are also said to be wary of certain proposed rules, including on 'fall-back liability', flash sales, or deep discounting and data sharing. Their apprehensions include greater liabilities for online retailers for goods and services sold on their platforms, which could also impact the ability of e-commerce players to raise funds going forward and may prompt existing and prospective investors to put in place additional measures to safeguard their returns. Major e-commerce players such as Amazon and Walmart/Flipkart, as also some industry bodies, are also likely to submit their views on these proposals soon. A senior official of a big non-BJP-ruled state said there is a view that the proposed rules can disturb the state's business ecosystem, especially with regard to MSMEs and small entrepreneurs and will also limit the choices for consumers, rather than safeguarding their interest. He pointed out that MSMEs contribute almost two-thirds of the annual revenues generated on just two major platforms — Amazon and Flipkart — and that itself runs into thousands of crores of rupees, while there is a big chain involved comprising of businesses, self-employed individuals, warehouses, farmers etc and these platforms have created lakhs of jobs in the recent years. Among various measures, the draft amendments propose banning of fraudulent flash sales and mis-selling of goods and services on e-commerce platforms. Ban on misleading users by manipulating search results, and appointment of chief compliance officer and resident grievance officer are some of the other amendments being proposed. E-commerce entities are also required to provide information not later than 72 hours of the receipt of an order from a government agency for prevention, detection and investigation and prosecution of offences under any law, as per the proposed amendments. The Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020 were first notified in July last year. Their violations attract penal action under the Consumer Protection Act, 2019. The government said that following the notification of the e-commerce rules, it has received several representations from aggrieved consumers, traders and associations "complaining against widespread cheating and unfair trade practices being observed in the e-commerce ecosystem." Among the key amendments, the government has proposed a ban on mis-selling of goods and services offered on such platforms. Those engaging in 'cross-selling' will have to provide adequate disclosures to users displayed prominently. The government also seeks to ban 'flash sales' on e-commerce platforms "if such sales are organised by fraudulently intercepting the ordinary course of business using technological means with an intent to enable only a specified seller or group of sellers managed by such entity to sell goods or services on the platform." However, the ministry clarified, "Conventional e-commerce flash sales are not banned. Only specific flash sales or back-to-back sales which limit customer choice, increase prices and prevent a level playing field are not allowed." "... Certain e-commerce entities are engaging in limiting consumer choice by indulging in 'back to back' or 'flash' sales wherein one seller selling on a platform does not carry any inventory or order fulfillment capability but merely places a 'flash or back-to-back' order with another seller controlled by platform," it said. Such sales will not be allowed as this prevents a level playing field and ultimately limits customer choice and increases prices, the ministry added. The proposed amendment defines 'flash sale' as that organised by an e-commerce entity at significantly reduced prices, high discounts or any other such promotional offers for a predetermined period of time. The government has also proposed 'fall-back liability' for every marketplace e-commerce entity to ensure that consumers are not adversely affected in the event where a seller fails to deliver goods or services due to negligent conduct by such seller.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/non-bjp-states-fear-new-e-commerce-rules-may-have-negative-impact-on-jobs-msmes-1002026.html
27-06-2021||National||All you need to know about the Puducherry cabinet swearing-in||In the elections, the AINRC won 10 seats, while BJP emerged victorious in six seats and its strength in the Assembly now stands at 9, thanks to the Centre’s power to appoint three nominated members. The DMK and independent candidates won six seats each, while the Congress won just two seats. A Namassivayam, K Lakshminarayanan, C Djeacoumar, Chandira Priyanga and A K Sai J Saravana Kumar will be sworn-in as Ministers in the cabinet. This is also the first time the BJP is part of a Ministry in the UT's cabinet. Why the delay in the cabinet formation? Though Rangasamy took oath as the CM of Puducherry on May 7, it took over a month for the members of the cabinet to be decided upon and sent to President Kovind for approval. The AINRC, which is led by Rangasamy, accused the BJP for the delay in the cabinet formation, alleging that the party was demanding the post of the Deputy Chief Minister - a post that Puducherry never had before. The BJP was backing A Namassivayam, who had defected from the Congress, for the post. However, the BJP later said that it would not pursue the matter of the Deputy CM post "for the present" as its nominee. Embalam R Selvam, was being accommodated as the Speaker of the Assembly. Another reason for the delay is that Rangasamy himself had been hospitalised due to Covid-19. What to expect from the new cabinet? The swearing-in ceremony will be held at 2.30 pm on Sunday in front of Raj Nivas, the office cum residence of the Lt Governor. The total strength of the Ministry would now be six, including the Chief Minister. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-you-need-to-know-about-the-puducherry-cabinet-swearing-in-1002034.html
27-06-2021||National||On 'Mann Ki Baat', PM urges people to shed vaccine hesitancy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday asked people to shed vaccine hesitancy and get inoculated with Covid-19 vaccines. Interacting with villagers from Madhya Pradesh during his monthly ‘Mann ki Baat’ radio address, Modi said even his mother, who is 100 years old, had received both doses of Covid-19 vaccine and urged them not to believe in rumours about ill-effects of vaccines. "I urge you all – trust science, trust our scientists. So many people have taken the vaccine. Let us never believe in negative rumours related to the vaccine,” the prime minister said, adding more than 31 crore doses of vaccines have been administered across the country so far. Modi said even he had taken both doses of vaccines and urged them to get rid of the fear and get vaccinated soon. “At times, some people develop fever on account of this…but it is very minor; just for a few hours. But not getting vaccinated can prove dangerous,” Modi said when villagers told him about rumours in rural parts of the country of vaccines causing deaths.   Striking a word of caution, the prime minister said the threat of Covid-19 was not over and urged people to get vaccinated and follow Covid-19 protocols. “If someone says Corona is gone, do not be under this mistaken notion. This ailment is a master of disguise. It keeps changing its looks and surfaces in myriad new forms and colours,” Modi said. Modi said there were only two ways to remain protected from Covid-19 – wearing masks, frequently washing hands with soap and maintain physical distances and the other way was the get vaccinated The Prime Minister said the next round of the Covid-19 vaccination drive was launched on June 21 when a record 86 lakh persons received vaccine doses free of cost. He asked the villagers to involve women of the village to spread the message of getting vaccinated. “At times when mothers or sisters tell a thing people tend to agree readily,” the prime minister said. In the address, he also paid tributes and remembered the contribution of Indian sprint legend Milkha Singh, who died earlier this month. Modi hailed Singh's contribution to Indian sports and said he will always cherish his interactions with the athlete. Singh died in a Chandigarh hospital after a month-long battle with Covid-19. He also lost his wife Nirmal Kaur, a former national volleyball captain, to the same disease. Modi also shared the struggles and triumphs of Olympics-bound Indian athletes and said that people must not build any pressure on these sports persons but "cheer for India". (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/on-mann-ki-baat-pm-urges-people-to-shed-vaccine-hesitancy-1002035.html
27-06-2021||National||Modi reaches out to Raisi, but Tehran’s talks with US hold key to India-Iran ties||Prime Minister Narendra Modi was among the first foreign leaders to congratulate Iran’s ultraconservative Chief Justice, Ebrahim Raisi, after he was elected to be his country’s next President. “I look forward to working with him to further strengthen the warm ties between India and Iran,” Modi posted on Twitter on June 20, shortly after Raisi won the presidential elections, which left the moderates in the West Asian nation sidelined and brought the hardliners back to power. New Delhi is expected to seek early engagement with Raisi’s Government in Tehran after he takes over from Hassan Rouhani, who will step down on August 2 after completing two consecutive terms in the office of the President. With Pakistan keen to get a “strategic depth” in Afghanistan after the withdrawal of the US troops from the conflict-ravaged country and its ‘iron brother’ China trying to expand its footprints in the region, India will obviously want to move fast to ease strains in its ties with Iran. But what is likely to determine the pace and course of the Modi Government’s engagement with the new regime in Tehran is the outcome of the negotiation in Vienna between Iran and the United States for the revival of the 2015 nuclear deal. Notwithstanding the civilisational links between the two nations, the relations between New Delhi and Tehran faced challenges over the past one-and-a-half decades, primarily due to growing ties between India and the United States, particularly after the landmark 2008 nuclear deal, and the acrimony between Iran and the United States. The sanctions imposed by the US on Iran forced New Delhi to curtail trade and economic links with the Persian Gulf nation, which was always considered to be a part of the extended neighbourhood of India. New Delhi's economic relations with Tehran regained momentum after President Barack Obama’s administration in Washington D.C. eased sanctions on Iran following the July 14, 2015 agreement between Tehran and the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council – United States, United Kingdom, France, Russia and China – as well as Germany and the European Union. Obama’s successor Donald Trump in May 2018 withdrew the US from the July 2015 deal. The US reimposed sanctions on Iran six months later. India had to buckle under US pressure and stop buying crude oil from Iran by June 2019. New Delhi managed to secure a waiver from the Trump Administration to continue its engagement with Tehran for development of the Chabahar Port. But Iran in July 2020 started laying tracks to build the proposed 750-kilometre railway line from Chabahar Port on its southeastern coast to Zahedan, the capital of its Sistan Baluchistan province closer to its border with Afghanistan and Pakistan. India was keen to build the railway line, as it was already involved in developing the Chabahar Port to get sea-land access to Afghanistan and Central Asia through Iran, bypassing Pakistan. But the US sanctions on Iran hindered progress on the project. So was the case with development of Farzad-B gas field, which too was put on the back-burner due to US sanctions. As a result, Tehran in January 2020 notified New Delhi about its decision to award the contract to an entity based in Iran. The US is now again holding talks with Iran. Raisi, like other conservative candidates in the presidential polls, criticised Rouhani’s government during campaigning for signing the 2015 deal with the US and others. But, after winning the elections, he clearly stated that his government too would adhere to the agreement. He did not directly support Iran-US talks for revival of the deal, but signalled that the negotiation would continue. The prospects of President Joe Biden’s administration recommitting to the deal with Tehran already prompted New Delhi to signal that it would also restart importing crude oil from Iran and return to investing in infrastructure and hydrocarbon projects as and when the US would lift or ease sanctions on the Persian Gulf nation. New Delhi is also keen to move fast to arrest the slide in its ties with Tehran, as it is worried over the proposed deal Iran is planning to sign with China securing a whopping $ 400 billion investment pledge by communist country in its infrastructure and energy sectors over the next 25 years. What also sent alarm bells ringing in New Delhi is Iran’s purported move to invite China and Pakistan to take part in the development of its Chabahar Port. Beijing and Tehran are learnt to have discussed a proposal to link the Chabahar Port with the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor – a flagship component of President Xi Jinping’s ambitious Belt and Road Initiative and a project opposed by India. Xi too congratulated Raisi, underlining that China and Iran were “comprehensive strategic partners” and attached great importance to development of the relations between the two nations. Tehran’s envoy to New Delhi Ali Chegeni recently argued for a reset in Iran-India ties, beginning with a trade agreement and a strategic energy partnership, including oil and gas pipelines either through sea or land. He suggested during a webinar that since the 2015 nuclear deal might be revived, India could work on its long-pending proposal of investing $20 billion in the free trade zone at Chabahar in Iran. He said that Iran would also welcome investments from Iran to set up petrochemical and fertiliser plants. “But the time is too short and opportunities will not remain forever,” Chegeni said, nudging New Delhi to move fast. Tehran in the past generally avoided taking Islamabad's side whenever tension between India and Pakistan escalated, except for some occasional remarks on the situation in Kashmir. After the Modi Government on August 5, 2019 moved to strip Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) of its special status and reorganised the state into two Union Territories, Iran expressed concerns over “condition of people” in the valley and urged India to adopt “a fair policy” towards the people of the region. Rouhani’s Foreign Minister Javad Zarif, however, in March 2020 termed the clashes in North-East Delhi as “organised violence” against Muslims. His comment triggered strong protests from the Modi Government. But New Delhi still does not expect that Iran would ever start routinely echoing Pakistan to slam India – even after the moderate-to-conservative shift of power in Tehran.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-reaches-out-to-raisi-but-tehran-s-talks-with-us-hold-key-to-india-iran-ties-1002048.html
27-06-2021||National||Explained | Tax, compliance reliefs announced for Covid-related assistance||The Union Finance Ministry on Friday announced a slew of measures and relaxations to provide relief to the families of Covid-19 patients and victims deeply impacted by the second wave of the pandemic. Apart from the extension of key deadlines such as the linking of Aadhaar to PAN card — extended earlier this week — the government announced income tax exemptions on the ex-gratia amount given to Covid-19 victims and on Covid treatment costs paid for by friends or family. Families that have lost a member due to the deadly virus and received ex-gratia payment from either the victim's employer or anyone else since FY20 and subsequent years are exempted from paying income tax on the amount received. There is no limit on the amount exempted, the finance ministry said.   For Covid-19 treatment, amounts up to Rs 10 lakh paid for by friends or family will be exempted from income tax. This means that the person(s) who paid for the treatment are not liable to pay income tax as long as the amount is within Rs 10 lakh. The Finance Ministry also said in a release that necessary legislative amendments for the above decisions would be proposed in due course of time. Extension of key deadlines On Friday, the Finance Ministry extended the deadline to link the Aadhaar card with PAN by three months to September 30. The government had in July 2017 made it compulsory to link Aadhaar with PAN through Section 139 AA of the Income Tax Act. While it has extended the deadline multiple times, the consequences of not linking the two IDs within the deadline would see the PAN card become inoperative. Section 234H of the Income Tax Act also states that an individual missing the deadline can be fined up to Rs 1,000. The deadline for Vivad Se Vishwas direct tax dispute resolution scheme was also extended by two months till August 31. Taxpayers can make payments with an additional amount of interest till October 31. The deadline for employers to furnish Tax Deducted at Source (TDS) certificate in Form 16 to employees too was also extended from July 15 to July 31. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-tax-compliance-reliefs-announced-for-covid-related-assistance-1002050.html
27-06-2021||National||Cabinet secretary-led panel holds crucial meeting on privatisation of two banks||Inching a step closer to privatisation of two public sector banks, a high-level panel headed by the cabinet secretary recently held a meeting to thrash out various regulatory and administrative issues so that the proposal could be placed with the group of ministers on disinvestment or Alternative Mechanism (AM) for approval. Pursuant to the announcement made by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her 2021 budget speech, the NITI Aayog has suggested a couple of bank names for privatisation to the Core Group of Secretaries on Disinvestment headed by Cabinet Secretary in April, sources said. The meeting of the high-level panel deliberated on the recommendation of the NITI Aayog on Thursday June 24, sources said, adding the panel would after tying up all loose ends will send the names of the shortlisted PSU banks to AM for consideration. Headed by the cabinet secretary, the members of the panel include secretaries in the departments of Economic Affairs, Revenue, Expenditure, Corporate Affairs and Legal Affairs, as well as the secretary of administrative department. The panel also has the Department of Public Enterprises, Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) secretary as its member. According to sources, the panel also examined issues pertaining to protection of interests of workers of banks which are likely to be privatised. Following a clearance from AM, it will go to the Union Cabinet headed by the Prime Minister for the final nod. Changes on the regulatory side to facilitate privatisation would start after the cabinet approval. Central Bank of India and Indian Overseas Bank are reported to be probable candidates for privatisation. The government has budgeted Rs 1.75 lakh crore from stake sale in public sector companies and financial institutions, including two PSU banks and one insurance company, during the current financial year. The amount is lower than the record budgeted Rs 2.10 lakh crore to be raised from CPSE disinvestment in the last fiscal. In her Budget Speech on February 1, Sitharaman had announced that the government proposes to take up the privatisation of two public sector banks (PSBs) and one general insurance company in the year 2021-22. "Other than IDBI Bank, we propose to take up the privatisation of two public sector banks and one general insurance company in the year 2021-22," she had said. The government last year consolidated 10 public sector banks into four and as a result, the total number of PSBs came down to 12 from 27 in March 2017. The government has merged 14 public sector banks in the last four years. Last year in April, the government effected the biggest ever consolidation exercise in the public sector banking space when six PSU lenders were merged into four in a bid to make them globally competitive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-secretary-led-panel-holds-crucial-meeting-on-privatisation-of-two-banks-1002056.html
27-06-2021||National||Conservationists release world's smallest hog into wild in Assam's Manas National Park||A dozen of the world's smallest pigs have been released into the wild in Assam as part of a conservation programme to boost the population of a species once thought to have become extinct. The pygmy hog, which has the scientific name porcula salvania, lives in tall, wet grasslands and was once found along plains on the Himalayan foothills in India, Nepal and Bhutan. Its population declined in the 1960s, leading to fears it had become extinct until it was rediscovered in India's northeastern state of Assam in 1971, conservationists say. By 1993, it was only found in a few pockets of Assam's Manas National Park, which borders Bhutan. The Pygmy Hog Conservation Programme, involving several organisations including from state and national governments, established a captive breeding scheme with six hogs in 1996 to try and revive their population. "This time we are releasing 12 pygmy hogs including seven male and five female," the programme's field scientist Dhritiman Das told AFP at the release site in Manas National Park on Saturday. Eight of the hogs were released in Manas on Tuesday and four more on Saturday. Some 14 were released last year. The programme looks after around 70 captive hogs and is breeding more to be released. The past week's releases take the number of pigs reintroduced into the wild by the programme to 142. The wild population is estimated to be less than 250, conservationists say. "In next four years, we target to release 60 hogs... so that they can build their own population in the wild," Das added. The programme has also sought to rehabilitate the grasslands home to the tiny creatures, which measure about 25 centimetres (9.8 inches) in height and 65 centimetres in length and weigh around 8-9 kilogrammes (17.6-19.8 pounds). The species' survival has been threatened by the loss and degradation of its habitats due to human activity such as settlement and agriculture, and the improper management of such areas, experts say.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/conservationists-release-worlds-smallest-hog-into-wild-in-assams-manas-national-park-1002058.html
27-06-2021||National||PM hails struggles of India's Olympic-bound athletes; urges country to support them||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday applauded India's Olympic-bound athletes, saying that they have all endured "years of toil" and the country should back them without putting them under pressure during the Tokyo Games next month. More than 100 Indian sportspersons have qualified for the mega-event, which was postponed by a year because of the Covid-19 pandemic and will be held under strict health safety protocols from July 23 to August 8 in the Japanese capital. "Every player going to Tokyo has had one's own share of struggle, and years of toil. They are going not only for themselves but for the country," Modi said in his 'Mann ki Baat' address to the nation. "These players also have to enhance the glory of India and win the hearts of the people and that is why my countrymen I want to advise you too, that we should not pressurize these players knowingly or unknowingly. "...but support them with an open mind and bolster the enthusiasm of every player," he added. India's best Olympic performance came in the 2012 London edition when the country snared six medals, including two silver. In the 2016 Games, the performance dipped considerably and India could fetch just two medals. In his address on Sunday, the PM also recalled his last conversation with sprint legend Milkha Singh, who died earlier this month after a battle with Covid-19. "Friends, when we are talking of Tokyo Olympics, how can one forget the legendry athlete Milkha Singh. Some days ago, Corona snatched him away from us. When he was in hospital, I got an opportunity to talk to him," he said. "While talking to him I had urged him. I had said that you have represented India in 1964 Tokyo Olympics, so this time when our players are going to Olympics in Tokyo, you have to boost the morale of our athletes, have to motivate them with your message. "He was so committed and emotional for sports that he immediately gave his consent even during his illness. But unfortunately, providence had other plans," he added. While talking about the athletes going for the Games this time, the PM picked life stories of archers Deepika Kumari and Pravin Jadhav, hockey player Neha Goel, boxer Manish Kaushik, race walker Priyanka Goswami, javelin thrower Shivpal Singh, badminton players Chirag Shetty and his partner SatwikSairaj Rankireddy, and fencer C A Bhavani Devi. "In our country most of the sportspersons hail from the smaller towns and villages. Our team that is going to Tokyo too has many such players whose life inspires a lot," Modi said. The PM lauded Jadhav and Goel for coming through tough circumstances to qualify for their maiden Olympic Games. While Jadhav's parents worked as labourers, Goel's mother sustained her dream by working in a cycle factory. "His (Jadhav) parents run the family by working as labourers and now their son is going to participate in his first Olympics at Tokyo. This is a matter of great pride not only for his parents but for all of us. "Neha is a member of the women's hockey team going to Tokyo. Her mother and sisters manage the family expenses by working in a cycle factory," he said. Uttar Pradesh's Goswami, who would be competing in the 20km race walk event, also comes from a humble background. Her father works as a bus conductor. "As a child, Priyanka adored the bag that the medal winners were presented with. It was this fascination that made her participate in the Race-Walking competition for the first time. Now, she is a big champion of that," Modi said. Modi also briefly touched upon the life of Bhavani, who is the first fencer from the country to qualify for the Games. "I was reading somewhere that in order for Bhavani ji's training to continue, her mother had even mortgaged her jewellery," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-hails-struggles-of-indias-olympic-bound-athletes-urges-country-to-support-them-1002059.html
27-06-2021||National||Strengthen paediatric Covid-19 hospitals, provide psycho-social support to infected children: NHRC to govts||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has urged the central and state governments to strengthen paediatric Covid-19 hospitals and protocols and take steps to provide psycho-social support to children who are isolated in hospitals following the virus infection. It has also urged the authorities to fill the remaining gaps in vaccination coverage of health workers and frontline staff and provide necessary personal protection equipment to prevent transmission of the virus to children who come in contact with them. These and other recommendations form a part of the advisory for Protection of the Rights of Children in the context of Covid-19 issued by the NHRC earlier this month. This also came at a time when there were concerns that children might be impacted heavily during the third wave of pandemic, though experts have rejected such reports. "There is a need for greater preparedness and action for the protection of children by all stakeholders for the future, especially as experts warn about the impending third wave of the pandemic," the advisory said. The NHRC is of the view that there is a need for strengthening the paediatric Covid-19 hospitals and protocols and align them with the larger Covid-19 management guidelines. It also suggested an increase in paediatric beds and ensuring trained staff, equipment and medicines. Another concern highlighted by the NHRC is about the psychological impact of the virus infection and subsequent hospitalisation or isolation of a child. Since children "require psycho-social support as they spend weeks away from their family in a different environment", the NHRC said that the authorities should take steps to ensure psycho-social support to children based on their age and gender, including online or telephonic interaction with parents at specific intervals. With schools being closed, the rights body recommended that the governments should take all steps to ensure accessibility of online classes for all children, especially those from lower socio-economic sections of the society, through provision of suitable devices and resources including internet connectivity. An adequate budget should be allocated specifically for this purpose, it said. The NHRC also believes that children from vulnerable sections could drop-out from schools and the "circumstances imposed by the pandemic" may force them to enter into child labour, child marriage, or fall prey to mishaps such as trafficking. It wanted the authorities to collect data on drop-out children and create a mechanism to bring such children back to the education system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/strengthen-paediatric-covid-19-hospitals-provide-psycho-social-support-to-infected-children-nhrc-to-govts-1002071.html
27-06-2021||National||AAP inducts prominent businessman in Surat||A prominent businessman and philanthropist from Patidar community on Sunday joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the presence of Delhi's Deputy Chief Minister and party leader Manish Sisodia in Surat, a stronghold of the ruling BJP. The businessman Mahesh Savani, a diamond merchant turned realtor, is known for social work including organising mass weddings of orphaned girls. Sources said that Savani was close to BJP until the 2019 Lok Sabha elections but later distanced himself after he was denied a ticket. "I want to serve people and do positive politics for the betterment of people. I have seen the governments here and in Delhi. I saw the government-run schools, hospitals and people-oriented works by the current Delhi government and decided to join AAP," Savani said in a press conference, sitting beside Sisodia.   Surat, also known as "diamond city", is the first place in the state where AAP tasted its first electoral success by winning 27 seats, out of 120, in Surat Municipal Corporation. The Delhi-based party overthrew Congress and placed itself as the principal opposition party in the civic body. Given the fact that AAP is trying to expand its base in Gujarat ahead of the 2022 Assembly polls, Savani's arrival in the party is said to be crucial in order to attract more people from the business community as well as Patidars. Savani is originally from Bhavnagar in Saurashtra region where consolidation of votes can make or break any party. While welcoming Savani, Sisodia said he is expecting many more prominent personalities including BJP leaders to join the party in the near future. Targeting the ruling BJP, he said, "In Gujarat development model, where do you see government-run schools, hospitals, farmers and employment for the youth? This has to change now."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-inducts-prominent-businessman-in-surat-1002072.html
27-06-2021||National||Growing up, never imagined that village boy like me would occupy highest post in nation: Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday said he had never imagined that an ordinary village boy like him would have the honour of occupying the highest post in the country, and thanked the people of his birthplace for this. He was addressing a gathering at the Paraunkh village, which is his birthplace, in Kanpur Dehat district. "I had never imagined even in my dreams that an ordinary village boy like me would have the honour of occupying the highest post in the country. But, our democratic system made this possible," Kovind said. "Wherever I have reached today, the credit goes to the soil of this village, this region, and to your love and blessings," he said and also paid tributes to freedom fighters and makers of the Constitution. "According to my family's 'sanskaar' (values), the oldest woman in the village is given the status of mother and the oldest man is given the status of father, irrespective of caste or community. Today, I feel happy that this tradition of giving respect to the elders in our family is still continuing," Kovind said. He said that the scent of soil of the village and the memories of its residents always remain etched in his heart. "For me Paraunkh is not only a village, it is my 'maatribhoomi' (motherland) from where I get inspiration to serve the country," Kovind said. "This inspiration has made me reach from high court to the Supreme Court to the Rajya Sabha. From the Rajya Sabha, I moved to the Raj Bhavan and from there to the Rashtrapati Bhavan," the president said. Kovind also recited a Sanskrit phrase to highlight the pride of 'janmabhoomi' (place of birth), and said, "The pride of a mother who gives birth (to a child) and the 'janmabhoomi' is greater than heaven." Kovind on Sunday morning reached Paraunkh village where he was welcomed by Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel, and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, said Vikas Rai, the PRO to SP Kanpur Dehat. He took a round of the village along with Patel and Adityanath. Kovind, along with his wife and daughter, also visited the Pathri Devi temple where they offered prayers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/growing-up-never-imagined-that-village-boy-like-me-would-occupy-highest-post-in-nation-kovind-1002074.html
27-06-2021||National||Indo-Japanese partnership during Covid-19 more relevant for global stability, says PM Modi||The Indo-Japanese friendship and partnership during the Covid-19 crisis is more relevant for global stability and prosperity, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday and called for further strengthening of the ties between the two countries. The PM was speaking after virtually inaugurating a Japanese Zen garden and Kaizen Academy set up at the premises of the Ahmedabad Management Association (AMA) here. In his address via video conference, Modi said the opening of the Zen garden and the Kaizen Academy here "is a symbol of the spontaneity and modernity of relations between India and Japan". "The current Prime Minister of Japan, Yoshihide Suga, is a very straight-forward person. PM Suga and I believe that during the time of this Covid-19 pandemic crisis, the Indo-Japanese friendship and our partnership has become even more relevant for global stability and prosperity. Today, when we are facing several global challenges, it is the need of the hour that our friendship and relationship get stronger day by day," Modi said. He said efforts like setting up of the Kaizen Academy are a beautiful reflection of this relationship. "We also have a strong belief in centuries-old cultural ties, and a common vision for future. Based on this, we have been continuously strengthening our special strategic and global partnership over the years. For this, we have also made a special arrangement of 'Japan Plus' (team of officials to promote greater Japanese investments in India) in the PMO (Prime Minister's Office)," he said. 'Zen-Kaizen' at the AMA seeks to showcase several elements of Japanese art, culture, landscape and architecture. It is a joint endeavour of the Japan Information and Study Centre at AMA and the Indo-Japan Friendship Association (IJFA), Gujarat, supported by the Hyogo International Association (HIA), Japan, a release earlier said. Modi said this occasion of the launch of the Zen garden and Kaizen Academy is a "symbol of the spontaneity and modernity of India-Japan relations". The PM said he is confident that this will further strengthen the relationship between India and Japan, bringing citizens of the two countries closer. "I would like the Kaizen Academy to spread the work culture of Japan in India, and increase business interaction between the two countries. We also have to give new energy to the efforts already going on in this direction. I am sure our efforts will continue like this, and India and Japan will together reach new heights of development," he said. Talking about former Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe, Modi said relations between the two countries gained a new impetus when Abe had visited Gujarat. He was very excited when the work of the (Mumbai-Ahmedabad) bullet train project started, the PM said. "Even today, when I talk to him, he remembers his Gujarat tour," he said. Modi also said India and Japan have been devoted to external progress and prosperity, as much as the importance given to internal peace and progress by the two countries. He said the Japanese Zen garden is "a beautiful expression of this quest for peace, this simplicity." Modi said the peace, ease and simplicity that the people of India have learnt through yoga and spirituality for centuries, they will see a glimpse of the same here. "What is 'Zen' in Japan is 'dhyan' (meditation) in India," he said. "This is the meditation that Buddha gave to the world. And as far as the concept of 'Kaizen' is concerned, it is a living proof of the strength of our intentions in the present, of our will to move forward continuously," he said. Modi said he would like the Kaizen Academy to promote the work-culture of Japan in India, and increase business interactions between the two countries. "We have to give new energy to the efforts that are already going in this direction, like the Indo-Japan student exchange programme between the Gujarat University and the Otemon Gakuin University of Osaka. This programme has been strengthening our relationship for over five decades. This can be further expanded. Such partnerships can be done between the two countries and also between institutions," he said. Modi also talked about the relationship between Japan and Gujarat, and recalled that as the then chief minister of Gujarat, he had given special emphasis on Kaizen in the state, which was then used in administrative training, the state education system as well as reforms in the health department. He said after becoming the prime minister, he took the experience from Kaizen to Delhi and started it in the PMO and other departments of the central government. "The affection of the people of Japan, their working style, their skills, their discipline, have always been influencing. And that's why whenever I said I wanted to create a mini-Japan in Gujarat, the main sentiment behind it was that whenever the people of Japan come to Gujarat, they should see the same warmth, the same belongingness," he said. He said Japan joined as the partner country of the Vibrant Gujarat Summit since the very beginning, and even today, the largest delegation is from Japan. "We are all satisfied to see the confidence that Japan has reposed in Gujarat, in the power of its people," Modi said. He said more than 135 Japanese companies are working in Gujarat, in sectors including automobile, banking, construction, and pharma. These companies are also helping in imparting skill development to the youth of Gujarat, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indo-japanese-partnership-during-covid-19-more-relevant-for-global-stability-says-pm-modi-1002085.html
27-06-2021||National||To foster ease of land property registration, govt plans to link e-courts with land records||Seeking to help bonafide buyers know whether the land they plan to buy is under any legal dispute, the government plans to link e-courts with land records and registration database. The government feels that in the long run it will reduce dubious transactions, help in dispute containment and also reduce clogging of the court's system. The pilot project on linking of e-Court with land records and registration database has been successfully completed in Maharashtra along with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana and soon it will be launched across the country. The Department of Justice in the Law Ministry has requested the registrars general of all the high courts to provide clearance to state governments to integrate land records and registration database with eCourts and National Judicial Data Grid (NJDG) for speedy disposal of property disputes. Eight high courts have so far responded.These are Tripura, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Nagaland and Himachal Pradesh. "In this regard, it will be appreciated if you could facilitate expeditious action at your end in providing the state government with necessary clearances for enabling the nationwide launch of linking of e-Court with land records and registration database as well as other tasks related to it," the Department of Justice letter sent in April this year said. It observed that registering property in an easy and transparent manner is one of the parameters evaluated by the World Bank for assessing the performance of 190 global economies on the Ease of Doing Business (EoDB) Index. The Department of Land Resources (DoLR) is the nodal department responsible for registering property index and has earned only 3.5 marks against a total weightage of 13 marks for quality of Land Administration Index, it noted. "To foster ease of land property registration and creation of a conducive eco system, a committee was set up along with eCommittee of the Supreme Court for linking of eCourts with land records and registration database. "The logic behind this is that if the legal status of any land/plot is properly captured and made available on the public domain, it would transparently guide a bonafide buyer while registering a sale deed as to whether the title of the subject land is disputed or not," the letter said. The eCourts project is being implemented in district and subordinate courts of the country with an aim to provide designated services to litigants, lawyers and judiciary through universal computerisation of district and subordinate courts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/to-foster-ease-of-land-property-registration-govt-plans-to-link-e-courts-with-land-records-1002090.html
27-06-2021||National||BJP workers helped people amid Covid surge, some were active only on Twitter: J P Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda on Sunday took a veiled dig at opposition leaders such as RJD's Tejashwi Yadav, saying that "our workers" were out on the streets helping people distressed by the recent Covid-19 surge, unlike "many others who remained active only on Twitter". Nadda, who attended the BJP's state executive meeting in Bihar over a video conference, also said that the saffron party members live by the motto 'seva hi sangathan hai' (service being equivalent to organisation) Yadav often takes to Twitter to criticise the Nitish Kumar government. The 31-year-old opposition leader, who keeps facing accusations of absenteeism, returned to the state last week after spending close to a month in the national capital, where, he claimed, he was looking after his ailing father Lalu Prasad, the RJD national president. "We live by the motto of service being equivalent to organisation. Our workers helped the needy during the second wave without any trepidation. Many others chose to remain active only on Twitter, quarantining themselves at safe places," said Nadda. The BJP leader who relishes his connections with the Bihar capital, where he was born and spent his early years, also reiterated the need for reminding the younger generation of excesses committed during the Emergency imposed by the Congress government and the lawlessness that kept Bihar in news when Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi ruled the state for 15 years together. "During Emergency, a mere visit to Jayaprakash Narayan's house in Kadam Kuan could invite arrest. Our comrades like Ashwini Kumar Choubey (Union minister) faced untold brutalities while in jail. Youngsters of today do not know all this. They should be told about these things, about the sacrifices our generation made for preserving democracy," said Nadda, who was an active member of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad in the 1970s. "They must also be reminded of the days under Lalu, when people feared to venture out after sunset and medical practitioners and professionals had begun to migrate out of Bihar fearing the rampant extortion rackets and kidnappings for ransom," he said. Notably, the RJD and the Congress are old allies and have shared power in the state as well as at the Centre. Mocking the agitations against the new farm laws, the BJP president said, "Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had shared an anecdote that when asked to point out which provisions they find objectionable, the protesters could lay their fingers on none. But they have launched a movement." He also urged party leaders to apprise the common public of the work done by the Narendra Modi government for the betterment of farmers, small- and medium-scale industries and every section of the society. He exhorted party workers to put in efforts to ensure the success of the universal vaccination programme against Covid-19 and work with the motto "mera booth- corona mukt, vaccination yukt" (my booth free from corona, fully vaccinated).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-workers-helped-people-amid-covid-surge-some-were-active-only-on-twitter-j-p-nadda-1002098.html
27-06-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi spreading confusion, lies about vaccination, says Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday accused Congress leader Rahul Gandhi of spreading "misconceptions, confusion and lies" about Covid-19 vaccines, which was leading to many people "putting their lives in danger" by refusing to take the doses. He was reacting to a tweet by Gandhi in which the latter had taken a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi's radio programme Mann Ki Baat. "Bas Har Deshwasi Tak Vaccine Pahucha Do, Fir Chahe Mann Ki Baat Bhi Suna Do!" (Just deliver the vaccine to every citizen, and then put forth your Mann ki Baat if you want)," Gandhi had tweeted. Hitting back, the MP CM said the PM was providing free vaccines to all while Gandhi was "only spreading confusion". "Shame on you Rahul Baba, it is prime minister Narendra Modi who is getting people vaccinated and not you. The prime minister is providing free vaccines to all the citizens of the country and you are only spreading confusion! You spread confusion, lied due to which many people refused to get vaccines," Chouhan said on Twitter. During the day, seeking to make people shed their reservations about vaccines against coronavirus, Modi spoke to residents of Dulariya village in MP's Betul district, and the chat was aired on the PM's monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' broadcast on Sunday. The MP CM further tweeted, "Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji today spoke to the villagers in Dulariya village of Betul district who were not getting vaccinated due to confusion. Explained it to them in simple words and the villagers started taking the vaccine." While the PM had removed the clouds of confusion about vaccination, the CM said Gandhi was "putting people's lives in danger by lying, spreading misconceptions".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-spreading-confusion-lies-about-vaccination-says-shivraj-singh-chouhan-1002105.html
27-06-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine for kids will pave way for school reopening, says AIIMS chief||Making Covid-19 vaccine available for children will be a milestone achievement and pave the way for reopening of schools and resumption of outdoor activities for them, AIIMS Chief Dr Randeep Guleria has said. He said the data of phase two and three trial of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin on two to 18 years age group is expected by September. The vaccine can be available for children in India around that time following approval from the drug regulator, he said. "If the Pfizer vaccine gets approval before that, then it can also be an option for children," Dr Guleria told PTI on Saturday. According to a senior government official, pharmaceutical major Zydus Cadila is also likely to soon apply to the Drugs Controller General of India for emergency use authorisation for its Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D, which it claims can be given to both adults and children. "So, if the Zydus vaccine gets approval, it will be another option," Dr Guleria said. He stressed that though children mostly have mild infections of Covid-19 and some even are asymptomatic, they can be carriers of the infection. Underscoring that there has been a major loss in studies in the last one-and-half years on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, the AIIMS chief said, "Schools have to be reopened and vaccination can play an important role in that." Vaccination is the way out from the pandemic, he said. The government has recently cautioned that even though Covid-19 has not impacted children greatly till now, that can increase if there is a change in the behaviour of the virus or in epidemiology dynamics. It said that preparations are being made to deal with any such situation. A national expert group has been formed to review Covid-19 infections among children and approach the pandemic in a new way and reinforce the nation's preparedness for it. On the issue of vaccinating children, NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul recently said, "Child cohort is not a small one. My rough guess is that if it is between 12 to 18 years, this itself is about 13 to 14 crore population for which we will need about 25-26 crore doses." He further shared that not only Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Zydus Cadila's vaccine is also being tested on children. "So when Zydus comes for licensure soon, maybe we have enough data to take a view on whether the vaccine can be given in children," Paul said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-for-kids-will-pave-way-for-school-reopening-says-aiims-chief-1002108.html
27-06-2021||National||IBBI 'inadvertently' puts out Aadhaar, PAN info of creditors on website; removes them later||The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) "inadvertently" put out on its website Aadhaar and PAN details of creditors, including workmen, of some companies undergoing resolution process, and the issues are expected to be sorted out in the next few days. A senior official said the details came into the public domain "inadvertently" as the regulator is working on a beta project to host the information of creditors of companies undergoing Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) and liquidation. The IBBI, a key institution in implementing the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), is working on the project to ensure and enhance transparency with respect to CIRP and liquidation processes, the official said, adding that the matter will be sorted out in the next few days. The details that were inadvertently put out have been removed, the official added. It could not be immediately ascertained as to such details of how many creditors were put out. There was no official comment from the IBBI. Under the IBBI regulations, details about creditors, including workmen, of companies undergoing CIRP or liquidation should be disclosed on the websites of the companies (corporate debtors) concerned. The details required include name of the creditor concerned, amount claimed and amount admitted. In case of a CIRP, these details have to be disclosed by the resolution professional concerned while in liquidation processes, the respective liquidator would make these disclosures. Such details have to be put out on the websites of the companies concerned. With instances where many small companies do not have or are unable to maintain their websites, the IBBI is working on a project to host these details on its website for easy access of the creidtors. The work started a few days back. In some cases, the details about creditors, including information such as their Aadhaar and PAN, were submitted in the PDF format. Since it is difficult to remove specific details from the PDF files, Aadhaar and PAN information of many people were inadvertently made available on the IBBI website, the official said. Those details that were inadvertently put out have now been removed, the official added. There have been instances of resolution professionals approaching the IBBI and the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) with respect to the regulations requiring public disclosure of details of creditors. In an order passed in December 2018, the Allahabad bench of the NCLT had directed an Interim Resolution Professional (IRP) to publish the list of creditors on the corporate debtor's website. "... IRP is directed to publish the list of the creditors containing the names of the creditors along with the amount claimed by them, the amount of their claims admitted and the security interest, if any, on the website of the corporate debtor," the NCLT bench had said. The order had come on a petition filed by the IRP seeking certain directions with respect to disclosure of names of creditors and amounts claimed by them with respect to the corporate debtor (company) undergoing CIRP. Since the provisions of the CIRP came into force on December 1, 2016, a total of 4,376 CIRPs have commenced till the end of March this year. Out of the total, 2,653 have been closed, including 348 CIRPs that ended in approval of resolution plans. As many as 617 CIRPs were closed on appeal or review or settled, while 411 were withdrawn and 1,277 ended in orders for liquidation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ibbi-inadvertently-puts-out-aadhaar-pan-info-of-creditors-on-website-removes-them-later-1002115.html
27-06-2021||National||Railways improves operating ratio to 97.45% in Covid-hit FY21||Limited train services for most of the year with no subsidies or concessions and severely tightening of expenses have led to the Railways better its operating ratio to 97.45 per cent in the financial year 2020-21 from 98.36 per cent the previous fiscal, according to an RTI reply. Operating ratio is the amount spent to earn every Rs 100. The lower it is the better. It is used to measure the operational efficiency of any organisation. Higher the operating ratio, lower the financial resources available for expansion and growth. The improvement in the running costs of the Railways means the national transporter was able to lower its expenditure and make up for the shortfall in passenger traffic through revenue generated by freight operations. "Operating ratio for the year 2019-2020 was 98.36 per cent... the operating ratio for 2020-21 has been calculated at 97.45 per cent on a provisional basis," the Railway Board said in reply to an RTI query by Madhya Pradesh-based activist Chandra Shekar Gaur. A railway spokesperson attributed the improved numbers to the strict monitoring of expenses by the national transporter which, he said, is a "combination of initiatives aimed at maximizing revenue receipts and minimizing controllable revenue expenses". "The expenditure was monitored and regulated strictly in line with train operations. Investments made in the past seven years in electrification helped the Railways not only save substantially in diesel cost but also helped it to be a more environmentally conscious organization. "Other expenditure control steps included strict economy and austerity measures, improved manpower planning, better asset utilization, inventory management etc. These initiatives were further supported by higher freight revenues," the spokesperson said. However, the Railways was aided in its austerity measures by the fact that it did not operate the highly subsidised passenger segment in full throttle in 2020-21. Till the end of the year, the Railways ran around 65 per cent trains with no concessions for any category of passengers, with the exception of a few, saving crores. It also saw a sharp decline in pension liabilities with the national transporter making an arrangement with the finance ministry to defer this expense. With the electrification of major routes, the Railways also saved Rs 9,500 crore in traction cost over 2019-20. Similarly, savings of Rs 4000 crore were done through rationalisation and optimisation of duties. The Railways also saved Rs 3,000 crore last year as compared to 2019-20 by rationalisation and optimization of contracts and procurement of goods and services. "Other revenue-enhancing measures, inter alia, include targeting progressively higher traffic throughput, expansion of commodity basket, effective and innovative marketing strategies to capture more traffic by business development units at all levels, optimum utilization of existing rail infrastructure, including rolling stock, enhancement in productivity and efficiency and focus on increasing the share of non-fare revenue sources in Railways' total revenue," the spokesperson said. With passenger carrying trains restricted, the Railways reported record freight loading in 2020-21 despite the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, which led to negative growth in loading during the lockdown. Freight loading in 2020-21 stood at 1,232.63 million tonnes, up 1.93 per cent over 1,209.32 million tonnes the previous financial year, the Railway Ministry said. During 2020-21, revenue from freight loading for Indian Railways stood at Rs 1,17,386 crore, which is 3 per cent higher compared with Rs 1,13,897.20 crore in 2019-2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-improves-operating-ratio-to-9745-in-covid-hit-fy21-1002125.html
27-06-2021||National||AIMIM to contest Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls||After showing 'good performance' in the Bihar Assembly elections, the AIMIM party on Sunday announced that it would contest 100 seats in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls in 2022. All India Majils-e-Ittehadul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi said they will contest the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls in alliance with Om Prakash Rajbhar-led Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) and Bhaagidaari Sankalp Morcha, a front of smaller parties. The Hyderabad MP, by tweeting in Hindi, announced that his party will contest the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. उ.प्र. चुनाव को लेकर मैं कुछ बातें आपके सामने रख देना चाहता हूँ:- 1) हमने फैसला लिया है कि हम 100 सीटों पर अपना उम्मीदवार खड़ा करेंगे, पार्टी ने उम्मीदवारों को चुनने का प्रक्रिया शुरू कर दी है और हमने उम्मीदवार आवेदन पत्र भी जारी कर दिया है।1/2 He usually sends out his message on the social media platform in English. "Regarding Uttar Pradesh elections we have decided to field our candidates in 100 seats. The party has started the process of selecting the candidates and has also released the candidate/aspirants application forms," Owaisi tweeted. In another tweet, the AIMIM chief said"We are with OP Rajbhar Sahab 'Bhaagidaari Sankalp Morcha'. We did not have any talks with any other party regarding elections or tie-up". Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh are slated for early next year. In last year's Bihar assembly elections, the AIMIM won five seats (it contested 20) in the Muslim-dominated Seemanchal region on the border of West Bengal. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aimim-to-contest-uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-1002126.html
27-06-2021||National||Government defers mandatory installation of front seat airbags in existing car models till Dec 31||The road transport ministry has deferred by four months the mandatory installation of dual airbags for front seats in the existing car models, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, a senior government official said on Sunday.         At present, only the driver's seat airbag is mandatory for existing models of cars.         In view of the prevailing pandemic situation, the ministry has decided to defer mandatory installation of front passenger airbags in the existing car models till December 31, 2021, the official said on condition of anonymity.         " The Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) has asked for time. For new models it's already mandatory," the official added.          The ministry on March 6 had said that vehicles manufactured on and after April 1, 2021, in the case of new models, and August 31, 2021, in the case of existing models shall be fitted with an airbag for the person occupying the front seat, other than the driver.         The step is aimed at improving passenger safety in case of accident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-defers-mandatory-installation-of-front-seat-airbags-in-existing-car-models-till-dec-31-1002129.html
27-06-2021||National||Serum Institute of India produces over 10 crore doses of Covishield in June||The immunisation data published at 7 am on Sunday showed that India administered 64.25 lakh vaccine doses in a day, taking the cumulative number of jabs given so far under the nationwide inoculation drive to 32.17 crore. According to information provided to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, it has sent 45 batches of Covishield, amounting to 10.80 crore doses, to the Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli for release in June so far. The firm's Director at Government and Regulatory Affairs, Prakash Kumar Singh, had in May communicated to Union Home Minister Amit Shah that Covishield production would be ramped up to 10 crore doses in June. "We are committed to enhancing the production capacity of our Covishield vaccine and have been working round-the-clock in spite of various challenges being faced by us because of Covid-19 pandemic. "We are pleased to inform that in the month of June we will be able to manufacture and supply nine to 10 crore doses of our Covishield vaccine to our country as compared to our present production capacity of 6.5 crore doses in May," Singh had said in a communication to Shah. The nationwide vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and Union Territories enabling them to plan better, streamlining the vaccine supply chain, according to the Health Ministry. Under the revised guidelines, vaccine doses are provided free of cost by the Centre and are allocated to states and Union Territories based on criteria such as population, disease burden and the progress of vaccination. The Centre procures 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced in the country. All above the age of 18 years are eligible for free vaccine doses. The Centre had earlier allowed states and private hospitals to procure 50 per cent of the vaccines following demands for decentralisation of the process. However, after several states complained of problems including funding, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the revised vaccine guidelines. In order to incentivise production and encourage new vaccines, domestic manufacturers are given the option to provide vaccines directly to private hospitals. This is restricted to 25 per cent of their monthly production under the new guidelines. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-of-india-produces-over-10-crore-doses-of-covishield-in-june-1002134.html
27-06-2021||National||India has capacity to store Covid vaccines requiring low temperatures, Centre tells Supreme Court||India has the capacity to store vaccines that may require a lower temperature in the range of minus 15 to minus 20 degrees Celsius and there are over 29,000 cold chain points (CCPs) across the country where vaccines are stored at the recommended temperatures, the Centre has told the Supreme Court. In an affidavit filed in the apex court in a suo motu case on distribution of essential supplies and services during the Covid-19 pandemic, the Centre has said that at present, the two vaccines -- Covishield and Covaxin -- are required to be stored at a temperature range of two to eight degrees Celsius. The Centre has said the requirement for cold storage may change with the arrival of other Covid-19 vaccines in the future and it is fully prepared to take appropriate steps as and when such vaccines are available. "The country also has the capacity to store vaccines which may require a lower temperature in the range of minus 15 to minus 20 degrees Centigrade. The Sputnik V vaccine requires storage at minus 18 degrees Centigrade," said the affidavit filed on Saturday. "It is submitted that there are more than 29,000 cold chain points (CCPs) across the country in states/UTs, where the vaccines are stored at recommended temperatures," it said, adding, "Of the above CCPs, four national level stores i.e. Government Medical Store Depot (GMSD) are managed by the Government of India and the remaining are managed by the respective state/UT governments," it added. It said there are 37 state vaccine stores, 114 regional vaccine stores, 723 district vaccine stores and 28,268 sub-district vaccine stores. The affidavit said that based on the requirement of both the universal immunisation programme and Covid-19 vaccination, the government has centrally procured and supplied cold chain equipment (CCE) to the states and Union territories (UTs). "Further, funds are allocated to the states/UTs under the National Health Mission-Programme Implementation Plan (NHM-PIP) for maintenance of CCEs and also for provisioning cold chain technicians (CCTs) for undertaking the repair and maintenance of CCEs," it said. The affidavit said there are 29,116 CCPs, located from the national to the sub-district level across the country, which have CCEs like walk-in coolers, walk-in freezers, ice-lined refrigerators, deep freezers, cold boxes for the storage of vaccines and freezing of ice packs. "The capacity of these CCPs has been augmented for the Covid-19 vaccination drive," it said. The affidavit said the cold storage equipment procured by the government through the domestic budget is indigenously manufactured. "The cold storage equipment supplied as aid by the donors i.e. UNICEF constitutes both indigenously-manufactured equipment and imported equipment," it said. In the affidavit, the Centre has also that the digital divide is no more a constraint as walk-in Covid vaccination has been allowed and a poor person and a multi-millionaire in the 18 years and above age group are equally entitled to get the vaccine for free. Till June 25, over 31 crore doses of the Covid vaccines have been administered in the country, the government has said while responding to a slew of questions raised by the apex court in its May 31 order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-capacity-to-store-covid-vaccines-requiring-low-temperatures-centre-tells-supreme-court-1002138.html
27-06-2021||National||2nd Covishield dose interval reduced for Tokyo-bound athletes: Centre tells SC||The Centre has told the Supreme Court that the athletes, sportspersons and accompanying staff of the Indian contingent attending the Tokyo Olympics, students undertaking foreign travel for education and persons working abroad will be administered the second dose of the Covishield vaccine prior to the prescribed time interval (after 28 days but before 84 days). Presently, based on the recommendations of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NÉGVAC), the schedule of Covishield under the National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy is to administer the second dose at an interval of 12-16 weeks (after 84 days) from the date of administration of the first dose. In a 380-page affidavit filed in the Supreme Court on Saturday in a suo motu matter on Covid management, the Centre has said the health ministry has received several representations from students as well as states such as Kerala regarding relaxations for the administration of the second dose of Covishield before the currently stipulated 84-day interval for students going abroad for higher studies. On May 31, the top court had slammed the Centre's Covid vaccination policy, saying it is "prima facie arbitrary and irrational" to allow the states and private hospitals to charge those in the 18-44 age group while the jabs were offered for free in the first two phases of the nationwide inoculation drive, and ordered its review. In the affidavit, the Centre said, "The various representations request for allowing the administration of the second dose of Covishield for such persons who have only taken the first dose and are seeking to undertake international travel for educational purposes or employment opportunities or as part of India's contingent for the Tokyo Olympic games, but whose planned travel dates fall prior to the completion of the currently mandated minimum interval of 84 days from the date of the first dose." The Centre said the matter was taken up at a meeting of the Empowered Group-5 (EG-5) on Covid vaccination, "which has recommended administration of second dose of Covishield prior to the prescribed time interval (after 28 days but before 84 days) to provide full coverage of vaccination and facilitating international travel". It said this special dispensation will be available to "students who have to undertake foreign travel for the purposes of education, persons who have to take up jobs in foreign countries and athletes, sportspersons and accompanying staff of the Indian contingent attending the Olympic games to be held in Tokyo". The Centre submitted that the time interval between the two doses of Covishield under the vaccination drive has undergone a series of revisions based on the available and emerging scientific evidence under the overall guidance of the NEGVAC. "From four weeks at the start of the vaccination drive to a gap of six to eight weeks, currently, the interval between the first and the second dose of Covishield is 12-16 weeks in view of the emerging evidence documenting higher seroconversion and protection offered at a longer dose interval," it said. The Centre further said that the matter was discussed by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), which recommended increasing the interval between the two doses of Covishield to 12-16 weeks. It said the requisite facility on the Co-WIN portal for the administration of the second dose in such exceptional cases will be made available shortly and a separate standard operating procedure (SOP) has been issued for the administration of the second dose of Covishield prior to the prescribed time interval. In the SOP, the Centre has advised that vaccination may be availed in such cases through the passport, which is one of the permissible ID documents according to the current guidelines, so that the passport number is printed on the vaccination certificate. "However, if passport was not used at the time of administration of the first dose, the details of the photo ID card used for vaccination will be printed on the vaccination certificate and a mention of the passport in the vaccination certificate is not to be insisted upon," it has said. It has further said that wherever necessary, the competent authority may issue another certificate linking the vaccination certificate with the beneficiary's passport number. "This facility shall be available to those who need to undertake international travel for these specified purposes in the period up to August 31," it said. "This is to clarify that these SOPs have been issued specifically for Covishield because only the time interval between the two doses of Covishield has been increased from six-eight weeks to 12-16 weeks. The period for Covaxin has remained the same i.e four-six weeks and hence, there was no need for any special dispensation for the second dose of Covaxin. It is also clarified that complete vaccination with Covaxin is also sufficient for foreign travel," the government has said. With regard to the vaccination of crematorium and panchayat workers, the Centre submitted that crematorium workers (regardless of their employment status of being permanent, contractual, outsourced or manpower working with a contractor with or without any designation), who are engaged in working in cremation grounds, and panchayat workers in rural areas involved in Covid control activities are already included in the "municipal workers group" under the "frontline workers category".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2nd-covishield-dose-interval-reduced-for-tokyo-bound-athletes-centre-tells-sc-1002140.html
27-06-2021||National||Rise in cases of depression, panic attacks, insomnia due to Covid-related trauma: Experts||Inability to mourn with family members or cope with grief alone due to Covid constraints has led to an increase in cases of depression, anxiety, insomnia and other mental health disorders among people in Delhi who have been affected directly or indirectly by the pandemic, experts said. Several hospitals and clinics in the national capital are registering a spike in the number of patients complaining of symptoms related to pyschological ailments triggered by post-traumatic stress, they said. Delhi had reeled under a brutal second wave of the pandemic which claimed a massive number of lives daily, with the oxygen supply shortage issue at various hospitals, having added to the woes. Hospital premises and crematoriums had witnessed distressful scenes, with grieving family members, many in full PPE kits, trying to come to terms with the loss of their loved ones. Medical experts in Delhi concurred that the family members were unable to grieve together after losing their dear ones to Covid due to safety constraints and social distancing norms. The second wave, in many cases, saw the whole family testing positive for coronavirus, and even after death, they couldn't conduct last rites, leading to sedimentation of grief inside that triggers mental health disorders, they said. In several cases, even though there were no fatalities in the families, many people lost their friends, acquaintances or someone they knew closely, or they survived with great difficulty, adding to their mental stress, doctors said on Sunday which coincided with the PTSD (Post-traumatic Stress Disorder) Awareness Day. "Sadness, isolation, grief of fear of losing loved ones, loss of income and decreasing socialisation are exacerbating mental health conditions. OPD footfall has increased by 30-40 per cent since the surge in cases," said Manish Jain, consultant, psychiatry department at BLK Hospital here. People with pre-existing mental health issues are also more vulnerable to substance and impulsive behaviours during a pandemic. Restriction in lifestyles and fear of Covid-19, both have started taking a toll on their mental health, he said. Dr Sameer Malhotra, director and head, department of mental health and behavioral sciences, Max Super Speciality Hospital, Saket said, "There's a definite rise in the cases of anxiety and depression seen across the population during the Covid-19 pandemic". Whereas there has been significantly high numbers registered after the second wave, the hospital have seen many people coming to terms with grief after having lost their family members, and suffered depression and significant anxiety due to it, he said. But, people are looking for relief from such mental disorders through not just allopathy but homeopathy too. Doctors at Delhi's Dr Kalyan Banerjee's Clinic, which sees rush even on regular days, are witnessing a significant rise in patients reporting with psychological and mental health conditions. The clinic has seen a 40 per cent spike in the number of patients complaining of symptoms related to mental health. About 2,500 prescriptions every month, as opposed to 1,750 prescriptions per month in the pre-pandemic era, are being given to manage symptoms like anxiety, depression, panic attacks, insomnia, and other related symptoms, doctors said. Patients of mental health disorders whose condition had improved to the extent that it required no medicines, have begun to experience relapses, they said. Patients who had never experienced any mental health issues in the past are also coming to the clinic complaining of vague, but significant symptoms like a feeling of being tired all the time, inability to fall asleep, lack of appetite, irritability, inability to focus on work and other issues, said experts at the clinic, founded by Padma Shri Dr Kalyan Banerjee. Many of these patients have been directly affected by Covid-19, where they or someone close contracted the infection, or they knew someone who has passed away due to coronavirus, doctors said. "India along with most countries in the world, has seen a spike in mental health cases during this pandemic. A section of the patients are turning to homeopathy because they are uncomfortable taking psychiatric medicines which may be difficult to give up," Banerjee said. Patients who are personally or professionally unaffected by the disease or by the lockdown, are also not being spared. The most important aspect in these cases are the physical presence of friends and loved ones, but due to Covid norms, people unable to get together or channelise grief, the doctor said. Some other reasons that could trigger such disorders include fear of long-term effects of Covid-19 and the pervasive negativity around us today, he added. Dr Kushal Banerjee, senior homeopath at the clinic said, "A major cause behind the rise in numbers of patients experiencing psychological distress and post-traumatic stress is that our mechanisms for coping with irreplaceable loss are either failing or not being allowed to kick in due to restrictions on our movements, activities, and interactions. This in turn has made it imperative that they seek professional help and guidance."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rise-in-cases-of-depression-panic-attacks-insomnia-due-to-covid-related-trauma-experts-1002152.html
27-06-2021||National||Indian missions working on war footing to get medicines for mucormycosis: Centre to SC||The Union health ministry, in a 375-page affidavit filed in the apex court on Saturday, responded in detail to the query of an apex court bench about the steps being taken to ensure drug availability for Mucormycosis. It said the projected production of L-Amphotericin B by domestic manufacturers in August is likely to be 5.525 lakh units of injections and in order to maintain equitable distribution, states are given the medicines in accordance with the proportion of their reported caseload. Besides ramping up domestic production facilities of medicines like Amphotericin, the government said it has also issued guidance on the judicious use of the drug, and states and UTs have been required to put in place transparent arrangements for allocation to private and government hospitals. “The drug Amphotericin is available both through domestic production and by imports, and both sources have been ramped up. The capacity and supply have had to be increased manifold in a very short period of time to cope with the surge in demand seen for the first time in May and June 2021. "Further, allocation is being made as an interim measure to enable equitable distribution across states, using patient data of Mucormycosis as reported on the portal created for this purpose by MoHFW (Ministry of Health and Family Welfare),” it said. The affidavit said in order to augment domestic manufacturing, the Centre has been continuously engaging with manufacturers to resolve issues related to raw materials. In this regard, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) is playing a critical role in reaching out to various manufacturers abroad, and with the active participation of MEA, several important and critical steps have been taken to augment both domestic production and imports. “It may be noted that vide OM dated 16.05.2021, MHFW had requested MEA to explore all possibilities of sourcing Amphotericin B/Liposomal Amphotericin B injection from abroad through Indian Mission. "Accordingly, MEA has also instructed Indian Missions all over the world to immediately identify additional sources of the drug and alternative drugs for the treatment of Mucormycosis. The said exercise is in process at war footing,” it said. In order to augment domestic production, the Department of Pharmaceuticals and the Drug Controller General of India has actively coordinated with the industry for the identification of manufacturers, alternate drugs and expeditious approvals of new manufacturing facilities, the affidavit said. “The DCGI after consultation with the association of Drugs manufacturers has recently issued manufacturing/marketing permission of Amphotericin B Liposomal Injection to eleven companies so as to augment the production which would be available. Some of such 11 companies have already started producing and some are commencing production from July 2021,” it said. The affidavit also dealt with the availability of Remdesivir and said that looking at the sudden increase in demand for the patented drug in April 2021, the central government had made efforts to augment the production by the seven licensed domestic manufacturers. “The domestic production capacity was augmented from 38 lakh vials per month to nearly 122 lakh vials per month with the accelerated approval of 40 additional manufacturing sites by the DCGI (Drug Controller General of India) taking the number of sites to 62,” it said. The government also undertook allocation of the drug to all the states and UTs in a move to ensure fair and equitable distribution for an interim period till production was ramped up and the drug became adequately available in the market, it said. Beginning with the first distribution to states and UTs on April 21, 2021 to the last allocation made on May 23, 2021, the total cumulative allocation of 98.87 lakh vials of Remdesivir was made to them, it said. “Meanwhile, noting the slowdown in the demand of Remdesivir…owing to decrease in the number of active cases and sufficient availability of the drug with States/UTs, allocation by Government of India has been discontinued in the end of May 2021, and states / UTs can purchase as per their requirement from the manufacturers,” it said. Dealing with the availability of Tocilizumab, the Centre said, this medicine is listed in the treatment protocol for the management of Covid 19 patients. “Since the drug is not manufactured in India it is sourced from a company Roche in Switzerland and marketed by Cipla Ltd in India. "Till about March 2021, the demand of Tocilizumab by various hospitals across the country was adequately being met until the sudden spike of Covid cases April 2021 onwards whereby the demand for the drug went up hugely,” it said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-missions-working-on-war-footing-to-get-medicines-for-mucormycosis-centre-to-sc-1002175.html
27-06-2021||National||Karnataka among southern states with low rural Covid-19 vaccine coverage||In Karnataka, 63 per cent of Covid-19 vaccination centres are in villages, but only 46 per cent of the doses have been administered in those centres between May 1 and June 23, the Union Health Ministry said in an affidavit in the Supreme Court. The ministry, in mid-May, released a standard operating procedure to improve the Covid-19 containment and management strategy in peri-urban and rural areas as the epidemic spread to these districts. Ensuring high vaccination coverage in rural areas was one of the pivotal strategies. But the data shared with the top court paint a different picture for several states. Telangana, for instance, administered only 34 per cent of doses in rural centres (37 per cent of Telangana vaccination centres are in rural areas), while Andhra Pradesh and Kerala used 63 per cent and 73 per cent of their doses respectively in such centres. In Kerala, 60 per cent of the vaccination centres are located in the countryside, while the corresponding number for Andhra Pradesh is 53 per cent. Tamil Nadu is marginally better than Karnataka, whereas Goa fared fairly well as the tiny coastal state administered 65 per cent of its vaccine doses in rural centres. The ministry said out of 1,24,969 vaccination centres classified by the state governments as rural centres or urban centres so far, as many as 93,044 vaccination centres (74.45 per cent of them) are located in rural areas. More than 56 per cent of doses have been administered at the rural vaccination centers between May 1 and June 23. Among better performing states are Himachal Pradesh (77%), Chhattisgarh (68%) and Bihar (64%), whereas Mizoram and Telangana are the worst performers as they delivered only 34 per cent of the doses in rural areas. In tribal areas, according to the ministry, vaccination per million population is 2.19 lakhs, which is better than the national average of 2.13 lakh. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-among-southern-states-with-low-rural-covid-19-vaccine-coverage-1002203.html
27-06-2021||National||Farmers warn of agitation if sugarcane dues not cleared by UP govt||A farmers' organisation in Uttar Pradesh has warned of an agitation if dues of sugarcane farmers are not paid on time. In a letter to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, convenor of Rashtriya Kisan Majdoor Sangathan V M Singh said Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the 2017 UP Assembly elections had said the payment to the sugarcane farmers will be done in 14 days, or interest will be given if the amount is not paid on time. But despite the passage of four-and-half years, the promise has not been fulfilled, he said, adding farmers had voted for the BJP in the election in the hope that their problems will be solved. If the promises are not fulfilled, the farmers will stage a protest from July 6-12 at the offices of district magistrates, sub-divisional magistrates and tehsil offices. After this, on July 15, there will be an agitation at the cane commissioner's office, Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-warn-of-agitation-if-sugarcane-dues-not-cleared-by-up-govt-1002231.html
27-06-2021||National Politics||Opposition unity: Efforts on but doubts persist||A string of Assembly election victories, most notably in Bengal recently, has shown that the formidable Modi-Shah election machine is fallible, and has given the Opposition wind beneath its wings. Add to this a fear of persecution by central agencies, defections to the cash-rich ruling party, and in some cases, existential worries, the rationale for Opposition unity ahead of presidential elections in 2022 and Lok Sabha polls two years later is clear. The first steps appear to have been taken. But several questions swirl: What shape will it take? Who will bring it together? It may work in some key states, but how will it dislodge the still-popular Modi from Delhi? What role will poll strategist Prashant Kishor play? And where does Congress, an embarrassing underperformer but still the only truly national party in its ranks, fit into the scheme of things? This week, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, who, many believe, could be a magnet to bring different parties together, held a meeting of political leaders and eminent persons from different walks of life, who called for the need of an "alternate vision" in the country and hit out at the current NDA dispensation.  The meeting was called under the banner of Rashtra Manch headed by former finance minister Yashwant Sinha, a known detractor of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Prashant Kishor, who had finalised the electoral strategy of several Opposition chief ministers, met Pawar thrice in a fortnight, including a day before and a day after this meeting, setting the circles abuzz. Political analyst Rasheed Kidwai admits "No one expected a regional front with its leaders and plans emerging out of this meeting" but insists the talks make one sit up and take notice because Pawar is the face of Opposition unity and Sinha is the vice president of TMC, which halted the Modi juggernaut in Bengal. "This is laying the road or testing the ground for larger Opposition unity before 2024 elections, and also working out things before 2022 Uttar Pradesh polls. Expectedly, the noise has begun around it," Kidwai says. The first sign was visible when regional parties like the NCP (Maharashtra), RJD (Bihar), SP (UP) and JMM (Jharkhand) rallied behind TMC's Mamata Banerjee in Bengal polls this year, which she won for the third consecutive term. The unity continued, with leaders projecting her as a challenger to Modi. Months after Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal backed Mamata over the row over transfer of three Bengal IPS officers, which he condemned as “Centre’s blatant interference”, Mamata backed him by slamming the Centre’s NCT Bill on Delhi. But the question is, whether this bonhomie of regional parties will help them come up with a unanimous alternative to Modi in 2024. No doubt, Pawar’s meeting with eight leaders has kickstarted the long-drawn-out process of realignment of forces in the Opposition backyard. While Shiv Sena, in its mouthpiece ‘Saamna’, urged Rahul Gandhi to join hands with Pawar to take on the BJP and underlined the need to go beyond debates and discussion, Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Dinesh Gundu Rao backed it, saying, “It is necessary and I am sure there is a conversation happening already. I welcome whatever the Shiv Sena has said. It’s a good suggestion.” This was the first time a senior leader from the main Opposition party indicated something is indeed cooking. While the AICC has so far steered clear of questions regarding the possible formation of a third front, this time, none in the party attacked or mocked the idea — something they have done in the past. Congress’ role On Saturday, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut made a clear assertion that work is on to bring all Opposition parties together at the national level, where the Congress has a key role. “The Congress will play an important role in the alliance. It will be a strong alternative to the present dispensation,” he said. While none of the five Congress leaders who were invited to the June 22 meeting showed up, senior party leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath met Pawar separately. After losing two consecutive general elections, the Congress has not been able to hold its pack together while the resurgent BJP has not spared any chance to poach potential leaders after 2019, including Jyotiraditya Scindia and Jitin Prasada. According to the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), 42% of MLAs who defected between 2016 and 2020 belonged to the Congress. Most of them joined the BJP, including in Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. The near-rebellion by ‘G-23’ leaders also points to a growing desperation in the Congress camp. A third shot at power to the BJP could sound the death knell for the oldest party. With challenges upfront, realisation is dawning on the Congress that it can’t ignore regional forces, which did a good job of trampling the BJP in states — be it Arvind Kejriwal in Delhi or Mamata Banerjee in West Bengal. The Congress also owes to regional parties like DMK and RJD for its existence in states like Tamil Nadu and Bihar. On the other hand, regional parties are also aware that without an anchor, Opposition unity will be a short-lived affair in both pre- and post-poll scenarios. Bringing them together While Yashwant Sinha and Sharad Pawar did not speak much and instead chose to listen, leaders of eight Opposition parties, including SP, RLD (both players in poll-bound UP), the Left, and eminent citizens like former MP Javed Akhtar minced no words in criticising the current dispensation. Some views that reverberated were: “The Congress should be the fulcrum of any Opposition unity attempt” and such attempts need to involve people and “not remain confined to documentary-writing or television debates”. And here comes the role of Kishor to bring regional satraps (not always supportive of each other) and Congress to the negotiating table. Though Kishor denied any grandiose plan, his meetings with Pawar assume significance given his role in scripting the poll campaigns of a number of chief ministers from the Opposition camp — Mamata Banerjee, M K Stalin, Captain Amarinder Singh, Arvind Kejriwal and Jaganmohan Reddy. It makes him a suitable candidate to evolve consensus over a face by negotiating through competing ambitions, something he had done between Lalu Prasad and Nitish Kumar in 2015 Bihar polls. His proximity to Priyanka Gandhi could also come in handy here.  Pawar and Kishor are also credited with the seemingly impossible task of bringing the Shiv Sena and Congress — two poles of Maharashtra politics — together to form a government. A common grudge that could set parties against the BJP is that the Centre is using its investigating agencies selectively against Opposition leaders. The NCP, in fact, slammed the BJP for using probe agencies to target political rivals. “The Centre is sparing no chance to corner the Opposition. It is this adversity which will bring them together,” said a senior Opposition leader, who preferred anonymity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-unity-efforts-on-but-doubts-persist-1001976.html
27-06-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | Poor and rich above 18 to get free Covid jabs: Centre tells SC||A 375-page affidavit was filed by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in response to a slew of questions raised by the apex court in its May 31 order while hearing the suo motu case related to Covid management in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-poor-and-rich-above-18-to-get-free-covid-jabs-centre-tells-sc-1001984.html
27-06-2021||National Politics||Mayawati trashes alliance rumours with AIMIM, to go solo in UP, Uttarakhand polls||Facing the dangers of being reduced to a fringe player in state politics, BSP supremo Mayawati on Sunday trashed reports of electoral tie-up with the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) in the forthcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls and said that her party would go solo in the elections. ''There is no truth in the reports that BSP will have an electoral tie-up with AIMIM... the report is misleading,'' Mayawati tweeted. 1. मीडिया के एक न्यूज चैनल में कल से यह खबर प्रसारित की जा रही है कि यूपी में आगामी विधानसभा आमचुनाव औवेसी की पार्टी AIMIM व बीएसपी मिलकर लड़ेगी। यह खबर पूर्णतः गलत, भ्रामक व तथ्यहीन है। इसमें रत्तीभर भी सच्चाई नहीं है तथा बीएसपी इसका जोरदार खण्डन करती है। 1/2 She said that barring Punjab, where her party was likely to have an electoral alliance with the Akali Dal, the BSP would not have any kind of tie-up in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. She made it clear that the BSP would go solo in both the states in the next Assembly polls, which is due in about nine months. BSP had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in alliance with the Samajwadi Party (SP) and had managed to win ten seats in UP. It was then expected that BSP and SP could fight the 2022 Assembly polls in UP together. The bonhomie between the two arch-rivals, however, was short-lived and they parted ways soon after the LS polls. SP president Akhilesh Yadav has also declared that his party will not have an alliance with any big political party but can have electoral adjustments with smaller like-minded parties. Mayawati's remarks came at a time when her party is facing its worst political crisis in the state and stared at an imminent split. As many as six of the 18 BSP legislators have indicated that they may join the SP in the days to come. Three BSP MLAs are likely to join the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mayawati-trashes-alliance-rumours-with-aimim-to-go-solo-in-up-uttarakhand-polls-1002010.html
27-06-2021||National Politics||Congress should be fulcrum of any national coalition against NDA: Tejashwi Yadav||The Congress is a national party with a pan-India presence and it is quite natural that it should be the fulcrum of any national coalition against the BJP-led NDA, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav said on Sunday. In an interview with PTI, he also said that the Congress is in a direct fight with the BJP on more than 200 Lok Sabha seats and should focus on them while allowing regional parties to be in the driver's seat in the other constituencies. Asked about the meeting of Opposition leaders and several civil society members at Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Shared Pawar's house here last week, the RJD leader said he was not aware what transpired in the meeting. However, the former Bihar deputy chief minister asserted that definitely all like-minded parties should come together with a common minimum programme to defeat "this most oppressive, divisive, authoritarian and fascist government". "Our leader Lalu (Yadav) Ji had forewarned in the run up to 2014 election- 'Ye chunaw tay karega ki desh tootega ya bachega (this election will decide whether the country will remain or be divided)', and I think most of the parties and citizens of our country have realised this today like never before," Yadav said. On the Congress not having a presence at the meeting and whether the grand old party should be part of a national alliance to take on the BJP, he said the Congress is a national party with a pan-India presence and quite naturally it "should be the fulcrum of any national coalition against the BJP-led NDA". The Congress is in direct fight with BJP on more than 200 seats, not the regional parties, Yadav said. "From past experiences, I think the Congress must focus on those seats wherein it is in direct fight with the BJP and on remaining seats with an open heart and mind it should let regional parties be in the driving seat in their respective strongholds to root out the BJP," he argued. His remarks assume significance as they come just days after Pawar said the Congress will need to be taken along if any alternative alliance is to be formed. Significantly, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Saturday had also said that work is on to bring all opposition parties together at the national level, and this alliance will be incomplete without the Congress. He had said that the Congress will play an important role in the alliance that aims to provide a strong alternative to the present dispensation. NCP chief Pawar on Friday had claimed that formation of any national alliance was not the topic of discussion at the meeting of eight opposition parties hosted by him, but also said that if any such coalition emerges, its leadership will have to be "collective". He had told reporters that the aim of the meeting at his Delhi residence last Tuesday was to discuss how they can support the ongoing farmers' agitation. Speculation was rife that the agenda of the meeting, where no Congress leader was present, was to discuss a possible alliance which could be an alternative to the BJP. Asked what would be the form of any future alliance against the BJP and what would be the Congress's place in it, Pawar had said, "There was no discussion on this, however, in my view the Congress will be needed to be taken along if any alternative alliance is to be formed."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-should-be-fulcrum-of-any-national-coalition-against-nda-tejashwi-yadav-1002121.html
27-06-2021||National Politics||Uttar Pradesh set for 4-cornered contest in 2022 assembly election||Mayawati’s BSP had joined hands with arch-rival Samajwadi Party and Rashtriya Lok Dal for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections but had failed to stop the BJP juggernaut in Uttar Pradesh. In the 2017 assembly elections, the SP and BSP had polled 21.82% and 22.23% votes respectively. Together, both the parties had netted 44.05% votes, higher than the BJP’s 39.67%. However, BJP walked away with 312 of the total 403 seats. The SP, which had contested the polls in alliance with Congress, could win 47 seats, while the BSP had managed to win 19 seats. The Congress scraped through with seven seats of the 105 it had contested. SP president Akhilesh Yadav has already announced that he would go alone in the assembly elections next year. Over the past few weeks, Yadav has stepped up public outreach and even launched an election campaign jingle highlighting the "helping hand" extended by the party in the times of Covid-19. Congress, under AICC General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, has been active in reaching out to the people during Covid-19 under the leadership of state unit chief Ajay Kumar Lallu. Priyanka is also understood to shift base to Lucknow soon to better coordinate the election campaign of the party. BJP appears to have put its house in order, given the murmurs against the chief minister’s style of functioning, particularly during the second wave of Covid-19. The party is busy stitching together caste alliances with the hope to repeat its 2017 performance. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttar-pradesh-set-for-4-cornered-contest-in-2022-assembly-election-1002182.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||2 explosives-laden drones crash into IAF station at Jammu airport; 2 injured||In the first case of the use of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles by militants to target a security installation in Jammu and Kashmir, two explosives-laden drones crashed into the Indian Air Force (IAF) station at Jammu airport damaging the roof of a building during the early morning hours on Sunday. Officials said the first blast took place at around 1.40 am and the second, weaker in intensity, minutes later in which two IAF personnel received minor injuries. This was the first incident of a drone attack in J&K, a situation long feared by the defence and security establishment. Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbagh Singh said the attack at the IAF station in Jammu’s high-security Satwari area is a terror attack. “Police and other agencies were working together with IAF officials to unravel the plan behind the attack,” he said and added a National Investigation Agency (NIA) team was also at the spot. As the aerial distance from the Jammu airport to the international border (IB) is approximately 14 kms, it was not immediately known where the drones had taken off. Officials said investigations were on to ascertain the flight path of the drones. Just hours later another major terror strike was averted by the security forces when a militant was arrested along with a 6 kg improvised explosive device (IED). “The arrested person was tasked with triggering the IED in a crowded place and is being interrogated. More suspects are likely to be picked up in this case,” the police chief said. Earlier, the IAF tweeted: “Two low intensity explosions were reported early Sunday morning in the technical area of Jammu Air Force Station. One caused minor damage to the roof of a building while the other exploded in an open area.” There was no damage to any equipment. Investigation is in progress along with civil agencies. “There was no damage to any equipment. Investigation is in progress along with civil agencies,” it added. A senior officer involved in the investigation of the drone attack said the Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed outfit is likely behind the attack. “The terror outfit may have received support from another entity as the attack could not happen without the active involvement of the Pakistani Army, or ISI,” he said. “No remnants of the drone were found at the blast site as only splinters and remnants of explosives used in the blast have been recovered as of yet,” he said and added the NIA is likely to take over the case. On May 14, the BSF had detected weapons dropped by a suspected Pakistan drone in Jammu. On June 20 last year, the BSF even shot down one such drone. Reports said patrolling has been strengthened near sensitive areas across J&K and neighbouring Punjab state to thwart any such attacks.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-explosives-laden-drones-crash-into-iaf-station-at-jammu-airport-2-injured-1002002.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||Man from Madhya Pradesh who crossed into Pakistan returns home||A 40-year-old mentally unstable man, who inadvertently crossed into Pakistan in 2019, has returned to his village in Madhya Pradesh's Damoh district, local police said. Barelal Adivasi, a resident of Pati Shishpur village near here, was arrested at Bahawalpur in Pakistan on November 14, 2019 for unlawful entry. On Saturday, he returned to his native place, located around 20 km from the district headquarters, Damoh Superintendent of Police D R Tenivaar told reporters. It was not known how he landed in the neighbouring country, officials said. Following talks between the Pakistan government and the Ministry of External Affairs, Adivasi was released and he returned to India via the Attari border in Punjab, Tenivaar said. A family member received him at Amritsar and brought him back, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-from-madhya-pradesh-who-crossed-into-pakistan-returns-home-1002018.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||Jammu explosions: Probe on, Rajnath speaks to IAF Vice Chief||The Indian Air Force is probing whether the two low-intensity explosions at its base in Jammu on Sunday were part of a terror attack, people familiar with the defence and security establishment said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's office said he spoke to Vice Air Chief, Air Marshal HS Arora over the explosions. Investigators are also examining the possible use of drones to drop the explosives at the airport that has various assets of the IAF, they said. In a Twitter post, the Indian Air Force (IAF) said two "low-intensity explosions" were reported early Sunday morning in the technical area of Jammu air force station and one of them caused minor damage to the roof of a building while the other exploded in an open area. There was no damage to any equipment. Investigation is in progress along with civil agencies. "There was no damage to any equipment. Investigation is in progress along with civil agencies," it said. The people cited above said all angles including the possible involvement of terror networks in the explosions are being probed. "Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh spoke to Vice Air Chief, Air Marshal HS Arora regarding today's incident at Air Force Station in Jammu. Air Marshal Vikram Singh is reaching Jammu to take stock of the situation," it tweeted. The people cited above said Chief of Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria has been apprised about the explosions. The IAF chief is on a three-day visit to Bangladesh from Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-explosions-probe-on-rajnath-speaks-to-iaf-vice-chief-1002040.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||Suspected terrorist held with explosive material in Jammu||A suspected terrorist was arrested along with some explosive material here, officials said on Sunday. The suspect, a resident of Banihal, was arrested from Trikuta Nagar area on the outskirts of the city late Saturday night, they said. Further details are awaited, the officials said. They said security has been beefed up across Jammu province, following the arrest of the suspect with the explosive material.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspected-terrorist-held-with-explosive-material-in-jammu-1002046.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||Mayawati to go it alone: How BSP fared in previous UP polls||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati announced on Sunday that the party will contest the Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh polls alone. The former chief minister’s party saw a rough month with a possible split after rebel legislators met with rival Samajwadi Party. BSP is not new to defections, with many members migrating to opposition camps in recent years owing to Mayawati’s mercurial temperament and her inability to work with other leaders. After the party’s victory in 2007, vote share has been gradually declining. With Uttar Pradesh polls fast approaching, here’s a look at BSP’s performance in previous polls. 2007 Clinching the majority from the incumbent Samajwadi Party, BSP won the elections in 2007 with 206 seats, catapulting Mayawati to the CM’s chair for the fourth time. BSP’s vote share jumped from 23.1 per cent in the previous election to 30.4 per cent in 2007.  Main opposition party SP won 97 seats with a 25.4 per cent vote share. 2012 Samajwadi Party won back the majority in 2012, winning 224 seats and a vote share of 29.2 per cent. BSP slid down to second place with 80 seats. The party was a runner-up in 206 seats.  2017 Ousting both BSP and its rival SP in 2017, BJP rode into the state bagging 312 seats and a 40 per cent vote share, with Yogi Adityanath as Chief Minister. SP, in second place with a huge margin, won just 47 seats, while BSP was pushed back to third place with a measly 19 seats in its bag and a 22.4 per cent vote share.  BSP was the runner-up in 119 seats and in third place in 249 seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mayawati-to-go-it-alone-how-bsp-fared-in-previous-up-polls-1002051.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Naxal wanted in over 2 dozen criminal cases killed in encounter||A Naxal, carrying a cash reward of Rs 5 lakh on his head and wanted in nearly 25 criminal cases, was gunned down during an encounter with security personnel in Chhattisgarh's Dantewada district on Sunday, police said. The gunfight took place at a forest in Pordem at around 12.30 pm, they said. A team of the District Reserve Group (DRG) during an anti-Naxal exercise came under fire from rebels, following which the security personnel launched retaliatory action, they said. The rebels later fled the spot, taking cover of the thick vegetation in the forest, located around 400 km from Raipur, he said. “During a search of the area, the security personnel recovered the body of a Naxal along with a pistol and other articles of daily use. The slain cadre was identified as Santosh Markam, member of the Malangir Area Committee of rebels. He was carrying a cash reward of Rs 5 lakh on his head,” Dantewada Superintendent of Police Abhishek Pallava said. Around 25 criminal cases were registered against the slain Naxal at Aranpur police station, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-naxal-wanted-in-over-2-dozen-criminal-cases-killed-in-encounter-1002061.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||Roll out of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine in Delhi delayed further||The roll-out of Russian Covid-19 vaccine 'Sputnik V' at various private hospitals in the Delhi-NCR region has been delayed again, officials said on Sunday. "We do not have a clarity on the dates of the vaccine roll-out," a spokesman of Apollo Hospitals said. Indraprastha Apollo here had earlier said that it would tentatively start administering the two-dose vaccine by June 25. An official of Madhukar Rainbow Children's Hospital said the facility has also not received Sputnik V doses so far from Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy's Laboratories, the marketing partner for the vaccine in the country.  "There is a delay on the part of the suppliers. They have not shared any specific reason for it. I think it could be related to the supply of both the doses together," he said. Sputnik V uses two different viruses that cause the common cold (adenovirus) in humans. The two doses, given 21 days apart, are different and not interchangeable. Fortis Healthcare, which had said that it would make Sputnik V available at its Gurgaon and Mohali hospitals, has also not started administering the Russian vaccine to people so far. The Centre has fixed the price of the vaccine at Rs 1,145 per dose. The maximum price of Covishield for private Covid-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) has been fixed at RS 780 per dose, while that of Covaxin at Rs 1,410 per dose. Russia's Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology has developed the vaccine and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) is marketing it globally. Dr Reddy's Laboratories has been importing the shots from Russia. Over a period of time, the vaccine is also going to be manufactured in India.  According to Gamaleya and the RDIF, Sputnik V has demonstrated an efficacy rate of 92 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/roll-out-of-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-in-delhi-delayed-further-1002063.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||Rajnath reviews India's military preparedness in Ladakh amid stalemate in China disengagement process||The dedication of Indian soldiers and veterans towards the country is an "exemplary example", Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday soon after arriving in Ladakh on a three-day visit aimed at taking stock of India's military preparedness in the region in the face of a prolonged border row with China. In Leh, Singh interacted with senior elected representatives of Kargil, Leh and Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council with a focus on the overall development of the regions, officials said. The defence minister, accompanied by Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, also met a number of armed forces veterans and discussed issues relating to their welfare as well as national security. "The dedication of our soldiers and veterans towards the country is an exemplary example. I express my gratitude from the bottom of my heart to all," Singh said on the occasion. "Our aim is that all of you should be taken care of in the same way you had taken care of the country's security. Despite this, if you have any problems somewhere, then a helpline has been arranged for to address them," his office quoted him as saying. Official sources said the defence minister will carry out a comprehensive review of India's operational readiness in eastern Ladakh amid a stalemate in the next stage of disengagement with China at several friction points. His visit to the sensitive region comes two days after India and China held a fresh round of diplomatic talks to resolve the prolonged military standoff that began in early May last year. The defence minister is scheduled to visit various key formations and high-altitude bases in the region to assess the ground realities as well as to boost the morale of the troops guarding the Line of Actual Control in a hostile environment. It is Singh's first visit to eastern Ladakh after the Indian and Chinese militaries pulled back troops, tanks, infantry and other equipment from the Pangong lake areas in February as part of an agreement. The disengagement process in the remaining friction points including Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang is deadlocked as China is reluctant to withdraw its troops from these areas. At a virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs on Friday, India and China agreed to hold the next round of military talks at an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement in remaining friction points. Singh's visit to the sensitive region comes amid fresh sparring between India and China over the standoff. India on Thursday blamed China for the standoff saying its amassing of a large number of troops close to the border and attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo along the LAC last year were responsible for seriously disturbing peace and tranquillity in the region. India's response came after China said its military deployment in the region is a normal defence arrangement aimed at "preventing and responding" to "encroachment and threat" on Chinese territory by India. India and China were locked in a military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year. However, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. India has been particularly pressing for disengagement of troops in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. According to military officials, each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control in the sensitive sector. There was no visible forward movement in disengagement of troops in the remaining friction points as the Chinese side did not show flexibility in their approach on it at the 11th round of military talks. Last month, Gen Naravane said that there can be no de-escalation without complete disengagement at all friction points in eastern Ladakh and that the Indian Army is prepared for all contingencies in the region. The Army Chief also said that India is dealing with China in a "firm" and "non-escalatory" manner to ensure the sanctity of its claims in eastern Ladakh, and that it was even open to initiating confidence-building measures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajnath-reviews-indias-military-preparedness-in-ladakh-amid-stalemate-in-china-disengagement-process-1002066.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||Jammu Air Force station explosion: Alert sounded in Punjab's Pathankot||An alert has been sounded in Punjab's border district of Pathankot on Sunday after two explosives-laden drones crashed into the high-security Indian Air Force station at Jammu airport, officials said. Tight vigil is being maintained near key installations in Pathankot, they said. Five years ago, the Pathankot Air Force base had come under terror attack. Patrolling has been strengthened near sensitive areas in and around Pathankot and additional forces have been deployed, police said. “We are on our guard in view of the situation. Whenever there is an incident of this kind, maximum alert is sounded in neighbouring areas," Pathankot's Senior Superintendent of Police, Surendra Lamba, told PTI over phone when asked if additional security measures have been put in place in wake of the Jammu incident. “We are checking vigorously our inter-state border movement. We have deployed additional forces also,” he said, adding, specialised commandos and SWAT teams of Punjab Police are being deployed strategically. Checking of vehicles headed to Jammu and entering Pathankot from J-K side has been intensified, Lamba said. The drones crashed into the Air Force station at Jammu airport in the early hours of Sunday. Two IAF personnel were injured in the explosions that took place around 1.40 am within six minutes of each other. The first blast ripped off the roof of a single-storey building at the technical area of the airport manned by the IAF in Satwari area of the city. The second one was on the ground, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-air-force-station-explosion-alert-sounded-in-punjabs-pathankot-1002076.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||Twin explosions at IAF station in Jammu airport terror attack: J&K DGP||The "terror attack" using explosives-laden drones, a first-of-a-kind incident, at the IAF station at Jammu airport comes three days after the first engagement of the top Kashmiri leaders with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It also comes at a time when the ceasefire on the border with India and Pakistan has been enforced without any incident for the past few months following back-channel talks. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is also on a visit to Ladakh while the Ministry of Home Affairs will be holding discussions with leaders from Kargil, which is part of the Union Territory of Ladakh, close on the lines of one Modi had with Kashmiri leaders. There is no official word linking Modi's meeting with 14 Kashmiri leaders or Singh's visit to Ladakh to the drone attack. While it was not immediately clear from where the drones had taken off, officials said they are investigating all angles, as the International Border with Pakistan is 14 km away. The incident has also prompted the security establishment to step up security measures at airports as well as military and vital installations across the country. Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh has made it clear that the crashing of the two explosive-laden drones at 1:37 AM and 1:43 AM into the IAF station on Sunday morning is a "terror attack". A team of National Investigation Agency (NIA) has reached the site while Intelligence Bureau and other security and intelligence agencies are roped in to collect further information. Officials said this is the first time that drones have been used to target a facility though there have been fears about such attacks for a long time. They said India has been taking steps to strengthen its capability to thwart any such attacks. Though this type of attack is happening for the first time, recent times have witnessed the dropping of weapons in Kashmir and Punjab by Pakistan-backed terror outfits. In August 2019, police had recovered a drone from Mohawa village in Amritsar which was used for dropping weapons on this side of the border from Pakistan. The very next month saw eight drone sorties delivering arms, officials had said citing the questioning of suspected terrorists arrested in Punjab's Tarn Taran. The BSF had also shot down a spy drone in Jammu and Kashmir's Kathua in June last year while three months later, Jammu and Kashmir police arrested three suspected Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists who received weapons through drones. In September last year, Jammu and Kashmir police also recovered weapons delivered using drones in Akhnoor sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/twin-explosions-at-iaf-station-in-jammu-airport-terror-attack-jk-dgp-1002079.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||NGT raps Chhattisgarh for not constructing road for transporting coal from mines||The National Green Tribunal has rapped the Chhattisgarh government for not constructing a road for transporting coal from mines to thermal power plants to minimise air pollution. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed the chief secretary, Chhattisgarh to ensure necessary action on the part of departments concerned on the subject of construction of road and providing healthcare facilities and drinking water to those affected by air pollution in the area. “The State Board should prepare a list of areas where unscientific disposal of fly ash has taken place and generate data about the quantity of the coal mined, used in industries and available for thermal power plants," the bench said. “Steps need to be taken expeditiously for development of health facilities, constructing necessary road from Raigarh to Dharamjaygarh and from Punjipatra to Milupara, disposal of fly ash in abandoned coal mines and constitution of State Level Committee to look into scientific utilisation of the fly ash. Taking such steps is undoubtedly necessary for protection of the environment,” the bench said. The NGT asked the Oversight Committee formed by it to make assessment of compensation for the violations on the basis of which the statutory State Board may take further action, following due process of law.  “We regret to note failure of departments concerned of the State of Chhattisgarh to respond to the Committee and to perform their Constitutional obligation to protect environment and public health.  “Any negligence by State authorities may result in rendering the concerned senior officers personally accountable by way of prosecution under the provisions of the NGT Act, imprisonment under section 25 NGT Act read with section 51 CPC and exemplary costs out of their salaries,” the bench said. The NGT said that having regard to the seriousness of the issues involved and their impact on the environment and public health, the Oversight Committee will now be headed by Justice V K Shrivastava, former Judge of Chhattisgarh High Court, available at Bilaspur.  “He will be entitled to honorarium at the rate of Rs. 2 lakhs per month, apart from logistic support for the purpose of work of the Committee. His tenure will be for six months from the date he joins the first meeting of the Committee, which may be done within one month. “The amount will be payable by the State PCB - Chhattisgarh Environment Conservation Board. The report about the compliance status as on November 30, 2021 may be furnished to this Tribunal on or before December 15, 2021 by e-mail,” the bench said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Shivpal Bhagat and others seeking steps against pollution caused by thermal power plants, coal washeries in Tamnar and Gharghoda blocks of Raigarh in Chhattisgarh, including Jindal Power Limited, Jindal Power and Steel Ltd, TRN Energy Pvt Ltd, Mahavir Energy & Coal Benefaction Ltd, Hindalco Industries Ltd and Monet Energy Ltd, SECL.  The plea said the operation of these units is resulting in contamination of air, water and land and having adverse impact on the environment and the habitants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngt-raps-chhattisgarh-for-not-constructing-road-for-transporting-coal-from-mines-1002083.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||12-year-old girl with history of mental illness gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh||A girl with a history of mental illness was allegedly abducted and gang-raped here, police said on Sunday. The 12-year-old victim had gone to a wedding Thursday night, from where she went missing. She was found in an unconscious condition here Friday night, SHO, Kotwali Police Station, Bhaskar Mishra said. Citing a complaint lodged in this regard, he said two unidentified men abducted the girl, and then raped her. The officer said rape was confirmed in the medical report of the girl. Mishra added that a case of abduction and gang rape has been registered against the unidentified culprits and efforts are on to arrest them. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12-year-old-girl-with-history-of-mental-illness-gang-raped-in-uttar-pradesh-1002092.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||After chat with Prime Minister Modi, MP resident gets Covid-19 vaccine||Encouraged after a chat with Prime Minister Narendra Modi who urged people to shed hesitancy against Covid-19 vaccine, a villager from Madhya Pradesh got inoculated along with his family members. Seeking to make people shed their reservations about vaccines against coronavirus, Modi spoke to residents of Dulariya village in MP's Betul district. The chat was aired on the PM's monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' broadcast on Sunday. Modi counselled them to take the vaccine amidst their doubts about the inoculation exercise. Rajesh Hirave (43) was one of those who had a chat with the PM. "After talking to the prime minister on Friday, I along with my family members got the vaccine shot for prevention from the coronavirus infection on Saturday," Hirave told PTI over phone. " I encouraged others also, following which 127 people from the village got vaccinated,” he said. The villager further said he is now inspiring other locals to get the jab. "I am very happy to talk to the prime minister. I have no words to express my happiness,” Hirave said. The prime minister also spoke to another 60-year-old village resident Kishorilal Dhurve, who also later got vaccinated. "My father has got vaccinated and is now encouraging others to get the vaccine jab," Dhurve's son Ravindra told PTI. Hirave, while talking to the PM, said people were hesitating to get inoculated due to misconceptions being spread about it on WhatsApp. While speaking to Hirave and Dhurve, the prime minister said he and his nearly 100-year-old mother have taken both doses of the vaccine, and asked people not to believe in rumours and trust science and scientists. "The threat of Covid-19 remains and we have to focus on vaccination as well as follow Covid-19 protocols," the PM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-chat-with-prime-minister-modi-mp-resident-gets-covid-19-vaccine-1002099.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi registers 89 fresh Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths; positivity rate 0.12%||Delhi has so far recorded 14,33,934 coronavirus cases. Of this, over 14.07 lakh patients have recovered while the death toll stands at 24,965. On Saturday, the city reported 85 Covid-19 cases, the lowest daily count this year, with a positivity rate of 0.12 per cent and nine deaths. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-registers-89-fresh-covid-19-cases-4-deaths-positivity-rate-012-1002114.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||Green nod suggested for transit-oriented hub in Delhi; 143 trees to be felled, transplanted||The Environment Ministry's Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) has recommended granting environmental clearance to phase one of the 'Integrated Development of East Delhi Hub' project under which 123 trees are planned to be felled and 20 transplanted. The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) had approved the project in 2014 and entrusted it to National Buildings Construction Corporation NBCC (India) Limited in 2019. The proposed project at Karkardooma is "conceptualised to be a new transit-oriented development that imbibes the core values of a sustainable 'Smart City'", the minutes of the 65th meeting of the EAC held on May 27-28 read. Spread over 37.42 hectares, the Rs 1,168-crore project will bring together metro stations, residences, workplaces and recreational spaces such as museums. The total green area proposed for phase one of the project, to be developed on 25.89 hectares of land, is 78,213 sqm. "At the site, 462 trees are existing, of which 123 trees shall be cut and 20 trees shall be transplanted, while 3,200 trees are proposed for plantation at the site," the minutes read. Okhla Bird Sanctuary is at 9.14 kilometres. The project is located outside the notified eco-sensitive zone of the sanctuary. "Considering the large scale of the project and the population involved for all activities, it is therefore desirable that the project demonstrates all sustainable development parameters and environmental concerns," the EAC said. The project will be developed around the Delhi Metro routes -- Blue Line and the Pink Line -- and will include a massive open landscaped green area and a 48-storey signature tower that will come up in the first phase of the project, according to officials. It will comprise 6,518 dwelling units, including 1,992 for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS), along with various amenities like schools, dispensaries, library, cultural centre, community halls, convenient shopping, community spaces and creche. The EAC had earlier examined the proposal in its 62nd meeting held on March 1 and asked the project proponent to resubmit the EIA report after making certain changes. According to the transit-oriented development policy for Delhi, development along or around transit corridors can have a higher floor area ratio to accommodate more residential, office and recreational spaces within walking or cycling distance of the transit stations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/green-nod-suggested-for-transit-oriented-hub-in-delhi-143-trees-to-be-felled-transplanted-1002116.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||Haryana extends Covid-19 lockdown till July 5, relaxations allowed earlier to continue||The Haryana government Sunday extended the coronavirus lockdown by another week till July 5, while allowing university campuses to open for research scholars and practical classes in laboratories. "The Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana is extended for another week that is from June 28 (5 am onwards) to July 5 (till 5 am) in the state of Haryana," Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan said in an order issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The state government has termed the coronavirus lockdown "Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana (Epidemic Alert-Safe Haryana)". University campuses are allowed to open for research scholars, laboratory practicals, remedial and doubt classes by adopting requisite social distancing norms, regular sanitisation and Covid-appropriate behaviour, according to the order. Anganwadi centres and crèches under Women and Child Development Department shall continue to remain closed. These places will remain shut till July 31 in the state. The state’s Department of Women and Child Welfare will release the methodology for implementation of various women and child welfare programmes in the state, the order said. The relaxations on reopening of shops, malls, restaurants, religious places, corporate offices, gatherings in weddings, funerals, open spaces etc will continue as currently in place. According to earlier relaxations all shops are allowed to open from 9 am to 8 pm, malls from 10 am to 8 pm, restaurants and bars, including in hotels and malls, from 10 am to 10 pm with 50 per cent seating capacity. Swimming pools and spas will continue to remain closed. "Now, after duly considering the fact that although the Covid positivity rate and the number of new Covid positive cases have declined, so as to continue the preventive and precautionary measures to contain the Covid pandemic… the 'Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana' is extended for another week..,” the order said. The number of daily Covid-19 cases, which had crossed the 15,000-mark last month, have now come down to nearly 100 while the Covid fatalities have also registered a sharp fall. The Haryana government had imposed the lockdown in the state on May 3 in view of the prevailing Covid situation. It has now been extended for the eighth time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-july-5-relaxations-allowed-earlier-to-continue-1002119.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||No lessons learnt from first wave: UP BJP leader criticises Covid-19 handling||Criticising the handling of the Covid-19 crisis in Uttar Pradesh, a ruling party leader has claimed that at least 10 people died in every village during the second wave as no lessons were learnt from the first one. State BJP working committee member Ram Iqbal Singh, who made the remarks on Saturday, is the latest among the party’s own leaders who have questioned the management of the novel coronavirus infection in the state. Speaking to reporters here, Singh rued that the health department did not learn any lessons from the first wave of Covid-19 which led to a large number of deaths due to the disease in the second wave. “At least 10 people from every village in the state died in the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic,” he alleged. The BJP leader also demanded that Rs 10 lakh be given to the kin of those who have succumbed to the infection. He lamented that after 75 years of freedom, this district with a population of 34 lakh, has no doctors or medicines. Asked that UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath during his visit to Ballia had expressed satisfaction with the arrangements made by the health department, Singh said the officials had misled the CM, and the truth was not shown. He also urged the BJP government to give diesel subsidy to farmers. Meanwhile, Ballia BJP MP Virendra Singh Mast claimed that BKU leader Rakesh Tikait was derailing the farmers protest against the Centre’s three new agri-marketing laws. "Tikait should not have linked the farmers movement with anti-BJP opposition, West Bengal elections, upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections and Article 370,” he told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-lessons-learnt-from-first-wave-up-bjp-leader-criticises-covid-19-handling-1002123.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||Jammu airport blasts: FIR filed under UAPA, NIA likely to take over case||An FIR was registered Sunday under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act after two explosives-laden drones crashed into the IAF station at Jammu airport, officials said, while indicating that the case is likely to be taken over by the terror probe agency NIA. The drones crashed into the IAF station at Jammu airport in the early hours of Sunday, perhaps the first time that suspected Pakistan-based terrorists have used unmanned aerial vehicles in an attack, officials said. "The NIA is all likely to take over the case. They are already supervising the investigation at the scene of the blast after joining the probe," one of the officials said. An FIR was registered under relevant sections of the Explosive Substances Act, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Satwari police station on the application of a junior warrant officer of the IAF, the official said. Two Indian Air Force personnel were injured in the explosions that took place around 1.40 am within six minutes of each other. The first blast ripped off the roof of a single-storey building at the high security technical area of the airport manned by the IAF in Satwari area of the city. The second one was on the ground, the officials said. Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh has termed the incident a "terror attack".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-airport-blasts-fir-filed-under-uapa-nia-likely-to-take-over-case-1002127.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi Metro bags Japan Society of Civil Engineers' award for high-quality infrastructure development projects||The Delhi Metro has bagged an award from the Japan Society of Civil Engineers for its "high-quality" infrastructure development projects under phases I-III, officials said on Sunday. The 'Outstanding Civil Engineering Achievement Award' is for the year 2020. This award is given to highly selective showcasing projects in the development of civil engineering technology across the world, the officials said. "Delhi Metro's Phases I, II and III projects have been awarded with the prestigious Japan Society of Civil Engineers' (JSCE) 'Outstanding Civil Engineering Achievement Award' for the year 2020. The JSCE termed the Delhi Metro's project as 'high-quality Infrastructure development project'," the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said in a statement. The JSCE in its award note mentioned that the Delhi Metro's projects have brought awareness of safety and efficiency at construction sites in India, and provided residents with safe, secure and comfortable transportation. Delhi Metro's civil engineering achievements in the past two decades have received global recognition and have been appreciated by prominent international organisations, the officials said. Earlier, Delhi Metro's implementation of Phase – I was rated 'Excellent' in a post evaluation study conducted by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). The study rated Delhi Metro's project execution capability at '3', which is the highest possible grade indicating that the performance of DMRC was excellent, the statement said. The Delhi Metro since its inception has been closely associated with Japan. The JICA has supported Delhi Metro's all phases, including the ongoing Ph-IV project by providing not only smoothest financial support but with excellent value-added activities such as knowledge assistance by introducing Japanese innovative technologies and unique work culture, the officials said. "The unstinted support from Japan, JICA including India Office has helped Delhi Metro in becoming a shining example, globally in the field of urban mass transit," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metro-bags-japan-society-of-civil-engineers-award-for-high-quality-infrastructure-development-projects-1002131.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi needs 45 lakh doses in July to keep up Covid vaccination pace, Centre told: AAP MLA Atishi||"More than 45 lakh doses will be needed if the pace of vaccination increases," she said. According to the city's vaccination bulletin, 25 per cent of Delhi's population in the 18-44 age group has received at least one dose of vaccine. Atishi said Delhi administered a record 2.07 lakh vaccine doses on Saturday, of which more than 1.50 lakh were given to youths. Delhi has 7.06 lakh vaccine doses, including 5.4 lakh Covishield doses, available at present. If the authorities continue to vaccinate people at the current pace of 2 lakh daily, this stock will be over in three days, she said. "We have also written to the Centre that Delhi needs 45 lakh vaccine doses to keep vaccinating people at the rate of 1.5 lakh jabs per day," she said while presenting the vaccination bulletin. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-needs-45-lakh-doses-in-july-to-keep-up-covid-vaccination-pace-centre-told-aap-mla-atishi-1002139.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||'Seems state authorities consider themselves above law': NGT raps states for failure to implement green laws||Pulling up states for failure to effectively implement environment protection law, the National Green Tribunal said it seems state authorities consider themselves above law and continue to violate laws to the detriment of public health which is a very unfortunate situation and needs remedial action. The NGT Principal Bench headed by its chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel made this observation while hearing a petition pertaining to disposal of garbage in Uttar Pradesh. The bench was hearing a petition filed by UP resident Arvind Kumar and others against unscientific dumping of waste at the main road of village Changipur, District Bijnor by the Municipal Council, Noorpur in Uttar Pradesh. In spite of representations made to the Municipal Council, no remedial action has been taken, the petitioner alleged. Observing the failure of the authorities in ensuring scientific disposal of solid garbage, causing damage to the air quality and public health, the NGT directed the UP pollution control board (PCB) and the Bijnor district magistrate to ensure management of waste. The bench warned that if no satisfactory action is taken in terms of these directions, it would take coercive measures against the concerned officials. The NGT said that under Rule 15 of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, a plan had to be prepared for scientific disposal of the solid waste in the manner laid down therein in accordance with the state policy prepared under Rule 11 by the Secretary, Urban Development. "Unfortunately, it appears that even after five years of the current Rules and after 40 years of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, (Air Act), there is a failure of the authorities in ensuring scientific disposal of solid waste, preventing damage to the air quality and to public health," the Green Bench said. "Failure to perform statutory obligation under SWM Rules, 2016 is a criminal offence under Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (EP Act) punishable with imprisonment and fine," the bench said. The tribunal directed District Magistrate Bijnor in coordination with Municipal Council and any other concerned authority to ensure effective steps for scientific management of the waste, ensuring that no foul smell and air or land pollution takes place. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/seems-state-authorities-consider-themselves-above-law-ngt-raps-states-for-failure-to-implement-green-laws-1002151.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||Ensure adequate supply of Covid-19 vaccines: Gehlot to PM||In a letter to the Prime Minister, Gehlot said Rajasthan had created the capacity to vaccinate 15 lakh persons every day and has administered 2.36 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines till date. “The daily average of vaccine doses received, since the start of vaccination drive for 18 years plus, has been three to four lakhs only,” Gehlot said. He sought the prime minister’s personal intervention to ensure adequate vaccine supply to the state. Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh accused the Modi government of indulging in politics over vaccine allocation. “So much politics in vaccine supply to states to make non-BJP ruled states look bad. Typical of this PM. Says one thing and does exactly the opposite,” Ramesh said. Earlier, AICC General Secretary Ajay Maken had asked the Centre to ensure a more equitable and just distribution of vaccines. “All are Indian citizens and not BJP or Congress-ruled states,” Maken said, noting that on Friday Rajasthan had administered 10.45 lakh doses of vaccines. However, on Saturday the state could administer only 2.36 lakh as adequate stocks were not available. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ensure-adequate-supply-of-covid-19-vaccines-gehlot-to-pm-1002193.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||NC terms drone attack inside Jammu airport as terrorism by rogue state Pakistan||“By engineering the terror attack, Pakistan has exposed its intentions beyond any doubt,” he said. "The hostile neighbour pretended to implement ceasefire on the Line of Control and International Border in Jammu and Kashmir only as a ploy and facade to demonstrate its desire to bring a thaw in the Indo-Pak relations,” the NC provincial chief said in a statement here. The NC provincial president, however, expressed relief that the blasts did not cause any loss to life. Rana said, “Such terror attacks would not demoralise the people of Jammu and Kashmir, who are determined to fight the scourge of terrorism unleashed and sponsored by Pakistan and its notorious intelligence agency ISI unitedly.” He said the “people are united at this hour of the challenge posed by the enemies of humanity and face it with courage and fortitude”. “The people are behind the security forces in foiling the machinations of terrorists and their mentors,” Rana said, hoping the unity between communities is a befitting reply to the enemies of peace. The NC provincial chief also expressed satisfaction over the timely detection of the Improvised Explosive Device (IED) by the Jammu police and said the force deserves compliments from the indebted people for averting a major catastrophe. Rana said the peace-loving people of the Jammu region, irrespective of religion, caste and creed have always condemned terrorism, as this is against the civilised way of life. “No religion approves of violence against humanity and the terrorists have no religion,” he added. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nc-terms-drone-attack-inside-jammu-airport-as-terrorism-by-rogue-state-pakistan-1002207.html
27-06-2021||North and Central||Three UP men arrested for trying to convert girl, marry her off||Three residents of Uttar Pradesh's Firozabad were arrested in Gujarat on Sunday on charges of trying to convert a 15-year-old girl and marry her off, police here said. The girl's father, a resident of Jaunpur district in Uttar Pradesh, runs a canteen in Bharuch in Gujarat, and one of the accused, Saleem, was an employee there, they said. Saleem had brought the girl to his hometown Firozabad by telling her father that he knew an occultist who could treat his daughter's ailment, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Ashok Kumar said. He said after Saleem did not return, the girl's father reached Firozabad and lodged a complaint. Police collected information and found that Saleem along with his father Abdul and brother-in-law Rahman were in Bharuch, the SSP said. The trio was arrested on Sunday and a case registered against them. Work is going on to handover the girl to her father, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-up-men-arrested-for-trying-to-convert-girl-marry-her-off-1002242.html
27-06-2021||Opinion||Vinoo Mankad: Adding lustre to cricket's hall of fame||Vinoo Mankad was India's first great all-rounder in Test cricket. Mankad, who had already scored a double century at Bombay (present-day Mumbai) earlier in the series, played watchfully for about nine hours to hit up 231 and share in a world record opening partnership with Pankaj Roy of 413 runs. This was the highest individual score by an Indian to boot- what an exciting thing for a nine-year-old in his first two days of Test match watching. He immediately became my favourite cricketer, along with Polly Umrigar. And in the next two years, I saw him get the two greatest batsmen of my generation out with intelligent bowling. Neil Harvey was bowled by a faster one when he was threatening to play a long inning, and Garfield Sobers was caught at slip by Gupte as he slashed a deceptive Mankad delivery. In a Test career spanning nearly 15 years after the war, Mankad was India's backbone in the bowling department and an audacious opening bat against the most fearsome attacks in world cricket. As Indian cricket was finding its feet after the war and soon after Independence, it was Mankad who fashioned our first victories against MCC and Pakistan - he took 12 wickets in each of those matches. A bowling all-rounder, slow left-arm orthodox and right-hand bat, he had tremendous stamina and could bowl tirelessly from one end without giving the batsman many scoring opportunities. Round-arm action with quite a few variations (arm ball, faster ball, flighted turner et al.), he bowled nearly 15,000 balls in Test cricket over 70 innings, averaging around 30 overs per innings with an economy rate of about two. Though he had the temperament to build a long inning (nurtured by English coaches and moulded by the Bombay cricket culture), he adapted his strategy for the occasion while batting. Not lacking in courage, he opened the innings in Australia against Don Bradman's Invincibles just before they toured England in 1948 (Bradman's swansong). Facing Lindwall and Miller at their best, he decided to throw caution to the winds and adopted an attacking approach, which brought him two centuries and four ducks in the series. He and Vijay Hazare were the only batting successes in that tour, with skipper Lala Amarnath failing to score big. He bowled tirelessly against Bradman, Hasset, Barnes, Miller, Brown and Harvey. That was the tour where he had the gumption to run out Bill Brown for backing up too far despite repeated warnings. It was just another evidence of Mankad's competitive, combative spirit, and that action has been unfairly labelled "doing the Mankad". The bowler has every right; the batsman is the one taking unfair advantage. The first professional cricketer of India, Mankad played Lancashire league during the English summers. Based on his sterling performances, many Indian cricketers followed suit since cricket paid peanuts in India. Test players in those days got merely pocket money for representing the country. Mankad took on the cricket administration, asking for extra money to compensate for his league earnings when he was picked in the team to tour England in the summer of 1952. The cricket control board refused and dropped him. In the first Test, against an attack led by Alec Bedser and Fred Trueman, India started disastrously losing four wickets without a run on the board and was outplayed. In desperation, the cricket board sent an SOS to Mankad, then playing the Lancashire league, relenting to his demand. In the second Test at Lord's, Mankad was exceptional even by his best standards. Opening the innings, he scored 72 and 184 and also took seven wickets, bowling marathon spells. The second innings century was special with Mankad hitting the leg-spinner, Roly Jenkins repeatedly for huge sixes besides hooking Trueman fearlessly. The English press called it Mankad's Test. In an age when our close-in fielding support was mediocre and out-fielding patchy with few athletic movers, Mankad took 162 wickets with an economy rate of 2.1, bowling against Bradman, Len Hutton, the 3W's, Sobers, Rohan Kanhai of West Indies and other great batsmen of that era. He fielded with extraordinary anticipation of his bowling to pouch quite a few 'caught and bowled' victims. So, what made Mankad perform well at home and abroad against the best in the world? My take on this is that he was an intelligent, thinking cricketer. In Australia, against Bradman and company, when he asked to open, he spoke to some former cricketers, like Bill O'Reilly and Jack Fingleton, to hit upon the appropriate strategy to counter Ray Lindwall and Keith Miller. After some tentative starts, Mankad employed an aggressive approach that worked at least twice to get him centuries. As a bowler, he had a vast repertoire in his armoury and figured out batsmen in the first few overs to plan how to contain or get them out. He did not stick to a pre-conceived plan, and in this, he was more like Erapalli Prasanna than like Ravi Shastri or Ravindra Jadeja, the later day all-rounders. And it is certain that Mankad, the all-rounder, would have been invaluable in the 50 overs format and adapted very well to the frenetic T20. After his playing days, Mankad coached young cricketers of Bombay. He spotted Dilip Sardesai early and coached Sunil Gavaskar in the crucial formative years. In 1968 when I led the Madras Colts team on a tour to Bombay, I went out to toss with the rival captain, Ashok Mankad, who was just months away from his Test debut. It was the best opportunity for me to ask him about one of my favourite cricketers, his father. Ashok Mankad spoke passionately of Vinoo Mankad, narrating some lovely anecdotes to explain the great man's approach to the game. Not without some justification did I and my friend S Giridhar describe him as the greatest spinner all-rounder in our book, Mid-wicket Tales: From Trumper to Tendulkar. (VJ Raghunath is with Azim Premji University. A left-hand batsman who rubbed shoulders with Test cricketers in the 1960s and 70s, he also co-authored two cricket books.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/vinoo-mankad-adding-lustre-to-crickets-hall-of-fame-1002089.html
27-06-2021||Opinion||50 years ago: June 28, 1971||Sukhadia stands by his decision to lay down office JAIPUR. June 27 Mr MOHANLAL Sukhadia, Chief Minister of Rajasthan, announced at a meeting of Ministers and the Legislature Congress Party executive today that he was resigning from the Chief Ministership after enjoying unchallenged supremacy for 17 years. Tears rolled down Mr Sukhadia’s cheeks when he begged of his colleagues in a choked voice not to be angry with him for taking the decision. “I only want your love and affection as in the past,” he said. The doyen of chief ministers in India, said, “am not going to take political sanyas.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/50-years-ago-june-28-1971-1002221.html
27-06-2021||Opinion||25 years ago: June 28, 1996||Hegde supporters must leave: Gowda BANGALORE, June 27 LAUNCHING a fierce attack on expelled Janata Dal leader Ramakrishna Hegde and his followers, Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda today said a warm send-off awaited all party men who wished to join the “Navanirman” movement (of Mr Hegde). He made it clear that he would not allow associates of the movement to stay with the party and damage it without naming Mr Hegde even once while addressing elected representatives and office-bearers of the party. Mr Gowda minced no words while venting his spleen on Mr Hegde and his sympathisers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/25-years-ago-june-28-1996-1002222.html
27-06-2021||Opinion||Off The Record: June 28||‘Jinxed’ CM house being made Covid centre The palatial eight-bedroom bungalow, designated as the official residence of the Uttarakhand chief minister, is being converted into a Covid Care Centre. Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat, who stays in smaller government accommodation, appeared keen to avoid shifting to the official bungalow which is considered “jinxed” by politicians in the hill state. Built according to Pahari architecture in 2010 at a cost of Rs 16 crore, BJP leader Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank was the first chief minister to move into the bungalow, but could barely complete two years in office. Vijay Bahuguna, who became the chief minister after Congress came to power in 2012, shifted to the bungalow, but had to step down. The next chief minister Harish Rawat preferred the official guest house to the bungalow. BJP’s Trivendra Rawat set aside superstition and moved into the bungalow in 2017, but his ouster earlier this year strengthened the ‘jinx’ label. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi Covid-19 fear kills Egrets Over 200 Egret chicks died and scores became homeless after a bamboo groove was chopped off in western Assam’s Tangla town on June 25. The groove was axed based on fears that droopings from the egret nests could spread Covid-19. Tanga Municipal Board executive director Santanu Das issued an order to five owners of the bamboo groove on June 8 citing a complaint that feared the spread of Covid-19 from the droppings. Nearly 80 chicks were recovered and taken to a wildlife rehabilitation centre in Kaziranga, about 300 km away. An FIR was lodged against Das and an inquiry was initiated by the Assam forest department on June 26 after the incident invited a sharp reaction. Sumir Karmakar, Guwahati ‘Suffer it’, Vijayan gets a reply Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan recently alleged that Congress’s new Kerala president and Lok Sabha MP K Sudhakaran again planned to abduct his children to settle political scores. He said he did not complain about it to the police and didn’t reveal it to his wife to avoid panic. This comes close on the heels of Kerala Women’s Commission chairperson M C Josephine, who is also a CPM central committee member, telling a woman suffering domestic violence to “suffer it” as she did not complain about it to the police. Josephine had to quit the commission owing to protest over the reply. The social media trollers are now using Josephine’s answer to the woman as a reply to Vijayan for not reporting the alleged kidnap bid to the police. Arjun Raghunath, Thiruvananthapuram Salman Khan helps cine workers Bollywood actor Salman Khan has once again extended the helping hand to lakhs of cinema-industry workers in Mumbai. The workers are going through a rough phase because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The actor, who runs an NGO Being Human, has honoured his commitment and transferred Rs 1,500 into the accounts of those who belong to various departments of the workers’ union. Western India Cine Employees president B N Tiwari said: “Salman Khan is one of the large-hearted actors of Bollywood who has continued to help us whenever we need any support. He had helped our members in the first lockdown too. We are grateful to him. He has told us that he will continue to help our workers in the future too”. Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai Wanting to be relevant in politics Top politicians from Jammu and Kashmir, including four former chief ministers who recently held talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seem to be over satisfied with the outcome of the meeting, where actually, no big development took place on June 24. While Modi did not make any commitments in his concluding remarks, earlier during their address, the invitees didn’t demand much beyond the restoration of statehood. But then, what happened to the hue and cry that was raised by the Kashmiri politicians over the abrogation of the special status on August 5, 2019? Why couldn’t the politicians demand rollback of the clock to August 4, 2019 status? Well, it seems that the politicians, left virtually jobless since the historic decision, only want to be relevant in politics. And, thus they are ready to work not only on old salary but even on salary cut. Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/off-the-record-june-28-1002230.html
27-06-2021||Panorama||The body is a temple||For far too long we have not treated our bodies with the respect that is due. We tend to forget what a wonderfully complex, interconnected, integrated and smooth functioning apparatus that we are gifted with— numerous systems: Circulatory, respiratory and not to forget the electrical and plumbing circuits, all working relentlessly throughout the span of our lives. We take all this for granted until something like a pandemic strikes us. That is why the scriptures remind us of nature and the importance of our body, which is likened to a temple. The Sariraka Upanishad for instance tells us that the human body is a composite of various elements like earth, water, air, space and energy (fire) with the spirit (soul or jiva) being the lord of the body. It elaborates on the relationship between the body and the soul and what happens at significant stages of our lives. That the body is a composite of various elements is borne out by science too, for we know that up to 60% of the human body is composed of water and our brain, heart, lungs, kidneys, muscles and skin all contain a certain percentage of water. The space component is represented by the external orifices in the body. Fire is what we feel when we are hungry for instance. And breath that is air is invaluable to life— a fact that came home cruelly when people had to go scurrying for oxygen cylinders to keep gasping patients alive during the pandemic. Keeping the body clean, being conscious of the kind of food we eat, exercising, retaining the body's suppleness and flexibility through movement— asanas and even prayer and worship (kneeling and prostration are all very beneficial physically too), being mindful about not polluting the atmosphere and thereby supporting our bodies in the mission that they are set out on; are things we should ideally do. To avoid the extreme sense of self, we need to be constantly reminded that we are not the body. While it is a wonderful instrument that helps us do things, it is also fragile and perishable. Celebrating the body as the temple of the Holy Spirit and glorifying God in it, which the Christian scriptures also prescribe, is the right attitude to adopt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-body-is-a-temple-1002223.html
27-06-2021||Panorama||Dozens came down with Covid-19 on Everest; Nepal says it never happened||In April at Mount Everest base camp, where climbers acclimatise to the extreme altitude before heading to the summit of the world’s highest peak, Jangbu Sherpa fell ill with a cough and fever. At 17,590 feet, his symptoms quickly worsened. The expedition company that had hired Sherpa to help a Bahraini prince climb Everest had him airlifted to a hospital in the capital, Kathmandu, where he tested positive for Covid-19. He spent a week at the hospital and six days at home and then was back at base camp. Experienced guides like him from Nepal’s high-mountain-dwelling Sherpa community were in short supply because of the pandemic, and the expedition company stood to lose thousands of dollars if the prince’s climb were cancelled. So, with his body still fighting the vestiges of the virus, Sherpa, 38, most likely became the first person with Covid-19 to stand on Everest’s pinnacle when he led the prince and 15 others there at dawn on May 11. By the end of the climbing season early this month, at least 59 infected people had been on the mountain, including five others who reached the top, according to interviews with climbers and expedition companies and the personal accounts of social media users. “Were Sherpas and climbers supermen?” said Ang Tshering Sherpa, a former president of the Nepal Mountaineering Association. “This issue deserves in-depth research.” But according to the Nepal government, there was never any Covid-19 on Everest. Tourism officials dismissed the accounts of climbers, calling one a pneumonia patient. Coughing, they added, is nothing new in the dry mountain air. Nepal’s tourism department, which oversees Everest expeditions, maintained this position even as people were being airlifted off the mountain and expeditions were being cancelled — a rare event because of the great expense and effort made to train, travel to Nepal and try to summit Everest. In April, a Norwegian climber, Erlend Ness; a British climber, Steve Davis; and others wrote on social media about having Covid-19 during their Everest expeditions. “From 2 hospitals last 3 days. Today I will have a PCR test. Hope to leave the hospital soon,” Ness wrote on Facebook, posting a photo of himself in a mask in a hospital bed. Nepal, one of the world’s poorest countries, has been struggling with a dire coronavirus outbreak and a shortage of vaccines. Few Sherpas or other Nepalis had access to vaccines while the climbing season was underway; even now, as the government pleads with wealthy nations for doses, less than 3% of the population has been fully inoculated. Officials had strong incentives to play down the Covid situation on Everest. Nepal closed its peaks in 2020 because of the pandemic, after bringing in more than $2 billion from climbing and trekking in 2019. If the Covid-19 cases were publicised, it could tarnish Nepal’s image as a tourist destination, and invite climbers whose expeditions were cancelled to demand extensions of their climbing permits. Still, with this year’s climbing season now over, more expedition agencies are acknowledging that Covid-19 infections were rampant in the crowded base camp, which drew a record 408 foreign climbers this year. The true number of cases could be far higher than 59, since expedition organisers, doctors and climbers themselves said they were pressured to hide infections. The Nepal government had made some preparation to avoid infections on the mountain. It instituted testing, mask and social-distancing requirements, stationed medical personnel at the Everest base camp and had helicopters ready to swoop in and pick up infected climbers. Expedition companies, which often bring their own medical personnel, also packed antigen kits, testing members of their groups regularly and isolating anyone who tested positive. Given that all climbers had to test negative before starting the trek to base camp, it is likely that most of those with Covid-19 became infected while on the mountain, though it is possible that some arrived with infections that were not initially detected. There were compelling reasons for expedition companies to proceed with climbs, even as the first coronavirus cases were reported at base camp from the last week of April to the first week of May. They had laid out more than 60% of their budgets. The government of Nepal had received $4.6 million in royalties. Sherpas and support staff were deployed. Ropes were soon to be fixed in place. Food, cooking gas and other supplies had been hauled up by workers and yaks to the makeshift city of colourful tents where climbers stay for 40 days, allowing their lungs to adjust to the altitude and waiting for a window of clear weather to make the ascent. Multiple Sherpas and expedition companies interviewed by The New York Times said that at least three or four people from each expedition group were eventually infected during their stay at base camp. Lukas Furtenbach of Furtenbach Adventures, which cancelled its expedition, sending climbers back to Kathmandu before they could attempt to summit Everest, estimated that the tally was far higher than The Times’ count. His company’s expedition ended after an American climber and three Sherpa guides were evacuated from base camp to the capital, where they were hospitalised for Covid-19. Furtenbach has written to Nepal’s tourism department requesting that the government extend his climbers’ permits by two years. Rudra Singh Tamang, director-general of the tourism department, said he had no information about Furtenbach’s appeal or those of other expedition agencies sent to his office to extend climbing permits. “We can’t just extend climbing permits on basis of Covid-19 rumours,” Tamang said. “Whether their expeditions were cancelled because of Covid-19 or not, that should be examined.” With very few Sherpas having been vaccinated when they arrived at base camp, dozens contracted Covid-19. Some were airlifted out. Others isolated in their pup tents and climbed to higher camps after recovering. Phunuru Sherpa of International Mountain Guides said 10 Sherpa guides on his team fell sick with Covid-19. Of the more than 400 foreign climbers attempting to scale Everest, almost half abandoned their expeditions, either because of Covid-19 infections or because of a cyclone that caused snowstorms in the Himalayas. Scott Simper, a climber from Utah who lives in New Zealand, reached Everest’s peak on May 11, according to his wife, Anna Keeling, a mountain guide. “He didn’t know he had Covid on the mountain,” she said. Simper learned of his infection only after testing positive days later in Kathmandu, where his expedition company quarantined him at a hotel for 12 days. His wife said he was still recovering from the disease. Ness, the Norwegian climber who described his bout with Covid-19 on social media, was airlifted from base camp to a hospital in Kathmandu. Doctors advised him not to return to the mountain, so he flew home to Norway. The Everest expedition had taken three years to plan and cost him $40,000, plus hospital fees in Nepal. He does not expect to get any money back. Mario Celinic of Croatia said he tested positive at Everest base camp. He had trained for Everest for four years, climbing some of the world’s other highest peaks. Suffering no symptoms, he decided to proceed to the top. “‘You have Covid and you must be careful,’ this came into my mind, because Covid affects the lungs and that would be difficult to breathe above 8,000 metres’ altitude,” he said. “That mountain is like a beautiful flower that will kill you anytime. It attracts you. You must come, you are admired. And when you go up to 8,000 metres, you are completely helpless. Whatever the mountain decides, that will be your fate,” Celinic said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/dozens-came-down-with-covid-19-on-everest-nepal-says-it-never-happened-1002228.html
27-06-2021||Panorama||Govts must focus on Agri productivity, land reclamation||On the occasion of desertification and drought day (June 17), the focus was on turning the degraded land into healthy ones and pledging to conserve biodiversity for saving poor and vulnerable communities from drought, desertification and increasing salinity. Degraded and saline lands are unsuitable for supporting healthy plants and thus lose their capacity to absorb CO2, a greenhouse gas, the biggest factor in worsening global warming. The main reasons for land degradation are deforestation, unsustainable agriculture, soil erosion and/or contamination, excessive irrigation, and flooding of land on account of sea surges/cyclones.   While addressing 'High level dialogue on Desertification, Land degradation and Drought’ in his capacity as president of the 14th session of the Conference of Parties(COP14) of United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 14 said India was on track to achieve its national commitment of land degradation neutrality “while country is working towards restoring 26 million hectare degraded forests lands to meet its goal by 2030, which would contribute India’s commitment to achieve an additional carbon sink of 2.5 to 3 Giga tons of CO2 equivalent”. He also emphasised the country’s good track record on afforestation and said, “In India, over last 10 years, around three million hectares of forest cover is added, enhancing the combined forest cover to nearly one fourth of country’s total area”. He also said that land degradation poses a challenge to the developing world and a ‘centre of excellence’ is being set up in India to promote a scientific approach towards this. There are two issues here to be understood in some detail. These are: the claim of the country to have added three million hectare of forest cover in the last 10 years and our preparedness to reforest 26 million hectare degraded forest areas by 2030. So far as our progress in adding forest cover is concerned, biannual reports from Forest Survey of India (FSI) reveals that the country has gained forest cover outside notified forests in this period, which is a very good signal for checking desertification. The increase in tree cover outside notified forests may not be entirely due to the efforts of the forest departments, but a number of agencies including individual farmers have contributed their might in growing trees of timber, fruits and horticulture species. The reports of FSI also indicate that we have been consistently losing forest cover in notified forest areas. The deforestation is on account of diversion of forest lands for development projects and unauthorised encroachments. The governments at the Centre and the states must focus on this and put a moratorium on diversion. Officers must toil hard to prevent unauthorised loss of forest lands. Encroachment on forest lands is double whammy. Usually, tree growth is removed and burnt in clearing land for occupation, causing CO2 emission in the atmosphere. Further, we lose the potential of the area for carbon sequestration. Removal of encroachment is always a very difficult task, if not impossible. The Supreme Court recently ordered the Faridabad Municipal Corporation to clear encroachments in Aravali forest land within six weeks duly demolishing around 10,000 houses built unauthorisedly in Lakkarpur Kori village. This case has been in the pipeline for nearly two decades and top court had to order for eviction thrice. Such attention is not received in all encroachment cases. Political will Politicians across the party line are engaged in lobbying for the regularisation of encroachments. Unless there is political will, encroachments on forest lands cannot be checked. Reforestation of 26 million hectare land, which the country has committed to accomplish by 2030, is quite a big task. Where is the road map for this? Do states know their annual targets of growing seedlings, preparing lands, taking up the planting and other post planting operations? Annual targets must be broken down at the level of a forest division. Total cost of this mammoth task at the rate of Rs 75,000 per hectare. Speaking at the climate session, Modi called on the G7 countries to meet their unfulfilled promise of $100 billion annually in climate finance. These countries have so far avoided making the payment and the dues is 1100 billion dollar from each, as the base year for payment is 2010. This could be an important source for funding our ambitious planting target of 26 million hectare till 2030. Growing trees over vast stretches of such lands will check desertification and degradation of lands and would also provide us all important and cheapest ‘carbon sink’. Excessive irrigation and flooding of agricultural lands along the coasts during cyclones increase the salinity of the area and causes land degradation. Usually, the productivity of coastal agricultural land is restored in about three to four years of cyclone. But the frequent cyclones on the east coast have left vast stretches of farmlands degraded, impacting the livelihood of the communities. Very recently, the country faced cyclone ‘Tauktae’ on the west coast and ‘Yaas’ on the east coast. The latter was the fourth cyclone West Bengal and Odisha have faced in two years - Fani in May 2019, Bulbul in November 2019, Amphan in May 2020 and Yaas in May 2021. The bunds provided for protection of settlements and farmlands are breached. Repeated submergence of farmlands in saline water resulted in complete loss of productivity. An eight sq km Ghoramara island has been reduced to less than half. People are migrating from Sundarbans islands. Only global action, as resolved at the Paris climate accord, is needed to cut emissions and cap the rise in temperature to 1.5 degree Celsius above the pre-industrial era, will help cut the frequency of cyclones. Saline agriculture lands can be reclaimed by application of gypsum, but it does not work when the region is faced by frequent cyclones. Mangrove forests reduce the severity of cyclones, which must be conserved and developed. (The writer is Former Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/govts-must-focus-on-agri-productivity-land-reclamation-1002239.html
27-06-2021||Right in the Middle||Jewel in the family||In today’s fast-paced, self-centred and self-obsessed world, where most things happen with metronomic regularity, no wonder we are turning into "I-Specialists". Nope, not the ophthalmologist kind. It is our “I-Me-Myself” fixation kind. And now, this forced home-arrest has all the more made us get inextricably and inexorably incarcerated in our own "Me-Worlds".      There are few humans, who, with their abundant altruistic attitude, have slithered out of this “Me-World”, to spread surfeit joy around. One such is Johnson Manohar, my spouse’s batch-mate, who had joined the Navy in August 1980. Johnson, fondly called as Johnny, had endeared himself by his amiable demeanour. Presently, Johnny, by his ineffable goodness and incredible creative streaks, has embarked on an exquisite mission. On the "Naval Parivaar" WhatsApp group, unfailingly on each of its member’s birthday, he posts captivating couplets, a collection of cool pictures or a concise character sketch of the person concerned, so as to make them feel special. His exquisite creation is emblematic of his enormous efforts and extravagant research on the subject. The result of which is the rare gift of surplus joy one receives by Johnny’s remarkable gestures. There is a funny fallacy among folks: “Even to be whit generous, one ought to be wallowing in walloping wealth. Likewise, even to proffer an exiguous amount of joy, one need to be encircled by elysian/joyous moments”. Johnny has debunked that premise, by proffering profound joy to people around, even in these tension-fraught covid times.  What is heartening is Johnny’s unconditional acts sans any expectations. Which is, all the more laudable, when we look at people around, who are loaded with lashings of languor and lassitude, when it comes to even lift a little finger to do good for others. In these days, to be in the spotlight of social-radar, when people wouldn’t mind adopting dubious and devious ways, machinating with Mephistophelean mind, making Machiavellian moves, here is Johnny, making magnificent positive differences in many people’s life. Truly, this is what one is remembered for, even after bidding final adieu to life. And, emphatically not for one’s good looks, cerebral calibre or amassed moolah, which are too ephemeral, when juxtaposed against the divine deeds, that are eternal. I had read, “There is a thing fascinating about science. One gets such titanic returns of hypothesis, out of the trifling investment of fact.” Well, I can tweak that a tad, and say, “One gets such terrific returns, of tons of joy, out of a teensy investment of ‘being friends with Johnson’— a fabulous human”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/jewel-in-the-family-1002224.html
27-06-2021||Second Edit||Getting school education back on track||The recently released Performance Grading Index (PGI), which evaluates the performance of states and Union Territories on the basis of the facilities and the state of education in schools, has not produced many surprises. States which have traditionally been at the forefront of school education have retained their position, but many others have improved their positions. Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Chandigarh and the Andaman Nicobar Islands are on top of the index for the year 2019-20. Most other states have improved their ranks from the previous year, though some have made only small progress. The index has seven levels of performance, and Karnataka has moved up from Level 5 to Level 4. Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have gone backward from their previous year’s positions. The index is based on 70 parameters relating to access, equity, governance processes, infrastructure and facilities, and learning outcomes. Some parameters are weighted. The data needed for the grading are self-reported by the states but are vetted by the Centre. The index was introduced by the education department in 2019 with 2017-18 as the reference year to monitor the quality of school education across the country and to impart a sense of competition among the states. An analysis of the performance of the states shows that most of the weaknesses are related to governance and management. But states also have their own difficulties which are special to them, and so the performance on various parameters differs from state to state. While Karnataka has performed well in learning outcomes and on parameters relating to equity, infrastructure and access, it has not scored well on governance. The report has said the state government has not released funds to schools for various activities promptly and in time. Generally, as in the case of many other social indices, southern and western states did better than those in the north and the east. The report has said that the index measures the shortfalls objectively and regularly and thus helps states to take effective action to address the shortcomings. The improvements are also graded. It is important that states take the report seriously and make improvements in areas where they lag. Considering the importance of school education and its poor state, the improvements made by the states are not enough. No state finds a place in the top grade of 951-1,000 points. It should be noted that the report is for the year before the pandemic struck and created havoc in the entire education system. The challenges that the states face in the field of education now are entirely different from those in the previous years. The methods to put the system back on the rails will also have to be different.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/getting-school-education-back-on-track-1002236.html
27-06-2021||South||Five ministers inducted into Puducherry cabinet, including first woman minister in four decades||Five ministers were inducted into the NDA cabinet in Puducherry on Sunday, nearly two months after Chief Minister N Rangasamy was sworn in. Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan administered the oath of office to the five ministers at the Raj Nivas. A Namassivayam, K Lakshminarayanan, C Djeacoumar, Chandira Priyanga and A K Sai J Saravana Kumar were the Ministers sworn in. All of them took oath in the name of God. Chief Minister Rangasamy, among others, was present on the occasion. Lakshminarayanan, Djeacoumar and Priyanga represent lead partner AINRC, while Namassivayam and Saravana Kumar are from its ally BJP. This is the first time the saffron party is part of a Ministry in the Union Territory. The exercise saw Puducherry gets its first woman minister in over four decades with the induction of AINRC legislator Chandira Priyanga.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/five-ministers-inducted-into-puducherry-cabinet-including-first-woman-minister-in-four-decades-1002097.html
27-06-2021||South||Highway accident exposes CPM activist links with gold smugglers in Kerala||If it was a highway robbery in Kerala that had put the BJP unit in Kerala under scanner for suspected hawala money smuggling for electioneering, now a highway accident claiming five lives has exposed links of CPM-DYFI activists with gold smuggling rackets in the state. The CPM in Kerala is facing an embarrassment as the probe into the road accident claiming five lives at Kozhikode district on June 21 has now exposed the links of the key suspect in the gold smuggling racket, Arjun Ayyanki, with CPM-DYFI activists. Ayyanki himself was found to be a former DYFI activist and a promoter of DYFI on social media. The car he was using was owned by CPM-DYFI local leader in Kannur, C Sajesh. In a bid to control damage, CPM and DYFI expelled Sajesh and decided to launch a drive to trace all party workers having such shady links. Close on the heels of reports that the five killed in the accident were members of a gang having links with gold smuggling through the Kozhikode International Airport, the customs launched a search for Kannur native Ayyanki. One Mohammed Shafeek was held at the airport with 2.3-kilogram gold and he revealed the involvement of Ayyanki in the smuggling. It was later found that Ayyanki was also present near the airport. Police and customs suspect that while the gold was smuggled by a gang based at Koduvally in Kozhikode, two other gangs, including the one led by Ayyanki and another from Palakkad district, were trying to steal it. Without realising that the gold was seized by customs officials, the gangs were involved in a chase on the highway in an attempt to steal the smuggled gold. This caused the SUV with the gang from Palakkad to ram into a lorry. Five people were killed in the crash. Kerala had witnessed a highway robbery just ahead of the April 6 Assembly polls leading to allegations that hawala money of Rs.3.5 crore meant for BJP's illegal electioneering was stolen. The state police already quizzed many BJP leaders, including close aides of party state president K Surendran and the BJP faced a lot of embarrassment. Hence, the CPM's nexus with gold smuggling has come as a balm for the BJP and provides an avenue for them to attack the CPM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/highway-accident-exposes-cpm-activist-links-with-gold-smugglers-in-kerala-1002130.html
27-06-2021||South||Jagan govt under fire over claims of filling 6.03 lakh job vacancies in Andhra Pradesh||The Andhra Pradesh government has come under severe criticism from the opposition for its claims of having filled up more than six lakh job vacancies in different government departments, in the last two years. Political parties including the TDP have also accused the Jagan Mohan Reddy-led dispensation of 'cheating' unemployed youth in the state by releasing an employment calendar to fill just 10,000 positions, after making tall promises to give lakhs of jobs before coming to power. On June 18, Jagan had released the 'job calendar,' fixing the schedule for recruitment of 10,143 posts over the next nine months. During the event, the CM claimed that 6,03,756 jobs were created by his government in the last two years. Also, he said 51,387 posts in the newly created Public Transport department were filled while it was nothing but absorption of the State Road Transport Corporation employees into the government. Through the AP Public Service Commission, 2,475 regular posts were filled but the process began during the previous TDP regime in 2017-18. TDP MP Kinjarapu Rammohan Naidu attacked the Chief Minister for "backstabbing" the youth in the name of the job calendar. "As opposition leader, Jagan promised to fill 2.30 lakh vacancies and also give 26,000 teacher posts. But now he released a jobless calendar for filling just 10,000 posts. It's nothing but leaving the hapless youth in the lurch," he said. State BJP president Somu Veerraju sought to know what happened to the 2.40 lakh jobs that Jagan promised before coming to power. "This government has not issued a single job notification through APPSC but is resorting to false propaganda that it has filled 6.03 lakh vacancies. This is nothing but cheating the unemployed youth," Veeraju slammed. Jana Sena Political Affairs Committee Chairman Nadendla Manohar too came down heavily on the Jagan regime and demanded that a white paper be published with details of department-wise vacancies in the government and a firm recruitment schedule. "How can 2.59 lakh volunteers be shown as government employees when the Chief Minister himself said it was only voluntary service? If indeed they are employees, the government should pay them regular salaries," Manohar demanded. CPI state secretary K Ramakrishna demanded that a fresh job calendar be issued notifying all vacant government posts. Congress state working president N Tulasi Reddy demanded that 10 per cent reservation be provided for the economically backward among the upper castes in government jobs. "This is a constitutional right, which the Jagan government is denying the youth. When neighbouring states like Telangana are implementing the 10 per cent EBC reservation, Jagan seems to be adopting a vengeful attitude towards these sections," Reddy said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jagan-govt-under-fire-over-claims-of-filling-603-lakh-job-vacancies-in-andhra-pradesh-1002137.html
27-06-2021||South||Kerala woman entrepreneur survives bid to trap in ganja case||A young woman entrepreneur in Kerala capital Thiruvananthapuram has survived a bid to get her trapped in a ganja trading case by a youth. Declining a marriage proposal was suspected to be the provocation. Sobha Viswanath, who runs a clothing shop in the city, was nabbed by the city police narcotic cell in January after around 500-gram ganja was recovered from the shop. She was released on bail from the police station. Viswanath petitioned Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and top police officers seeking a fair investigation to prove her innocence. A subsequent probe by crime branch deputy superintendent of police S Amminikuttan found that the ganja was placed in the shop at the behest of one Harish, who is a businessman and son of a doctor who owns a  private hospital in the city. While Harish was reported to be absconding, his aide Vivekraj, who placed the ganja, was already nabbed. A staff of the shop was also suspected to have helped the gang by switching off the surveillance camera system of the shop to help the gang place the ganja. Crime Branch sources said that a report showing Vishwanath's innocence and arraigning Harish and others were already submitted to the court. Vishwanath said that she knew Harish over the last several years and they were friends. But when Harish proposed to her, she declined it. Later on, he used to pester her and hence she became suspicious about his involvement in trapping her. The young entrepreneur also said that the incident had caused much damage to her establishment's reputation apart from personal trauma. Hence she would fight the case till it reached the logical conclusion. She also expressed concerns that many would have been wrongly implicated in cases in a similar manner. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-woman-entrepreneur-survives-bid-to-trap-in-ganja-case-1002145.html
27-06-2021||South||Made EPS CM only as recognition of support from people in western Tamil Nadu: Sasikala||Ousted AIADMK interim general secretary V K Sasikala on Sunday spoke to party functionaries from Edappadi, the assembly constituency represented by Opposition Leader Edappadi K Palaniswami, promising to restore the party’s pride like it was under M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa. Continuing with her telephone diplomacy, Sasikala spoke to Eswaramoorthy and Vadivelu from Edappadi in Salem district, and Balu from Dharmapuri district over the phone and asked them not to worry about the party’s future as she was resolute in getting back to the AIADMK. In her conversation with Balu, Sasikala said she “chose” her former protégé Palaniswami as leader of the Legislature Party only to recognise and acknowledge “support and love” showered by people of the Western Tamil Nadu or Kongu region towards the AIADMK. The region had always backed AIADMK over the DMK. “I did not have any other thought then,” she said when Balu expressed his opinion about the party tilting towards “one particular caste.” Sasikala had two weeks back accused Palaniswami of turning the AIADMK into a “one-caste party” giving credence to allegations that only Gounders were being recognized in the party. This is the first time that Sasikala has spoken to the AIADMK cadre in the Edappadi constituency. Palaniswami, who was elected as leader of AIADMK Legislative Party with Sasikala’s support, turned against her after she went to serve a four-year prison term. The close aide of late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa has so far spoken to over 100 AIADMK cadre in the past few weeks giving ample indications that she has not yet given up her claim over the party’s leadership. Though Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam have rejected her claims and continue to show the door from the party to those who attend her calls, Sasikala is continuing with her outreach. On Sunday, her team shared audio clips of her conversation with five cadres from different districts. “Don’t worry. I will come soon. We will bring the party back to its days of Thalaivar (MGR) and Amma (Jayalalithaa). I will not leave cadres in the lurch,” she told Eswaramoorthy, who asked her to take the active plunge into politics and “save” the AIADMK. “I will certainly come to Edappadi. Your town is also in Tamil Nadu, right?” she replied to Eswaramoorthy who asked her to visit his hometown. Sasikala, who spent four years in a Bengaluru jail in a disproportionate assets (DA) case, had on March 3 announced that she was “stepping aside” from politics. However, after the polls, she has categorically said her re-entry into politics was certain and blamed EPS and OPS for the party’s debacle in the April 6 elections. In her conversation with Vadivelu, Sasikala said she understood the sentiments of party workers and asserted that cadres are behind her. Vadivelu also asked Sasikala to come to Edappadi and address a public meeting. Though she indicated she was not in favour of a meeting, Sasikala said she will travel to Edappadi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/made-eps-cm-only-as-recognition-of-support-from-people-in-western-tamil-nadu-sasikala-1002149.html
27-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu to get its own Covid-19 genomic sequencing lab||The genomic sequencing lab will be run jointly by the King Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research and the Department of Public Health, officials said. The move comes amid the need to analyse swab samples to find out their variants – the state is currently sending samples for genomic sequencing to Pune or Bengaluru. “We have written to the ICMR regarding setting up of the lab. We hope to set up the new lab in a month. This will help us analyse and study the samples in Chennai rather than sending them to other cities,” J Radhakrishnan, Principal Secretary (Health), told DH. The state has so far reported nine cases of Delta Plus variant. While three samples were sent by the health department, six were sent to a genomic sequencing lab by an ICMR-affiliated institution in the state capital. Meanwhile, Radhakrishnan has written to district collectors on the steps to be taken if any person is found to be infected with Delta plus variant of Covid-19. “If he/she is found to have symptoms, he/she be hospitalised and followed up. Immediate contact tracing of the identified person’s contacts including family members, colleagues and neighbours with whom he/she may have interacted,” the letter said. He also asked the district authorities to test the contacts on “war footing.” Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-get-its-own-covid-19-genomic-sequencing-lab-1002166.html
27-06-2021||South||Telangana sees dip in new Covid-19 cases for first time||For the first time during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, fresh infections fell below the 1,000-mark in Telangana. The State recorded 748 cases on Sunday taking the total number of positive cases to 6,20,613 till date. Eight people succumbed to the virus pushing the death toll to 3,635, a bulletin said. The number of active cases stood at 14,302. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation reported the highest number of cases with 121 followed by Khammam (61) and Karimnagar (50). A total of 81,405 samples were tested today. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested were 1,83,27,887. The bulletin said there were 1,492 recoveries during the day taking the total number cured to 6,02,676. The recovery rate and case fatality rate were 97.10 per cent and 0.58 per cent compared to the national average of 96.72 per cent and 1.3 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-sees-dip-in-new-covid-19-cases-for-first-time-1002191.html
27-06-2021||State||First of its kind month-long health check-up for kids to beat Covid starts in Haveri||"Haveri has become the first district in the State to start a first-of-its-kind health check-up drive exclusively for children. We are making sure that no child is malnourished," Bommai, an MLA from Shiggaon in the district, told PTI. During the camp, which started on June 25 and will conclude on July 30, 2.75 lakh children under the age of 16 in the district will be screened, he said, adding, teachers and parents will also be subjected to check-up and vaccinated. The district Incharge Minister said the drive was started keeping in view the report furnished by the Technical Advisory Committee to the State government, saying that the potential third wave may affect children. "Since it has not been decided yet to vaccinate children, it is important to take care of the health of the children and protect them from malnutrition," the Minister said. Bommai said the screening is taking place in all the Primary Health Centres of the district with an aim to improve the overall health of children. "The health camp is being organised at all the PHCs covering every village of the district. Paediatricians are conducting health check-up. Later, essential medicines and nutritional kits will also be given to underprivileged children", the Minister said. After screening the children, their biodata will be collected and "health problems", if any, will be monitored for the next four to five months, he added. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/first-of-its-kind-month-long-health-check-up-for-kids-to-beat-covid-starts-in-haveri-1002070.html
27-06-2021||State||Karnataka logs 3,604 new Covid-19 cases, 89 deaths push toll to 34,743||The death toll rose to 34,743 with 89 being reported on Sunday. The number of active cases stood at 1,01,042 while the total discharges went up to 26,98,822 with the recovery of 7,699 people. Bengaluru Urban district logged the highest number of cases at 788 and 11 deaths. The city has so far reported 12,11,430 infections and 15,581 deaths. There were 63,473 active cases. Mysuru district remained the second major Covid hotspot with 478 new cases while it was on the top in terms of fatalities with 15 deaths. Dakshina Kannada added 454 infections and 15 Covid related deaths. According to the health bulletin, Hassan reported 322 infections, followed by Shivamogga (177), Belagavi (143), Chikkamagaluru (126), Davangere (118), Tumakuru (116), Kodagu (115), Mandya (109) and Kolar (101). Infections were reported in other districts as well including Ballari, Bengaluru Rural, Chamarajanagar, Dharwad, Udupi and Uttara Kannada. The department said there were eight deaths in Ballari, six each in Dharwad and Belagavi, five in Shivamogga, four each in Kolar and Hassan. Fatalities were reported in 10 other districts as well. There were zero fatalities in Bagalkote, Bidar, Chikkaballapura, Chikkamagaluru, Chitradurga, Kalaburagi, Ramanagara, Uttara Kannada, Vijayapura and Yadgir. The state conducted 1,64,636 Covid tests including 1,25,566 RT-PCR tests and other methods. So far 3.38 crore tests have been done cumulatively, the department added. As many as 2.17 crore inoculations have been achieved in the state comprising first and second dose of vaccine including 1,00,036 on Sunday. The positivity rate for the day was 2.18 per cent and Case Fatality Rate was 2.46 per cent, the department said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-logs-3604-new-covid-19-cases-89-deaths-push-toll-to-34743-1002197.html
27-06-2021||State||RTC strike: Faction-riddled union leaves over 2k workers in the lurch||Nearly 2,000 workers of the road transport corporations (RTCs), who have not received wages after being suspended or dismissed for taking part in the strike in April, are worried as the association that started the strike has been falling apart. Ever since its inception in December 2020, the Karnataka State Road Transport Employees League has witnessed clashes between different groups of leaders. However, the members came together three months ago and led a two-week-long strike during which thousands of workers were dismissed and suspended while many others were given punishment transfer. After the issue was taken to the Karnataka High Court, about 2,000 employees have been reinstated by BMTC while other corporations have taken back hundreds of employees. However, more than 1,500 probationers, who were dismissed, and over 1,000 employees under suspension have received no help from the league. After a few office-bearers, including the treasury and secretary, were expelled, those associated with the two leaders resigned leaving the hapless workers to fend for themselves. Ravi, a suspended conductor, in his Facebook post pleaded, “I am in dire straits after not getting the salary for three months. I appeal to you to help me get the job back.” R Chandrashekhar, the president of the League, said he has been getting at least 100 calls everyday from workers who are facing one or other disciplinary action. “I am trying to help them by giving them some aid from the resources in the League. We do not have enough money to help all of them. We are approaching all the political leaders seeking help,” he said. Anand, one of the expelled leaders, alleged that he was shunted out for protesting the autocratic behaviour of Chandrashekhar. “Some workers are still getting show-cause notice over the strike. There were no efforts to help the workers. When I protested this, I was expelled,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rtc-strike-faction-riddled-union-leaves-over-2k-workers-in-the-lurch-1002213.html
27-06-2021||State||K Sudhakar adopts 9 kids orphaned due to Covid-19||A trust headed by Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar has adopted nine children of Chikkaballapur district who have been orphaned during the Covid pandemic. The Saikrishna Trust has made a deposit of Rs one lakh in the name of each such child. The deposit bonds were disbursed to the children at a programme to mark Kempegowda Jayanti in Chikkaballapur on Sunday. The minister said that the Trust would take over the responsibility of educating the orphaned children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/k-sudhakar-adopts-9-kids-orphaned-due-to-covid-19-1002218.html
27-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Price crash and fungal infection force Kolar farmers to dump quintals of mangoes on highway||Mango growers of the district have dumped many quintals of mangoes following the Anthracnose fungal infection and crash in mango prices, a farmer leader said. "Mango growers are in distress in the district due to terrible losses. With no aid coming from the government, farmers have dumped loads of mangoes by the roadside in some parts of Srinivasapura in the district," Kolar District Mango Growers and Marketing Association president Neelaturu Chinnappa Reddy told PTI. According to him, it was a triple whammy for the mango growers this year. There was unexpected rain and hailstorm in the district causing severe damage to the crops. Further, there was Anthracnose fungal attack on the mangoes and third was the crash in mango prices, Reddy said. "This year farmers took only 30 per cent of the crop, of which half of the crops were destroyed due to fungal attack. Further the crash in mango prices caused immense loss to the growers," the farmer lamented. He complained that the government focused entirely on Covid and its relief work but did not look at the mango growers who suffered severe losses. Karnataka State Mango Development and Marketing Corporation Limited chairman K V Nagaraju said most of the crop destroyed this time is Totapuri variety though other crops suffered minimum losses. "I visited the spot with the state Horticulture Minister R Shankar. Only Totapuri variety of mango got fungal infections. There was very less damage to Benisha (Banaganapalli), Neelam and Mallika mangoes," Nagaraju told PTI. He also said that he has written to the government to give a compensation of Rs 50,000 per hectare to the Totapuri growers of Kolar who incurred losses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/price-crash-and-fungal-infection-force-kolar-farmers-to-dump-quintals-of-mangoes-on-highway-1002113.html
27-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports first case of rare Covid-19 complication affecting brain in 13-year-old||In a first in Karnataka, a rare Covid-19 complication affecting the brain has been detected in a 13-year-old child, the SS Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre here said on Sunday. Called acute necrotising encephalopathy of childhood (ANEC), the complication was found in the child belonging to Hoovinahadagali. The child had been infected with Covid-19 and had recovered but later developed ANEC, Dr N K Kalappanavar, the director of the institute, told PTI. "Till now, we have been thinking that multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) was the only post- Covid complication. Hereafter, we have to watch out for ANEC," he said. According to him, this is the first instance of ANEC as post-Covid complication has come to his notice in the State. The 13-year-old had very high antigen, which indicates that the child had infections. The director of the hospital said the child is recovering now. He said ANEC could prove fatal if not detected and treated in time. He added that the treatment is expensive as one injection costs between Rs 75,000 and Rs 1 lakh||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-first-case-of-rare-covid-19-complication-affecting-brain-in-13-year-old-1002174.html
27-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Delta Plus: K Sudhakar says 600 samples sent for genomic testing: State steps up vigil on Kerala, Maharashtra borders||The government has sent 600 samples for genomic testing to assess the prevalence of the new Delta Plus variant of the Coronavirus, Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Sunday. Speaking to reporters, he said the state has two patients infected with the Delta Plus variant. "We have sent 600 samples and the results are expected today (Sunday)," he said. The minister said there was no panic situation similar to Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. "However, we are stepping up guard on the Maharashtra and Kerala borders. Directions have been issued to subject all travellers from these states to random testing," he added. The minister acknowledged that not all people coming from outside Karnataka were being tested. "From Kerala alone, a few lakhs of people come to the state. We are trying to test as many people as possible. People have to be vaccinated and must continue to wear masks. That's the only way to stay safe from Covid," he said. Sudhakar said more than 50 lakh people have been vaccinated in Bengaluru and the city was doing much better compared with other cities in the country. "Among those vaccinated in the state, about 40% (1.85 crore) have received the first dose. More than 45 lakh have received the second dose. We have identified priority groups for vaccination. Soon, parents of children below 10 years of age will be added to that list," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/delta-plus-k-sudhakar-says-600-samples-sent-for-genomic-testing-state-steps-up-vigil-on-kerala-maharashtra-borders-1002219.html
27-06-2021||West||Exotic dragon fruit from Maharashtra exported to Dubai||In a major boost to the export of exotic fruit, a consignment of fibre and mineral-rich ‘dragon fruit’, also referred as Kamalam, has been exported to Dubai. The first consignment of dragon fruit for exports to Dubai was sourced from the farmers of Tadasar village in Sangli district and it was processed and packed at APEDA recognized exporter – M/s Kay Bee. Scientifically referred to as Hylocereusundatus, dragon fruit is grown in countries such as Malaysia, Thailand, the Philippines, the USA and Vietnam. Dragon fruit production commenced in India in the early 1990s in home gardens. It has become increasingly popular in recent years as it has been taken up for cultivation by farmers across various states. At present, dragon fruit is grown mostly in Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Odisha, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, and Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The cultivation requires less water and can be grown in various kinds of soils. There are three main varieties of dragon fruit: white flesh with pink skin, red flesh with pink skin, and white flesh with yellow skin. The fruit contains fiber, vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants. It helps in repairing cell damage caused by oxidative stress and reduce inflammation and also improve the digestive system. Since the fruit has spikes and petals resembling lotus, it is referred to as ‘Kamalam’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/exotic-dragon-fruit-from-maharashtra-exported-to-dubai-1002017.html
27-06-2021||West||Forts of Maharashtra to get basic amenities to boost tourism||Maharashtra's Directorate of Tourism announced the ‘Maharashtra Forts Scheme’, under which basic amenities around as many as 337 forts will be set up to boost heritage, adventure and nature tourism. The state has over 400 forts, of which approximately 350 forts are on government records – the highest of any state in India. These include three varieties: sea forts, forts built on hills and forts built on land. They are further divided into two sections: classified and non-classified forts. As many as 44 classified forts are protected under the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) while 49 are under the Directorate of Archaeology and Museums. The 337 which will receive the amenities are non-classified forts, protected under the Revenue and Forest departments. Basic tourist amenities include approach road, drinking water, restaurants, toilets, electricity, solid waste management, signages, tourist information centre, guides, caravan camping, parking and beautification of the vicinity. “Through this scheme, all the facilities to be provided in and around the forts, experiential tourism, implementing agencies of the scheme, promotion of fort tourism, functions of the agency selected for the promotion, availability of funds, committees for selection of the forts to implement the scheme, terms of reference of the committees etc. has been made available on the website,” officials said. The policy document is available on the Maharashtra tourism website (www.maharashtratourism.gov.in) and the Directorate of Tourism has sought suggestions and objections vis-à-vis the scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/forts-of-maharashtra-to-get-basic-amenities-to-boost-tourism-1002024.html
27-06-2021||West||'Mumbai Samachar', Asia’s oldest newspaper, set to enter 200th year||Asia’s oldest newspaper, 'Mumbai Samachar', will enter into the 200th year of its publication on 1 July. The newspaper has seen the transformation of Bombay to Mumbai – and has covered all the historic events involving the financial capital and India. Over the years, the Gujarati daily has carved a niche for itself – and its office is in the Red House at the SA Brelvi Road off the Horniman Circle in the Fort area of Mumbai. Earlier known as 'Bombay Samachar', the Parsi-family owned newspaper has played an important role in India’s freedom struggle. 'Hicky's Bengal Gazette or the Original Calcutta General Advertiser' was the first newspaper printed in Asia, and was published only for two years, between 1780 and 1782. The first edition of 'Bombay Samachar' came out on 1 July, 1822. It was the second non-English newspaper published in India – the first being 'Samachar Darpan', that came out on 23 May, 1818 published from Serampore in Hooghly. The first Hindi newspaper 'Udant Martand' came out on 30 May, 1826, published from Kolkata, then Calcutta. The 'Bombay Samachar' was established in 1822 by a Parsi scholar and priest, Fardunjee Marzban, who was a pioneer not only of journalism in Western India but of all Gujarati printed literature. He founded the first native press in 1812 and in 1814 brought out a Gujarati Calendar, fully 6 years before the first Bengali calendar was printed and published in Calcutta. Initially, the paper consisted of three small quarto sheets and a half sheet supplement, published in a 10x8 inch format, containing overall 14 pages of printed matter. The newspaper, born as a weekly, was published till 1832; post which it transformed into a bi-weekly till 1855 and a daily after that till date. The Mumbai Samachar is now owned by the Cama family, which took over in 1933. One copy of the daily newspaper is priced at Rs 10, the highest in India – and it commands a circulation of 1.5 lakh. A veteran in the media industry, Hormusji N Cama, is its present Director. “The newspaper has a glorious tradition and it still continues,” Nilesh Dave, the Editor of Mumbai Samachar, told DH on Sunday. "Competing 199 years and entering the 200 year is a landmark occasion...we all are excited about it," said Dave. “The paper has a unique relationship with the Gujarati-speaking community including the Parsees,” said Jatin Desai, a veteran journalist, writer, activist and political commentator. The Bombay Samachar played a very important role during India's struggle for independence being often quoted by freedom fighters like Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Vallabhbhai Patel and others. “The newspaper has a glorious history but they are very futuristic. They were among the first to introduce card-punching for its staff and also computers in the newsroom,” says Ajit Joshi, a veteran journalist and an expert on Mumbai’s heritage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-samachar-asia-s-oldest-newspaper-set-to-enter-200th-year-1002049.html
27-06-2021||West||Non professional course admissions after class 12 results: Maharashtra minister||The admission process for non-professional courses will start after Class XII results are declared in Maharashtra, state Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant said on Sunday. He said there were options of either conducting CET for admissions to non-technical courses or conduct the admission process based on Class XII marks. "Class XII board exams have been cancelled, and only after the results are declared, we will decide on having CET or not," he added. Samant, who interacted with teachers' outfits that have been protesting seeking recruitment in universities, said the state government had decided to fill 4,074 posts, and the process for 1,600 had already been completed. The process for the remaining posts were on hold due to the Covid-19 pandemic but the file has been processed, and following approval by Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister Ajit Pawar, a government resolution would be issued soon, he said. He said the process to fill 700-750 more vacant posts had also begun, while a survey will be undertaken to identify vacant teaching posts as on 2020. "The remuneration per hour for teachers on clock hour basis in under-graduate programmes has been increased from Rs 500 to Rs 615, and from Rs 150 to Rs 250 for practicals. For postgraduate courses (PG), it has been increased to Rs 750 from Rs 600, while it would be Rs 300 in place of Rs 250 for those conducting practicals. The government will also fill up 121 vacant librarian posts soon," Samant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/non-professional-course-admissions-after-class-12-results-maharashtra-minister-1002101.html
27-06-2021||West||Increasing Covid-19 deaths now a concern for Maharashtra||The peak of the second wave is over and the state may just be weeks away from the third wave, doctors said, adding that the cases need to be controlled further. However, the majority of the deaths were part of the reconciliation of old deaths and the update of the Covid portal. On June 26, the state reported 9,812 new cases and 179 deaths, pushing the progressive total to 60,26,847 and death toll to 1,20,881. From June 1 to June 26, the state reported 2,65,832 cases and 24,683 deaths, according to the Public Health Department's data. While on June 1, there were 2,30,681 active cases – the same came down to 1,21,251 on June 26. The Monsoon Session of the state is scheduled for July 5-6 after which the future course of the combat plan may be announced. It may be mentioned that from June 7, the Unlock 2.0 commenced in the state with five slabs – depending on the positivity rate and occupancy of oxygen beds – which have now been brought down to the maximum Level-3  for the state. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/increasing-covid-19-deaths-now-a-concern-for-maharashtra-1002107.html
27-06-2021||West||MVA government running smoothly, it will complete its full term, says Sharad Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday said the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra was running smoothly and it would complete its full five-year term. Speaking to reporters at Baramati, his hometown in the district, Pawar said when this government (in which his own party and the Congress are constituents) came into existence, it was decided that it will run on a "common programme". "When a government is run, it is bound to face some issues. So it was decided then that in order to find a solution to the issues, there has to be a mechanism,” said the veteran leader, who is said to be the chief architect of the Uddhav Thackeray-led dispensation that was formed after the 2019 Assembly elections. It was decided to give the responsibility to some leaders from three parties and as per the mechanism, Balasaheb Thorat and Ashok Chavan from Congress, Eknath Shinde and Subhash Desai from Shiv Sena and Ajit Pawar and Jayant Patil from NCP were given this responsibility, Pawar added. If there is any issue or a policy decision, all six leaders from these parties meet and take a decision, the NCP supremo said. "The (MVA) government is running smoothly and since everybody wants to go ahead using the same method, I have no doubt that this government will last for all five years," he said. In the government, all three parties have one stand, but it is obvious that all three parties - be it Congress, Shiv Sena, or NCP - will work towards strengthening the base of their respective organisations and there is no misunderstanding about it, he said. "So all three parties have a good understanding among one another over the efforts taken in regards to strengthening the base of their respective parties," the former Union minister said. Recently, Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole had said that his party would fight the next Assembly elections independently. Asked about the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) prescribing qualifications for managing directors (MDs) and whole-time directors (WTDs) of urban cooperative banks, Pawar said that if the central bank has taken a policy decision, it will have to be accepted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-government-running-smoothly-it-will-complete-its-full-term-says-sharad-pawar-1002178.html
