28-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kannada actor Chetan Kumar files defamation suit against Karnataka Minister A Shivaram Hebbar||Kannada actor Chetan Kumar has filed a Re one defamation suit in a city court against Karnataka Labour Minister A Shivaram Hebbar for using 'defamatory' language against him, for allegedly criticising Brahminism. The actor had on Saturday said that he has sued the minister for using demeaning and offensive language against him on Twitter on June 11. Hebbar, who is a Brahmin himself, took offense to Chetan Kumar's statement and tweeted that he would ask the Chief Minister to initiate action against the actor for his tweets, which "could be aimed at getting himself identified or for petty gain (Ganji Kaasu)." "I have filed a Re 1 civil defamation suit against current Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar," Chetan said in a statement. As a sitting cabinet minister in a party that is in power in both Karnataka and the Centre, Hebbar has used 'demeaning' and 'offensive' language attacking him personally, Kumar added. He charged Hebbar with 'misusing' his role as a public servant and said the minister must be held accountable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kannada-actor-chetan-kumar-files-defamation-suit-against-karnataka-minister-a-shivaram-hebbar-1002283.html
28-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Business activities pick up in Mysuru as lockdown eases||With a slight relaxation in Covid-19 lockdown, business activities picked up in Mysuru on Monday. The district administration has allowed businesses to operate till 2 pm. Street vendors and essential shops are allowed to open from 6 am to 2 pm. Even vegetable vendors and pushcart vendors are allowed to continue businesses for the same duration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-business-activities-pick-up-in-mysuru-as-lockdown-eases-1002315.html
28-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Chain snatchers return as Mysuru ends Covid-19 lockdown||With the Covid-19 lockdown eased, chain snatchers are back in the city again. A chain snatching case was reported in the city Sunday where two bike-borne thieves snatched the chain of one 50-year-old Manjula at Lalith Mahal Nagar. The snatchers approached Manjula asking for an address and made away with her chain. Alanahalli police are investigating the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chain-snatchers-return-as-mysuru-ends-covid-19-lockdown-1002322.html
28-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Travellers from Maharashtra screened at Belagavi||Karnataka district officials conducted a thorough screening of people from Maharashtra entering Belagavi district as the threat of the Delta virus rose in the state. Teams of officials checked Covid-19 symptoms and negative test reports for travellers coming from the districts bordering Maharashtra near Shinoli on the Belagavi-Bachi road in Belagavi taluk, Kognoli in Nippani, Athani, Kagwad and Kankumbi in Khanapur on Monday. The border sees much activity as many from different villages in Chandgad taluk in Kolhapur visit Belagavi for essential needs. Shinoli also houses industries employing many from the city and surrounding vilages in Belagavi taluk. Kognoli saw intensified checking as it is located on the Pune-Bengaluru national highway. Athani and Kagwad, that share borders with Sangli, and Kankumbi, that is adjacent to Goa, also saw tough screening. Fully vaccinated travellers were allowed entry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-travellers-from-maharashtra-screened-at-belagavi-1002410.html
28-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Negative Covid report must for entry to Chamarajanagar from Kerala||In an effort to contain the spread of the pandemic from other states, the Chamarajanagar district authorities have made it mandatory for the passengers entering the state from Kerala via Moolehole near Gundlupet taluk to furnish a Covid-negative report.  Tightening the norms, Tahsildar C G Ravishankar has directed the authorities to allow only those with Covid-negative reports into the taluk.  He gave strict instructions to staff at the checkpost at Moolehole that passengers in the vehicles from Kerala without negative report should not be allowed entry for any reason. He also inspected the checkpost.  Thermal screening should be conducted even if negative reports are furnished and ensure they wear masks, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/negative-covid-report-must-for-entry-to-chamarajanagar-from-kerala-1002429.html
28-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four siblings washed away in river Krishna at Athani||Four siblings were washed away in the waters of river Krishna at Halyal village in Athani taluk while they were washing clothes in the river on Monday. According to the police, all members from one family had been washing clothes, when one of them was washed away due to the currents when he ventured in the river, while the rest were washed away in a bid to save him. Those washed away have been identified as Sadashiv Gopal Banasode (24), Parasu Gopal Bansode (36), Dareppa Gopal Bansode (22) and Shankar Gopal Bansode (20). Police and NDRF teams, along with local divers, were searching for them in the river. The incident took place in the jurisdiction of Athani police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-siblings-washed-away-in-river-krishna-at-athani-1002478.html
28-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Pratap Simha seeks writers to oppose move to change Kannada names of villages||MP Pratap Simha on Monday sought writers, political parties and politicians to raise their voice against the Kerala government's move to change Kannada names of villages. "The Communist government is trying to wipe out Kannada from Kerala," he told reporters. "Writers, political parties and politicians should raise their voice in this regard. The Karnataka government should talk to the Kerala government. As per Mahajan Commission report, Kasaragod in Kerala belongs to Karnataka and a part of Belagavi goes to Maharashtra and some parts of Maharashtra come to Karnataka. However, in order to maintain the goodwill and healthy relationship, there is a balanced approach on the issue." On a ministerial berth for him, the MP said, “The people of Kodagu and Mysuru have elected me as MP twice. My aim is to fulfil the expectations of the people. The Union government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is supporting the constituency and has sanctioned all projects I have asked for. We (MLAs and MPs) are elected to work. The MP's position is the biggest one for me”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pratap-simha-seeks-writers-to-oppose-move-to-change-kannada-names-of-villages-1002480.html
28-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Six of a family end lives by jumping into agriculture pond||Six members of a family ended their lives by jumping into the agriculture pond in Doranahalli village of Shahpur taluk on Monday. The deceased have been identified as Bheemaraya Surpura (45), Shanthamma Surpura (36), Sumithra (12), Sridevi (13), Shivaraja (9) and Lakshmi (4). Expert divers and personnel from the Fire Services and Emergency Department retrieved the bodies from the pond. Superintendent of Police Dr C B Vedamurthy said that Bheemaraya Surapura had no land in his name and he was cultivating 2 acres belonging to his mother. “It has come to light that he had borrowed Rs 20 lakh for horticultural crop. The family may have ended lives out of desperation,” he said. In another incident in Ballari, a woman ended her life by jumping into a water sump after killing her two children. The deceased have been identified as Sunitha (28), her son Yashwanth (4) and daughter (aged 15 months). Marital discord is said to be the reason for the extreme step.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/six-of-a-family-end-lives-by-jumping-into-agriculture-pond-1002603.html
28-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Fee row: S Suresh Kumar for consensus between schools and parents||Playing cards close to his chest and taking a diplomatic stand on the row over the school fees, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar on Monday said that the private school managements and parent groups must come to a mutual understanding about the row.  Replying to questions about a series of protests by the parent groups against some private unaided schools over the fee issues, the minister said, "This, in fact, happened last year as well. We request the school managements and parents to come to a mutual understanding and resolve the fee-related issues in a civilised manner." However, the case related to the fee issue is expected to be taken by the High Court on Tuesday. "We have requested the court to constitute a committee of a retired High Court Justice regarding the fee issue," the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fee-row-s-suresh-kumar-for-consensus-between-schools-and-parents-1002612.html
28-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Forest dept issues order to axe trees for rail project in challenge before SC||The state government has caught itself in a bind by issuing orders to fell over 2,000 trees for the doubling of the Tinaighat-Castlerock section of Hosapete-Vasco railway days after a Central Empowered Committee (CEC) told the Supreme Court doubling "the most inefficient" railway line will cause a disaster in the fragile Western Ghats. In its April 23 report submitted to the Supreme Court, which is hearing a petition by Goa Foundation, the CEC appointed by the apex court had also recommended that permission for the project granted by the standing committee of the National Board for Wildlife should be revoked. At a time when the matter was sub-judice, the Karnataka Forest Department has given permission to fell 2,278 trees in two separate orders. The order for felling 181 trees was issued on April 28, just five days after the CEC report put a question mark on the project. Two days later, the department went on to give permission for felling 2,097 trees in Kali Tiger Reserve. Former Environment Secretary and conservationist Yellappa Reddy, who served as conservator of forest in the region, said the department's orders will lead to a disaster as the linear project would affect the environment on multiple fronts. "The unique ecosystem of the area will be destroyed, while the project work and increased movement of trains will affect wild animal behaviour and lead to fragmentation of the wildlife corridors," he said. Sreeja Chakraborty of Growthwatch said the Forest department orders were not uploaded on the portal of the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change in a deliberate measure to hide the violations from the public. "The department evaded those who are in touch with them regularly to seek an update on the project. Even the activists who have filed public interest litigation in the Karnataka High Court were not given a copy of the orders which were issued during the lockdown when the people in the state were virtually under a house arrest," she said. Rajani Santosh, a Jayanagar-based activist, said there was a need to question multilateral funding agencies which support such projects. She noted that Asian Development Bank-funded 200 km of the doubling project while staying away from the 100 km stretch of railway line in the ecosensitive zone. "The project has been split into two packages for convenience," she said, noting that the funding enabled the destruction of the environment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/forest-dept-issues-order-to-axe-trees-for-rail-project-in-challenge-before-sc-1002622.html
28-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Will urge Shah to address Kasargod village name changes: Joshi||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Monday stated that he would urge Union Home Minister Amit Shah to look into the matter of Kerala government's decision to change Kannada names of some villages in Kasargod district to Malayalam. "After collecting all the details, I will speak to the home minister, and request him to issue suitable directions in this issue," he said. He also stated that the Union Government would deal terrorist activities in Jammu & Kashmir with iron hands. On vaccine supply In reply to the demand for supply of more Covid vaccines as a large number people are visiting vaccination centres, Joshi said, vaccines in large quantity would be supplied within 10 days. Manufacturing of the vaccine has its own limitations, and vaccinating our entire population fast is a challenging task. More number of people would be vaccinated in July, he noted. On political affairs Joshi also expressed ignorance about the reason for the meeting between former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, and Leader of Opposition in Maharashtra Legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis. Race for the chief minister's post is not surprising in the ruling party. But, Congress leaders are engaged in a fight for that position when their party is not at all in power, he criticised, adding that BJP National General Secretary Arun Singh has already clarified about leadership change issue in the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-urge-shah-to-address-kasargod-village-name-changes-joshi-1002390.html
28-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Dalit CM possible only in Congress, says L Hanumanthaiah||The CM candidate debate in the Congress seems to be taking a new turn, with Rajya Sabha member L Hanumanthaiah batting for a Dalit to occupy the top post.  “It is our wish that a Dalit should become the chief minister, but talking about this now is irrelevant,” Hanumanthaiah, a Dalit himself, told reporters. “The discussion on who should be the CM will happen only if the party gets a majority in the (next) election.” According to Hanumanthaiah, the Dalit CM issue was not a new one. “Also, if a Dalit has to become the CM, it’ll be possible only in the Congress. But the right time has yet to come. And, it’s not the Congress’ culture to announce a CM candidate before the election,” he said.  The discussion around a Dalit becoming the next CM is seen as a counter to the ambitions of the leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D K Shivakumar to be the chief minister. A recent meeting between senior leaders K H Muniyappa, G Parameshwara (both Dalits) and B K Hariprasad had fuelled speculation that a ‘third front’ is in the making to mount pressure on the high command to consider a Dalit as the next CM. Mocking the Congress, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said the Congress’ house now had four doors. “One wants a Dalit CM, one a backward class (Kuruba), one Vokkaliga and there’s a fourth door opened by M B Patil, who says a Lingayat should become the CM,” he said.  AICC spokesperson Brijesh Kalappa demanded a high-level probe into allegations of irregularities in the land sold to the Ram temple trust. “Harish and Kusuma Pathak buy the land for Rs 2 crore, which is then sold to the temple trust within five minutes for Rs 18 crore. The trust bought another piece of land from those two people for Rs 8 crore,” Kalappa said.  Kalappa gave the state government a week's ultimatum to change the design of the upcoming Shivamogga airport that resembles a lotus, the BJP's symbol. "If the decision isn't withdrawn, we will launch a legal battle," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dalit-cm-possible-only-in-congress-says-l-hanumanthaiah-1002605.html
28-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||CM debate in Congress Muniyappa, Hariprasad seek high command intervention||With the debate on who should be the next Chief Minister is raging in the Karnataka Congress unit, former Union Minister K H Muniyappa, former Rajya Sabha member B K Hariprasad on Monday met Congress National General Secretary K C Venugopal here and requested him to intervene to put an end to the discussion. Since the party should focus on strengthening the organisation, the debate on who should be the next Chief Minister should uncalled for. The Congress high command must step in to reign in state leaders from discussing the issue, both the leaders are learnt to have told Venugopal. Venugopal,  AICC General Secretary (Organisation), considered a powerful leader and advises Congress president Sonia Gandhi and General Secretary Rahul Gandhi on party affairs. "Though the Congress has bright prospect in the state to come to power in the next assembly polls, an unwanted debate is weakening the organisation. Unless the debate end now, it would damage the party," state leaders conveyed to the central leaders, according to sources. Several leaders making public statements on the next Chief Minister has virtually led the party into a divided house in Karnataka. The Central leaders must intervene to ensure the party leaders should work unitedly to strengthen the organisation, the state leaders have told the party top brass. Senior leader B R Patil also accompanied them during the meeting. Speaking to reporters, Hariprasad said he has no plan to complain against any leaders. After Assembly elections MLAs and the party high command will take a call on who should be the next Chief Minister, he said. "First we should focus on winning elections. After that we can discuss on who should be the next Chief Minister," he said. "There is nothing wrong if a few people expressed their wishes about a particular leader should be next Chief Minister, but it should not harm the party," he said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cm-debate-in-congress-muniyappa-hariprasad-seek-high-command-intervention-1002623.html
28-06-2021||Mysuru||KSRTC resumes service after 50 days in Mysuru||The service of KSRTC buses resumed after a gap of 50 days in Mysuru. The bus service was suspended due to the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19. The service commenced at 6 am. Both the city, as well as rural services, resumed. However, few people are taking to bus service. Though the KSRTC had resumed service a few days back across the state, the buses were off the road in Mysuru as there was no relaxation in lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/ksrtc-resumes-service-after-50-days-in-mysuru-1002310.html
28-06-2021||Mysuru||Mysuru Vivekananda Memorial snowballs into a controversy||The plan to construct a Vivekananda Memorial in Mysuru, pending since 2010 has caused a divide among sections of the people. While a section of people opposes the demolition of Maharani’s New Type Model (NTM) Primary School for the memorial by Sri Ramakrishna Ashrama (SRA), the Ashrama authorities claim that the NTM School building is not a heritage structure and it was not set up by the then Maharani. The memorial is being planned on the land of Niranjana Ashrama at the junction of Krishna Vilas Road and Narayana Shastri (NS) Road and the adjoining land of NTM School on NS Road.   The Ashrama authorities claim that the memorial is not a statue, but it would house Vivekananda Cultural Youth Centre which benefits thousands of youths. “It is not to install a statue of Vivekananda and offer puja. But, it will have a meditation centre, yoga training centre, vocational training centre and offer spoken English course, coaching centre for competitive examination aspirants and will have a library,” Ashrama authorities say.     The NTM School Ulisi Horata Samiti Okkutta has launched a protest opposing the memorial on the NTM premises.  Swami Muktidananda, president of SRA, Mysuru, and Swami Shantivratananda said that the memorial was a government-approved project, proposed in 2010 to commemorate the 150th birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda. “The National Committee for commemoration, chaired by the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh approved the project and entrusted the work to the ashrama. The Union, as well as the state government, have sanctioned nearly Rs 12 crore for the memorial,” they said. “Swami Vivekananda visited Niranjana Ashrama before his voyage to Chicago, for the First Parliament of Religions. When Vivekananda visited Niranjana Ashrama, it included the present land of the NTM School. The present building was inaugurated in 1971 and it is not a heritage structure. We need records to prove that the present NTM School was started by the then Maharani,” they said. However, the members of organisations opposing the memorial claim that they have no objection to the memorial, but, it was not right to demolish the heritage school. “It is the first-ever girls’ school started by the Maharani, to empower women. Besides, it is a Kannada medium government school. The building might not be a heritage structure, but the institution is. We urge the SRA to develop the memorial, by protecting the school building,” said former director of Rangayana, Basavalingaiah. “Let the Ashrama people acquire land somewhere else in Mysuru for the memorial. There are conspiracies to loot public property in the name of mutts and religious centres. Even people’s representatives are blindly listening to pontiffs, rather than the people,” he said. A protest will be launched at the school from Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-vivekananda-memorial-snowballs-into-a-controversy-1002621.html
28-06-2021||National||India shifts 50,000 troops to China border in historic move||India has redirected at least 50,000 additional troops to its border with China in a historic shift toward an offensive military posture against the world’s second-biggest economy. Although the two countries battled in the Himalayas in 1962, India’s strategic focus has primarily been Pakistan since the British left the subcontinent, with the long-time rivals fighting three wars over the disputed region of Kashmir. Yet since the deadliest India-China fighting in decades last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s administration has sought to ease tensions with Islamabad and concentrate primarily on countering Beijing. Over the past few months, India has moved troops and fighter jet squadrons to three distinct areas along its border with China, according to four people familiar with the matter. All in all, India now has roughly 200,000 troops focused on the border, two of them said, which is an increase of more than 40 per cent from last year. Both the Indian Army and a spokesman for the Prime Minister’s Office in New Delhi didn’t respond to requests for comment. Whereas previously India’s military presence was aimed at blocking Chinese moves, the redeployment will allow Indian commanders more options to attack and seize territory in China if necessary in a strategy known as “offensive defense,” one of the people said. That includes a lighter footprint involving more helicopters to airlift soldiers from valley to valley along with artillery pieces like the M777 howitzer built by BAE Systems Inc. While it’s unclear how many troops China has on the border, India detected that the People’s Liberation Army recently moved additional forces from Tibet to the Xinjiang Military Command, which is responsible for patrolling disputed areas along the Himalayas. China is adding fresh runway buildings, bomb-proof bunkers to house fighter jets and new airfields along the disputed border in Tibet, two of the people said. Beijing also adding long-range artillery, tanks, rocket regiments and twin-engine fighters in the last few months, they said. China’s Foreign Ministry “will not comment on unsubstantiated information,” a spokesperson said in response to questions. The fear now is that a miscalculation could lead to an even deadlier conflict. Several recent rounds of military-diplomatic talks with China have made minimal progress toward a return to the quiet status quo that had prevailed along the border for decades. “Having so many soldiers on either side is risky when border management protocols have broken down,” said D S Hooda, a lieutenant general and former Northern Army commander in India. “Both sides are likely to patrol the disputed border aggressively. A small local incident could spiral out of control with unintended consequences.” The northern region of Ladakh — where India and China clashed several times last year — has seen the largest increase in troop levels, three of the people said, with an estimated 20,000 soldiers including those once engaged in anti-terrorism operations against Pakistan now deployed in the area. The reorientation means India at all times will have more troops acclimatized to fight in the high-altitude Himalayans, while the number of troops solely earmarked for the western border with Pakistan will be reduced. India has also obtained an offensive capability along the southern Tibetan plateau near the center of the border. In that more populated area, regular soldiers outfitted with machine guns have joined lightly armed paramilitary officers, the people said. In the far eastern state of Arunachal Pradesh, where most of India’s border forces had been located and where much of the 1962 India-China war played out, newly acquired French-made Rafale fighter jets armed with long-range missiles are being deployed to support the boots on the ground, the people said. The Indian Navy is also taking action, putting more warships along key sea lanes for longer durations. Its efforts include studying energy and trade flows in and out of China, according to an Indian Navy official who asked not to be identified, citing rules for speaking to the media. The maneuvering follows a period of relative calm after a summer of fighting last year that saw India lose control over about 300 square kilometers (115 square miles) of land along the disputed mountainous terrain, Bloomberg reported. The worst clash in June left 20 Indian and four Chinese soldiers dead. For Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the shift comes as the pandemic ravages India’s hinterland and the economy contracts by the worst in four decades, leaving less money for defense. At the same time, India is stepping up security cooperation with fellow Quad partners — the US, Japan and Australia — to gain leverage against China. “The crisis over the last year has brought home the reality to India’s decision makers that China presents the biggest strategic challenge in the future, and it has led to shifting the attention away from Pakistan,” Sushant Singh, a senior fellow at the Centre for Policy Research and visiting lecturer at Yale University said. “As this plays out fully, it will alter the geopolitics of the region significantly.” Still, despite India’s strategic shift and the troop movements, China retains an advantage along the border, said Sana Hashmi, a visiting fellow at the Taipei-based Taiwan-Asia Exchange Foundation. “The economic and military asymmetry will remain in place,” she said. “And there is a long way to go for India to bridge this asymmetry.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-shifts-50000-troops-to-china-border-in-historic-move-1002312.html
28-06-2021||National||Parliamentary panel summons Facebook, Google||Amid the ongoing tussle between Twitter and the Centre over the new I-T Rules 2021, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology has summoned officials of Facebook and Google to deliberate on the issue of safeguarding citizens' rights and preventing misuse of online platforms. As per the official agenda circulated among the members of the panel, "To hear the views of representatives of Facebook India and Google India on the subject 'Safeguarding citizens' rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space." The panel headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor earlier summoned Twitter representatives in which panel is learnt to have asked US-based company to follow law of the land and that complying with Indian law is a must. The panel, headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, had earlier summoned Twitter representatives and is likely to summon YouTube and other social media platforms in coming days. Though earlier Facebook had sought permission to appear before the panel through video conference due to the Covid-19 protocols, panel chairman Tharoor insisted that company officials must appear in person as the Parliament Secretariat does not allow virtual meetings. The panel meeting with social media firms came in the backdrop of a tussle between social media houses and the government over the implementation of new IT rules that came into force from May 26. While Whatsapp went to court questioning some clauses of new rules citing user privacy, Twitter was at loggerheads with the government about its implementation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-summons-facebook-google-1002320.html
28-06-2021||National||India reports 46,148 new Covid-19 cases, 979 deaths||India saw a single day rise of    46,148 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,02,79,331, while daily fatalities were recorded below 1000, taking the total death toll to 3,96,730, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. India saw 979 fatalities due to Covid-19 in a day, the lowest in 76 days. According to the data published at 7 am, the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country has reached 32.36 crore under Nationwide Vaccination Drive. "India achieves another milestone in Covid-19 vaccination and overtakes the USA in total number of Covid vaccine doses administered," the ministry said. The active cases declined to 5,72,994 comprising 1.89 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.80 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed.    A net decline of 13,409 cases has been recorded in the Covid-19 caseload in a span of  24 hours. Also,  15,70,515 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 40,63,71,279. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.94 per cent. It has been less than 5 per cent for 21 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.81 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 46th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,93,09,607, while the case fatality rate  stands at 1.31 per cent, the data stated.    India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-46148-new-covid-19-cases-979-deaths-1002325.html
28-06-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi pays tribute to Narasimha Rao||Paying rich tributes to former prime minister P V Narasimha Rao on his 100th birth anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday that India remembers his extensive contributions to national development. Rao, a veteran Congress leader who served a full five year term after taking over as prime minister in 1991, is credited with liberalising the Indian economy, effecting transformational changes.  Modi tweeted, "Tributes to former PM Shri PV Narasimha Rao Ji on his 100th birth anniversary. India remembers his extensive contributions to national development. He was blessed with remarkable knowledge and intellect." The prime minister also shared a clip of his radio broadcast, Mann Ki Baat, of last year in which he had paid fond tributes to Rao.  Tributes to former PM Shri PV Narasimha Rao Ji on his 100th birth anniversary. India remembers his extensive contributions to national development. He was blessed with remarkable knowledge and intellect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-pays-tribute-to-narasimha-rao-1002338.html
28-06-2021||National||India surpasses US in total Covid-19 vaccine doses administered||India has overtaken the US in the total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. While India launched the Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16, and has administered over 32.36 crore doses till date, the US which started its inoculation drive on December 14, 2020 has given over 32.33 crore doses. "India achieves another milestone in Covid-19 vaccination and overtakes USA in total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered," the ministry said. India’s cumulative vaccination coverage exceeded 32.36 crores on Sunday. A total of 32,36,63,297 vaccine doses have been administered through 43,21,898 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am on Monday, the ministry said. It said 17,21,268 vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours. According to the data, so far 1,01,98,257 healthcare workers have taken the first dose while 72,07,617 have taken the second dose. As many as 1,74,42,767 frontline workers have received the first dose while 93,99,319 have taken the second dose.In the 18-44 age group, 8,46,51,696 individuals have taken then first dose, while 19,01,190 have received the second dose. In the 45-59 age group, 8,71,11,445 people have been administered the first dose, while 1,48,12,349 have taken the second dose. Besides, 6,75,29,713 people aged above 60 years have received the first dose, while, 2,34,08,944 have taken the second dose. The new phase of universalization of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from June 21.  Also, 15,70,515 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 40,63,71,279. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.94 per cent. It has been less than five per cent for 21 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.81 per cent. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-surpasses-us-in-total-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-1002347.html
28-06-2021||National||Hope to resolve this soon: SII CEO Adar Poonawalla on Indians facing travel issues due to Covishield||Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine manufactured in India, not being eligible for the European Union’s “Green Pass”, the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has raised the issue at diplomatic levels. SII CEO Adar Poonawalla assured that he was taking steps to resolve the issue. “I realise that a lot of Indians who have taken Covishield are facing issues with travel to the EU, I assure everyone, I have taken this up at the highest levels and hope to resolve this matter soon, both with regulators and at a diplomatic level with countries,” Poonawalla tweeted on Monday. Currently, only four vaccines have been approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) which can be used by the EU member states to issue the certificates. The four vaccines are Comirnaty of Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna and Vaxzervria by AstraZeneca-Oxford and Johnson & Johnson's Janssen. In India, people have been administered Covishield or Covaxin and a few of them received Sputnik V. I realise that a lot of Indians who have taken COVISHIELD are facing issues with travel to the E.U., I assure everyone, I have taken this up at the highest levels and hope to resolve this matter soon, both with regulators and at a diplomatic level with countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hope-to-resolve-this-soon-sii-ceo-adar-poonawalla-on-indians-facing-travel-issues-due-to-covishield-1002349.html
28-06-2021||National||India successfully test-fires Agni-Prime missile off Odisha coast||India on Monday successfully test-fired its new generation nuclear-capable Agni Prime missile from a defence base off Odisha coast, DRDO sources said. The surface-to-surface ballistic missile has a range of 1000 to 2000 km, it said. The sleek missile of the Agni series was test-fired from a mobile launcher off the Abdul Kalam Island in Odisha at 10.55 am, said a DRDO source. Its trajectory was monitored by sophisticated tracking radars along the coast line. The nuclear-capable missile has been designed and developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-successfully-test-fires-agni-prime-missile-off-odisha-coast-1002360.html
28-06-2021||National||Vice President Naidu hails Narasimha Rao's commitment to development on 100th birth anniversary||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday paid tributes to former prime minister P V Narasimha Rao on his 100th birth anniversary, describing him as the "undisputed torchbearer" of economic reforms in India. People, Naidu said, will always remember Rao's undeterred commitment to national development. Rao was the prime minister between June 1991 and May 1996. "My humble tributes to Shri PV Narasimha Rao, an astute administrator, statesman, visionary and the undisputed torchbearer of economic reforms in India on his hundredth birth anniversary," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted, quoting Naidu. A Renaissance personality in the true sense of the term, Shri Rao was a polyglot & a distinguished man of letters,who showed a keen interest in encouraging mother tongue as the medium of education.People shall always remember his undeterred commitment to our national development. A Renaissance personality in the true sense of the term, Rao was a polyglot and a distinguished man of letters, who showed a keen interest in encouraging mother tongue as the medium of education, the vice president observed. Rao was born on this day in 1921 in Karimnagar, now in Telangana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-naidu-hails-narasimha-raos-commitment-to-development-on-100th-birth-anniversary-1002361.html
28-06-2021||National||Supreme Court pays tribute to 77 lawyers of SCBA who died due to Covid||The Supreme Court on Monday paid tribute to 77 advocates of the apex court lawyers’ body, who lost their lives due to Covid-19. At the start of the day's proceedings, a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana expressed condolence on behalf of the Supreme Court judges. “We are informed by the Secretary of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) that 77 advocates who were members of SCBA have lost their lives to Covid-19. We pay our deepest condolences. We will observe two-minute silence for the departed souls,” Chief Justice Ramana said. Senior advocate Gopal Sankaranaryanan, who was appearing in the first matter listed for the day, appreciated the gesture of the top court and said, “We appreciate the noble and necessary gesture of the court. We know many court staff also lost their lives, we express our condolences to the departed souls”. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, who is the president of the SCBA and appeared in the next matter, said members of the bar appreciate the gesture of the court to pay tribute to the lawyers, who have lost their lives. The apex court reopened on Monday after summer vacation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-pays-tribute-to-77-lawyers-of-scba-who-died-due-to-covid-1002369.html
28-06-2021||National||Over 1.5 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses available with states: Centre||More than 1.15 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. Over 31.69 crore vaccine doses have been provided by the Centre to states and UTs so far through the Government of India free of cost channel and through direct state procurement category. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage is 30,54,17,617 doses, the ministry said. "More than 1.15 crore (1,15,22,543) balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered," the ministry said. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from June 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-15-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-available-with-states-centre-1002371.html
28-06-2021||National||SC refuses to stay HC order allowing privates schools to levy development, annual fees||The Supreme Court Monday refused to stay the Delhi High Court order permitting unaided private schools in the national capital to levy annual fee and development charges from students. A bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar did not agree with the submission of the Directorate of Education (DoE) of the Delhi government that the order quashing the notification be stayed for the time being to give relief to the parents of students. The top court made it clear however that all the contentions of the Delhi government would remain open for adjudication by the division bench of the high court as the dismissal of the plea here was not on merits. On May 31, a single judge bench of the high court had quashed the office orders of April and August 2020 issued by DoE of the Delhi government forbidding and postponing collection of annual charges and development fees. The Delhi government filed the intra-court appeal before the division bench of the high court and was aggrieved by the order not staying the single judge bench verdict.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-stay-hc-order-allowing-privates-schools-to-levy-development-annual-fees-1002374.html
28-06-2021||National||HC refuses to stay new IT rules regulating digital news media||The Delhi High Court Monday refused to stay the new Information Technology rules which seek to regulate digital news media, saying it was not in agreement with the petitioners on passing such an order at this stage. Foundation for Independent Journalism, The Wire, Quint Digital Media Ltd and Pravda Media Foundation, parent company of Alt News, sought a stay on the Information technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, on the ground that a fresh notice has been issued to them to comply with the rules or else coercive action will be taken. A vacation bench of Justices C Hari Shankar and Subramonium Prasad said the notice has been issued to them only for implementation of notification on which there was no stay. “We are not in agreement with you. If you want we will pass a reasoned detailed order or if you want we can renotify it before the roster bench. You take instructions and let us know,” the bench said. After taking instructions, senior advocate Nitya Ramakrishnan, representing the news portals, urged the court to list the matter on reopening of courts after vacations. The court listed the applications for stay before the roster bench on July 7. According to amended IT rules, social media and streaming companies will be required to take down contentious content quicker, appoint grievance redressal officers and assist in investigations. Meanwhile, the court issued notice and sought response of the Centre on a fresh petition by Pravda Media Foundation challenging the vires of IT Rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-refuses-to-stay-new-it-rules-regulating-digital-news-media-1002382.html
28-06-2021||National||FM Nirmala Sitharaman to address press conference at 3 pm today||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will address a press conference at 3 PM on June 28 in Delhi.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fm-nirmala-sitharaman-to-address-press-conference-at-3-pm-today-1002389.html
28-06-2021||National||Indian Army capable of giving fitting reply to every challenge: Rajnath||In a clear message to China from eastern Ladakh, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said India will never forget the sacrifice of the 'Galwan bravehearts' and asserted that the country's armed forces are capable of giving a befitting reply to every challenge. Addressing an event on the second day of his visit to the region, Singh said efforts should be made to find solution to issues through dialogue with neighbouring countries but at the same time noted that India will not tolerate if someone tries to threaten it. "India will never forget sacrifice of soldiers who laid down their lives in Galwan Valley for the country," Singh said adding that the Indian Army has the capability to give a befitting reply to every challenge. Twenty Indian Army personnel laid down their lives in clashes with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley on June 15 last year that marked the most serious military conflicts between the two sides in decades. In February, China officially acknowledged that five Chinese military officers and soldiers were killed in the clashes with the Indian Army though it is widely believed that the death toll was higher. The defence minister also inaugurated 63 infrastructure projects implemented by the Border Roads Organisation in Ladakh. Singh's three-day visit to the region came amid a deadlock in the next stage of disengagement with China at several friction points.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-capable-of-giving-fitting-reply-to-every-challenge-rajnath-1002401.html
28-06-2021||National||Twitter displays Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh as separate countries||Microblogging platform Twitter is embroiled in yet another controversy. The company's careers webpage displayed a wrong map of India, showing Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh as a separate country. The distortion appears under the ''Tweep Life'' section of the webpage. "The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology noticed this and is likely to issue notice to the US-based firm seeking an explanation," sources in the government said. The misrepresentation caused an uproar online with netizens seeking action against the website. In October last year, the government had served Twitter with a notice over the geotag for Leh showing it as a part of China. After a strong warning from the government, Twitter apologised and corrected the map. The current map fiasco comes at a time when the company is engaged in an escalating battle with the government over the new social media and intermediary guidelines. The platform has appointed its global legal policy director Jeremy Kessel as the new grievance officer for users in India. Day after Twitter's interim resident grievance officer  Dharmendra Chatur, quit the post, an update on Twitter’s website on Monday morning showed that Jeremy Kessel with a California address as the grievance officer along with contact information for users in India. However, the appointment of California-based Jeremy Kessel is not in line with the new IT rules. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-displays-jammu-kashmir-ladakh-as-separate-countries-1002415.html
28-06-2021||National||Pressure mounting on Bharat Biotech to deliver Covid-19 vaccines to Centre||Bharat Biotech has to increase its vaccine supply by over nine times of its current levels if it hopes to help the Centre inoculate all adults by the end of December this year. To vaccinate 93-94 crore adults in India, the government requires roughly 187 crore vaccines, of which Bharat Biotech is to provide 48 crore doses. The Centre in January placed an order of 8 crore Covaxin doses till the end of July, but as of now, Bharat Biotech has only been able to deliver under 4 crore doses. Of the 8 crore, only 3.8 crore Covaxin jabs have been administered so far according to the Co-WIN portal, which is only 12 per cent of the total doses administered in the country. Bharat Biotech said it has delivered over 4 crore doses so far, as some were given to state governments between May 1 and June 21, when a decentralised vaccine policy was in effect. Even then, the company has only delivered half of what it was supposed to have done by the end of July. The Centre aims to procure the other 40 crore Covaxin doses by the end of the year, according to the affidavit filed with the Supreme Court in the suo motu proceedings of Covid management. The company has another massive order of 19 crore doses for August, for which it has received 30 per cent advance payment. Bharat Biotech hence needs to supply nearly 44 crore vaccine doses between now and December, which will be a difficult feat given that the company’s supply hit snags many times in the previous months. It was also made clear that to manufacture, test and release one batch of Covaxin, the company took 120 days. Therefore, batches that went into production in March will only be ready during June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pressure-mounting-on-bharat-biotech-to-deliver-covid-19-vaccines-to-centre-1002416.html
28-06-2021||National||Centre extends K K Venugopal's tenure as A-G by one year||The central government has decided to extend the tenure of K K Venugopal as the Attorney General by one year. He was initially appointed as the A-G on July 1, 2017, for a three-year term. The government last year, too, gave him an extension for one year.  Venugopal, 89, was appointed in June 2017 after then AG Mukul Rohatgi expressed his desire not to continue due to personal reasons on completion of his term. Sources said the government decided to grant Venugopal an extension for another year and his term would continue till June 30, 2022. Venugopal has more than six decades of experience. He got enrolled at the Bar in January 1954 in the then Mysore High Court and subsequently shifted to the Madras High Court under the guidance of his father, M K Nambiar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-extends-k-k-venugopals-tenure-as-a-g-by-one-year-1002417.html
28-06-2021||National||FM announces stimulus package for economic revival; raises ECLGS scheme limit to Rs 4.5 lakh cr||To help revival of the economy battered by Covid-19, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced a slew of measures, including Rs 1.1 lakh crore credit guarantee scheme for improving health infrastructure, and enhancing the limit under the ECLGS by 50 per cent to Rs 4.5 lakh crore for the MSME sector facing liquidity crunch. Sharing the details of stimulus package, the finance minister said this comprises eight relief measures and other eight measures to support economic growth. She announced Rs 1.1 lakh crore loan guarantee scheme for Covid-affected sectors, including the health sector, which includes guarantee cover for expansion or for new projects. Besides, she announced an additional Rs 1.5 lakh crore limit enhancement for Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) scheme. The existing limit for ECLGS scheme, announced as part of Rs 20-lakh crore Atmanirbhar Bharat Abiyan package in May 2020, was Rs 3 lakh crore. Last month, the finance ministry expanded the scope of the Rs 3 lakh crore ECLGS by including concessional loans to hospitals for setting up on-site oxygen generation plants. Besides, the validity of the scheme was extended by three months to September 30 and or till guarantees for an amount of Rs 3 lakh crore are issued. The last date of disbursement under the scheme has been extended to December 31. Under the ECLGS 4.0, 100 per cent guarantee cover was given to loans up to Rs 2 crore to hospitals, nursing homes, clinics, medical colleges for setting up on-site oxygen generation plants. The interest rate on these loans has been capped at 7.5 per cent, which means the banks can offer loans less than this ceiling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fm-announces-stimulus-package-for-economic-revival-raises-eclgs-scheme-limit-to-rs-45-lakh-cr-1002424.html
28-06-2021||National||President Kovind reaches Lucknow on two-day visit||President Ram Nath Kovind reached Lucknow on Monday by the Presidential Express Train on a two-day visit. The president, who is currently on a five-day trip to his home state, was received at the Charbagh railway station in Lucknow around noon by Governor Anandiben Patel, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, state ministers and a large number of senior officials and people's representatives. From the railway station, the president went directly to the Raj Bhawan where he will spend the next two days. He is scheduled to attend a high tea programme at the Raj Bhawan in the evening with senior judges of the Allahabad High Court, with sources saying Chief Justice of India Justice N V Ramana will also be present there. On Tuesday, the president will lay the foundation stone of Ambedkar Memorial Cultural Centre before flying to New Delhi. The state Cabinet last week gave its nod to the transfer of land for the establishment of the cultural centre. The president had arrived at Kanpur on June 25 on a five-day visit to the state. He had been in Kanpur for the past three days during which, besides meeting dignitaries and eminent people, he also paid a visit to his native village Paraunkh in Kanpur Dehat on Sunday and interacted with his old acquaintances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-reaches-lucknow-on-two-day-visit-1002439.html
28-06-2021||National||Don't create panic about 3rd Covid wave, basic mantra is 'precaution, no panic': Jitendra Singh to doctors||Union Minister Jitendra Singh has urged medical professionals "not to create a panic" about a possible third wave of Covid-19 infection and stressed that the basic approach should be "precaution, no panic". Instead of getting tempted to make alarmist observations one could be a little more reassuring, he said at the Public Health Summit 2021 on 'Emerging Imperatives in Strengthening Public Health for India'. At the event organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry, Singh said Covid-appropriate behaviour can act as a safeguard against the third wave. "I have a small request to medical colleagues to not create a panic about a possible third wave because the basic mantra is precaution not panic. "Let us put all our might together to fight the second wave instead of talking about the third one. Medical professionals have found a good platform in the media... so instead of getting tempted to make alarmist observations we could be a little more reassuring," the minister said. He also said that public-private partnership in healthcare has strengthened amid the Covid-19 pandemic. All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Director Dr Randeep Guleria said, "As we now prepare for the possibility of the third wave and (the spread of) new variants like Delta Plus... we need to look ahead and see how we can strengthen our public health system focusing on lessons we have learnt from the past." "What Covid-19 has shown us is that we need a robust healthcare system. We need to address the challenges that we have in front of us. One is under-investment in healthcare. Another is that the public healthcare system should be driven by technology and data that would help us make evidence-based decisions," he said. The AIIMS director stressed on creating a specialised workforce, improving the health infrastructure as well as on increasing doctor-patient and nurse-patient ratios. "What Covid-19 has taught us is the importance of strength of a public-private partnership. We have to move out of silos. "We had a vaccine (available) in less than a year (of the onset of the pandemic) but most of the vaccines that came out were not developed by industry but by academia. It happened because of the partnership between the industry and public health experts. The need for it has been felt like never before," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-create-panic-about-3rd-covid-wave-basic-mantra-is-precaution-no-panic-jitendra-singh-to-doctors-1002446.html
28-06-2021||National||Senior scribe Jimuta Mangaraj dies in road mishap||Senior Odia Journalist Jimuta Mangaraj died in a road mishap in Khurda district, family sources said on Monday. Mangaraj was 63 and survived by a son and a daughter. His wife had died in 2013. The incident took place at around 8 pm on Sunday at Janla on the National Highway-16 when Mangaraj riding a motorcycle, was returning to Bhubaneswar after delivering medicine to his mother at Sarapari village near Khurda town. He was hit by an unknown vehicle. As he fell down, the vehicle rammed over him killing the senior scribe on the spot, police said. Mangaraj was well-known for his analytical write-ups and columns. He was freelancing for several Odia dailies and publications Starting his career in the early 1980s, Mangaraj worked with Odia news organisations including Sambad and Prajatantra and was known for his news gathering skills. He subsequently launched his own media organisation and used to publish an Odia periodical 'Neta' and a health related magazine 'Lifeline'. Mangaraj also wrote several books including Biju Biju Biju (on legendary Odisha CM Biju Patnaik). Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, Odisha Congress president Niranjan Patnaik and many others expressed their condolence on the untimely demise of Mangaraj.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senior-scribe-jimuta-mangaraj-dies-in-road-mishap-1002456.html
28-06-2021||National||India to allow ethanol-based 'flex engines' in vehicles, launch scheme in 3 months: Gadkari||Gadkari said other countries of the world like Brazil, the US and Canada have flex engines which are powered by farm produce and exhorted automakers like BMW, Mercedes and Toyota to develop vehicles running on the alternative fuel. A switch to locally-produced ethanol will be helpful for a country like India which relies majorly on crude oil imports for powering the transport sector, he said, adding that it will also be less polluting and cost-saving. A litre of ethanol comes at between 60-62 per litre as against the over Rs 100 paid for petrol, the minister said, admitting that the calorific value of the ethanol is low. “In the US, Brazil and Canada, they have flex engines, so as the transport minister we are going to launch this flex engine facility to all the consumers in the country,” Gadkari said at an event organised by state-run lender Indian Bank. “We are going to launch this scheme now and within three months we are going to start,” he added. Gadkari said the government has already started giving permissions to establish 100 per cent ethanol petrol pumps and added that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already inaugurated two such facilities in Pune, Maharashtra. “We can make ethanol from sugarcane juice molasses and now the government is giving permission to make ethanol from food grains that are from rice, corn and food grains,” he said, asking states like Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh to take the lead. At present, India allows for 20 per cent ethanol-blending in fuels. The country is saddled with excess stocks of rice and wheat as well, Gadkari said, after flagging hunger as one of the key challenges for the country. He said Indian automakers including TVS and Bajaj have already developed two-wheelers to run exclusively on ethanol, asking their peers to develop their own models. Speaking at the launch of a mentoring initiative developed by the bank for small businesses in Maharashtra, Gadkari said bankers also need to take the lead in identifying disruptive technologies of the future and fund them at the appropriate time. Meanwhile, in order to increase credit supply to the all-important small businesses segment, Gadkari, who also holds the micro, small and medium enterprises portfolio, asked the industry to develop a robust rating system on which bankers can rely for lending. Such a system, which will take inputs from a business's balance sheet, GST payments, turnover etc, can help speed up credit for the deserving businesses, Gadkari said. He also asked banks to support lending to fishermen wanting to buy Cochin Shipyard's trawlers costing over Rs 1 crore, which will enable the boats to go deeper into the sea and increase the catch. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-allow-ethanol-based-flex-engines-in-vehicles-launch-scheme-in-3-months-gadkari-1002459.html
28-06-2021||National||India never resorts to aggression but prepared to give befitting reply if threatened: Rajnath in Ladakh||In a clear message to China from eastern Ladakh, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said India is a peace-loving nation that never resorts to any kind of aggression but is always prepared to give a befitting reply if provoked or threatened. Addressing soldiers in a forward location on the second day of his visit to the region, Singh said India wants to resolve disputes with the neighbouring countries through dialogue but asserted that the nation's safety and security will not be compromised at any cost. The defence minister also paid glowing tributes to the 20 soldiers killed in the Galwan Valley clashes in June last year and said the country will never forget their sacrifices. Singh's three-day visit to the region comes in the midst of a stalemate in resolving over a year-long standoff between Indian and Chinese troops in several friction points in eastern Ladakh though they withdrew troops and weapons from Pangong lake areas in February. The defence minister said India is a peace-loving country and does not threaten anyone but the country will not tolerate if anyone threatens it, seen as a direct message to China. "We had to face a big challenge along the Northern border last year. But our armed forces displayed their courage and dedication to deal with it...Our Army has the capability to give a befitting reply to every challenge," he said. The defence minister said disputes can be resolved through dialogue if there is a clear intent for it. "We have always worked for world peace. We never attack anyone. Our objective has never been to achieve victory against anyone. India has neither attacked any country nor occupied an inch. Our intention is very clear," he said. "Our neighbours should think that we have been neighbours for ages, we will remain neighbours for ages. Can we not find permanent solutions to the disputed issues through talks. We were neighbours, we are neighbours and we will remain neighbours. I am talking about all the neighbours. We can find solutions provided we have clear intent," he said. He said India never resorts to any kind of aggression, but at the same time, it is always prepared to give a befitting reply if provoked. The defence minister also assured all possible support to the armed forces, reaffirming the vision of the government of having a strong military that is capable of dealing with every eventuality. Lauding the exemplary courage displayed by the Indian Army during the incident, Singh said the nation is proud of its armed forces and "will never forget the sacrifice of soldiers who laid down their lives in Galwan Valley for the country." Twenty Indian Army personnel laid down their lives in clashes with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley on June 15 last year that marked the most serious military conflicts between the two sides in decades. In February, China officially acknowledged that five Chinese military officers and soldiers were killed in the clashes with the Indian Army though it is widely believed that the death toll was higher. From Ladakh, Singh dedicated to the nation 63 bridges built by Border Roads Organisation (BRO). On Sunday, Singh carried out a comprehensive review of India's military preparedness in eastern Ladakh. The defence minister, accompanied by Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, was given a detailed briefing about the prevailing situation as well as India's combat readiness in the region by top commanders of the Army at the Leh-based headquarters of the 14 Corps, officials said. India and China were locked in a military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year. However, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. India has been particularly pressing for disengagement of troops in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. According to military officials, each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control in the sensitive sector. There was no visible forward movement in disengagement of troops in the remaining friction points as the Chinese side did not show flexibility in their approach on it at the 11th round of military talks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-never-resorts-to-aggression-but-prepared-to-give-befitting-reply-if-threatened-rajnath-in-ladakh-1002461.html
28-06-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Vaccination efforts continue to be priority||Yet another week begins as India continues its efforts to overcome the ravaging second wave of Covid-19, along with taking all measures to mitigate the impact of a possible third wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-vaccination-efforts-continue-to-be-priority-1002476.html
28-06-2021||National||40,845 cases of black fungus reported in India so far: Harsh Vardhan||Mucormycosis or black fungus infection has killed more than 3,000 Indians and 74 per cent of them belong to the economically productive age group of 18-60 years, the Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said here on Monday. Even though the second surge is on a decline in most of the states, mucormycosis continues to be a public health concern as more than 12,500 cases were added in the last 18 days. As of now, there are 40,845 such cases reported during the second wave of the Covid-19, of which 64 per cent were co-morbid with diabetes and 53 per cent were on steroids. More than 85 per cent of those who developed the fungal infection also had Covid-19. An age-profile analysis of the black fungus cases reveals that 32 per cent of the patients (13,083) are in the 18-45 years age group whereas 42 per cent (17,464) are in the 45-60 years group. Only 10,082 (24 per cent) patients were in the 60 plus category. Appraising a Group of Ministers' on the Covid-19 situation, Vardhan said fatality from the fungus infections stood at 3,129 while in total 40,845 cases were reported, of which 31,344 cases were such in which the nose, paranasal sinuses and parts of the brain were adversely affected. Earlier this month, the Centre had asked the states to prioritise young patients while treating mucormycosis with Amphotericin B, the drug of choice, which is in short supply. In an advisory issued in consultation with the National Task Force on Covid-19 and the Indian Council of Medical Research, the Health Ministry identified two specific categories of patients for treatment with Amphotericin B. They are young people and patients for which surgical removal of damaged or infected tissues (surgical debridement) is not possible. At the GoM meeting, Vardhan said Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu are the only states that are still reporting more than hundred deaths daily whereas the active cases are concentrated in Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Odisha. More than 46,000 fresh cases were reported in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/40845-cases-of-black-fungus-reported-in-india-so-far-harsh-vardhan-1002483.html
28-06-2021||National||Emirates likely to resume Dubai-India flights from July 7: Report||Dubai's flag carrier Emirates may resume its flights from India to Dubai from July 7, over two months after the UAE suspended its operations owing to the surge in coronavirus cases in India, according to a media report. However, the airline is awaiting exact travel protocols and guidelines from the government regarding the resumption of the flight operations, the Khaleej Times reported on Sunday. “We're expecting to resume our flights from India to Dubai from 7th of July 2021... We're waiting for the exact travel protocols and relevant permits from the government authorities. We hope to have more details soon," the report said, quoting the airline in response to a query from a passenger on its Twitter account. The airline's website shows seats are available for booking from July 7, the report said. The airline's social media handles have been buzzing ever since authorities announced a few days ago that flights from India to Dubai would resume from June 23. But on Thursday, Emirates informed passengers that flights from India to Dubai remained suspended. On April 24, the UAE’s General Authority of Civil Aviation and the National Emergency, Crisis and Disaster Management Authority (NCEMA) announced that entry from India will be suspended for all incoming flights on national and foreign carriers due to the surge in the cases of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/emirates-likely-to-resume-dubai-india-flights-from-july-7-report-1002501.html
28-06-2021||National||CA exams can't be equated with Class X, XII board exams, ICAI tells SC||The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India on Monday contended before the Supreme Court that the Chartered Accountant examinations scheduled in July should not be cancelled or postponed as Covid-19 spread was substantially low now. The professional body maintained that it was an opportune moment to allow the aspiring CAs to further their professional careers.  "As on date, the number of Covid-19 cases are comparatively low and thus it would be in the best interest of the candidates if the examination is held as per schedule and not cancelled or postponed," a note by ICAI stated. It further pointed out that CA exams are professional examinations ought not to be equated with CBSE or other state board examinations for Class 10 or 12.  A bench of Justice A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Aniruddha Bose on Monday put the matter concerning the upcoming CA exam, 2021, for hearing on Tuesday.  The court asked the ICAI to respond to suggestions made by petitioners in three separate writ petitions seeking moderation in the Standard Operation Procedure issued for the July 5 examination. Three separate petitions were filed by Satya Narain Perumal, Anubha Shrivastava Sahai and a group of CA aspirants.  The petitioners questioned a June 5 notification issued by the ICAI on the ground that it did not give students the choice to opt out before and during the exams and to carry forward all the benefits.  The plea sought postponement of CA exams till the time Covid-19 situation normalised, or after teachers, students and invigilators got vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ca-exams-cant-be-equated-with-class-x-xii-board-exams-icai-tells-sc-1002506.html
28-06-2021||National||Government extends Atmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana till March 2022||The government on Monday extended the Atmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana, which was launched in October last year to encourage employment generation, by nine months till March 31, 2022. Around 21.42 lakh people have benefited from the scheme till June 18, 2021, with a total outgo of Rs 902 crore. The beneficiaries are spread around 79,577 establishments. "This scheme now, which was valid till June 30, 2021, is being extended till March 31, 2022," Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said while announcing a slew of measures to revive the economy. Launched on October 1, last year, the approved outlay under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana (ABRY), which is aimed at incentivising employers for creation of new employment, restoration of loss of employment through EPFO, is Rs 22,810 crore for 58.50 lakh estimated beneficiaries. The scheme is being implemented through the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) and reduces the financial burden of the employers of various sectors/ industries and encourages them to hire more workers. Under the ABRY, the Government of India is crediting for a period of two years both the employees' share (12 per cent of wages) and employers' share (12 per cent of wages) of contribution payable for establishment strength up to 1,000 employees and giving a salary of up to Rs 15,000 a month. In case of establishment strength of more than 1,000 for all those with Rs 15,000 per month salary, only employee's share (12 per cent of wages) is credited by the Government to the EPFO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-extends-atmanirbhar-bharat-rozgar-yojana-till-march-2022-1002510.html
28-06-2021||National||Over 50 countries interested in Co-WIN, India ready to share open source software free: R S Sharma||About 50 countries, including Canada, Mexico, Nigeria and Panama, have shown interest in having a Co-WIN like system to run their vaccination drive, a senior official said Monday, adding India is ready to share the open source software free of cost. Dr R S Sharma, the chairman of the empowered group for Covid-19 vaccine administration, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has directed officials to create an open source version of the platform and give it free of cost to any country that wants it. "The Cowin platform has become so popular that as many as 50 countries from central Asia, Latin America, Africa all showed interest in having a Co-win like system," Sharma said at the second Public Health Summit 2021 on 'Emerging Imperatives in Strengthening Public Health for India' organised by Confederation of Indian Industry. He also said a virtual global conclave of health and technology experts from across the world will be held on July 5 where India will share how this system works. “We are telling the world how this system can work and how we are ready to share an open source software with any country free of cost. There have been huge interests starting from Canada, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Azerbaijan, Ukraine, Nigeria, Uganda," he said. Sources said other countries such as Vietnam, Iraq, Dominican Republic, the United Arab Emirates have also expressed interest in knowing about the Co-WIN platform for implementing it in their own countries to run their own Covid programmes. In five months, Sharma said, Co-WIN has grown to handling 30 crore plus registrations and vaccinations. "It is a citizen-centric platform and provides a single source of truth till the district level. From the beginning, it was ensured that the platform can be easily used to schedule, reschedule and cancel appointments," he said. Sharma also said that vaccinating 1.3 billion people is not a "trivial task", and added that the development of Cowin-like platform shows India has the capability to develop such great scalable digital systems. "People talked of digital divide in getting vaccine but from the beginning itself we ensured that it is very easy to get on the platform and schedule, reschedule or cancel an appointment and at the same time if that is not possible then you can call a centre and get it done and go to common service centres to get an appointment," he said. "Most importantly you can go without any appointment to vaccination centre and get vaccinated. In fact, 80 per cent of our people have gone to the centre without any appointment," he added. On the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM), Sharma said the whole idea is based on the concept that many services can be digitally delivered. The NDHM will house all kinds of databases which will have a facility for the patient to fetch his/her records, he said. "One of the silver linings of the Corona period is that we are at ease with digital consultation. The most important outcome of this is going to be generation of data for researchers and academic," Sharma said. India has created digital artefacts such as Aadhar that will enable the delivery of services digitally, he said. One such digital products created is e-voucher which is person and purpose-specific and will be launched very soon, he said. "Under Ayushman Bharat, if a person wants to get an X-ray done and hospital does not have an X-ray facility, the hospital can issue a digital voucher which goes to the X-Ray diagnostic centre then the QR code is scanned and money is received and X-ray is performed. This voucher will be a game-changer," he added. Delhi AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria told the event that the pandemic has disrupted the healthcare ecosystem and public health infrastructure and has challenged resilience. "Now we need to look ahead and strengthen our public health system. We need to be prepared for such a pandemic in future. Our basic aim is to have equitable access in remote areas. Important to look at health as a percentage GDP and we should look at 2.5% of healthcare expenditure. Health is a state subject but currently there is a lack of co-ordination among states," he said. Some challenges that need to be met are underinvestment as far as healthcare is concerned. Secondly, public health system should be driven by tech and data, he said. There is a need to provide tele-health and tele-diagnostics in rural parts of India and industry has an important role to play. Also there is a need for a robust electronic healthcare system, Dr Guleria said. "Third is the area of human resources; there is a need to increase doctor-patient and nurse-patient ratio and the last challenge is that of improving the infrastructure. There is also a need to strengthen the public-private partnership and different models can be looked at. CII is very well positioned to take this further," Dr Guleria said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-50-countries-interested-in-co-win-india-ready-to-share-open-source-software-free-r-s-sharma-1002512.html
28-06-2021||National||Clubhouse chat leak: Digvijaya lodges complaint with Madhya Pradesh cyber cops||Congress Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh on Monday lodged a complaint with Madhya Pradesh cyber police in connection with the alleged leak of a Clubhouse app chat in which he is purportedly heard talking about a "relook" at the revocation of Article 370 and stripping of Jammu and Kashmir of its special status. Singh told reporters he filed a complaint with the cyber cell of MP police under Information Technology Act "against those who edited, doctored, shared and distorted my statement made during a Clubhouse session in a bid to tarnish my image". He said an FIR should also be filed against those who shared and re-tweeted the post, adding that he was sending legal notices to Clubhouse app for allegedly leaking this edited chat, while a notice to Twitter has already been sent. When contacted, State Cyber Cell Superintendent of Police Gurkaran Singh told PTI that the Congress leader had filed a complaint under IT Act but no case has been registered as yet in this connection. "We will take further action after investigation. The police will seek information from social media platforms in this matter," the SP said. Singh's complaint demanded action against a Twitter handle @LeaksClubHouse under IPC and IT Act sections alleging that it was created on June 12 this year and shared his "doctored and edited" chat on the same day to tarnish his image. Meanwhile, MP Home Minister Narottam Mishra said Singh had filed this complaint with cyber police just to "make headlines".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/clubhouse-chat-leak-digvijaya-lodges-complaint-with-madhya-pradesh-cyber-cops-1002532.html
28-06-2021||National||Covid cases with variants of concern rose from 10% in May to 51% till June 20: Parliamentary panel told||Covid-19 cases with variants of concern rose from 10.31 per cent of total infections in May to 51 per cent till June 20, top government officials told a parliamentary panel on Monday and stressed that both Covaxin and Covishield work against these strains albeit with slightly reduced potency. The panel was informed that the economic impact of the second wave of viral infection was "asynchronous in its onset and wider in its spread particularly in rural hinterland", a source said. About the availability of vaccine doses, officials informed the panel that 135 crore jabs will be made available in the country during the August-December period this year. The doses would be of Covishield, Covaxin, Bio E Subunit vaccine, Zydus Cadila's DNA vaccine and Sputnik V, they said. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, Additional Secretary in the Home Ministry Govind Mohan, Additional Secretary in the Finance Ministry K Raja Raman were among the officials who deposed before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs on 'Socio-economic fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic's second wave'. The committee is chaired by senior Congress leader Anand Sharma. Sharing details about various coronavirus variants of concern, officials told the panel that it includes the Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta variants. These variants have been traced in 174 districts of 35 states and Union Territories, with the maximum reported from Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Telangana, West Bengal and Gujarat, the parliamentary panel was informed. According to the details shared by officials with the parliamentarians, coronavirus' variants of concern led to increased transmissibility, change in virulence and effect on diagnostics, drugs and vaccines. "Officials told parliamentarians that the proportion of Covid-19 cases with variants of concern has risen from 10.31 per cent in May to 51 per cent in June 20," a source in the panel said. A study by the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute of Virology on the efficacy of Covaxin and Covishield against coronavirus' variants of concerns found that "antibody potency is slightly reduced against these strains as compared to standard strain. But the vaccine is effective in protection against severe forms of the disease," the source added. The panel was informed that a similar study on evaluating the efficacy of both these vaccines against the latest variant of concern -- Delta plus -- is being conducted and will be completed within the next two weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-cases-with-variants-of-concern-rose-from-10-in-may-to-51-till-june-20-parliamentary-panel-told-1002538.html
28-06-2021||National||Persons with disabilities can't be denied reservation in promotion: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said that a claim that posts in the promotional cadre cannot be reserved for persons with disabilities (PwD) category due to functional or other reasons should not be taken as a ruse to defeat the reservation in promotion for such candidates.  "Such a scenario will result in frustration and stagnation as others may get promoted even over the persons with disability as, more often than not, the disability comes in the way of meeting the requirements for promotion. In such a situation, we would require the government to explore methods to address the issue of stagnation of PwD," a bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said. The top court held that reservation for PwD cannot be dependent on identification of posts as non-discrimination in employment is the mandate of legislation. A person with a disability has to be considered for promotion along with other persons working in the feeder cadre. The mandate of law enjoined the government to identify posts that can be filled up with such persons. Thus, even posts in the promotional cadre have to be identified and reserved for PwD, the bench said. "There cannot be methodology used to defeat the reservation in promotion. Once that post is identified, the logical conclusion would be that it would be reserved for PwD who have been promoted. The absence of rules to provide for reservation in promotion would not defeat the rights of PwD to a reservation in promotion," the bench said.  Referring to the laws passed to ensure equal rights to PwD in 1995 and 2016, the bench, also comprising Justice R Subhash Reddy said, "Sometimes it is easier to bring a legislation into force but far more difficult to change the social mindset which would endeavour to find ways and means to defeat the intent of the Act." The top court dismissed an appeal filed by the Kerala government against the High Court's judgment of March 9, 2020 directing promotional benefits to woman as cashier, following her appointment as typist in police department in 1996 on compassionate ground. The court said even the mode of entry in service cannot be a ground to make out a case of discriminatory promotion. "Source of recruitment ought not to make any difference but what is material is that the employee is a PwD at the time for consideration for promotion. The 1995 Act does not make a distinction between a person who may have entered service on account of disability and a person who may have acquired disability after having entered the service. Similarly, the same position would be with the person who may have entered service on a claim of a compassionate appointment," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/persons-with-disabilities-cant-be-denied-reservation-in-promotion-sc-1002559.html
28-06-2021||National||Dangerous and worrying trend of increase in number of children recruited for terror-related activities: India||India on Monday voiced concern over the "dangerous and worrying" trend in global terrorism of increase in number of children being recruited for terror-related activities, particularly amid the pandemic-induced school closures, and called for ending impunity for all actors responsible for inciting and perpetrating grave violations against children. "We are witnessing a dangerous and worrying trend in global terrorism and that is an increase in the number of children that are being recruited and involved in terrorism-related activities,” Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said at the Security Council open debate on Children and Armed Conflict on Monday. Shringla said terror groups take advantage of the fact that children are the most susceptible to manipulation. School closures due to the pandemic have provided an even greater opportunity to these terrorist groups to target children, including through online avenues, for radicalisation and indoctrination in violent extremist ideologies, he said. "We believe that there is a need for a more coordinated approach in implementing the child protection and counter terrorism agendas. States need to demonstrate greater political will to hold the perpetrators of terrorism and their sponsors to account, and to fulfill the Council’s child protection obligations," he said. Shringla said also called for ending impunity for all actors responsible for inciting and perpetrating grave violations against children. "There must be greater accountability and sincere efforts to bring the perpetrators to justice by governments from whose territory such entities operate." Addressing the Council, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said conflict devastates societies and hits children particularly hard. He said during 2020, almost 24,000 grave violations were committed against 19,300 children in the 21 situations covered by the UNSC mandate. "The disregard for children’s rights at times of conflict and upheaval is shocking and heartbreaking. The most prevalent verified violations continued to be the recruitment and use of children, the killing and maiming of children, and the denial of humanitarian access to children," Guterres said. Shringla noted that the Covid-19 pandemic has further negatively impacted children in situations of armed conflict, including by hampering their access to education, health and social services. The pandemic has made them susceptible to grave violations, particularly through recruitment and abduction. "It is, therefore, important that States keep child protection concerns at the core of their pandemic response measures and recovery plans," he said. He added that national governments have the primary responsibility for protecting the rights of the child as mandated by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. India encouraged Member States to ratify the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict and to adopt robust legal frameworks for protection and promotion of child rights. "The aim should not be merely protecting children from child-related crimes but also to provide them with holistic development opportunities, including free and compulsory education."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dangerous-and-worrying-trend-of-increase-in-number-of-children-recruited-for-terror-related-activities-india-1002568.html
28-06-2021||National||Twitter removes distorted India map after uproar||Microblogging platform Twitter has embroiled in yet another controversy after its website displayed a wrong map of India, showing Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh as a separate country. After facing severe backlash from netizens, Twitter has removed the wrong map of India from its website on Monday night. The global map which earlier appeared on the careers webpage of the website under the section ‘Tweep Life' was removed completely from the webpage. Earlier in the day, the misrepresentation caused an uproar online with netizens seeking strict action aganist micro-blogging website. Even officials of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology said they are planning to issue notice to the company seeking an explanation. In October last year, the government had served Twitter with a notice over the geotag for Leh showing it as a part of China. After a strong warning from the government, Twitter apologised and corrected the map. The current map fiasco comes at a time when the company is engaged in an escalating battle with the government over the new social media and intermediary guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-removes-distorted-india-map-after-uproar-1002580.html
28-06-2021||National||Situation at border with India generally stable: China||China on Monday said the situation along the Sino-India border is generally stable and both sides are trying to resolve the boundary issue through talks. Asked about a Western media report that India has redirected at least 50,000 troops to its border with China, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin told a media briefing here that “the situation at China-India border maintains general stability, and the two sides are resolving the boundary issue through negotiation”. “Against such background, the words and deeds of relevant important military and government officials and military deployments should be conducive to deescalating and cooling down the situation, and to enhancing mutual trust, rather than the opposite”, the spokesman said. Wang's remarks also came days after India and China on Friday agreed to hold the next round of military talks at an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement in remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh amid fresh sparring between the two sides on the prolonged Line of Actual Control (LAC) standoff. At a virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, the two sides had a "frank exchange" of views and decided to maintain dialogue to reach a mutually acceptable solution for withdrawal of troops in all friction points to enable progress in the overall ties, according to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi. In a statement at the end of the talks, the MEA said both sides agreed on the need to find an early resolution to the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. India and China were locked in a military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year. However, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of the Pangong Lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. India has been particularly pressing for disengagement of troops in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. According to military officials, each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive high altitude sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/situation-at-border-with-india-generally-stable-china-1002581.html
28-06-2021||National||40% higher hospital mortality in second Covid-19 wave, suggests new study||“More patients had secondary bacterial and fungal infections in Wave-2. The mortality has increased by almost 40% in Wave-2, particularly in the younger patients of age less than 45 years. Higher mortality was observed in those admitted in wards, ICU, with or without ventilator support and those who received convalescent plasma,” says the study carried out by doctors at the Max group of hospitals. The group used its nine hospitals spread over five northern states to compare the hospital fatality rate among 14,398 patients who visited these hospitals in the first wave with 5,454 persons who were hospitalised in the second wave. The study found higher severity of the disease at admission and a significantly higher mortality rate in hospitals, especially in younger patients. While 7.2% of the patients admitted in the hospitals died in the first wave, the figure rose to 10.5% in the second wave – 40% higher mortality. Younger patients (less than 45 years of age) saw the sharpest increase in mortality to 4.1% from 1.3% in the first wave. Some deaths reported in the wards are also due to the fact that because of the unavailability of ICU beds, even serious patients requiring a high degree of oxygen support were treated in the wards. Compared to the first wave, the hospital admission was also delayed by a day. Even though the second wave is on a declining phase, there are still 82 districts with more than 10% test positivity and another 85 districts where positivity is between 5-10%. As many as 46,148 new Covid-19 cases and 979 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/40-higher-hospital-mortality-in-second-covid-19-wave-suggests-new-study-1002597.html
28-06-2021||National||Petrol price rise: Case filed against Dharmendra Pradhan at Bihar court||A case was on Monday lodged before a court in this north Bihar town against Union Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan in connection with the spiralling rise in petrol prices. Local resident Tamanna Hashmi filed the case before the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate, Muzaffarpur, alleging that it was a "conspiracy" to sell petrol at high rates across the country though the price of crude oil was quite low. Hashmi, a serious litigant known for lodging cases against well-known personalities, has sought Pradhan's trial under IPC Sections 420 (fraud), 295 and 295 (A) pertaining to deliberate malicious acts and 511 (attempt to commit an offence). Hashmi has further alleged that the prices of petrol have left the people of the country "terrorised" and "enraged". The petition is expected to be taken up for hearing in due course. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-price-rise-case-filed-against-dharmendra-pradhan-at-bihar-court-1002607.html
28-06-2021||National||SII, Bharat Biotech supplied 30% fewer vaccines in first 5 months of 2021: Data||The two Indian manufacturers of Covid-19 vaccines appear to have supplied at least 30% fewer doses than their known production capacities in the first five months of this year, suggests an analysis of the data shared by the Union Health Ministry in an affidavit presented before the Supreme Court. The ministry has also scaled down its expectation by 81 crore on the number of doses it would receive from the vaccine manufacturers between August and December. From the earlier claim of receiving 216 crore doses by December to vaccinate the entire target population of 95 crore Indians with two doses, the government now hopes to receive 135 crore doses by December, giving up on three research-scale vaccines and lowering the expectations from Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech. Between January and May, the two manufacturers supplied 22.07 crore doses to the Centre while another 4.19 crore was sent to the states and private hospitals directly following the liberalised vaccine procurement policy of the central government. Taken together more than 26 crore doses came from them. This is significantly less than the declared production capacities of the two firms. In an affidavit before the Kerala High Court last month, the ministry said SII had ramped up its production from five crore doses per month to 6.5 crore doses per month and further ramp-up is expected by July 2021. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which produces the home grown Covaxin, increased production from 90 lakh per month to two crore doses per month and further increase up to 5.5 crore doses per month was expected by July 2021. So assuming a production of 6.5 crore doses per month from SII and 90 lakh from Bharat (since the company said it took 120 days to bring one batch to the market), the total production from the two companies should have been around 37 crore between January and May – nearly 11 crore more than what they had supplied. The supply side shortage may turn out even bigger if one takes into account the stockpile that the two companies had produced before receiving the central government order. SII claimed to have a stockpile of 5 crore doses before receiving the regulatory approval whereas Bharat Biotech had announced it had one crore doses readily available in January, 2021 and another one crore would be available in February. Both, according to the company, were "risk manufacturing" as there were no government orders. On the projected availability of vaccines between August and December, the Centre says it now expects 50 crore Covishield doses from SII (instead of 75 crore as projected earlier) and 40 crore from Bharat Biotech (as against the previous projection of 40 crore). While there is no scaling down on the anticipated supply from BiologiclaE and ZydusCadila, the ministry affidavit is now silent on 20 crore doses of Novavax, 6 crore doses of mRNA vaccine from Genova and 10 crore doses of the nasal vaccine from Bharat Biotech on which it pinned hopes a month back. The expected supply of Sputnik has also been lowered to 10 crore from the previous figure of 15.6 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sii-bharat-biotech-supplied-30-fewer-vaccines-in-first-5-months-of-2021-data-1002618.html
28-06-2021||National||Prashant Bhushan kicks off row with anti-vaccine remarks||Activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan kicked off a row on Monday as he questioned the universal Covid-19 vaccination drive of “experimental and untested vaccines” especially to young and those recovered from the infectious disease. Health experts called out Bhushan and termed his remarks as irresponsible, saying such comments could affect the vaccination drive against Covid-19. Bhushan claimed the healthy young hardly have any chance of serious effects of dying due to Covid, but have a higher chance of dying due to vaccines. Twitter marked Bhushan’s tweet on the young dying due to vaccines as “misleading”. “I would strongly advise him (Prashant Bhushan) not to make statements of this kind which can only hinder India's struggle to vaccinate even the most vulnerable. This is the nth time he is making such irresponsible statements on Covid-19 vaccines,” Rijo M John, health economist and Adjunct Professor Rajagiri College of Social Sciences, Kochi, said. “Prashant Bhushan is questioning the foundations of 2 existing and well-understood sciences, those of immunology and vaccinology .. and incorrectly,” Gautam Menon, professor of physics and biology at Ashoka University said. “I am not anti vaccine per se. But I believe it is irresponsible to promote universal vaccination of experimental & untested vaccines especially to young & Covid recovered,” Bhushan said adding that he had not taken the Covid vaccine and neither did he intended to. Unfazed by the criticism, Bhushan penned an elaborate response claiming suppression of information regarding alternative treatments and “censorship of the truth in pursuit of vaccine profits”. “Apart from the vaccines being untested & having serious adverse effects, I am shocked by attempts to censor such contrarian views,” Bhushan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prashant-bhushan-kicks-off-row-with-anti-vaccine-remarks-1002624.html
28-06-2021||National||Govt allocates additional 2.12 lakh vials of Amphotericin-B to states, UTs||The government has allocated an additional 2,12,540 vials of Amphotericin-B to states, Union Territories (UTs) and central institutions, Union minister Sadananda Gowda said on Monday. Amphotericin-B is used to treat Mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, which damages the nose, eyes, sinuses, and sometimes even the brain. "Additional 2,12,540 vials of #LiposomalAmphotericinB have been allocated to all the States/UTs & Central Institutions today. So far, approximately 10 lakh vials have been allocated across the country," Gowda tweeted. The doctors in India are documenting an alarming number of cases of Mucormycosis among patients with Covid-19 and those who have recently recovered. They believe that Mucormycosis may be triggered by the use of steroids, a life-saving treatment for severe and critically ill Covid-19 patients. Gowda also lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for coming up with measures to boost the economy. "I thank Prime Minister @narendramodi ji and Finance Minister @nsitharaman ji for major futuristic measures taken today to boost the economy. These bold and people-friendly decisions will provide major relief to all sections of society," Gowda tweeted. Earlier in the day, Sitharaman announced Rs 1.5 lakh crore of additional credit for small and medium businesses, more funds for the healthcare sector, loans to tourism agencies and guides, and waiver of visa fee for foreign tourists as part of a package to support the pandemic-hit economy. Together with previously announced Rs 93,869 crore spending on providing free foodgrains to the poor till November and additional Rs 14,775 crore fertiliser subsidy, the stimulus package - mostly made up of government guarantee to banks and microfinance institutions for loans they extend to Covid-hit sectors - totalled up to Rs 6.29 lakh crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-allocates-additional-212-lakh-vials-of-amphotericin-b-to-states-uts-1002627.html
28-06-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | Mayawati's BSP to fight UP Assembly polls alone||Facing the dangers of being reduced to a fringe player in state politics, BSP supremo Mayawati on Sunday trashed reports of electoral tie-up with the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) in the forthcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls and said that her party would go solo in the elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-mayawatis-bsp-to-fight-up-assembly-polls-alone-1002294.html
28-06-2021||National Politics||Withdraw cases lodged against farmers for protest marches: Samyukt Kisan Morcha||Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Sunday demanded the withdrawal of cases registered against farmers during their protest marches on June 26 to mark seven months of their agitation against the Centre's three farm laws. SKM, the umbrella body of farmer bodies spearheading the agitation, said the Chandigarh police has booked several farmer leaders on several charges. Farmers on Saturday marched towards the Raj Bhavan in different states to submit memoranda, addressed to the president, and to governors to mark seven months of protests against the Centre's three farm laws. "In Chandigarh, it is reported that FIRs have been filed against several SKM leaders and many other protestors under IPC sections 147, 148, 149, 186, 188, 332 and 353," the SKM said in a statement. It alleged that after barricading the roads, the "police also resorted to using water cannons and lathicharge on the protestors". "On top of this kind of undemocratic and authoritarian behaviour, cases are now being filed against SKM leaders. Samyukt Kisan Morcha condemns this and demands that the FIRs be withdrawn immediately and unconditionally," it said. In many places, farmers were not allowed to even take out rallies to Raj Bhavans and there were detention and lock-ins of SKM leaders, it said. "SKM condemns this and points out that this itself is an illustration of the failure of democracy and the undeclared emergency that we are going though," it said in the statement. Noting that cases have been filed against 15 farmers in Hisar who had taken part in a protest against a BJP meeting on June 25, the SKM said the FIRs should be withdrawn immediately. The farmers started their stir against the contentious farm laws in November by camping at Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana, besides at Tikri and Ghazipur borders. The protesting farmers have demanded the withdrawal of the Centre's farm laws and that a new law be made to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. The protesting farmers will mark Monday "Kisan Mazdoor Bhaichara Diwas" at Sunehra protest site near the Haryana-Rajasthan border, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/withdraw-cases-lodged-against-farmers-for-protest-marches-samyukt-kisan-morcha-1002314.html
28-06-2021||National Politics||India's vaccination drive keeps gaining momentum, says PM Modi||Noting that India's Covid vaccination drive "keeps gaining" momentum, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday that "vaccines for all, free for all" remains the government's commitment.  Modi was reacting to a tweet of the Union Health Ministry that put out an infographic saying India has achieved another milestone as the total number of jabs administered here is more than in countries like the US, the UK, Germany, France and Italy.  India administered 32.366 crore doses by 8 am on Monday, it said.  The prime minister said, "India's vaccination drive keeps gaining momentum! Congrats to all those who are driving this effort. Our commitment remains vaccines for all, free for all." India’s vaccination drive keeps gaining momentum! Congrats to all those who are driving this effort. Our commitment remains vaccines for all, free for all.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/indias-vaccination-drive-keeps-gaining-momentum-says-pm-modi-1002386.html
28-06-2021||National Politics||Arvind Kejriwal promises free electricity in Punjab if AAP wins Assembly polls||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is heading to Punjab, which will go to polls early next year, for the second time in a week on Tuesday with a promise to provide free electricity if voted to power in the state where AAP is presently the main Opposition party. AAP's heightened activities in Punjab comes against the backdrop of its ambition to overthrow the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government in the state, which is facing trouble from within after cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu rose in rebellion, and assume power. It also hopes that the BJP and the newly-minted Akali Dal-BSP coalition would add trouble to its strategy in cornering the Congress. AAP was considered a favourite before the 2017 polls in Punjab but had to satisfy with a distant second though it managed to push the dominant Akali Dal to third position. The visit to Chandigarh on Tuesday will be Kejriwal's second after his June 21 tour to Amritsar when he declared that AAP would declare a Sikh as its Chief Ministerial candidate. The AAP appears to have learnt from the mistake of 2017 when it gave an impression that Kejriwal may move to Punjab, depriving a Sikh from assuming the chair. Party leaders and analysts had then said that unequivocal declaration of a Sikh Chief Ministerial candidate could have turned the tables for the party. It is also in this context that Kejriwal announced on Monday that an AAP government in Punjab would provide free electricity, an electoral promise that successfully propelled its electoral chances in the national capital. "It is very difficult for a woman to run her own house at such an expensive price. In Delhi, we provide 200 units of free electricity to every family. The women are very happy. Women in Punjab are also very unhappy with inflation. The AAP government will also provide free electricity in Punjab. See you tomorrow in Chandigarh," Kejriwal tweeted. Upping the ante before his visit, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said that the Punjab Chief Minister's office has denied permission to hold a press conference at a pre-decided venue. "Captain Amarinder's fear of Kejriwal has reached a point where his office has denied us permission to hold a press conference at the pre-decided venue. Nevertheless, Arvind Kejriwal will make a mega announcement tomorrow in Chandigarh which will send 440 volt current to Captain and his party," Chadha tweeted. Kejriwal's visit to Punjab also comes as AAP is attempting to increase its footprint in Gujarat after an impressive performance in Surat municipal polls. Leaders like Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia visited the state and have inducted prominent leaders, including businessmen to the party. The AAP also is looking at the Uttar Pradesh elections next year with its in-charge and Rajya Sabha floor leader Sanjay Singh recently raking up "questionable" land deals involving the Ram Temple Trust. Earlier, Singh was slapped with a case of sedition after he questioned the Covid-19 handling by the Yogi Adityanath government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/arvind-kejriwal-promises-free-electricity-in-punjab-if-aap-wins-assembly-polls-1002402.html
28-06-2021||National Politics||Despite multiple defections, no disqualification recorded in Bengal Assembly in past decade||Once a reviled practice in West Bengal, the Aaya Ram Gaya Ram culture has made deep inroads into the state as several MLAs, in the past decade, were seen frequently crossing the floor, with none facing any action under the anti-defection law. Speaker Biman Banerjee agreed that there was no instance of MLA disqualification in the last ten years on the ground of defection, but did not elaborate further. "It is true that the Assembly has not recorded any case of disqualification since 2011 for switching camps. But I would not get into details," the three-time speaker told PTI. The latest flashpoint is the defection of veteran leader Mukul Roy, who won the March-April Assembly polls on a BJP ticket but switched over to the TMC earlier this month. The saffron party, on its part, has filed a plea before the Speaker seeking Roy's disqualification, only to receive flak from the ruling TMC, which said that MPs Sisir Adhikari and Sunil Mondal, who had joined the BJP ahead of assembly polls, should first quit the membership of Lok Sabha. Since the ascendance of the TMC in Bengal, switching parties, a practice looked down upon prior to 2010, has almost become commonplace, according to political pundits. Over four dozen legislators from the Congress, Left Front and the TMC switched sides in the 15th and 16th Legislative Assembly -- between 2011 and 2021, they said. In the 16th Assembly alone, around 24 of the 44 Congress MLAs and eight of the 32 Left MLAs had crossed over to either the TMC or the BJP. However, only 12 disqualification pleas were filed by the Congress and one by the CPI (M). In many cases, parties have refrained from filing disqualification pleas for "fear of losing the main opposition party status in the assembly". Former Leader of the Opposition Abdul Mannan told PTI that the anti-defection law "has turned into a joke" under the BJP rule at the Centre and the TMC in the state. "Sadly, no action was taken by the speaker in the disqualification cases that we filed over the years. We stopped doing that after a while as it would have harmed our party's strength in the House. We could have lost the opposition party status," Mannan said. Giving an example, former Left Front Legislative party leader Sujan Chakraborty said Left MLA Dipali Biswas, who had switched over to the TMC just after the 2016 assembly polls only to dump the party for the saffron camp last year, continued as a member of the House, despite 26 hearings on her disqualification case. "When no action was taken against her, we understood that the speaker wasn't willing to initiate any. We stopped filing such application. End of the day, it is a matter of political will," he said. The Anti-Defection Law, 1985, states that a member of a House belonging to any political party shall be disqualified if he or she has voluntarily given up the membership of a political party, votes or abstains from voting in the House contrary to any direction issued by the party he represents, and if a representative of a certain political party joins another outfit after the election. As per the Law, the speaker's decision is final but there, however, is no time limit for him to arrive at any decision. A party can move court, but only after the speaker has announced his decision. "The speaker not being bound by any timeframe is the loophole that the BJP and the TMC have exploited. There is a need to relook at the law after 36 years," Mannan said. However, the ruling TMC blamed the opposition Congress and the CPI(M) for not having done their homework properly before moving the disqualification pleas. It sought to differentiate between the turncoats who joined the ruling party and the ones that switched over to the saffron camp. "Their disqualification pleas may not have yielded any result as they had failed to prove their cases. Also, you can't blame us if an elected member wants to join us to be a part of the developmental process started by the TMC government," Kunal Ghosh, the state general secretary of the Mamata Banerjee-led party, pointed out. "Those who have switched over to the BJP just ahead of the assembly polls in exchange of something and the ones who have joined our camp over the years can't be clubbed in one bracket. If the BJP is so serious about the law, they should first take action against Sisir Adhikari and Sunil Mondal," he maintained. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh blamed the TMC for "normalising" defections. "Since 2011, the TMC has engineered defections of several MLAs by using both money and muscle power. Was that in accordance with the law? The TMC should answer this," he said. The first instance of defection can be traced back to 1952 when four Forward Bloc MLAs joined the Congress after the earliest assembly elections in the state. They resigned from their posts, leading to by-elections. However, what drew national attention was former chief minister Prafulla Chandra Ghoshs decision to walk out of Bangla Congress and the CPI(M)-led United Front government along with 17 MLAs, in 1967. Ghosh and other legislators subsequently joined the Progressive Democratic Front (PDF), leading to the collapse of the United Front government. In the years that followed, however, no major camp change took place till 1998, when a section of Congress leaders led by Mamata Banerjee formed the Trinamool Congress. Between 1998 and 2001, several Congress MLAs who had joined TMC obeyed the grand old party's whip inside the Assembly to avoid getting disqualified under the anti- defection law but functioned as a TMC leader outside. After 2011, however, the state witnessed massive defections as many Congress, and Left legislators made a beeline for the TMC. The trend changed following the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, when the BJP, having registered a stupendous performance in Lok Sabha polls, became an attractive destination for the elected representatives of the TMC. A senior TMC leader said the party would henceforth desist from pursuing the Aaya Ram Gaya Ram culture, coined after Haryana legislator Gaya Lal changed his party thrice within a fortnight in 1967, and, instead, adopt a "pick and choose" policy. Underlining that defection has become a "fashion" in Indian politics, retired Supreme Court judge Ashok Kumar Ganguly, when approached, said that it can only be corrected by strengthening the law. "The law needs to be revisited, as the realities of Indian politics have undergone a sea change since 1985. There should be a fixed timeframe for the speaker to decide on disqualification pleas," he told PTI. Echoing him, political analyst Suman Bhattacharya wondered whether the BJP, which is at the Centre, would initiate any process to amend this law as it has "highly benefited" from the culture in states where the party did not bag absolute majority. Political scientist Biswanath Chakraborty is of the view that both the TMC and the BJP are to be equally blamed for making a mockery of the law. He further said that that the saffron party is tasting its own medicine in Bengal as many politicians it had inducted ahead of the assembly elections now want to be a part of the winning team.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/despite-multiple-defections-no-disqualification-recorded-in-bengal-assembly-in-past-decade-1002423.html
28-06-2021||National Politics||Fadnavis must cooperate with Thackeray on OBC quota, says Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut on Monday said BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis should cooperate with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to resolve the issue of OBC quota in local bodies in Maharashtra. The Supreme Court had recently struck down such a quota after observing that the seats earmarked for various communities must not exceed 50 per cent of the total strength of the local body. The BJP has been accusing the MVA government of not presenting empirical data in the apex court to show that such quota was needed in local bodies. Fadnavis had recently said he could get the OBC quota reinstated if he was given the reins of power in the state for four months, adding that he would quit politics if he failed to do so. Speaking on Fadnavis' statement, Raut said the BJP must stop the former CM from taking such a decision as there was a a paucity of good leaders in the country and the latter's quitting would be unfair to Maharashtra. 'His colleagues must persuade him against taking such a decision. The state government is looking into the OBC quota issue and Fadnavis should cooperate with the chief minister in finding a solution. We will not let Fadnavis take political sanyas," Raut said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fadnavis-must-cooperate-with-thackeray-on-obc-quota-says-sanjay-raut-1002430.html
28-06-2021||National Politics||FM Sitharaman delivering nothing but headlines: Congress on stimulus package||The Congress on Monday claimed the measures announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman deliver nothing but headlines and said the government should take steps to spur demand to revive the economy "which continues to be in the doldrums". The opposition party was reacting after the government announced a series of measures to stimulate the economy battered by the Covid-19 pandemic. "Credit guarantee schemes have not guaranteed revival since India's economic downturn. FM Nirmala Sitharaman needs to realise that doing the same thing over and over again delivers headlines but little else," Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said on Twitter. "First PM instructs. Then FM announces. Then PM applauds. Waah! Such 'jugalbandi' to keep the headlines going, while the economy remains in doldrums," he said. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said the finance minister has done nothing to revive the economy and spur demand, and has instead given a dose of fresh loans. He said the government should have given direct cash benefits to put money in people's pockets that could propel demand in the economy instead of encouraging them to take loans. Vallabh said the finance minister has not addressed the issue of low demand and declining GDP, and high inflation and unemployment. "What is the answer for the consistent decline in GDP? How you are going to revive that?" he asked. He said the unemployment rate is 12 per cent against 2 percent in 2012 and asked, "How we are going to bring it down?" "How we are going to create new employment? What is the answer in this regard? The answer is: 'No, there is no concrete plan'," he said. Sitharaman on Monday announced Rs 1.5 lakh crore of additional credit for small and medium businesses, more funds for the healthcare sector, loans to tourism agencies and guides, and waiver of visa fee for foreign tourists as part of a package to support the pandemic-hit economy. Together with previously announced Rs 93,869 crore spending on providing free foodgrains to the poor till November and additional Rs 14,775 crore fertiliser subsidy, the stimulus package -- mostly made up of government guarantee to banks and microfinance institutions for loans they extend to Covid-hit sectors -- totalled up to Rs 6.29 lakh crore. Vallabh said there is a consistent decline in demand in the economy."What have you done to revive the demand in the economy. People are losing jobs, there are salary cuts, and the government is not transferring the dearness allowance to its employees, the people are in crisis," he said The Congress leader said even in last year's package also, as per IMF and various other agencies, "the truth of Rs 20 lakh crore is that the fiscal stimulus is only Rs 2 lakh crore". "What is the additional money Government of India is going to transfer in the hands of the people who are losing the jobs, who are having massive salary cuts, who are not getting their salary for the last 4-5 months, what are you doing for that. "Without taking care of that, without taking care of the ever-falling demand, without taking care of reviving the new demand in the economy, you can't come out of this vicious circle and what is this vicious circle, low GDP, low demand, high unemployment, high inflation," he said, alleging that the government is more concerned about headlines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fm-sitharaman-delivering-nothing-but-headlines-congress-on-stimulus-package-1002609.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||J&K Police arrest terror suspect in Jammu, seizes 5.5-kg IED from him||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Sunday arrested an alleged terrorist belonging to the Resistance Resistance, a frontal group of Lashkar-e-Taiba and seized a 5.5-kg-IED from his possession. Jammu’s Senior Superintendent of Police Chandan Kohli identified the arrested accused as Nadeem-ul-Haq, a resident of Zainhal-Banihal in Ramban and said with his arrest, a major tragedy has been averted. Haq was in contact with his handlers in Pakistan and south Kashmir Shopian, the SSP said. The SSP said Haq was given the task to trigger the blast by the Resistance Force, a frontal group of Lashkar-e-Taiba, by planting the IED at some crowded place. Haq was nabbed by a police team during a routine checking by it at Barmini road where he was spotted carrying a yellow bag and heading towards Bathindi, the SSP said. On seeing the police party, he tried to run away, raising suspicion and was swiftly chased and intercepted, he said. The search of his bag led to the recovery of the IED and he was arrested and booked under various sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Explosive Substances Act, Kohli said. Terming the arrest as a “major success”, the SSP said the investigation is still at a nascent stage and more arrests are likely as the probe progresses. He said the success was achieved due to the heightened security and alertness and manual surveillance by police teams through strong checkpoints and intensified foot patrolling at several places for the past several days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-police-arrest-terror-suspect-in-jammu-seizes-55-kg-ied-from-him-1002282.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||IAF airbase drone attack: Explosions were deafening, we were shocked, say residents||People living around the Indian Air Force station here woke up to the deafening sounds of explosions on Sunday as drones, operated by Pakistan-based terrorists, dropped two bombs at the vital military installation. Two IAF personnel were injured in the explosions that took place around 1.40 am within six minutes of each other. The first blast ripped off the roof of a single-storey building at the high security technical area of the airport manned by the air force in Satwari area on the outskirts of the city. The second one was on the ground, according to officials. "We woke up to deafening sounds. It rocked the entire area, and people were shocked," Inderjeet Singh, who stays in a locality along the air force station, said. Hearing the explosions, several people from areas such as Belicharana, Karan-Bagh, Gaddigar, Boharcamp and Satwari reached the air force station, despite Covid restrictions, with no idea that it had been hit by drones. This is the first time that Pakistan-based terrorists had used these unmanned and remote-controlled vehicles to strike a vital installation. "There was an atmosphere of fear in the area by morning after channels broke the news of the attack. It is unimaginable for us that such an important defence installation could be hit," Singh said. Soon Nath of Satwari said this is a matter of concern as such an attack was never heard of before. By morning, heavy security had been deployed around the air base as bomb disposal squads along with senior officials examined the site, officials said. "The attack at the IAF station in Jammu was a terror attack," Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh told PTI. He said police and other agencies were working with IAF officials to unravel the plan behind the attack. A team from anti-terror probe agency National Investigation Agency (NIA) was also at the spot. It was not immediately clear from where the drones had taken off and investigations were on to ascertain their flight path, officials said. Investigators scanned CCTV footage, including from cameras installed on the boundary walls of the airport, in an effort to determine from where the drones came. However, all the CCTV cameras focused on the roadside, they said. Drones cannot be detected by radars deployed at border areas to monitor enemy activity, officials said, suggesting that a different radar system that can detect drones as small as a bird be installed. The drones dropped the explosive material and were either flown back across the border or to some other destination during the night, the officials said. The aerial distance from the Jammu airport to the international border (IB) with Pakistan is 14 km. "Troops are on alert on IB and other installations," a senior BSF officer told PTI here. There are large number of Border Out Posts (BoPs), units, camps and other security installations in border belts of Jammu, Samba and Kathua districts. Besides these, there is the security setup of the IB, a large number of army units and other formations. Police have also increased security on highways and intensified checking of vehicles at various places, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iaf-airbase-drone-attack-explosions-were-deafening-we-were-shocked-say-residents-1002286.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||Special police officer, his wife, daughter shot dead by militants in J&K's Pulwama||A policeman, his wife and daughter were killed when militants fired upon them at their residence in Hariparigam, Awantipora area of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Sunday night. A police officer said militants forced their entry into the residence of special police officer (SPO) Fayaz Ahmad and fired indiscriminately.  Ahmad, his wife Raja Begum and their daughter Rafia received bullet injuries in the attack and were immediately removed to a nearby healthcare facility, where the cop was declared dead on arrival. His wife and daughter were shifted to Government Medical College (GMC) Anantnag. However, both succumbed to their injuries in the hospital. Reports said soon after the attack, the area was cordoned off and searches were launched to nab the assailants. SPOs are recruited by the J&K police on a fixed monthly remuneration of Rs 12,000. The wages of SPOs are given by the J&K government and reimbursed by the Centre under the Security Related Expenditure (SRE) scheme. The police maintain SPOs are an important element in their strategy to combat militancy. The 30,000 men and women SPOs - bolstering the police force with duties ranging from fighting militancy to maintaining law and order - have been targeted specifically by militants in the last few years. Earlier this month, militants killed two off-duty policemen in Srinagar in two separate attacks, including an officer of the Criminal Investigation Department (CID).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/special-police-officer-his-wife-daughter-shot-dead-by-militants-in-jks-pulwama-1002289.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||Small size, stealth make drones lethal threat for strategic installations: Officials||The capability of drones to evade radar, wreak devastation at strategic installations and transport weapons to terrorists has been a continuous concern for the country's security establishment, and in a maiden incident, these unmanned vehicles were used to strike an IAF base in Jammu on Sunday, officials said. Pakistan-based terrorists used drones to drop two bombs at the Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Jammu's Satwari area leading to minor damage to a building and injuring two airmen in the darkness of the night. The defence and internal security matrix of the country has been talking about threats posed by small and remote-controlled unmanned vehicles for the last two to three years with occasional incidents of Pakistan-sponsored armed drones being neutralised by the Border Security Force (BSF), the Punjab Police and other agencies along the India-Pakistan border. A clutch of ministries and departments like that of home, civil aviation, Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS), the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and the IAF have been working on plans and technologies to check and combat such attacks at sensitive civil airports and other facilities. The central police think tank called the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD) has also held a few multi-stakeholder national conferences on the subject to find out the most effective methods, both technology-wise and monetarily, to jam and neutralise these threats. "We are still to get the most suitable technology to thwart armed drones along the border. The interceptions made till now has been because of the vigilance of troops on duty," a senior BSF officer said. He said multiple incidents of arms and drugs carrying drones and quad-copters being flown from Pakistan into the Indian side in Jammu and Punjab have been noticed in the last few years and all of them have been thwarted. However, a senior home ministry officer said that there have been incidents when drones were used for surveillance of Indian border assets and positions. But as soon as they were spotted and reaction mounted, the floaters rushed back to base where either terrorist elements or Pakistan military soldiers could be handling the remote, the officer said. Both the International Border and the Line of Control (LoC) region along Pakistan have had their share of such incidents which have been flagged by the Army. Deep inside the country, the tarmac and the city-side of civil airports are vulnerable when it comes to dropping bombs or surveillance by drones. A proper standard operating procedure (SOP) is in the making with the IAF supposed to be the first responder and the snipers of the CISF and the commando force, National Security Guard (NSG), desired to chip in case of an emergent threat. "We need a comprehensive plan and plan of action to check the menace of drones. Every agency, be it at the borders or in cities or airports, needs to have specific responsibility along with required technology tools," a senior officer in the security establishment said. "The latest Jammu air force station incident has magnified the challenge," the officer said. A data estimation study conducted by multiple security agencies in 2019 stated that over six lakh unregulated drones, of various sizes and capacities, are present in the country and any of them can be used for launching a nefarious act by disruptive elements. The agencies are looking at specific anti-drone techniques like sky fence, drone gun, ATHENA, drone catcher and Skywall 100 to intercept and immobilise suspicious and lethal remote-controlled aerial platforms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/small-size-stealth-make-drones-lethal-threat-for-strategic-installations-officials-1002321.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||Fire breaks out in room in AIIMS, none injured||A fire broke out in a room adjacent to the operation theatre of Emergency Department in AIIMS here on Monday morning, Delhi Fire Service said. No one was injured, they said. A call was received at 5.04 am about a blaze in the operation theatre (OT) of Emergency Department and seven fire tenders were rushed to AIIMS, Delhi Fire Service Director Atul Garg said. The fire was brought under control very quickly, he said, adding it broke out in the store room adjacent to the OT. According to police, a PCR call was received at Hauz Khas police station at around 5.15 am about the blaze and on reaching AIIMS, sparking and smoke was observed in a dummy room near the casualty area. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said, "All the patients in the vicinity were evacuated. Seven fire brigade vehicles reached at the spot and extinguished the fire." The situation is now normal and under control, and there is neither any casualty nor any injury to any person, he said. Casualty area has been reopened for patients, the police said, adding an investigation is underway to ascertain the exact cause of the blaze.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-in-room-in-aiims-none-injured-1002324.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||Policeman, his wife, daughter shot dead by militants in J&K’s Pulwama||A policeman, his wife and daughter were killed when militants fired upon them at their residence in Hariparigam, Awantipora area, of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Sunday night. A police officer said militants forced their entry into the residence of special police officer (SPO) Fayaz Ahmad and fired indiscriminately.  Ahmad, his wife Raja Begum and their daughter Rafia received bullet injuries in the attack and were immediately removed to a nearby healthcare facility, where the cop was declared dead on arrival. His wife and daughter were shifted to Government Medical College (GMC) Anantnag. However, both succumbed to their injuries in the hospital. Reports said soon after the attack, the area was cordoned off and searches were launched to nab the assailants. SPOs are recruited by the J&K police on a fixed monthly remuneration of Rs 12,000. The wages of SPOs are given by the J&K government and reimbursed by the Centre under the Security Related Expenditure (SRE) scheme. The police maintain SPOs are an important element in their strategy to combat militancy. The 30,000 men and women SPOs - bolstering the police force with duties ranging from fighting militancy to maintaining law and order - have been targeted specifically by militants in the last few years. Earlier this month, militants killed two off-duty policemen in Srinagar in two separate attacks, including an officer of the Criminal Investigation Department (CID).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/policeman-his-wife-daughter-shot-dead-by-militants-in-jk-s-pulwama-1002340.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Of 1,000 patients in Delhi hospitals, 900 are in ICUs or on ventilator support||As Delhi prepares for Unlock 5.0 and more relaxations in the Covid-19 lockdown from June 29, hospitals still spell a bleak picture for the national capital as the number of Covid patients in the ICU and on ventilators are far higher than those in general wards. Health data from Delhi government suggests that of the 27,284 Covid beds in hospitals, 1,037 are occupied and of these, 930 are either in the ICU or on ventilator support. The rest are in general wards with or without oxygen. In the deadly second wave of the virus between April and May, Delhi dealt with a severe shortage of hospital beds and medical supplies, with patients being turned away at the gate.  Its previous wave, in November, was much milder in terms of numbers. The government shut down Covid wards and asked hospitals to reduce the beds in February, just before the second wave hit. This time, the government has no such plans even though most Covid facilities are nearly empty. Delhi recorded 89 new Covid cases and four deaths on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-of-1000-patients-in-delhi-hospitals-900-are-in-icus-or-on-ventilator-support-1002345.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||Army opens fire after drones spotted at Kaluchak military station in Jammu||A day after two explosive-laden drones crashed into the Indian Air Force (IAF) station at Jammu airport, two unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) were spotted at Kaluchak military station in Jammu during the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. Reports said Army jawans opened fire on noticing two drones hovering over brigade headquarters on the outskirts of Jammu. While one UAV was seen flying inside the Army base at 11:45 pm, the other was spotted nearly three hours later at 2:40 am. PRO defence, Lt Colonel Devender Anand said that two separate drones were spotted over the Ratnuchak-Kaluchak area in Jammu on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. “High alert was sounded and Quick Reaction Teams engaged them with firing. Both the drones flew away. A major threat thwarted by the alertness and proactive approach of troops,” he said and added tat security forces are on high alert and search operation is in progress. Sources said nothing objectionable has been found on the ground so far as security agencies are trying to locate where the two drones came from and who are involved in this. The latest intrusion comes a day after the country witnessed the first-ever drone attack on its territory, when two small UAVs dropped explosive devices on an IAF base in Jammu causing damage to the roof of a building and minor injuries to two personnel. Sources told DH that a security high alert has been sounded across Jammu and Kashmir, particularly in Army and Air Force stations to thwart any possible attacks. Prima facie investigations conducted by security agencies have revealed the role of Pakistan based Lashkar-e-Taiba or Jaish-e-Mohammed outfits in the drone strikes. It is pertinent to mention here that on May 14, 2002, the Kaluchak military station was attacked by three armed terrorists from Pakistan. The trio first attacked a Himachal Road Transport Corporation bus from Manali to Jammu and killed 7 people before entering the family quarters of the Army station and killing 23 persons, including 10 children, eight women and five Army men. The age of the children killed ranged from four to 10 years. 34 people were also injured in the deadly attack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-opens-fire-after-drones-spotted-at-kaluchak-military-station-in-jammu-1002351.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||Man arrested from Punjab in Red Fort flag hoisting case||Delhi Police's Special Cell has arrested a man from Punjab in connection with the Red Fort flag hoisting case, officials said on Monday. The accused is named Gurjot Singh, they said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said, "Singh was arrested from Amritsar in Punjab. A reward of Rs one lakh was declared for his arrest." Thousands of farmers protesting against the Centre's new agri laws had clashed with the police during a tractor parade on January 26. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and a flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled on Independence Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-arrested-from-punjab-in-red-fort-flag-hoisting-case-1002352.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||Earthquake of magnitude 4.6 hits Ladakh||An earthquake of magnitude 4.6 hit Ladakh on Monday, but there were no reports of any damage, officials said. The quake struck at 6:10 am in Leh area of the Union Territory, the officials said. They said its epicenter was at a latitude of 34.49 degrees north and longitude of 78.43 degrees east at a depth of 18 km. There have been no reports of any loss of life or damage to any property so far due to the tremors, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/earthquake-of-magnitude-46-hits-ladakh-1002355.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir political parties condemn killing of SPO, his family||Mainstream political parties in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday condemned the killing of a special police officer (SPO), his wife and daughter in Pulwama district, calling it "dastardly and cowardly" and a blot on the security scenario in the valley. "I unreservedly condemn the dastardly & cowardly militant attack on the J&K police SPO Fayaz Ahmed, his wife and his young daughter at their home last night. I pray they receive their place in Jannat and their loved ones find strength during this terrible time," National Conference (NC) vice president Omar Abdullah wrote on Twitter. I unreservedly condemn the dastardly & cowardly militant attack on the J&K police SPO Fayaz Ahmed, his wife & his young daughter at their home last night. I pray they receive their place in Jannat & their loved ones find strength during this terrible time. The NC called the incident a blot on the security scenario in Kashmir. "JKNC unequivocally condemns the barbaric killing of ex-SPO Fayaz Ahmad, his wife and their 23-year-old daughter. It is a dastardly, inhuman act and a blot on the security scenario in Kashmir," the NC said on its Twitter handle. JKNC unequivocally condemns the barbaric killing of ex SPO Fayaz Ahmad, his wife and their 23 yr old daughter. It is a dastardly, inhuman act and a blot on the security scenario in Kashmir. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said no words were strong enough to condemn the cowardly attack. "No words are strong enough to condemn the cowardly attack in Awantipora that claimed the lives of a JKP officer Fayaz Ahmad, his wife and daughter. May Allah Ta'aala grant them maghfirat and their loved ones the fortitude to bear this loss (sic)," Mufti tweeted. No words are strong enough to condemn the cowardly attack in Awantipora that claimed the lives of a JKP officer Fayaz Ahmad, his wife & daughter. May Allah Ta’aala grant them maghfirat & their loved ones the fortitude to bear this loss. Peoples Conference (PC) chairman Sajad Lone said the news of the killing was "extremely distressing" and called the perpetrators "thugs of violence". "Woke up to extremely distressing news of violence. An entire family fell to bullets. No respite from these thugs of violence. May they rest in peace. May the family muster courage to bear this loss," Lone said in a tweet. Woke up to extremely distressing news of violence. An entire family fell to bullets. No respite from these thugs of violence. May they rest in peace. May the family muster courage to bear this loss BJP's J&K spokesman Altaf Thakur also condemned the attack as cowardly and barbaric, saying barging into the house of a cop and killing him and his family members is nothing but a pure form of terrorism. "The act deserves the strongest condemnation and that those behind the act will meet the same fate. What was the fault of the innocent wife and daughter of the policeman? The killing (of) women is (in) no way bravery, but a pure cowardly attack which deserves the highest form of condemnation," Thakur said. He expressed sympathies with the bereaved family and urged the police to bring the perpetrators of the crime to justice as soon as possible. Senior CPI(M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami said killing unarmed civilians cannot be justified in any way. "Killing innocents, including women, is highly condemnable and such incidents have no place in the civilised world. Attacking civilians by the combatants is an act of cowardice and must be condemned by all in one voice," Tarigami said. He said cycles of violence have been going on in Kashmir for the more than three decades, "but what has been achieved so far?" "Whom does violence suit? There is a need to ponder over the persistent violence, and society must come out and express itself against such brutal acts of violence," he said. He expressed condolences to the bereaved family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-political-parties-condemn-killing-of-spo-his-family-1002388.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||'Not a matter for SC', CJI declines to consider plea for probe into forceful conversion of Hindus in Mewat||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to consider a PIL alleging forceful conversion of Hindus and atrocities over them by the dominant Muslim community in district Nuh, Mewat of Haryana. “This is not a matter for the Supreme Court to take," a bench, presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana, said. A Lucknow-based advocate, Ranjana Agnihotri and others sought a probe by the CBI or the NIA into "forceful conversion of Hindu residents, and illegal execution of sale deeds of Hindus properties, rape of Hindu women and minor girls, the encroachment made on public land, the conditions of temples, religious places, and cremation grounds". The plea filed through advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain claimed that the fundamental rights of Hindus residing in district Mewat, Nuh in Haryana were being continuously eroded by members of the dominant Muslim community.  “The state government, as well as district administration and local police, have failed to exercise the powers vested in them by law due to which the life and liberty of every Hindu and particularly the women and Dalits are in jeopardy and they are bound to lead life under sword of dominant group," the plea claimed.     It alleged that Muslims under the patronage of Tablighi Jamaat had gradually increased their strength and Hindus had come down from 20 to 10-11 per cent since the last census 2011.  “A number of Hindus have been forcibly converted to Islam and a number of Hindu women and minor girls have been abducted and raped. The Hindu women are not safe at all. The Muslims at a large number have committed atrocities on members of Schedule Caste," the PIL alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/not-a-matter-for-sc-cji-declines-to-consider-plea-for-probe-into-forceful-conversion-of-hindus-in-mewat-1002394.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||Back from Delhi, Farooq Abdullah to chair Gupkar alliance meeting on June 29||The constituents of an alliance formed in Jammu & Kashmir last year for the restoration of the region’s special status will meet in Srinagar on Tuesday to deliberate upon its strategy in the wake of the June 24 meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi. National Conference president and former chief minister Farooq Abdullah will chair the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) meeting at his Gupkar residence in Srinagar at 11 am on Tuesday. CPI (M) senior leader, Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami, who is the spokesperson of the alliance, confirmed the meeting, saying, “We couldn’t meet each other after meeting the Prime Minister. After coming back, we decided to hold a meeting and exchange our notes on the meeting.” “As some leaders of the PAGD were not part of the meeting with the PM, we will brief them about the developments that happened in New Delhi," he added. Asked what the agenda of the latest meeting is, he said there is no specific agenda. However, sources said the meeting has been called to discuss the issues that emerged at the recently held all-party neeting in Delhi. “The PAGD leaders are under pressure as nothing concrete came out of their meeting with the PM. To exhibit unity, the latest meeting has been called,” sources said. Fourteen leaders of eight political parties - the NC, PDP, BJP, Congress, Apni Party, CPI (M), People's Conference, and the Panthers Party – held a meeting with PM Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Jammu and Kashmir. The meeting, the first such exercise between the Centre and the political leadership from Kashmir since August 5, 2019 - when the Centre revoked the special status of J&K and bifurcated the erstwhile state into two Union Territories - ended along expected lines, with the PM urging the parties to get on board with delimitation to enable Assembly elections. Four leaders from the PAGD, including Abdullah, his son Omar, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti and Tarigami were among the 14 leaders who met the PM on June 24. The PAGD is an alliance of NC, PDP, CPM, Peoples Movement and Awami National Conference, formed in October last by Kashmir-centric leaders with a pledge towards restoration of the special status of J&K.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/back-from-delhi-farooq-abdullah-to-chair-gupkar-alliance-meeting-on-june-29-1002404.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||Two JeM militants, including foreigner, involved in killing of SPO, his family: J&K Police||Two Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) militants, including a foreigner, were involved in the killing of a special police officer (SPO), his wife and daughter in Pulwama district, police said on Monday. Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said SPO Fayaz Ahmad's wife and daughter tried to save him but they were also fired upon by the militants. "There is a movement of militants in this area. Two terrorists came last night, one of them from appearance seems to be an FT (foreign terrorist)," Kumar told reporters. The IGP visited the SPO's family and prayed for peace of the departed souls. "They (militants) fired indiscriminately on our SPO. His wife and daughter tried to save him, but they fired at them as well. They were taken to a hospital where they achieved martyrdom," he said. Kumar said the loss of the SPO along with his wife and daughter has "pained us a lot" and assured that the militants involved in the act will be neutralised soon. "We will soon identify them (attackers) and neutralise them," he added. Asked whether the militant outfit behind the attack had been identified, Kumar said, "Obviously, there is movement of JeM in this area, so Jaish must be behind it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-jem-militants-including-foreigner-involved-in-killing-of-spo-his-family-jk-police-1002412.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||BJP stages dharna in Delhi seeking CM Kejriwal's resignation for 'inflating' oxygen demand||Delhi BJP leaders sat on a dharna at the Jantar Mantar here on Monday, demanding Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's resignation over his government "inflating" the city's oxygen need during the second wave of coronavirus. Leading the protest along with MPs, MLAs and office bearers of the party, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta also said Kejriwal should be "arrested for criminal negligence". "The interim report of a Supreme Court committee has said that the Kejriwal government raised a four-time higher demand of oxygen than actual consumption that caused shortage in other states and led to deaths of Covid patients. Kejriwal himself is responsible for this and should step down from his post," Gupta said. New Delhi MP Meenakshi Lekhi alleged that Chief Minister Kejriwal raised a "false" oxygen shortage issue to "hide the failures" of his government in tackling the second wave of the virus. The ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has charged the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of "cooking up" the report and trying to blame the Delhi government on the basis of it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-stages-dharna-in-delhi-seeking-cm-kejriwals-resignation-for-inflating-oxygen-demand-1002419.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||Wait to workout ends as gyms, yoga centres reopen in Delhi||The wait to hit the gym was finally over for Delhiites on Monday as gyms and yoga centres opened in the national capital after a gap of three long months. These centres were shut to check the spread of coronavirus. The Delhi government Saturday allowed them to operate at 50 per cent capacity. Gym-owners and instructors have devised plans including frequent sanitisation and slots allowing only up to 50 per cent of their establishment's capacity in accordance with the Covid guidelines. The city government has also allowed weddings at banquet, marriage halls and hotels with 50 people in attendance under the phased unlock process initiated with an improvement in the city's Covid-19 situation. Chirag Sethi, the vice president of Delhi Gym Association, said the fitness industry welcomed the opportunity to reopen while following the guidelines. Sethi, also the owner of Anytime Fitness in Malviya Nagar, said they were allowing gym members to come in about 16 slots of 50-60 people from 6 am till 9 pm. "People are excited about coming back as they have realised it's important to be healthy to fight Covid-19," Sethi told PTI. Along with segregating groups of gym-goers, Sethi has also vaccinated his staff and directed them to sanitise all the equipment frequently. "We are also giving discount offers for members who have been vaccinated. We have placed a bottle of sanitiser and a cloth next to each equipment so anyone who uses it can clean it," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wait-to-workout-ends-as-gyms-yoga-centres-reopen-in-delhi-1002428.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||Mild earthquake hits Uttarakhand's Pithoragarh||An earthquake of magnitude 3.7 jolted Pithoragarh and its adjoining areas in Uttarakhand on Monday, the District Disaster Management office said. Mild tremors were felt in Pithoragarh, Kanda and Bageshwar at 12.19 pm, it said. The temblor had a depth of 10 km and its epicentre was in Pithoragarh district, the office said. There is no information yet of any damage caused by the quake, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mild-earthquake-hits-uttarakhands-pithoragarh-1002434.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||Rajnath Singh inaugurates three border bridges in Dharchula area of Pithoragarh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday inaugurated three bridges on way to the Indo-China border in Dharchula sub-division of Uttarakhand's Pithoragarh district.  Three bailey bridges were inaugurated virtually by the defence minister from Delhi, Boarder Roads Organisation Chief Engineer MNV Prasad said. He said one bridge is on Tawaghat-Ghatia Bagar road near Tawaghat, another on Jaulgibi-Munsyari road at Kirkutiya and the third one on Munsyari-Bugdiyar-Milam road at Laspa. Built by the BRO, the bridges connect Indian mainland with the border security posts in this part of the Himalayan region, Prasad said. The bridges have a length of 140-180 metres, he said, adding that the BRO had to work in adverse conditions to construct the high-altitude bridges on time. The bridges will be of great convenience to both tourists and security forces, the BRO official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajnath-singh-inaugurates-three-border-bridges-in-dharchula-area-of-pithoragarh-1002447.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||Anti-Pakistan protest held in Jammu against drone attack on IAF station||Shiv Sena Dogra Front (SSDF) activists on Monday torched a Pakistani flag to protest the drone attack on the Indian Air Force (IAF) station here, and the killing of a special police officer (SPO), his wife and daughter by militants in Pulwama district. Two explosives-laden drones crashed into the IAF station at Jammu airport in the early hours of Sunday. The explosions that took place around 1.40 am within six minutes of each other left two IAF personnel injured. Hours later, militants struck a village in south Kashmir's Pulwama district and gunned down an SPO along with his wife and daughter. Dozens of SSDF activists led by their chairman Ashok Gupta assembled at Rani Park in the heart of Jammu and set afire the Pakistani flag amid chanting of slogans in protest against the latest terror strikes. The protesters, who were carrying the national flag in their hands, later dispersed off peacefully, officials said. "We have organized this protest to condemn the killing of an SPO and his family and the first-of-its-kind attack on an IAF base in Jammu and Kashmir and demand appropriate measures to counter such attacks and a befitting response to Pakistan for this shameful action," Gupta told reporters. Without naming any political party but apparently referring to PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti, he said such incidents should serve as an eye-opener for those who are seeking dialogue with Pakistan which wants to "destroy our country". "Pakistan is not going to mend its ways and the only solution to end this conflict is to unfurl the Indian flag across the border," Gupta said, adding "there is a need to wage a war against Pakistan and its supporters in Jammu and Kashmir after this heinous act (drone attack on IAF base)." He said the drone attack has posed a new challenge as earlier Pakistan was using the flying machines to drop weapons and narcotics. "India should strengthen its security by installing anti-drone technology and also send those who talk about dialogue with Pakistan to Tihar jail," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/anti-pakistan-protest-held-in-jammu-against-drone-attack-on-iaf-station-1002451.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||Central Delhi second-most rain-deficient district in India: IMD||Central Delhi has recorded just 8.5 mm rainfall this monsoon season so far and is the second-most rain-deficient district in the country, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) data. June 1 to September 30 is officially considered the monsoon season in India. Central Delhi has received only 8.5 mm rainfall against the normal of 53.3 mm since June 1 -- a deficiency of 84 per cent. The rain deficit in Kistwar district of Jammu and Kashmir is the largest in the country. It has recorded 5 mm precipitation against the normal of 68.4 mm -- a shortfall of 93 per cent. In the national capital, East Delhi has received 19.2mm rainfall against the normal of 53.3mm – a dearth of 64 per cent. Northeast Delhi has gauged 20.7mm rainfall, which is 61 per cent below normal, and South Delhi got 22.2 mm – 58 per cent less than normal. Southwest Delhi and New Delhi have recorded 29.6 mm and 27.7 mm rainfall so far -- 50 per cent below their respective normal rainfall. North Delhi has received 37.7 mm rainfall – 33 per cent less than normal – and Northwest Delhi 29.8 mm rainfall – 22 per cent below the average precipitation. Only West Delhi has received normal rainfall so far – 53.5mm against the average of 52.9mm. The weather department on Monday said Delhi and nearby areas in northwest India will have to wait for another week for their first monsoonal showers. "Prevailing meteorological conditions, large scale atmospheric features and the forecast wind pattern by dynamical models suggest that no favourable conditions are likely to develop for further advance of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and Punjab during the next six to seven days," the IMD said in a statement. The northern limit of the southwest monsoon continues to pass through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar, it said. After arriving two days late in Kerala, the monsoon had raced across the country, covering eastern, central and adjoining northwest India seven to 10 days earlier than normal. The meteorological office had earlier predicted that the wind system may reach Delhi by June 15, which would have been 12 days early. However, westerly winds have been blocking its advance into Delhi, parts of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana. Normally, the monsoon reaches Delhi by June 27 and covers the entire country by July 8. Last year, the wind system had reached Delhi on June 25 and covered the entire country by June 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/central-delhi-second-most-rain-deficient-district-in-india-imd-1002482.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||Army releases video of Budgam resident leaving camp, denies charges he was thrashed||The Army on Monday released the video of a Budgam resident being handed over to his friends at a camp, seeking to deny his family's claim that he was thrashed by troops last week when he was questioned following an intelligence input. Mohammed Ramzan (47), a resident of Redbugh in Magam area of central Kashmir, was admitted to SMHS hospital in an unconscious state. His family had claimed he was beaten up by army personnel deployed at Aripanthan in Magam, a charge denied by the force. Taking exception to the charges, the Army released a video which purportedly shows the man being handed over to his two friends -- Ghulam Mohiduin Mir and Tariq Ahmed Khan, who works with All India Radio -- after questioning. The Army said Ramzan's personal belongings such as his phone and other items were properly checked by him and his friends before leaving the camp, and that they expressed satisfaction with the conduct of the forces. The Army also said such allegations are part of the larger modus operandi to instigate people against it, which could lead to a law and order situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-releases-video-of-budgam-resident-leaving-camp-denies-charges-he-was-thrashed-1002484.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||SC refuses to consider plea on policy to protect rights of the dead||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to entertain a plea seeking directions to frame a policy to protect the rights of the dead, amid reports of floating of corpses in river Ganga during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices Nageswara Rao and Hemant Gupta said the problem was serious, but the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) was the appropriate forum to take care of this. NGO Trust Distress Management Collective filed a plea stressing enactment of a specific legislation, which protected the rights of the dead. The petition also asked the court to issue guidelines to all the states and UTs to prescribe rates for cremation and ambulance services, along with penal actions for non-compliance at the earliest. During the hearing, the advocate appearing for the petitioner contended that directions are being sought for a policy to protect rights of the dead, in the backdrop of incidents of bodies being found in the river Ganga. He said the petitioning organisation had taken up the issue before the High Court, but the needful had not been done so far. To this, the bench told him, "You go to the NHRC. How many forums will you approach? You have already approached High Court. The High Court gave a direction. NHRC has interfered." The plea also referred to the NHRC advisory issued on May 14, for upholding the dignity and protecting the rights of the dead, whereby 11 recommendations have been given to the Centre and all the states and UTs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-refuses-to-consider-plea-on-policy-to-protect-rights-of-the-dead-1002485.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||UP assembly polls: Covid-19 patients, migrant workers feature in SP's campaign song||Mismanagement of Covid-19, suffering of infected patients, shortage of oxygen and the woes of migrant workers during lockdown are top on the agenda for opposition parties ahead of the next Uttar Pradesh assembly polls - this became evident with the launch of Samajwadi Party's campaign song. The video, launched by SP supremo Akhilesh Yadav, contains scenes of wailing attendants of Covid patients who were denied admission by hospitals, or those who died inside ambulances for want of treatment. It also showed patients gasping for breath for want of oxygen, besides pictures showing migrant workers walking home after failing to get transport due to hastily-declared lockdown during the first wave of the pandemic last year. The theme of the campaign song is that the SP has always stood by its people, whatever the situation has been. "Sukh-dukh mein saa nibhaya hai....sukh-dukh mein saath nibhayenge (we have always been with you in pain and pleasure, and we shall remain with you)," it says. Earlier too, the SP had released a song in which Akhilesh was likened to Lord Krishna. ''We will certainly expose the BJP government's failure to handle the pandemic... the people of the state have suffered a lot... this government failed to save precious lives,'' said a senior SP leader here on Monday. The leader said party workers had been directed to expose the BJP government's failure on other issues as well, such as rising fuel prices and deteriorating law and order situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-assembly-polls-covid-19-patients-migrant-workers-feature-in-sps-campaign-song-1002508.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||Gupkar alliance meeting scheduled for Tuesday postponed||The constituents of an alliance formed in Jammu & Kashmir last year for the restoration of the region’s special status decided to postpone its meeting in Srinagar, which was scheduled for Tuesday, due to “personal engagement” of PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti. However, senior CPI(M) leader, Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami, who is the spokesperson of the alliance, told DH that the meeting had been postponed due to the “personal engagement” of Mufti, who is vice-chairperson of the alliance. Earlier, he said the meeting was scheduled to discuss the developments that happened in New Delhi on June 24. “As we couldn’t meet each other either after meeting the Prime Minister or after coming back from Delhi, we decided to meet and exchange our notes on the meeting with the PM.” “As some of the leaders of the PAGD were not part of the meeting with the PM, we will brief them about the developments that happened in New Delhi Asked what the agenda of the latest meeting is, he said there is no specific agenda. However, sources said the meeting has been called to discuss the issues that emerged at the recently held All Party Meeting in Delhi. “The PAGD leaders are under pressure as nothing concrete came out of their meeting with the PM. To exhibit the unity, the latest meeting has been called,” they said. 14 leaders of eight political parties - the NC, PDP, BJP, Congress, Apni Party, CPI (M), People's Conference, and the Panthers Party – held a meeting with Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on Jammu and Kashmir. The meeting, first such exercise between the Centre and political leadership mainly from Kashmir since August 5, 2019, when the Centre revoked the special status of J&K and bifurcated the erstwhile state into two union territories, ended on expected lines, with the PM urging the parties to get on board with delimitation to enable Assembly elections. Four leaders from the PAGD, including Abdullah, his son Omar, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti and Tarigami were among the 14 leaders who met the PM on June 24. The PAGD is an alliance of NC, PDP, CPM, Peoples Movement and Awami National Conference, formed in October last by Kashmir centric leaders with the pledge towards restoration of the special status of J&K revoked by the Centre in August 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gupkar-alliance-meeting-scheduled-for-tuesday-postponed-1002517.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||More than 300 drone sightings reported along Pakistan border since August 2019: Agencies||Over 300 drones and unidentified flying objects have been sighted along the sensitive border with Pakistan post the 2019 abrogation of Article 370, central security agencies have said, even as they grapple to find a suitable technology to check these lethal sky-floaters. A multitude of border security agencies have also been testing some indigenously-built counter-drone technologies in the rough jungle terrains, desert and marshes along the western front but have had little success till date, officials told PTI Monday. The lead security agency -- the Border Security Force (BSF) -- and the frontier units of various police units along the 3,323-km-long front have since adopted a standard operating procedure of 'sight and blight' in case a drone, an unidentified flying object or a remotely-operated aerial vehicle is spotted in the air. "The existing system to kill an enemy drone is that the security guard has to be vigilant on the ground and the sky and as soon as a drone is sighted, it has to be blighted or neutralised by plain shooting from the service weapon like INSAS rifles," a senior officer explained. Data prepared and shared by the central security agencies with the government said over 300 "definite sightings" were made by the BSF and other police units after August 5, 2019, when Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Article 370 was withdrawn and it was bifurcated into two Union Territories of Jammu-Kashmir and Ladakh. There were 167 sightings of drones along the western front (largely Jammu and Punjab) in 2019, 77 last year and about 60 this year till now, as per the data. "These are minimum or to say the confirmed sightings by BSF troops and other security agencies personnel along the India-Pakistan border," a senior officer in the security establishment said. There could be 50-60 more such sightings which are not included in the data for reasons like capturing only the whirring sound of the drone, difficulty to differentiate between a balloon and a drone and un-specified suspicious flying objects, the officer said. Officials said the BSF also tested a prototype of a counter-drone system along this front in October, 2019 while some similar trials were held at its campus in Bhondsi near here around the same time. The latter was part of a multi-stakeholder national conference held by the central police think tank-- the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD). "What is largely available technology at present is a circular counter-drone security system that is suited well to secure a military installation or campus," another officer said on the condition of anonymity. "What is required for border security is a linear 'sky fence' like interception, jamming and destruction system which is not available as of now." Indian habitations and important bases all along the Pakistan border are the most vulnerable when it comes to attacks by a single or a swarm of drones, he said. This is because, the officer said, infiltration has become very tough due to the effective domination by security forces in anticipation of the terrorist designs post August, 2019, regular unearthing and plugging of the under-ground tunnels and a ceasefire recently agreed upon by the two neighbours, he said. On Sunday, two drones are stated to have dropped their explosive payload at the IAF station in Jammu making it the first case of an UAV attack on a military base in the country. The internal security establishment, as per official sources, is analysing some specific anti-drone techniques like sky fence, drone gun, ATHENA, drone catcher and Skywall 100 to intercept and immobilise suspicious and lethal remote-controlled aerial platforms. A drone gun is capable of jamming the radio, global positioning system (GPS) and mobile signal between the drone and the pilot and forces the drone to ground in good time before it could carry out its destructive design or secret reconnaissance mission. Another solution being looked at is the sky fence system that uses a range of signal disruptors to jam the flight path and prevent the drones from entering their target, a sensitive installation or an event venue. ATHENA, which stands for Advanced Test High Energy Asset, is another weapon under analysis as it works by firing a high energy laser beam on a rogue drone resulting in its complete destruction in the air. A counter-UAV technology called drone catcher-- that swiftly approaches an enemy drone and grabs it by throwing a net around it-- is also being thought upon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/more-than-300-drone-sightings-reported-along-pakistan-border-since-august-2019-agencies-1002523.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||CJI Ramana condoles death of 77 lawyers due to Covid-19||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Monday paid tributes to 77 members of the Bar who lost their lives due to Covid-19. A bench presided over by the CJI expressed condolence on behalf of the Supreme Court judges. The apex court reopened on Monday after summer vacation. "We are informed by the Secretary of the Supreme Court Bar Association that 77 advocates who were members of SCBA have lost their lives to Covid-19," he said. The court observed two-minute silence for the departed souls. Senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan, who was appearing in the first matter appreciated the "noble and necessary" gesture of the top court. He said, "we know many court staff also lost their lives, we express our condolences to the departed souls". Senior advocate Vikas Singh, president SCBA, who appeared in the next matter, said members of the bar appreciated the gesture of the top court to pay tribute to the lawyers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cji-ramana-condoles-death-of-77-lawyers-due-to-covid-19-1002535.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi schools can't deny admission on ground that child has declared name of one parent: Sisodia||In what is seen as a progressive step, the Delhi government on Monday announced that schools cannot deny admission to a child on the ground that the child is declaring the name of only one parent. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who also looks after the education portfolio, said no school in Delhi will deny admission to a child on the ground that the child is declaring the name of one parent only. The order issued by the Directorate of Education in Delhi government said, "all the heads of schools of all managements under the office of Director of Education are hereby directed to not deny admission to the candidates who have filled details of even one of the parents in the application form while taking admission." The Delhi government's move came even as some single parents faced trouble in getting their children admitted to schools with managements insisting that the names of both the parents should be mentioned. Activists hailed the government move as "progressive" and would be a relief, especially for single mothers. Shabnam Hashmi of Anhad said, "this is a major step, especially for single mothers. Very progressive step in ensuring education for children of single parents." Several schools had raised questions and created hurdles for single parents in getting their children admission. Some of the single parents had raised their objections to schools insisting that the name of the other parent be recorded even when they are not involved in raising the child. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-schools-cant-deny-admission-on-ground-that-child-has-declared-name-of-one-parent-sisodia-1002539.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||CRPF officer injured as gunfight erupts on Srinagar outskirts||A paramilitary officer was injured in an ongoing gunfight with militants in Maloora area of Parimpora on the outskirts of Srinagar city on Monday. Officials said that a sub-inspector of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) was hit by a bullet in his arm during the gun battle in Maloora which erupted after a joint team of police, army and CRPF launched a cordon-and-search-operation following specific inputs about the presence of militants in the area. As the joint team of forces approached towards the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon the forces, triggering off a gunfight, in which the CRPF officer received a bullet, they said. The injured officer was immediately shifted to a hospital where his condition is stated to be stable. It was not immediately known how many militants were trapped in the area. On June 16, a local militant was killed in a gunfight in the Nowgam area on Srinagar outskirts. On June 22 an officer of J&K police's Criminal Investigation Department (CID) was shot dead by suspected militants on Srinagar outskirts when he was returning after offering evening prayers. Earlier on May 17, two local militants affiliated with Al-Badr outfit were killed in a gunfight with security forces in Khonmoh area on Srinagar outskirts. Pertinently, over 60 militants have been killed in J&K so far this year and most of them were locals from south Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crpf-officer-injured-as-gunfight-erupts-on-srinagar-outskirts-1002549.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||Rajnath Singh dedicates 63 bridges in 6 states, 2 UTs to nation||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday dedicated to the nation 63 bridges built by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) in six states and two union territories in sync with the government's focus on enhancing border infrastructure. Singh, on a three-day visit to Ladakh, inaugurated the bridges at an event held at Kyungam, 88 km from Leh. The event was attended by Lt Governor of Ladakh RK Mathur, General Officer-Commanding-in-Chief of Northern Command Lt Gen YK Joshi, Director General of Border Roads Organisation Lt Gen Rajeev Chaudhry and other senior civil and military officials. Chief ministers of Arunachal Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim were among those who attended the event virtually. Officials said the inauguration of a 50-metre-long bridge constructed on the Leh-Loma road in Ladakh was significant as it will help in the movement of troops and other military hardware. "This single span steel superstructure bridge, which replaces an existing bailey bridge, will ensure unhindered movement of heavy weapon systems, including guns, tanks and other specialised equipment," the defence ministry said. The Leh-Loma Road that connects with places such as Chumathang, Hanley and Tso Morori Lake is vital for access to forward areas in eastern Ladakh. In addition, Singh virtually inaugurated 62 more bridges -- 11 in Ladakh, four in Jammu and Kashmir, three in Himachal Pradesh, six in Uttarakhand, eight in Sikkim, one each in Nagaland and Manipur and 29 in Arunachal Pradesh. The combined cost of the projects is Rs 240 crore and they will provide a tremendous boost to connectivity in the border areas, the ministry said Speaking on the occasion, the defence minister lauded the BRO's commitment towards improving connectivity to far-flung areas, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic, saying that some of these bridges will become a lifeline for many villages located in remote areas. Underlining the importance of connectivity, especially in border areas for the development of a nation, he reaffirmed the government's resolve to ensure infrastructure development in far-flung border areas. Singh said the inauguration of 63 bridges is an important step in that direction and expressed confidence that the new infrastructure will play a crucial role in strengthening security. On the government's decision to bifurcate Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh as two separate union territories, he stated that the "strong and visionary steps" have bolstered national unity, led to a major reduction in terrorist activities and opened new avenues for the socio-economic development of the people. On the development of Ladakh, Singh said a number of welfare schemes are being implemented, including Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, National Rural Livelihood Mission, Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi, showing the government's resolve towards the welfare of the region. He also reaffirmed the government's commitment to start the democratic process in the region. "With the inauguration of 63 bridges in one go, BRO has surpassed its own record of 44 bridges launched in 2020. These 63 bridges, combined with 12 roads dedicated to the nation by Rajnath Singh on June 17, 2021, form a bouquet of 75 infrastructure projects," the defence ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajnath-singh-dedicates-63-bridges-in-6-states-2-uts-to-nation-1002554.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi reports 59 fresh Covid-19 cases, lowest daily rise this year so far||The national capital reported 59 cases of Covid-19, the lowest this year so far, and two deaths on Monday, according to data shared by the health department here. The case positivity rate has dipped to 0.10 per cent. On Sunday, Delhi reported 89 cases with a positivity rate of 0.12 per cent, and 4 deaths. The total number of Covid-19 cases reported in Delhi since the beginning of the pandemic has reached 14,33,993. Of this, over 14.07 lakh patients have recovered so far and the death toll stands at 24,967.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-59-fresh-covid-19-cases-lowest-daily-rise-this-year-so-far-1002577.html
28-06-2021||North and Central||DU admissions: Registrations for entrance-based, PG courses likely to start from 3rd week of July||The Delhi University is likely to begin registrations for admission to entrance test-based and postgraduate courses in the third week of July, at least a week prior to starting the process for the remaining merit-based undergraduate courses, a senior official said on Monday. The Supreme Court had on June 24 directed all state boards to declare the internal assessment results of Class 12 by July 31 and gave them 10 days to formulate and notify their evaluation schemes. Rajeev Gupta, chairman, DU admissions, told PTI, "We might start the registration process (for admissions) by the third week of July. There are chances that we might start the registration process for the nine entrance-based courses and postgraduate courses by that time in the first phase and then the registration process for the merit-based courses. The gap between the two phases won't be more than a week or 10 days." He, however, said there is a possibility that all state boards may not declare Class 12 results by July 31. Separately, DU released its one-year report card on Monday. It stated that the admission process was entirely conducted online last year in view of the coronavirus pandemic and students did not have to visit colleges or departments at all. Students used online platforms for the admission process, accessing the admission list, payment of fees etc. from the comfort of their homes, the university said, adding that the verification of documents was also done online. "The university devised ways, with its resources and expertise, to meet the novel challenges, offering appropriate solutions at every step of the way," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/du-admissions-registrations-for-entrance-based-pg-courses-likely-to-start-from-3rd-week-of-july-1002614.html
28-06-2021||Opinion||A final word before Bezos blasts off||In over a decade in which I’ve covered Amazon, one conversation stands out as neatly summarizing the ethos of the e-commerce giant under Jeff Bezos, who will step aside as CEO next month. An Amazon executive was confronting his new role as a buyer of large appliances, like dishwashers, after several years as a book buyer. “We had beaten publishers into submission,” the executive said, noting giddily that when “Amazon asked for a nickel, publishers know to give a dime.” “We aren’t there yet with the Whirlpools and the Samsungs,” he added. “We’ll get them under our thumb.” Bezos, 57, has a complicated legacy of towering ambition, extraordinary success, unimaginable personal wealth and a scorched-earth business approach that is the envy of nearly every tech entrepreneur and a lightning rod for criticism. He is retreating from the top role just as Amazon faces the most serious regulatory threats to its business in its 27-year history. Under Bezos, who will remain as executive chairman, Amazon’s singular focus on speedy delivery forever altered the retail landscape and consumer expectations along with it, and left in its wake a mountain of businesses that failed to keep pace. The company didn’t invent many of the things it’s known for — overnight delivery, mobile shopping, cloud computing and e-readers — but it did make them widely available and even expected. Once-scrappy Amazon (Barron’s famously derided it as Amazon.bomb in 1999) has grown to be among the world’s largest companies by market value and made Bezos the world’s richest man, depending on the day. With his early bet on the web’s growth, Bezos helped define e-commerce as we know it and made ordering from Amazon the default for millions locked in, through the Prime subscription service. But his true masterstroke may be Amazon Web Services, the computing and cloud storage service that millions of companies turn to and which has generated the bulk of Amazon’s profits. Those who’ve met Bezos will instantly recall his room-filling guffaw, which belies his relentless and, often, ruthless pursuit of success. Bezos founded Amazon in 1994, the internet’s infancy, with the simple mission of stocking every book it could for delivery by mail. That mission quickly expanded to encompass carrying nearly every item imaginable in massive suburban warehouses and a dizzying array of side ventures from cloud computing and home security to movie streaming, shipping logistics and pharmaceutical services. With the cutthroat efficiency its appliance buyer outlined, Amazon has helped drive into the ground a long list of household name retailers and dictated ever-rising output from its vendors and hourly warehouse workers. Unforgiving and unflinching, Bezos is a source of inspiration to countless CEOs who have described their own vision “to become the Amazon of” banking, video games, ride-hailing, travel, asset management, home building, fashion, even cannabis. Bezos’ philosophy that he was “willing to be misunderstood for long periods of time” ultimately enriched him and investors but it had a darker side: an ultracompetitive workplace where employees are obsessively measured against one another and encouraged to trample their way to the top. Amazon has become almost unavoidable on the web. Bezos’ Prime membership is a triumph of consumerism, making shopping on Amazon a daily habit for millions worldwide and an essential service during the pandemic, bringing groceries and other goods to doorsteps of those too skittish to venture out. Prime subscriptions swelled by 50 million last year, to more than 200 million, and alone accounted for around $25 billion in revenue. Along the way, Amazon has exacted a heavy toll on its blue-collar workers, vendors and taxpayers — who’ve footed the bill via incentives for warehouses, corporate campuses and computing centers. Warehouse workers describe physically demanding and unforgiving jobs that include miles of walking daily and punishing turnover rates, amid increasing automation. And while undergoing a historic hiring spree — it’s now the country’s second-largest private employer — it quashed multiple union drives and pushed its hourly workers to the brink to achieve Bezos’ dream of near-instantaneous delivery. Bezos’ disdain for taxes was a major reason he established the company in Washington state, which had a smaller population of buyers at the time who’d have to pay sales tax, giving it a price advantage over brick-and-mortar rivals. Armed with color-coded maps, company officials spent years evading state officials lest its customers be forced to pay sales tax. Amazon’s yearlong pursuit of a second headquarters site sent local leaders prostrating themselves before Bezos for a shot at doling out taxpayer funds to underwrite an expansion the company could well afford on its own. But it got results — nearly $600 million in incentives from Virginia officials to build office towers in the Washington, D.C., suburbs. If such heavy-handed business practices are to be criticized, they are also the source of admiration and fear among business leaders, rivals and investors. Even a rumor that Amazon is entering a new sector can send competitors’ stock prices plunging. And Bezos’ disparate passions have grown weedlike to include Hollywood, banking, advertising and law enforcement. Despite his sharp elbows, or more likely because of them, Bezos made Amazon into a household name and fast, reliable delivery a baseline for consumers. Many flat-footed legacy retailers are still trying to catch up, and many more will fall by the wayside. When people talk about the ease of online buying, they have Bezos to thank. For better or worse, he remade Seattle, solidifying it as a tech hub and transforming a former warehouse district into a soaring campus, though critics would point out that Amazon has contributed to soaring housing prices and rising income inequities. In recent years, Bezos’ eye has wandered to side projects, particularly space. His Blue Origin spacecraft project will launch him next month, not coincidentally miles away from a host of terrestrial troubles facing him and Amazon. The company, to be helmed by a deputy, Andy Jassy, faces bipartisan charges of anti-competitive practices, skeptical statehouses, a president critical of corporate power and growing regulatory scrutiny of its business, including its proposed $8.45 billion takeover of MGM. Unions seem determined to penetrate Amazon’s warehouses and shipping operations nationwide. And Bezos himself, like Amazon, has drawn criticism for paying minimal or no federal income taxes. His mushrooming wealth — now roughly $200 billion — is a flashpoint for critics who say he and Amazon can afford to pay workers more and contribute more to local infrastructure. His ex-wife, MacKenzie Scott, has given money away at a torrid pace since their 2019 divorce while appearing to criticize those who hold “disproportionate wealth.” Congress has Amazon in its sights, but really anyone who cares about the concentration of power and wealth should be concerned about the enormously powerful business Bezos has crafted. Like others, I’d like to think I would shop somewhere local, somewhere small, but Bezos has made online shopping addictively easy and obscured the very human cost of his rapacious juggernaut. So while Bezos floats weightlessly in the cosmos, the question remains whether lawmakers can ultimately bring Amazon back down to earth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-final-word-before-bezos-blasts-off-1002327.html
28-06-2021||Opinion||BJP makes Bengal moves with one eye on UP polls||A National Human Right Commission (NHRC) team is currently in West Bengal. It is likely to lay bare in reasonable detail the extent of violence on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers. It is not clear what step the Centre might take after that, but it could be a headline-grabbing one. The indications are pretty manifest. Something is brewing in the corridors of power in Delhi's North Block, which houses the Union Home Ministry. The target is the government of Mamata Banerjee. That Narendra Modi, Amit Shah and JP Nadda have more than once summoned Suvendu Adhikari to Delhi is a telltale sign. Adhikari is not only the opposition leader in the West Bengal Assembly. He is somebody who knows his former party, the Trinamool Congress, inside out as he does the state government Banerjee has run since 2011. Then there is Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar's campaign to highlight atrocities against the BJP workers in the state. He has described the violence as the "worst since 1947". Moreover, the Union home ministry is busy seeking legal opinion on Bengal matters. All this indicates that some planning is afoot. It is not difficult to imagine the reasons to have provoked this chain of events. Foremost, Banerjee delivered team Modi one of its most humiliating defeats since 2014 in the recent Bengal Assembly polls. Second, Modi's trusted Bengal leader Mukul Roy's return to the Trinamool Congress sent a message in BJP circles that Banerjee outfoxed heavyweights of the Hindutva party by planting among them a Trojan horse. As a result, Modi's stature is diminished even among BJP loyalists in Bengal. The BJP's top leadership, or team Modi, wants to wreak revenge on Banerjee and plans to somehow humiliate her by bringing sustained pressure on her. First, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested two ministers of the Bengal government — Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim — days after the polls concluded. The next move targeted Alapan Bandyopadhyay, the then chief secretary of Bengal, for not attending the review meeting of the prime minister. Bandyopadhyay has been show-caused twice under the Disaster Management Act, which entails up to a one-year jail term for bureaucrats found guilty of dereliction of duty. These actions intend to show the administration and people of Bengal the place of the state government vis-a-vis the Centre. Accordingly, the Centre is now contemplating to pin down the Bengal government on 'atrocities against BJP workers' and is likely to attach a potentially divisive angle to it. The victory of the Trinamool Congress in the polls was thanks in good measure to the state's Muslim minority. Muslims comprise 30 per cent of Bengal's electorate and voted en bloc for the Trinamool Congress. Of the Trinamool's 48 per cent vote share, as much as two-thirds came from Muslims. They also dominate the cadre strength of Banerjee's party in several places. It is, therefore, not difficult to give communal colour to the Trinamool cadres' attacks on BJP workers, who are nearly all Hindus. However, the Modi government will probably undermine the Trinamool government's authority without imposing the President's Rule lest it further fans sub-nationalism. A weapon in the hands of the Centre is Article 355 of the Constitution. The provision empowers the Union government to 'protect the states' against 'external aggression' or 'internal disturbance'. The Centre has to ensure that the government of every state is carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. Using this provision, the Centre may assume the 'law and order' related powers of the entire state or a part of it. Moreover, events in Bengal could help the BJP in the Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh next year. The BJP is on a sticky wicket in UP, and whenever it is in difficulty, a 'Hindus are under attack' narrative does help the party. Bengal can prove to be a source of such a narrative. It is significant that Adhikari recently demanded protection for the people of the 'Sanatan Dharma', used synonymously to refer to followers of the Hindu faith. It is a term that Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay popularised in Bengal through his 19th-century novel, Ananda Math. (The writer is a Kolkata-based journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/bjp-makes-bengal-moves-with-one-eye-on-up-polls-1002344.html
28-06-2021||Opinion||Modi-Yogi standoff: Temporary truce||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's standoff is now on the back burner. Still, all isn't well within the ruling Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP). Tension continues to brew in the party rank and file. The CM, some of his cabinet colleagues and many legislators do not see eye to eye. These ministers and legislators have a common complaint against Adityanath. They are bitter that the chief minister is inaccessible and unresponsive. "We cannot ensure even small things for our constituencies and constituents simply because the chief minister does not listen to us. Instead, he gives precedence to bureaucrats over public representatives," lamented a senior ruling party legislator. The MLA was one of several of his colleagues who recently shared their grievances with the top Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) functionaries and prominent BJP leaders. These senior Sangh Parivar leaders had undertaken repeated trips to Lucknow to gather feedback on Adityanath's style of functioning, thought to be responsible for the disgruntlement in the party. The UP chief minister's refusal to accommodate AK Sharma, the PM's nominee, in his cabinet had prompted the feedback collection. A former IAS officer of the Gujarat cadre, he was persuaded to opt for voluntary retirement nearly two years before his superannuation when he was a full-fledged secretary to the Government of India. However, on his arrival in Lucknow, the party promptly nominated him as an MLC in the UP Legislative Council. Having been closely associated with Modi right since 2001, speculation was rife that he would be the deputy chief minister in UP, where two deputy CMs – Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma - were already in place. So, AK Sharma either expected to replace one or get a new slot explicitly created for him. Adityanath stuck to his guns even after sustained cajoling and persuasion by RSS deputy national head Dattatreya Hosabale, BJP national organization secretary BL Santhosh and party's UP in-charge Radha Mohan Singh. The refusal by his chief minister unsettled the prime minister. Yet, there was precious little he could do about it. Perhaps the humiliating defeat of the BJP at the hands of a Mamata Banerjee–led Trinamool Congress left Modi somewhat weakened to stand up to the RSS.   RSS supremo Mohan Bhagwat, or so it is believed, backed Yogi to the hilt, compelling the Modi-Amit Shah duo to put off their plans to affect a change of guards in Lucknow. However, even as Hosabale was in complete agreement with Modi-Shah, the RSS chief managed to prevail over everyone else on the plea that this was not the appropriate time to send a message that there were divisions within. After all, the UP Assembly elections are barely eight months away. Adityanath promptly went into rapprochement mode with deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. He surprised everyone by visiting Maurya's residence, where he had not ventured even once in four-and-a-half years of his stay at the chief ministerial house, especially when the bungalows of the CM and Dy CM are less than 100 metres apart. Insiders maintain that Adityanath did so at the behest of a top RSS functionary, who had urged him to mend his fences with Maurya, a strong contender for the chief minister's post right from the beginning, essentially on the strength of his OBC (Other Backward Castes) lineage. As state president of the party in the run-up to the 2017 Assembly elections, Maurya was responsible for drawing a chunk of the non-Yadav OBC votes into the BJP fold. And to have that going, the Sangh Parivar renewed the efforts to keep Maurya in good humour. Sure enough, the joint visit to Maurya's home served the dual purpose of enhancing Maurya's profile and watering down the widespread perception about Adityanath's tilt towards upper caste Thakurs. Adityanath accompanied two senior RSS leaders who suddenly drew up a plan to call on Maurya. Their pretext - offering their blessings to Maurya's newly-wed son. That made a good reason for Adityanath to visit as well, although the wedding had taken place almost a month ago. When the day ended, it was evident that round one in the tug-of-war between Modi and Adityanath favoured the saffron-robed Yogi. The next move of Adityanath's propaganda machinery was to impress upon all and sundry that all was well in the party. Adityanath went out of his way to put up giant advertisements thanking the prime minister for providing free Covid vaccines to the country. "Thank You, PM Modi Ji," was emblazoned on thousands of hoardings put up all across the state on behalf of the UP chief minister. Also plastered with these advertisements were most of the daily newspapers. The fact that Adityanath undertook this mission precisely 13 days after the prime minister's "free vaccine" announcement betrayed all that might have contributed to this blatant afterthought. Meanwhile, Modi's pointsman AK Sharma ended up with an insignificant vice president's position in the state BJP organization, which already had 16 vice presidents. That, more than anything else, sent the message loud and clear that Adityanath had got away with his open defiance of the prime minister. Soon after assuming charge as one of the many vice presidents, AK Sharma shot off a letter to state party president Swatantra Dev Singh, which speaks volumes of what was brewing in the party. "In my humble opinion, even today, the people of Uttar Pradesh love Modiji as much as they had in 2013-14. So, to win the upcoming (UP Assembly) elections, the name and patronage of the mass leader are enough", the letter read. Significantly, it was only towards the end of the letter that he added, "I am of the firm belief that under your leadership and the leadership of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the BJP will bag more seats in the 2022 Assembly elections than in the past." It would, however, be somewhat naïve to believe that such acts would lead Modi into letting bygones be bygones. Those who have watched Modi closely say that forgive and forget does not figure in his scheme of things. So, notwithstanding the party and RSS's subsequent echoes that they will fight the next state elections in March 2022 under Adityanath's leadership, time will tell whether he will sail smoothly or there are choppy waters in store for him. It may be a bit too late now for Modi to make Adityanath meet the same fate as witnessed in Uttarakhand not very long ago. However, it is too early to predict whether an Assam-like formula could seal Adityanath's future. After all, there could be many a slip between the cup and lip. (The writer is a Lucknow-based senior journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/modi-yogi-standoff-temporary-truce-1002470.html
28-06-2021||South||The Lead: A guide to understanding the wildlife of South India||Hi, before we begin today's episode, here is actor Priyamani with a message for you. Hi everybody, this is Priyamani. We are up against a formidable enemy that is the coronavirus. This virus has driven us all indoors and locked us up. We have lived in fear for more than a year. But now I can tell you that it's time to beat the enemy. Take your vaccine shots, jump to safety. Make the difference and don't forget to take the jab. You heard her. Go get that jab because it's a jab well done. Ahmed Shariff: Hi and welcome to the Lead by DH Radio. In today's episode, we are joined by naturalists and authors of ‘Photographic Field Guide – Wildlife of South India' David Raju and Surya Ramachandran. Earlier, the two had authored another guidebook called Photographic Field Guide – Wildlife of Central India'. Hi David and Surya, welcome to DH Radio. David Raju: Hi Surya Ramachandran: Hi Ahmed: How did you go about the book? Surya: To put it in simple terms, we wanted to create a bridge between the scientific community and the layman, who is curious but daunted by the task of exploring the wilderness... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/the-lead-a-guide-to-understanding-the-wildlife-of-south-india-1002307.html
28-06-2021||South||Telangana CM's Dalit outreach after woman dies in police custody||The Telangana government has decided to provide financial assistance of Rs 10 lakh each to 11,900 Scheduled Caste beneficiaries in the state, with 100 families selected from each of the 119 assembly constituencies. An all-party meeting, convened by Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday, decided to earmark Rs 1,200 crore for the CM Dalit Empowerment Programme and credit the financial assistance directly to the bank accounts of the selected beneficiaries. The CM's outreach came in the backdrop of the alleged custodial death of a Dalit woman in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district recently. A 40-year-old woman, A Mariyamma, a domestic help in the house of a local church priest, was arrested on June 17 on charges of theft of Rs 2 lakh. She was reportedly assaulted by the Addagatur police and died on June 18. A delegation of Congress leaders had met the CM last week to discuss the issue. The meeting on Sunday consisted of legislators and party leaders from the SC community. Stating that that Dalits are still being subjected to social and economic discrimination, CM Rao said his government would implement a phased action plan to eliminate the problems of Dalits. Under the Dalit Empowerment Programme, eligible poor Dalit beneficiaries would be given assistance without any bank guarantees, Rao said. The Chief Minister instructed officials to prepare an economic action plan for upliftment of the SCs, adding that the TRS government is ready to spend Rs 35,000-40,000 crore over the next three to four years for the purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cms-dalit-outreach-after-woman-dies-in-police-custody-1002356.html
28-06-2021||South||Dr Reddy's announces launch of Covid-19 oral drug 2-DG||Dr Reddy’s Laboratories has announced the commercial launch of 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) on Monday. 2-DG is an anti-Covid-19 drug developed by the Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences (INMAS), a Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) laboratory. The drug manufactured by Dr Reddy’s has a purity of 99.5 per cent and is sold commercially under the brand name 2-DG. The maximum retail price of each sachet has been fixed at Rs 990, with a subsidized rate offered to government institutions. The oral drug can be administered only upon prescription and under the supervision of a qualified physician to hospitalised moderate to severe Covid-19 patients as an adjunct therapy to the existing standard of care. Emergency use approval for the anti Covid-19 therapeutic application of the drug was granted on May 1. Dr Reddy’s will supply to major government as well as private hospitals across India. In the initial weeks, the company will make the drug available in hospitals across metros and Tier 1 cities, and subsequently expand coverage to the rest of India, the company stated on Monday. Dr Reddy's is also the India manager of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine – Sputnik V. The pharma major is in an agreement with the Russian Direct Investment Fund to supply 250 million imported doses (to fully vaccinate 125 million people), priced at about Rs 995 per dose (including a 5 % GST).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dr-reddys-announces-launch-of-covid-19-oral-drug-2-dg-1002362.html
28-06-2021||South||Lakshadweep residents stage 'coconut leaves and palm' protest||Residents of Lakshadweep on Monday staged a "coconut leaves and palm" protest across inhabited islands against the administration's order to levy a fine if coconut palm leaves, shells or trunks were found in and around their dwelling places. Holding placards which read "introduce mulching" and "stop imposing fine", the islanders, under the banner of Save Lakshadweep Forum (SLF), stood in front of a pile of coconut leaves in the properties urging the administration to withdraw the "anti-people" order. In their one-hour long protest, the islanders urged the administration to withdraw the decision to impose fine on them and introduce technology to convert the organic materials from the coconuts as compost --a mixture of ingredients used to fertilize and improve the soil. "Our demand is that the fine imposed on the people should be withdrawn and a proper waste management system should be implemented. Unless the waste management system is implemented there is no genuine right from the side of administration to collect fine on falling of coconut leaves and other palms in their property," Lakshadweep MP Mohammed Faizal P P told PTI. "Why are the people of islands expected to do the scientific processing of leaves and palms," he asked. The Lok Sabha member said an islander cannot afford to have his own scientific processing unit or incinerator and it is the prime duty of the Lakshadweep administration to provide such a facility. "If such facilities are made available and people are not obeying this, then you can impose the fine. The primary responsibility of the administration should be to ensure the installation of the scientific processing units like incinerators in the island," Faizal said. In the order issued on June 4 on management of cleanliness and hygiene in the islands in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the administration has said each family of individuals who stay in any premise shall maintain cleanliness with certain standards and hygiene in and around their respective places at all times. It said tender coconut shells, tree leaves, coconut husks, trunks etc in and around dwelling places/public places must be disposed off scientifically by the landowners without affecting hygiene to the environment. "No persons is allowed to throw or break or spread coconuts, fruits leftovers, vegetables waste on roads, footpaths, public areas, lagoon, sea and the beaches", it said, prohibiting the disposal by burning of any type of solid waste at roadsides, beaches and in open places. It said whoever violates or contravenes any of the aforesaid directions shall be liable for punishment with fine as per Schedule 1 of the Lakshadweep Solid Waste Management Bye-Law, 2018 and also be liable to criminal proceedings for offence punishable Under Section 188 IPC (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). Lakshadweep has been witnessing a series of protests by residents for the past few weeks against Administrator Praful Khoda Patel's decision to implement reform measures in the islands. The Save Lakshadweep Forum (SLF), a platform of protesters, has alleged that the measures were being implemented without taking people of islands into confidence. Accusing the administration of going ahead with the "anti-people reform measures" in the islands, the SLF has said they would continue their protest till the administration withdraws such measures in the archipelago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lakshadweep-residents-stage-coconut-leaves-and-palm-protest-1002367.html
28-06-2021||South||Two CPI(M) leaders held in rape case in Kerala||Two local CPI(M) leaders have been arrested for allegedly raping a fellow woman comrade of the ruling Marxist party in this north Kerala district, police said. The accused, identified as P P Baburaj and T P Lijesh, werearrested on charges of rape, trespassing of property and criminal intimidation of the complainant woman,who was a member of the Vadakara branch committee of the CPI(M), they said. A Sreenivas, Kozhikode Rural SP, told PTI that both were arrested from Karimbanapalam near here early Monday morning. However, local police said they were not aware of the political background of the two. The victim, married and a mother of two children, had alleged that Baburaj barged into her house and raped her three months ago. Following this, he continued to sexually abuse her several times, each time blackmailing to expose their relationship to her husband and others, according to her complaint which also said Lijesh also raped her threatening the same. Tired of the harassment by the two, the victim approached the police and filed her complaint on Saturday. The victim has been subjected to a medical examination and a detailed statement recorded by the police prior to the arrest of the two culprits, police sources added. As per media reports, though the party leaders tried to find a compromise in the case, the victim did not concede to the proposal and filed a complaint with the police. Following the arrest, the CPI(M) had suspended the two, party sources said. Baburaj was a branch secretary of the CPI(M) while Lijesh, a regional secretary of the party's youth wing DYFI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-cpim-leaders-held-in-rape-case-in-kerala-1002393.html
28-06-2021||South||CM Stalin asks Centre to reduce Covid-19 vaccine allocation to private hospitals from 25% to 10%||Complaining that Tamil Nadu had been allotted fewer doses compared to its per thousand population, Chief Minister M K Stalin on Monday wrote to the Union government, reiterating his demand for allocation of an additional one crore Covid-19 vaccine doses to correct the “inadequate allotment” in the past. In the letter, Stalin also asked Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to revise the allocation between the government and private institutions to 90:10 as against the current allocation of 75:25. He said Tamil Nadu’s daily performance of vaccination has tripled in June due to the Centre’s decision to procure Covid vaccines and issuing them free of cost to all states and “my government’s continuous efforts”. “The availability of vaccines has emerged as the principal constraint in the last few weeks after the pick-up in vaccination. This is particularly significant for us since our allotment so far has been one of the lowest among the states in the country in terms of doses per thousand population,” Stalin said, reminding the Health Minister of his earlier request for an allocation of 1 crore doses. The request has not been acceded to and the incremental increase in allocation for June-July is just in line with the increases made available to other states, who had got higher allotment in the past and have already vaccinated more people. He termed as “grossly higher” 25 per cent allocation to private hospitals when compared to the actual vaccinations done by them. In Tamil Nadu, 1.43 crore doses have been used, out of which private hospitals have used only 6.5 lakh doses, which translates to just 4.5 per cent. Even in the current month, out of 43.5 lakh doses administered in the state, private institutions have contributed to only 4.5 lakh doses, which is just 10 per cent. “The above mismatch between demand and supply in government and private institutions has resulted in a situation where the private hospitals in Tamil Nadu have around 7-8 lakh doses available with them, which is equivalent to one-month performance, whereas government institutions are left with just 2 lakh doses, which is lesser than their current single day usage,” he said. Stalin said the allotment of 25 percent of vaccines produced to private hospitals may be to incentivise manufacturers, by allowing them to sell a portion at a comparatively better price. “While this is acceptable, the need for better-blended pricing for vaccine manufacturers should not be allowed to undermine our immediate goal of vaccinating our people at the maximum possible speed. This can be achieved by increasing the allocation of vaccines to performing government hospitals,” he said. At the same time, he said the Union government’s procurement price can be increased to ensure that the blended price under the new policy is the same as the current one. “Revise the inter-se allocation between the government and private institutions to 90:10 as against the current allocation of 75:25,” he said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cm-stalin-asks-centre-to-reduce-covid-19-vaccine-allocation-to-private-hospitals-from-25-to-10-1002395.html
28-06-2021||South||Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict Perarivalan’s parole extended||Tamil Nadu government on Monday extended by another 30 days the parole granted to A G Perarivalan, one of the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. The 30-day parole was granted in May on medical grounds. An order issued by Home Secretary S K Prabhakar said the month-long parole granted to Perarivalan will be extended by another month. Sources said the decision was taken by the top brass of the government. While announcing that Perarivalan will be granted 30 days parole in May, Chief Minister M K Stalin had said the decision was taken following an appeal from the life convict’s mother Arputhammal. Perarivalan is among seven persons who are languishing in jail for the past 30 years for their role in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination. The Tamil Nadu cabinet had in 2018 passed a resolution recommending their release from prison and sent it to Governor Banwarilal Purohit. However, the Governor shifted the responsibility of deciding on the issue to the Centre. After taking over, Stalin wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind asking him to accept the 2018 recommendation of the state Cabinet. The cabinet had on September 9, 2018, recommended to Governor Banwarilal Purohit to release Murugan, Santhan, Nalini, Perarivalan, Jayakumar, Robert Payas, and Ravichandran. The issue of seven convicts is a highly emotive issue in Tamil Nadu with almost all political parties – barring Congress and BJP – endorsing the decision to release them from jail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rajiv-gandhi-assassination-case-convict-perarivalan-s-parole-extended-1002397.html
28-06-2021||South||Covid-19 curfew relaxed by three hours in 8 AP districts||The ongoing Covid curfew will be relaxed by three more hours till 9 PM daily in eight of 13 districts in Andhra Pradesh from July 1 to 7. In the remaining five districts, the existing curfew hours from 6 PM to 6 AM will continue since the coronavirus positivity rate remained over five per cent. This was decided at a high-level review meeting, chaired by Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, on Covid-19 situation here on Monday. In East Godavari, West Godavari, Chittoor, Krishna and Prakasam districts the Covid curfew will continue to be in force from 6 PM to 6 AM due to a higher load of cases, a CMO release said. Further decision on relaxing curfew hours in these five districts would be taken after reviewing the infection positivity rate later, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-curfew-relaxed-by-three-hours-in-8-ap-districts-1002436.html
28-06-2021||South||Lockdown cannot be used as a 'magic wand': Madras HC||The Madras High Court on Monday held that the lockdown arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic cannot be used as a 'magic wand' to make defaults in repayments on all occasions. The First Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made the observation while disposing of a PIL petition from Kayalvizhi, a bidder for a flat at Sholinganallur in an auction conducted by the Kodambakkam branch of the Axis Bank under the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest (SARFAESI) Act. She made the initial payment, but could not pay the balance due to the pandemic, she said and prayed the court for a direction to the bank to grant more time. The Bench said there are times that courts presume they have the extraordinary authority to enlarge the time. A kind of mercy jurisdiction is also resorted to at times without the court being mindful of the fact that the exercise of such authority may prejudice another, who may not be before the court or may amount to granting undue favour to a person merely because he has approached the court. If the law requires the auction purchaser to pay the entire consideration within 90 days of the date of the auction, unless there are exceptional circumstances, the court should be slow in enlarging the time for making payment since that would amount to conferring an undue benefit on a party in breach, it said. It is true that the pandemic and the lockdown imposed in its wake may be an extraordinary situation; but it is not as extraordinary now as it may have been perceived to be some 12 or 14 months prior to now. Further, the lockdown cannot be used as a magic wand by every defaulter to wish away the default on its part, the Bench held. Despite the recent lockdown during the second surge, financial transactions continued on the internet and even otherwise. The petitioner in either case should have been aware of the obligation to make the payment within the time it was due and merely because the second surge hit after February 18 or the lockdown was imposed sometime thereafter is not, by itself, enough ground to ignore the default committed by the petitioner, the Bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lockdown-cannot-be-used-as-a-magic-wand-madras-hc-1002551.html
28-06-2021||South||Fate of 'Maire' triggers concerns of name change among Kannadigas of Kasargod||The precedent of changing the name of 'Maire' village in Enmakaje panchayat in Kasargod to that of 'Sheni' several years back seems to be aggravating the concerns among the Kannadigas in Kasargod that Kannada names of many places in the border areas may be modified to Malayalam in the due course. Even as Kerala government denies the reports that a decision to change names of many places were already taken, sources point out that the names of places like 'Manjeshwar' are given as 'Manjeshwaram' in Kerala government's revenue department's online portal. Kerala Tulu Academy Chairman Umesh M Salian said that the district administration said that it was due to clerical errors and directions were already issued to rectify those. Names of around 15 villages in Manjeshwar and Kasargod taluks were facing an issue of being misspelt owing to the Malayalam pronunciation. Kasargod district collector Sajith Babu reiterated that no decision to change name of any places were taken. Former Kerala revenue minister E Chandrasekharan, who is a ruling front MLA from the district, and Kasargod MP Rajmohan Unnithan of the Congress, also reacted that they did not come across any such moves. Kannadigas in Kasargod said that the Kannada names of many places like Manjeshwar were being widely used as 'Manjeshwaram' in documents, hoardings and online applications. The Kerala government general administration department issued a directive to the district collector in 2016 that only the original names of places should be used in all documents. This was following a memorandum given by the Kannada Samanvaya Samathi in 2016 expressing concerns over replacing the original Kannada names of many places with that of Malayalam based on pronunciation. In this January also the district collector issued a directive in this regard to all government agencies. Muraleeedhara of the Kannadiga Samathi is Kasargod said that the frequent use of the Malayalam names, though unofficially, may lead to the Kannada names of places fading into history and would suffer the fate of 'Maire'. It was in 2013 Kerala government gave nod for a proposal of the Enmakaje panchayat to change the name 'Maire' (also spelt as Myre) as it has an abusive connotation in Malayalam. It indeed derived from Kannada name 'Mayoora Para', a region where peacocks were seen in plenty. Embarrassment of some Kerala government officials posted in the locality in identifying themselves as officers from 'Maire' was said to be the triggering factor for the name change. Now the region is now known by the name Sheni.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fate-of-maire-triggers-concerns-of-name-change-among-kannadigas-of-kasargod-1002564.html
28-06-2021||South||Covid-19 vaccine shortage in Tamil Nadu; camps suspended in Chennai, Coimbatore||The vaccination drive was suspended in Chennai, Coimbatore, and a few other districts where people who turned up at the centres were greeted with “no stock” boards. The civic bodies in the aforementioned two cities announced that they have run out of Covid-19 vaccine stocks on their official websites saying the drive will resume only when they have stock. In Chennai, the drive was suspended in 45 vaccination centers and at 19 urban Primary Health Care Centers, though vaccines were administered to advocates at the Madras High Court premises as part of a special drive. Health Minister Ma Subramanian said the state has utilised all vaccine doses sent by the Union Government and that the vaccination drive can resume only after fresh stocks arrive. He also said it was unfortunate that vaccines are not available when people are willing to take their jabs. “Everyone in Tamil Nadu including those in villages and tribal areas are ready to get vaccinated but we have a situation of vaccine shortage. We have so far received 1.44 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses and administered 1.41 crore doses. What is left is just 2-lakh odd doses. And from Monday afternoon we will be left with no vaccines,” Subramanian said. Hours later, a message from the Directorate of Public Health (DPH) said 2 lakh doses of Covishield will arrive at the Chennai airport on Monday evening. However, officials said 2 lakh doses were not enough to be sent across the state. The vaccination drive in Tamil Nadu picked up after the state government opened up vaccination for those in the age group of 18-44. The state has also launched special vaccination camps for differently abled, construction workers, sports men, and lawyers besides reaching out to the rural masses as part of the drive. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-vaccine-shortage-in-tamil-nadu-camps-suspended-in-chennai-coimbatore-1002567.html
28-06-2021||South||CPI(M) local leaders expelled following rape allegation in Kerala||Close on the heels of a CPI(M) local leader in Kerala being expelled for links with gold smuggling racket, two party local leaders were expelled after being held for raping a party worker. The local leaders of Vadakkara in Kozhikode allegedly raped a party worker several times by threatening and blackmailing the married woman. The two, identified as Baburaj P P and Lijeesh T P, were held Sunday night. CPI(M)-DYFI local leader in Kannur, C Sajesh, was expelled the other day for nexus with gold smuggling racket. The CPI(M) has decided to identify all party workers with shady links and expel them. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cpim-local-leaders-expelled-following-rape-allegation-in-kerala-1002584.html
28-06-2021||South||Kerala opens Covid-19 vaccination for all aged 18 & above||Kerala government has decided to allow all above the age of 18 to get Covid vaccination. So far only those in priority groups were allowed to register. State Health Minister Veena George said that orders have been issued making all aged above 18 eligible for Covid vaccination. So far only those in various priority segments were allowed to avail the vaccination. So far over 30 percent of Kerala's population got first dose Covid vaccination, of which 30 lakh got the second dose also. Meanwhile, the Covid test positivity rate in Kerala came below 10 percent after a long gap in Kerala on Monday as the TPR for the tests conducted in the last 24 hours was 9.44 per cent. With 8,063 fresh cases being reported, around 96,000 persons are still under treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-opens-covid-19-vaccination-for-all-aged-18-above-1002608.html
28-06-2021||South||PVN Centenary: KCR thanks voters for electing the former PM's daughter as MLC||The year-long birth centenary celebrations of former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao culminated on Monday with the unveiling of a 16 feet bronze statue of the son of the soil in Hyderabad. The K Chandrasekhar Rao government had flagged off PVN Rao’s birth centenary events on 28 June 2020. In the past year, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has demanded Bharat Ratna for the PM who ushered in the economic reforms, PVN's statue and portrait installed in Parliament premises and also asked for the Hyderabad Central University to be named after him. Rao then went on to field Rao's daughter Surabhi Vani Devi as the TRS candidate to wrest the BJP held MLC seat in the Hyderabad graduate constituency polls earlier this year. “I am grateful to the voters for electing Surabhi Devi whose name we had proposed for the MLC seat as part of our tributes to PV in his birth centenary year,” Rao said on Monday. Rao along with Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan unveiled PVN state at Hussain Sagar's Necklace Road, which was also renamed after the late PM. The chief minister lauded Rao for the land reforms in the state and standing as a model for other states. “His family gave up 800 acres of their land holdings for the public benefit,” Rao extolled PVN while also crediting him for introducing the residential education system like the Navodaya Vidyalayas. “While running a minority government, PV brought in reforms that paved for the huge economic benefits – jobs, state budgets in Rs lakhs of crores. Former PM Manmohan Singh respects PV like a fatherly figure, his guru,” Rao, who served as a minister in UPA-1 said. The chief minister said that PV Narasimha Rao chair would be established at the Kakatiya University in Warangal. PVN was born on 28 June 1921 in Telangana (then Nizam’s Hyderabad state) and expired on 23 December 2004 in New Delhi. PV was chief minister of Andhra Pradesh from 1971 to 73. A Lok Sabha member of six terms, PV had served as a minister holding decisive portfolios like defence, external affairs, home at the centre||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pvn-centenary-kcr-thanks-voters-for-electing-the-former-pms-daughter-as-mlc-1002620.html
28-06-2021||State||Decision on reopening of schools in a few days||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar on Monday clarified that the government will decide on the school reopening for offline classes in a few days based on a report by the experts' committee. The committee, comprising academic experts and medical experts from the state technical advisory committee, health department officials and paediatricians, will be constituted in the next two days. "We will hold another round of meeting with the health department officials and other experts in the next two days to discuss the resumption of offline classes for students at schools," Suresh Kumar said. According to the department of public instruction, around 39% of the school-going students in the state do not have access to any gadget and thus, being deprived of online education. Anbu Kumar, the department commissioner said, "The survey conducted last year revealed that 61% of the students have access to one or the other device. But the rest 39% have no access to any device and reaching those students is the biggest challenge before us." The department will resume classes for the academic year from July 1 through Doordarshan (Chandana TV) and YouTube. The first month will be dedicated to conducting a bridge course. The minister also clarified that the department is ready to conduct periodical assessments for the schoolchildren similar to that of the CBSE Board and even teachers are being trained in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/decision-on-reopening-of-schools-in-a-few-days-1002589.html
28-06-2021||State||Amid pandemic, Karnataka recruits 4,000 medical officers||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Karnataka government has recruited 4,000 medical officers including 1,750 doctors, Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Monday. The minister said compulsory services in rural areas for MBBS doctors has been implemented and 2,053 doctors have been appointed to various vacant positions in Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education Departments. In a statement, he said 1,001 medicos have been appointed on contractual basis in 18 Government medical colleges and hospitals whereas 666 doctors have been appointed to work in ICU at Taluk hospitals who will be reporting to their respective workplaces by this month end. He added that 348 doctors have been appointed under the National Health Mission, of which 90 doctors have been posted in Community Health Centres and three in Nephro-urology. Sudhakar also said that the Karnataka Health Promotion Trust in collaboration with Association of Public Health Technologies has developed a pilot project for testing tuberculosis patients using Artificial Intelligence. It will be undertaken in Ballari, Koppal, Chikkaballapura and Belagavi. Speaking about mucormycosis (black fungus), he said 3,232 people have been affected by the fungal infection so far out of which 387 have recovered and 262 have died. More than 1,600 have been operated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/amid-pandemic-karnataka-recruits-4000-medical-officers-1002590.html
28-06-2021||State||No pressure on pensioners for life certificate, Karnataka govt tells HC||The government on Monday informed the High Court that pensioners were not insisted on producing life certificate during the entire lockdown period and thereafter. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka asked the government to file a specific affidavit. In the affidavit filed before the court, deputy director (social security and pensions) of Kandaya Bhavan Dr Savita S claimed that the entire pension amount liable to be paid to all senior citizens had been disbursed in the state up to May 31. The affidavit said that an App ‘Novodaya’ has been developed for suo motu identification and the App will handle the annual verification process. The village accountants visit the doorstep of the beneficiaries, take the photograph of the beneficiaries to record the same in the app. In the last hearing, the bench was told that pensioners have to submit a life certificate every year and make certain procedural compliances. The bench had asked whether the pensioners should be forced to attend offices/banks for that purpose. Two petitions were filed in regard to the issues surrounding elderly citizens, including the implementation of the provisions of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007. The court had directed the government to ensure implementation of section 20 of the Act in view of Covid-19, to provide medical support for senior citizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-pressure-on-pensioners-for-life-certificate-karnataka-govt-tells-hc-1002592.html
28-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka SSLC 2021 exams to be held on July 19, 22||Amid fears of the possible third-wave of Covid-19, the Karnataka government on Monday announced the examination timetable for the SSLC (10th standard) board exams affiliated to the state board of Secondary School Leaving Certificate Examination (SSLC). The examination will be held on two days—July 19 and July 22. Announcing the timetable after holding a discussion with the District administrations, Primary and Secondary Education minister S Suresh Kumar said, "On 19th July examination will be conducted for core subjects--Mathematics, Science and Social Science. Similarly, on 22nd July, the examination will be held for language subjects." According to the minister, the examination will be held from 10:30 am to 1:30 pm on both days and the questions, in all the subjects, will be in the form of multiple-choice questions (MCQs).  The minister further said, "The students will have to mark the right answers on the Optical Mark Reading (OMR) sheet given to them at the examination centres." Regardless of the pandemic situation, as many as 8,76,581 students have registered for the examination and admission tickets will be sent to respective schools by June 30. The examination will be held at as many as 73,066 rooms as compared to 48,000 rooms during the last year. Unlike the previous years, this year the board has decided to permit Covid-19 positive students to write exams. "These students will be writing the exam at the designated Covid-19 care centres identified at the taluk headquarters. This apart, every exam centre will have at least three separate rooms to accommodate those with Covid-19 symptoms such as cough, fever and cold," the minister explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sslc-2021-exams-to-be-held-on-july-19-22-1002378.html
28-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka picks 11 private sector executives for administration fellowship||A venture capitalist, a quizmaster and a neuroscientist are among the 11 private sector professionals who have been selected for the state government’s Indian Administrative Fellowship (IAF) programme. Karnataka is the first state to accept the IAF, which is being anchored by Bengaluru-headquartered nonprofit The/Nudge Foundation. These 11 fellows will spend 18 months rubbing shoulders with senior bureaucrats and policymakers to work on projects in the areas of sustainable development goals (SDG), agriculture, rural development, e-Governance and so on. The fellowship will start July 1. The 18-month fellowship will offer a stipend of up to Rs 20 lakh per annum. “The fellows have held leadership positions in some of the world's most admired organisations and have academic credentials from Stanford, Harvard, IIMs and Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and more,” Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said in a note. There were more than 2,000 applicants from across India for the IAF and they were selected “through a rigorous selection process,” the government said in a statement. The fellows and their assignments are: Venture capitalist Ravi Trivedi (agriculture); consumer neuroscientist Dr Gayathri Swahar (horticulture & sericulture); quizmaster Giri Balasubramaniam (education); Fidelity Investments CFO R Balasubramanya (Karnataka Administrative Reforms Committee - II); former Jubilant Motorworks CEO Rohit Malhotra (rural development); technologist Vani Narayan (e-Governance); IT evangelist Sreenivasa Madenhally (planning, programme monitoring & statistics); entrepreneur Ramachandran Narayanaswamy (woman & child development); entrepreneur Aruna Sampige (skill development, entrepreneurship & livelihood); Bosch finance head Sunil Kumar Vaya (State Planning Commission), and environmental economist Shobha Ananda Reddy (panchayat raj).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-picks-11-private-sector-executives-for-administration-fellowship-1002409.html
28-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa to talk to Kerala CM on renaming villages||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday said he would talk to his Kerala counterpart Pinarayi Vijayan to stop the renaming of villages in the Kannada-speaking regions of Kasargod and Manjeshwara, his office said in a statement. Karnataka Border Area Development Authority (KBADA) chairperson C Somashekhara met Yediyurappa and urged him to do something about the redesignating the Kannada names of villages into Malayalam. “The CM responded positively and he said he was aware of the issue. He said he would speak to Kerala chief minister,” the chief minister’s office (CMO) said. Yediyurappa also assured that he would write to Vijayan that it was not right to rename villages whose Kannada names bear cultural and historic significance. The statement noted that Kannadigas and Malayalis live in harmony in the Kasargod and Manjeshwara regions. Yediyurappa will write to Vijayan asking him to put on hold renaming of the villages. Somashekhara told Yediyurappa of the possibility that the decision to rename the villages might be that of the local bodies without the knowledge of the Kerala government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-to-talk-to-kerala-cm-on-renaming-villages-1002421.html
28-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Bengaluru patient diagnosed with black, green fungus||It was an unusual finding for ENT surgeon Dr Prashanth R Reddy at BGS Gleneagles Global Hospital, in the first week of June, when the hospital lab delivered microbiology reports of a patient with both green fungus (aspergillus fumigatus) and black fungus (mucormycosis). The patient had persistent headaches and numbness of the cheek. A CT scan revealed a fungal infection in the sinus and below the eye surface. Dr Prasanth Reddy told DH, "When I operated, I realised it wasn't just the Mucor fungus. There were crystals inside his sinus cavity. What's worrying is that while aspergillosis is common, this species of fungus is not common. The green colour is not common, it's generally white in colour and is only present in the soil. After Covid, the mucosa of the sinuses is killed. Any dead tissue will lead to the growth of fungus, be it food or the human body." The doctor believes the surge in fungal infections is due to variants of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. But the patient's Covid sample is not available for genomic sequencing. He also pointed to high zinc levels in such patients. "Patients are abusing multivitamins like vitamin C tablets and antibiotics. Antibiotics can't help in reducing a viral infection," he added. The patient, 45-year-old Karthikeyan R, an independent paediatric physiotherapist in Mysuru, tested positive for Covid on April 24 and was in home quarantine with two of his friends who were also Covid positive. After his oxygen saturation started decreasing after five days, he was hospitalised. He had become diabetic five years ago. He was moved to the ICU on May 6. "My oxygen saturation had gone down to 75," he said. After eight days of intubation, on a ventilator, on the sixth day, he started stabilising. "I developed sinusitis (cavities around the nasal passages become inflamed) when I was moved to the ward. I had severe pain in the right side of my face. I came to Bengaluru to see an ENT surgeon who operated on June 9. Though my corona symptoms have come down, a part of my face is still numb. Due to general body weakness, I won't resume work till after two months," Karthikeyan said. Have you recovered from Covid? Watch out for these three stages of fungal infection: Stage 1 -- Eye pain, headache, cheek pain or tooth pain Stage 2 -- Redness/swelling of the eye/cheek/palette Stage 3 -- Facial skin of the nose and cheek turns black and peels. Blurring of vision Patients can rapidly progress from stage 1 to stage 3 in a matter of hours. It's a myth that only those patients who were hospitalised for Covid develop fungal infections post Covid, say doctors. Majority of them were, in fact, home-isolated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-bengaluru-patient-diagnosed-with-black-green-fungus-1002448.html
28-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees below 3,000 Covid-19 cases first time since start of second wave||Karnataka reported less than 3,000 single-day Covid-19 cases for the first time since the beginning of the second wave. Active cases stood at 97,592, dipping below one lakh after four months. The positivity rate for the day was 1.92 per cent and Case Fatality Rate was 3.61 per cent, a health department bulletin said. The decline in daily infection was by 1,000 compared to Sunday. During the peak of the second wave of Covid-19, the active cases had gone up to over six lakh and Bengaluru had reported the highest active cases in the country among the metropolitan cities. As many as 5,933 patients recovered in the state taking the total recoveries to 27,04,755,the bulletin said. Bengaluru Urban district logged 563 new cases and 18 deaths, the highest among the districts of the state. The city has so far reported 12,11,993 cases and 15,599 deaths. There were 62,430 active cases. According to the bulletin, 282 fresh casesi were reported in Mysuru, 263 in Dakshina Kannada, 194 in Shivamogga, 150 in Kodagu and 138 in Hassan. New cases were reported in other districts as well including Tumakuru, Mandya, Chikkamagaluru, Davangere, Kolar, Udupi and Bengaluru Rural. The department said there were 14 deaths in Dakshina Kannada, nine in Ballari, eight in Mysuru, five each in Hassan and Dharwad and four each in Belagavi and Davangere. Fatalities were reported in 15 other districts as well. There were zero fatalities in Bagalkote, Chamarajanagar, Chitradurga, Kalaburagi, Koppal, Vijayapura and Yadgir. The state conducted 1,33,917 Covid tests including 1,07,050 RT-PCR tests and other methods. So far 3.40 crore tests were done cumulatively, the department added. As many as 2.21 crore inoculations have been conducted in the state, comprising first and second dose of vaccines including 3,33,325 on Monday  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-below-3000-covid-19-cases-first-time-since-start-of-second-wave-1002518.html
28-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka launches Covid-19 vaccination drive for students pursuing higher studies||"There are 24,37,732 students pursuing higher studies in the state. We are starting their vaccination from today. We want to vaccinate students to resume higher education classes," Sudhakar told reporters. He added that parents of children below 10 years will also be vaccinated on a priority basis. The vaccine supply has been increased to make it possible. He was replying to a query on the consequences of reopening schools and colleges. "We have to unlock them step-by-step.I won't say education is not important but what is more important is their (students') lives.We need to be extra cautious," the minister said. According to him, the centre has cautioned the state governments not to unlock abruptly. Instead do it stage by stage because many may be the carriers of Covid, he explained. "The Technical Advisory Committee has sought to know whether the second wave is over. This question arises because the infections decreased due to lockdown. To assess the situation, we will require at least a week," Sudhakar said. Pointing out that it is only a week since the lockdown was eased in the state, he said he would wait for another week to see the effect of unlocking. The minister said Maharashtra has an infection rate of 11 per cent regarding which there is confusion whether it is the third wave or is it still the second wave. Speaking about the vaccination drive, he said on an average four to five lakh people are getting vaccinated daily. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-launches-covid-19-vaccination-drive-for-students-pursuing-higher-studies-1002533.html
28-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre's 60L jabs in July to slacken Karnataka's vaccination drive||Karnataka is set to receive nearly 60 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines in July, allowing it to administer just about two lakh jabs daily, slowing down the pace of the vaccination drive. According to an affidavit submitted to the Supreme Court, the Centre has told states that 12 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines would be available in July, which includes the allocation for the private sector. Uttar Pradesh, the most populous state, is set to receive over 1.91 crore doses of vaccines, while Maharashtra would receive over 1.51 crore doses. These are the only two states that have been allocated more than one crore doses. Karnataka has been assured of 59,98,450 doses of Covid-19 vaccines of which 49,77,830 will be Covishield and 10,20,630 that of Covaxin. The allocation includes 12,44,460 Covishield and 2,55,160 Covaxin doses for the private sector. The Centre shared the “advance visibility of vaccine availability” with the states earlier this month and the same was submitted as part of the affidavit to the Supreme Court late Saturday evening. A simple back of the envelope calculation indicates that on an average 38 lakh doses could be administered daily across the country, which is less than the average 64 lakh doses administered daily over the past week. The government has said it aims to administer one crore doses of vaccines every day. According to the Karnataka Health Ministry bulletin, the state has administered over 26 lakh doses of vaccines between June 21 and June 27. Kerala has been assured supply of over 36.50 lakh doses of vaccines, Tamil Nadu 71.01 lakh doses, Andhra Pradesh 70.86 lakh and Telangana 27.99 lakh. The Centre allots to states on the basis of pro-rata population of 18 years and above age group, the Covid-19 disease burden based on the number of active cases in each region, and progress of the vaccination drive there. Wastage of vaccine doses earn negative marking. Currently, India has been administering Covishield and Covaxin doses as part of the vaccination drive. Russia-made Sputnik V too has received emergency use authorisation in India and is being administered at private vaccination centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centres-60l-jabs-in-july-to-slacken-karnatakas-vaccination-drive-1002587.html
28-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||More than one lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses wasted in Karnataka so far||Bagalkot district has registered the highest wastage of Covid-19 vaccine in the state, while Shivamogga has achieved vaccination exceeding the number of doses listed on the vial label by utilising the additional ml of dose available in each vial.  According to a document provided by a deputy commissioner, till June 25, the wastage in the district is 22,196 doses (12.66% of net wastage), whereas Hassan stood second with 17,028 doses (8.01%). As many as 20 districts reported wastage of doses and the average wastage of doses by these districts was 2.29%. According to the document, these 20 districts have wasted 98,840 doses since the immunisation drive began on January 16. However, some districts have been able to vaccinate additional people by using the ‘spare’ one ml of vaccine that is available in each vial. Each vial of Covishield or Covaxin contains 11 ml of vaccine, to help jab at least 10 persons. The manufactures add one ml of ‘overfill,’ so that health workers can deliver accurate doses. Districts which reported additional usage of the vaccine allotted (negative wastage of vaccine) are: Shivamogga reported -6%, Udupi (-5.57%), Dakshina Kannada (-4.71%), Dharwad (-4.25%), Haveri (-4.16%), Uttara Kannada (-3.65%), Chikkamagaluru (-2.52%), Belagavi (-1.72%) Kodagu (-1.36%), BBMP (-1.29%) and Mysuru (-0.13%). BBMP, with a -1.29% wastage has delivered an additional 33,785 doses, while Belagavi has ensured 7,139 people got the additional vaccines. Speaking to DH, Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar said they practised two simple methods to increase the number of vaccinations per vial: one by properly training health workers in administrating the vaccines and second by constant monitoring of the vaccine usage. Udupi reproductive & child health officer Dr M G Rama, who is also incharge of the vaccination drive, said the district was able to achieve such high rate due to participation of the people. “Many of our vaccination centres have witnessed altercations with the public, who were demanding higher vaccination. There was no chance of wasting vaccines,” he said. Bagalkot district health officer Dr Anant Desai said the data of the district has been erroneously entered in the Cowin app. He claimed that the total wastage of vaccine in the district is just 3.9%. “We have asked the state-level officials to rectify the details,” he said. Deputy director of immunisation Dr Rajani Nageshrao and Dr Arundathi Chandrashekar, mission director of the National Health Mission, Karnataka, did not respond to repeated calls by DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/more-than-one-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-wasted-in-karnataka-so-far-1002600.html
28-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Health, Education Departments not on same page over SSLC exams||The education and health departments, on Monday, seemed to lock horns over the conduct of the SSLC exams, hours after the announcement of the timetable for the exams.    Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said his department does not know anything about the education department's decision to hold exams.  When questioned by media persons about the recommendations by the health department to the education department over the conduct of the exams, Sudhakar said, "I am unaware of this decision and I need to consult the education minister on this announcement."  Asked if the two departments are at loggerheads, the minister said, "I cannot comment on this off-hand. Also, I cannot say whether the exams shall be conducted or not. The Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) will give its opinion on this."  The minister said that the education department is yet to submit the number of teaching and non-teaching staff for vaccination before the exams, even as the education minister had set a deadline of one week, a few hours earlier.  On his part, Education Minister Suresh Kumar said, "The commissioner of the health department was present during the two-hour-long meeting with district administrations on holding SSLC examinations and also directed district administrations on following the SOP." The minister also clarified that he had met the chief minister on Monday morning, briefed him about the examinations and obtained oral consent to announce the timetable.  Taskforce The education minister announced the formation of a task force to decide on the reopening of schools. But Sudhakar replied that there cannot be a separate committee for every department.  "The TAC will advise the government on this. We cannot have one committee for every department. I will talk to the education minister on what basis this committee will be formed," Sudhakar said.  Asked why the TAC had been silenced with regard to the third wave, Sudhakar denied any form of stifling of the opinion of the TAC.  "Dr Devi Shetty's committee has given recommendations on handling the third wave and the preparations for that. The TAC headed by Dr M K Sudarshan will give guidance on staggered unlock measures and the pattern of the virus spread."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-health-education-departments-not-on-same-page-over-sslc-exams-1002619.html
28-06-2021||West||Navi Mumbai starts Covid vaccine drive for potential super-spreaders||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation, which recently undertook a drive to vaccinate homeless persons and beggars against Covid-19, has now started a campaign to inoculate potential super-spreaders in the township, a civic official said on Monday. In the first phase of the new campaign, 250 employees of various medical stores in Navi Mumbai were administered vaccine doses at a special camp organised on Sunday, civic spokesperson Mahendra Konde told PTI. He said those working at medical stores come in contact with a large number of people, including sick persons, frequently. Hence, the NMMC undertook the special drive to protect them from the coronavirus infection, he said. In the first round, 169 men and 81 women working at medical stores in Sanpada area of Navi Mumbai were covered, the official said. NMMC Commissioner Abhijit Bangar said medical shop staffers have been risking their lives in the fight against Covid-19. "The special camp was organised to protect them from the infection," he said. He further said the NMMC will soon organise special camps for vaccinating those working in hotels/restaurants, petrol pumps, milk and other delivery persons, auto-rickshaw and taxi drivers, and those employed in theaters. The civic body has also been vaccinating workers of various quarries within the civic limits, Konde said. "Efforts are being made to ensure all Navi Mumbai citizens aged 18 and above receive at least one shot of the anti-Covid-19 vaccine by July 31," the official said. He said 78 vaccination centers are currently operational in the township for citizens. A mass awareness drive highlighting the need for vaccination has also been undertaken, he said, adding that volunteers who are part of the campaign are given Rs 10 as special allowance for each person they reach out to, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/navi-mumbai-starts-covid-vaccine-drive-for-potential-super-spreaders-1002332.html
28-06-2021||West||Maharashtra: NGT forms panel to study CRZ nod for JNPT expansion||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has constituted a four-member committee to look into the complaints of Coastal Regulatory Zone violations in the expansion of Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust’s (JNPT) Container Terminal-IV and submit “an independent factual report” in three months. Hearing a complaint filed by Uran fisherman Dilip Pandurang Koli and others against the Union Government challenging the manner in which Environmental Clearance was granted to JNPT for the expansion on October 9, 2019, the western zonal bench of NGT headed by Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel also issued a notice to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Control (MoEF&CC). The four-member committee comprises representatives from the Ministry, Maharashtra State Pollution Control Board, the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA), and the Raigad District Magistrate, according to a press statement. The appellants argued that the fragile ecology of the area has been subject to an onslaught of environmentally destructive activities by JNPT. The appeal challenged the joint CRZ and Environmental Clearance granted to JNPT by the MoEF&CC, on the ground — that it was done on the wrong footing — that the CRZ area comprised of the project site is CRZ-IV, while it actually falls within CRZ-IA, where no fresh construction activities are permitted as per the CRZ Notification, 2011. The appellant said the mandatory stage of public consultation under the EIA Notification, 2006 has been foregone, without any valid basis and JNPT had violated the conditions of previous Environmental Clearances. The application said there has been a rich history of fishing activities in Uran Taluka, and the project impact assessment that preceded the impugned joint EC and CRZ Clearance had disregarded it completely. The original EC which was issued in July 2008, was extended in February 2014 and the impugned CRZ clearance issued in July 2019 is the one presently being challenged. The NGT noted the grievance of the appellants that the JNPT expansion area has been identified as an ecologically sensitive area by the MCZMA and falls under the CRZ-1A as per the coastal zone map. No construction is permitted in CRZ–1A. The reclamation that is proposed to be carried out for the balance work of the 4th container terminal will seriously impact fishing activities being carried out by traditional fisherfolk who have a large presence in the area. Welcoming the order, environmentalist B N Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation, expressed the hope that the truth of the JNPT violations would come out. “We have been repeatedly pointing out several CRZ violations by JNPT and the worst of all is the absence of coastal zone clearance for the SEZ work,” he said. The NGT Bench opined that response of the concerned statutory authorities and ascertainment of ground factual situation is required and hence issued order for constituting the committee. Justices Sudhir Agarwal, M. Sathyanarayanan and Brijesh Sethi were the Judicial Members, while Dr Nagin Nanda, was the Expert Member of the Bench that heard the application and passed the order on June 23. The next hearing will be held on October 27 after the receipt of the committee report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-ngt-forms-panel-to-study-crz-nod-for-jnpt-expansion-1002359.html
28-06-2021||West||Maharashtra tightens curbs amid fear of Covid 3rd wave: What's allowed, what's not from today||Amid fears of a third wave of coronavirus and cases of its highly infectious 'Delta Plus' variant emerging in Maharashtra, the state tightened restrictions with effect from Monday, with essential shops allowed to remain open only till 4 pm on all days. Non-essential shops and establishments can remain open till 4 pm only on weekdays, as per a Maharashtra government notification issued last week which said the entire state will have 'level 3' restrictions. Restaurants are allowed to operate dine-in facility with 50 per cent capacity till 4 pm on weekdays and takeaways and home deliveries after that, according to the order. The suburban trains will operate only for medical staff and personnel engaged in essential services, while gyms and salons are allowed to remain open till 4 pm at 50 per cent capacity. The new order will impact cities like Nagpur, Thane and Pune as they had seen more relaxations than Mumbai, which continued to be under 'level 3' restrictions, despite qualifying for 'level 1' where all curbs are allowed to be lifted. The state government on Friday announced a 'state-level trigger' for imposing restrictions in administrative units irrespective of the weekly positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy percentage. The weekly positivity rate regarding levels of restrictions will be determined on the basis of RT-PCR tests, and not rapid antigen or other tests, the state government had said while describing the 'Delta Plus' as a variant of concern. Restrictions in administrative units will remain at a level not below 3, the government had said, and also called for pushing for 70 per cent vaccination of eligible population in the state. Earlier this month, the state government had introduced a graded system of easing the lockdown-like curbs in each district, considering the Covid-19 weekly positivity rate and occupancy of oxygen beds. Districts and municipal corporations were then classified under levels 1 to 5. Accordingly, some cities and districts in the Marathwada and Vidarbha regions had lifted restrictions and some were in 'level 2'. However, last week, the Maharashtra government modified the graded system and said the entire state will have 'level 3' restrictions. District administrations have been asked to take various steps, including testing, vaccination and enforcement of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and penalty for violators. If there is an upward trend in number of coronavirus positive cases, the district disaster management authority will impose higher-level of restrictions, the order said. Attempts must be made to achieve 70 per cent vaccination of eligible population and focus should on test, track and treat methodology to contain the spread of Covid-19, it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-tightens-curbs-amid-fear-of-covid-3rd-wave-whats-allowed-whats-not-from-today-1002363.html
28-06-2021||West||SC closes plea on trial in Tarun Tejpal sexual assault case||The Supreme Court on Monday closed the case related to extension of time after noting that a trial court in Goa has completed the trial by rendering acquittal verdict in the sexual assault case against Tehelka magazine founder Tarun Tejpal. On May 21, a trial court of Mapusa town of Goa acquitted Tejpal, the former editor-in-chief of the Tehelka magazine, in the case where he was accused of sexually assaulting his then woman colleague in a lift of a five-star hotel in Goa in November 2013 when they were attending an event. The state has also filed an appeal in the case. The apex court, in October last year, had extended till March 31, 2021 the time for completing trial in the sexual assault case at the request of the trial judge. The Goa government had also earlier moved the top court seeking extension of time to complete the trial. "The trial is concluded, Now, no order is required (on extension)," a bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, Vineet Saran and M R Shah said while closing the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sc-closes-plea-on-trial-in-tarun-tejpal-sexual-assault-case-1002368.html
28-06-2021||West||New spider species named after policeman Tukaram Omble who caught Ajmal Kasab||In a touching gesture, a new spider species has been named after Tukaram Omble, the policeman who had captured Pakistani fidayeen Mohammed Ajmal Kasab alive during the 26/11 terror attacks in Mumbai. The new jumping spider species has been named 'Icius tukarami'. Naturalist and photographer Dhruv Prajapati introduced two spider species – one named after Omble and another after his friend Kamlesh Cholke. The second species has been named 'Phintella cholkei' and is distributed in Thane and the Aarey Milk Colony in Mumbai. Omble, an Assistant Sub Inspector, was conferred Ashok Chakra, the country's highest peace-time gallantry award for extraordinary bravery and valour in the line of duty. Omble, who hailed from the Satara district, had joined the police force as a constable in 1991 after retiring from the Indian Army's Signal Corps as a Naik. Omble, who was attached to the DB Marg Police Station, was manning a post set up on the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose aka Marine Drive. On the intervening night of 26-28, 2008 when two terrorists – Abu Ismail and Mohammed Ajmal Kasab, in a Skoda – when speeding on the Marine Drive, they were apprehended near the Girgaum Chowpatty. While Ismail was shot dead by the police party, Kasab was caught by Omble, who overpowered the terrorists even after he was pumped in with multiple bullets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/new-spider-species-named-after-policeman-tukaram-omble-who-caught-ajmal-kasab-1002372.html
28-06-2021||West||35 Sarpanchs in Maharashtra died of Covid-19||As many as 35 Sarpanchs in Maharashtra have lost their lives because of the Covid-19 pandemic. This information was conveyed to Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari when a delegation of 14 Sarpanchs including six women Sarpanchs called on him at the Raj Bhavan here. The delegation, led by Regional President of the Sarpanch Parishad Mumbai, Datta Kakde Patil, handed over a memorandum to the Governor. The delegation demanded that funds received by Gram Panchayats under the 15th Finance Commission should be spent only for development purposes and the creation of infrastructure facilities in the village. The delegation also demanded the construction of a well-equipped Sarpanch Bhavan in Mumbai. Stating that more than 35 Sarpanchs from the state lost their lives during the Covid-19 pandemic, the delegation demanded extension of financial assistance to the family members of the deceased Sarpanchs. Trustees of the Sarpanch Parishad including Avinash Avhad, Rajaram Potnis, Anand Jadhav, Ashwini Thorat were prominent among those present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/35-sarpanchs-in-maharashtra-died-of-covid-19-1002392.html
28-06-2021||West||Surla first Goan village to be fully vaccinated against Covid-19||The village, some 50 kilometres away from Valpoi and 76 kilometres from Panaji, has no internet connection, which was a hurdle in registering the residents for inoculation on the Centre's CoWin platform, he said. "The vaccination registration was done offline. On Sunday, we vaccinated 218 residents of Surla and made it a vaccination complete village," he added. Local panchayat member Suryakant Gawas said the village has 400 residents, of which some 300 were eligible to be vaccinated. "Many were vaccinated during the state government's 'Tika Utsav' in April this year. We are thankful to the state government and health minister Vishwajit Rane for the efforts taken to make our village fully vaccinated," Gawas added. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/surla-first-goan-village-to-be-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-19-1002400.html
28-06-2021||West||Lawyer appears before ED in money laundering case again Anil Deshmukh||A Nagpur-based lawyer appeared before the Enforcement Directorate here on Monday in connection with a money laundering case in which the central agency had earlier summoned former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, a police official said. The ED summoned advocate Tarun Parmar last week after he complained to the agency against Deshmukh and some other politicians, claiming that he knew how these people were involved in money laundering and had documents to prove it. On Monday, Parmar reached the ED's office around 11 am. He was carrying some documents when he entered the central agency's office in south Mumbai. Earlier, Deshmukh was asked to depose before the investigating officer at the ED's office on Saturday for questioning in the money laundering case related to an alleged multi-crore bribery-cum-extortion racket that led to his resignation from the post of state home minister in April this year. The NCP leader, however, had sought a fresh date for appearance before the ED, following which the agency asked him to appear for questioning this week. The central agency on Saturday arrested Deshmukh's personal secretary Sanjeev Palande (51) and personal assistant Kundan Shinde (45) after it carried out raids against them and the former home minister in Mumbai and Nagpur on Friday. The ED's case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) first carried out a preliminary enquiry followed by a regular case being filed on the orders of the Bombay High Court. The court had asked the CBI to look into the allegations of bribery made against Deshmukh by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh, who resigned from his post in April following the allegations, has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lawyer-appears-before-ed-in-money-laundering-case-again-anil-deshmukh-1002407.html
28-06-2021||West||Gujarat BJP chief tells local body leaders that they won because of PM Modi's popularity||Gujarat BJP president C R Paatil has said the party's elected representatives of local bodies must not forget that they won because of the "popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi". Paatil made the remarks while addressing the elected representatives of various municipalities, district and taluka panchayats in Patan on Sunday. According a party release issued on Monday, Paatil said the elected representatives of these local bodies must not become arrogant and insult small party workers by thinking that they won because of their own popularity. He warned of action against the elected representatives who insult party workers. "These leaders must not forget that they were also party workers before winning the polls. The elected representatives should keep in mind that they won only because of PM Narendra Modi's popularity," the release said quoting Paatil. He also asked BJP leaders from Patan to gear up and ensure the party wins the state Assembly polls due next year. On the occasion, Paatil also refuted the Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP) claims that several BJP workers had quit the saffron outfit and joined the Arvind Kejriwal-led party. The ruling BJP in Gujarat made a clean sweep in the local body elections held in February this year by winning over 6,000 out of around 8,000 seats in various municipalities, district and taluka panchayats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-bjp-chief-tells-local-body-leaders-that-they-won-because-of-pm-modis-popularity-1002413.html
28-06-2021||West||Antilia bomb scare case: Ex-cop Pradeep Sharma sent in judicial custody till July 12||A special NIA court here on Monday remanded former 'encounter specialist' police officer Pradeep Sharma in judicial custody till July 12 in the case of an explosives-laden vehicle found near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani and the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran. Sharma was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) last week. He was on Monday produced before the court which sent him in judicial custody till July 12 as no further remand was sought by the probe agency. Two other accused in the case, Santosh Shelar and Anand Jadhav, who were arrested by the NIA from suburban Malad on June 11, were also sent in judicial custody till July 12. The central agency had earlier arrested police officers Sachin Waze, Riyazuddin Kazi and Sunil Mane, following which they were dismissed from service. The NIA had also arrested former police constable Vinayak Shinde and cricket bookie Naresh Gor in connection with the case. Sharma had allegedly helped Waze in destroying evidence in the case, sources earlier said, adding that he was involved in hatching the conspiracy and planning, as well as executing the murder of Hiran with the help of his men. An explosives-laden SUV was found abandoned near Ambani's residence 'Antilia' in south Mumbai on February 25 this year. Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, who had claimed that he was in possession of the vehicle, was found dead in a creek in Mumbra on March 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/antilia-bomb-scare-case-ex-cop-pradeep-sharma-sent-in-judicial-custody-till-july-12-1002441.html
28-06-2021||West||Maharashtra govt plans tourist attraction in Nhava Island, greens oppose||The Maharashtra government has unveiled plans to develop a mega tourism project in the Nhava Island off the Raigad district. However, it is facing stiff opposition from various environmental groups who has petitioned Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. The City and Industrial Development Corporation Ltd (CIDCO) which is the nodal agency for Navi Mumbai, has invited Expression of Interest (EoI) for development of Nhava Island. The CIDCO has developed 14 nodes of Navi Mumbai – which are divided into North and South parts. The prominent North nodes are Airoli, KoparKhairane, Vashi, Sanpada, Nerul, Central Business District Belapur while South nodes are Kharghar, Kamothe, Kalamboli, Pushpak, Panvel, Ulve and Dronagiri. The Nhava Island is located 5 kms off Ulve towards creekside – and has a land pocket of 60 hectares. This is a peninsular area with Karanjade and Thane creek spanning on three sides facing the Elephanta Caves, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The Nhava Island location is close to Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link connecting Sewree in Mumbai to Nhava in Navi Mumbai and is connected to Ulwe note/township. “While we have nothing against any development, our main concern is that such projects play with the fragile ecology of Uran,” said B N Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation. CIDCO’s public notice said the Nhava Island has been marked as a Regional Park Zone. NatConnect has, however, called for ex-examining the entire Navi Mumbai Development Plan with public involvement. “Till then all works that impact the environment should be on hold. The projects such as the Nhava Island development should be thoroughly re-examined from an environmental point of view,” Kumar said. The 130-year-old research body BNHS has proposed to work on a Mumbai Urban Biodiversity Plan in association with like-minded associations such as NatConnect and Ekvira Aai Pratishtan. Any project impacting the fragile environment must be thoroughly studied, Kumar said. “CIDCO, created over 50 years ago to develop new cities, has initially done an excellent work in designing Navi Mumbai keeping environment and greenery in mind. But of late the environment record of CIDCO has become highly questionable, said Kumar, a longtime resident of Navi Mumbai. Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan said: “We as environment lovers were forced to move NGT and even the Tribunal ruling is not yet implemented. CIDCO has not bothered to notice the Environment Minister’s order banning fresh construction at Panje.” Traditional fishing community forum Parampartik Machhimar Bavchao Kruti Samiti said, “We have already begun to experience the ill-effects of CIDCO’s anti-environment policies.” Uran villages which did not have any record of floods for 15 years have begun to be inundated as free flow of tidal water has been blocked due to illegal landfill of wetland and mangroves at several places. “Lush green mangrove zones have been converted into man made deserts, Dilip Koli of the fishing community forum said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-plans-tourist-attraction-in-nhava-island-greens-oppose-1002444.html
28-06-2021||West||Maharashtra govt plans 15 lakh vaccinations per day: Uddhav Thackeray||With the threat of a possible third Covid-19 wave looming large, the Maharashtra government on Monday said it is planning for 15 lakh vaccinations per day. “We have preparations and plans to administrer 15 lakh vaccine doses per day,” Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said. Thackeray's statement comes barely days after the state achieved the distinction of being the first state to cross the three-crore vaccination mark. As on Sunday (27 June), the state’s vaccination tally – in the four categories – healthcare workers, frontline workers, 18-44 age group and 45+ age group -- stood at 3,11,59,607. In the healthcare workers category, 12,76,663 have got the first dose while 8,34,899 have received the second dose. As far as frontline workers are concerned, 20,87,706 have got the first dose while 9,11620 have received the second dose. In the 18-44 age-group category, 55,27,193 people have got their first dose of which 2,69,666 have got their second dose. As regards, the 45+ age group category, 1,62,53,737 have got their first dose while 39,98,123 have got their second dose. Thackeray said that the second wave has not subsided yet even though there may be empty hospital beds. “We have to avoid crowds and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-plans-15-lakh-vaccinations-per-day-uddhav-thackeray-1002457.html
28-06-2021||West||Over 200 sex workers vaccinated at Wadia hospital||The Wadia Hospital in association with Aarya organized a Covid-19 vaccination drive for Commercial Female Sex Workers on Monday. The drive at Wadia Hospital was undertaken with support from Gaurav and Aastha Parivar. Under this initiative, over 200 individuals were vaccinated with the first dose of Covishield vaccine. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar, Sewree MLA Ajay Chaudhary, Wadia Hospital CEO Dr.Minnie Bodhanwala, human rights activist Zainab Patel and Dr. Shrikala Acharya, Additional Project Director at Mumbai District AIDS Control Society, were present. Pednekar said: “Many vaccination drives were conducted for Vulnerable and marginalized communities; however, the sex workers were left behind. As sex work is still considered as ‘taboo’ and this makes it harder to tackle the problems that they face on a day-to-day basis.” “The coronavirus does not discriminate on the basis of gender as anyone can get infected with it.  This initiative aims to safeguard this vulnerable class of society from the harmful effects of Covid-19 and vaccinate each and every one. We always wanted to help this section of the population. Also, there is also a lot of misinformation regarding the side effects of the vaccine and all the members were counseled to get vaccinated.  But, even after vaccination, they will have to continue following the Covid protocol of masking, social distancing, and hand sanitizing,” said Dr. Bodhanwala. Shital Bhatkar, the founder of WithAarya, took the noble initiative to erase this taboo and resolve the problems that this community faced, especially since the pandemic made their clientele minimal and they essentially lost their livelihood. In parallel with the vaccination, all beneficiaries received a dry ration kit, Personal hygiene, sanitation kit, and saree with support from Aarsa, an initiative supporting the cause of artisans. Moreover, Transportation facilities were provided to ease the commute for the workers. After inoculation, transgender vaccine beneficiary, said, “Humbled by the initiative taken by Aarya in association  with Gaurav and Aastha Parivaar and Wadia Hospital. Initially I was scared because of many rumours associated with vaccines and its safety. Our entire community is grateful for the vaccination drive.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-200-sex-workers-vaccinated-at-wadia-hospital-1002490.html
28-06-2021||West||More than 50% children in Mumbai have Covid-19 antibodies: Sero-survey||More than 50 per cent of the paediatric population in healthcare settings in Mumbai has antibodies to Covid-19, according to a sero-survey conducted ahead of the third wave. Moreover, it is found that the proportion of the paediatric population having antibodies increased as compared to earlier sero-survey conducted during the first wave and second wave. The sero-survey of SARS-CoV-2 infection among the paediatric population of Mumbai was conducted by BYL Nair Hospital and Kasturba Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory, both run by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Since the third wave is anticipated to affect children, Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal and Additional Municipal Commissioner (Western Suburbs) Suresh Kakani directed to conduct a sero-survey on children during the second wave itself – and accordingly it was conducted during 1 April-15 June. Across 24 wards of Mumbai, a total of 2,176 blood samples were collected from pathology laboratories including 1,283 from Aapli Chikitsa Network and Nair Hospital of BMC and 893 from a network of two private labs. “The key findings of this study suggest that more than 50 per cent of the paediatric population in a healthcare setting have already been exposed to SARS-CoV-2,” a BMC official statement said on Monday. The overall sero-positivity is 51.18 per cent including 54.36 per cent from the public sector and 47.03 per cent from the private sector.  Seropositivity is highest in the age group 10-14 years i. e. 53.43 per cent.   Taking age into consideration, the Sero-positivity rate of 1 to 4 years is 51.04 per cent, 5 to 9 years is 47.33 per cent, 10 to 14 years is 53.43 per cent, 15 to 18 years is 51.39 per cent. The overall sero-positivity rate of 1 to 18 years is 51.18 per cent.   There is a notable increase in the seropositivity in the paediatric population to SARS-CoV-2 in this study as compared to Serosurvey 3 conducted in March 2021 which showed a sero-positivity of 39.4 per cent in the age group of ≤ 18 years which indicates that a significant proportion of children accessing the healthcare services were exposed to the virus during the second wave of Covid-19.   The study has also suggested targeted health education and awareness about Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. According to BMC, IEC should include the use of social media platforms (examples include memes, collaborating with social media influencers, etc.), cartoon advertisements and catchy jingles.   The sero-survey was conducted jointly by the Department of Microbiology and Department of paediatrics from BYL Nair Hospital. The investigators from Department of Microbiology are HOD Dr. Jayanthi Shastri; Associate Professor Dr. Sachee Agrawal, House Officer Dr. Gargi Kakani and Professor from paediatrics Department Dr. Surbhi Rathi.   Under the guidance of Chahal and  Kakani, the survey was assisted by Director (MEMH) and Dean of BYL Nair Hospital Dr. Ramesh Bharmal, Medical Superintendent of Kasturba Hospital for Infectious Diseases Dr. Chandrakant Pawar, HOD, Department of Pathology, BYL Nair Hospital Dr. Kusum Jashnani & Associate Professor Dr. Gayathri Amonkar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/more-than-50-children-in-mumbai-have-covid-19-antibodies-sero-survey-1002526.html
28-06-2021||West||Goa's iconic Club Tito's sold; owner cites harassment by politicians, bureaucrats||Citing harassment by local bureacrats, politicians and NGOs, the promoters of Goa's iconic Club Tito's on Monday announced the sale of its entire buisness portfolio in the coastal state. Ricardo D'Souza, who co-owns the nightclub located in the popular beach village of Calangute also taunted government officials, politicians and others who he claims were responsible for the harassment. "It is with sadness but with anger that we have sold our entire business in Goa. I personally have suffered the least as I was compensated adequately and even my future generations won't have to work," D'Souza said in a post on social media, while announcing the sale of Club Tito's and other businesses in Goa. "Can I please ask our officials to employ them, as I do not ever plan any more business in Goa. By 'officials' I mean all the harassing lot, like police, (Planning and Development Authority) PDA, (Coastal Regulation Zone) CRZ, NGOs, panchayat and sarpanchas, Block Development Officers (BDO), Dy. Collectors," D'Souza further said. Some weeks back, D'Souza had also posted a video on his social media handle, accusing a government servant of allegedly harassing him. The owners of the club over the years had also branched out into other businesses including retail stores, alcohol labels, travel and tourism, etc. "Am very grateful to certain segments of the government like Dr (Chief Minister Pramod) Sawant, the IAS officers, ex-staff, present staff, our neighbours, all my friends and family and the common people of Goa who all contributed to this great Brand called TITOS. End of an Era!" he added in his Facebook post. For nearly four decades now, the nightclub, which is synonymous with Goa's nightlife scene, has been one of the top few "go-to" party destinations in the state, since it was launched 1971.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goas-iconic-club-titos-sold-owner-cites-harassment-by-politicians-bureaucrats-1002604.html
28-06-2021||West||Anil Deshmukh to appear before ED on June 29, MVA tense||Deshmukh is a close aide of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and he had to resign from the Uddhav Thackeray-led tri-party alliance government involving Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress following charges of corruption and misconduct. The ED last week arrested Deshmukh's personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde. Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut, who played a key role in the formation of the MVA government keeping BJP out of power, separately met Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Pawar, on Monday. What transpired in these meetings is not in the public domain. However, with the Monsoon Session just few days away on July 5-6, the MVA is not taking any chances. The Congress is unhappy as the post of Speaker of Maharashtra Legislative Assembly has been vacant since the resignation of Nana Patole, who has taken over as state Congress chief.Patole's stand of going solo in the future local bodies, Vidhan Sabha and Lok Sabha polls has not gone down well in the Shiv Sena and NCP. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik, who is also facing an ED investigation, had written to Thackeray to reconcile with BJP and go with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "Pratap Sarnaik is a valued Shiv Sainik...he is being pressurised," said Raut, adding that senior party leaders have held discussions with him. On Sunday, Pawar had said that the MVA government was formed on a common minimum programme and it would last its full five-year term. It needs to be mentioned that the Budget Session was stormy and the MVA government just managed to sail out. Just ahead of the Budget Session, forest minister Sanjay Rathod of Shiv Sena had to resign and just after it Deshmukh, who is now facing an FIR from CBI. Thackeray's close aide and state transport minister Anil Parab is now facing heat from the opposition BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anil-deshmukh-to-appear-before-ed-on-june-29-mva-tense-1002629.html
