29-06-2021||First Edit||Drones, a vehicle of choice for attacks||The twin drone attacks on an Indian Air Force (IAF) base at Jammu airport in the early hours of Sunday is a reason for serious concern. It signals the emergence of a new threat to India’s security. Hitherto, India has had to contend with grenades, bullets, bombs, suicide bombers and vehicles laden with explosives that terrorists freely used to target India. These anti-India terrorists are now using drones as their vehicles to deliver bombs to hit their targets. In recent years, security forces have spotted drones carrying weapons and drugs across the Line of Control and the International Border (IB) into India. Now drones are being used to carry out the attack itself. While no lives were lost in the drone attacks on the Jammu airbase, the blasts did cause some damage to a building. Helicopters parked nearby escaped damage. The Jammu airbase is located around 12-14 km from the IB. It is a tightly guarded installation. Yet, terrorists were able to breach this security thanks to drones, which cannot be detected easily. We need to bear in mind too, that drones need not be launched only in Pakistan. They can be launched from Indian soil too, which means that every installation here is vulnerable. Sunday’s drone attacks on the Jammu airbase are unlikely to be the last on Indian targets. On Monday morning, two more drones were detected over the Ratnuchak-Kaluchak military area. Since they are hard to detect and cost less, drones are likely to emerge as the vehicle of choice for attacks by anti-India terrorists. It is therefore imperative that India’s security establishment arms itself with the best of anti-drone weaponry. It has dragged its feet with regard to the implementation of counter-drone guidelines that were finalised two years ago. Further delays could prove costly. While investigations are on to trace the origin of the drones, the possibility of a Pakistani role cannot be ruled out. India-Pakistan back-channel talks are moving forward as are talks between New Delhi and Kashmir’s political leaders. There will be elements in Pakistan’s establishment that are opposed to the normalisation of India-Pakistan relations. There are hotheads in India who will call for halting the normalisation process. Both, New Delhi and Islamabad must ensure that these spoilers are not allowed to derail the process. While tightening its vigil along the border, the Narendra Modi government must reach out to the Imran Khan government to get it to rein in rogue elements in the military who may have masterminded the drone attacks to trigger bilateral tensions again. Quiet diplomacy to get Khan to co-operate is the best way forward.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/drones-a-vehicle-of-choice-for-attacks-1002666.html
29-06-2021||In Perspective||Schemes that offer zilch relief to workers||Domestic workers are amongst the most exploited in India's unorganised sector. Performing poorly paid and laborious work with little recognition from their employers, who often refer to them as ‘help’, and with no benefits from the state, they have suffered immensely during the series of lockdowns. Many were not paid salaries, lost jobs or faced reduced incomes. Increased precarity has translated into food insecurity and inability to meet basic needs such as making payment for rent and children’s education. Amidst this, the announcement by the Karnataka government to disburse a one-time payment of Rs 2,000 to 11 categories of unorganised workers, including domestic workers, under the Seva Sindhu Scheme appeared to be a welcome move. The reality of its implementation has, however, been disastrous, making a mockery of the scheme’s intentions. Domestic workers were initially told to register themselves for a smart card under the Ambedkar Karmika Sahaya Hastha Scheme of the Karnataka State Unorganised Worker Social Security Board under the Unorganised Sector Workers’ Social Security Act, 2008. A PIL had already been filed in 2020 by the Domestic Workers Rights Union in the Karnataka High Court demanding that 3,000 domestic workers who had registered under the Act be issued smart cards. During the pendency of the case, however, the government on June 10, 2021 withdrew the Ambedkar Karmika Sahaya Hastha Scheme without explanation and instead instructed workers to register under the Seva Sindhu Scheme. The catch was that only below poverty line (BPL) card holders belonging to 11 occupational categories could avail of the scheme. Further, the only available method was an online application. However, many domestic workers don’t have smartphones or computers on which to access this form, much less follow the elaborate instructions that accompany it. The scheme requires workers to obtain an “employment certificate” from their employers, which needs to be attested by a gazetted officer. Finding such an officer is not straightforward, which means middlemen enter the equation and, in turn, take a cut of the cash transfer to facilitate the process. The form asks if the worker is self-employed or employed by an establishment. While this may work for other occupational categories, for domestic workers, a third category was needed — employment by individual employers. Once workers got the employment certificate, at a point in time, several documents had to be uploaded, including their proof of date of birth and address, as well as a passport size photo onto the portal. As if the process is not already cumbersome enough, the content of the form has been changing on a day-to-day basis, making it impossible to prepare to fill the form. Frustratingly, the scheme’s portal is functional for only about 50% of the time. Thus, it recently took four volunteers from an apartment complex in North Bengaluru a total of 16 hours altogether to register seven applications on behalf of their domestic workers. To make matters worse, there is no communication of a deadline for registrations under the scheme leaving room for rumours. Tellingly, domestic workers and their families are desperate enough for the payment of Rs 2,000 to attempt this onerous process and attendant frustrations. The refusal to issue smart cards to domestic workers pre-pandemic, the continued exclusion of BPL workers outside of the 11 specified categories from the Seva Sindhu Scheme and the atrociously poor implementation of the scheme even for BPL card holders make one wonder whether announcing Covid relief schemes was merely a cynical ploy to garner political capital when in fact the state is actively working to deny workers the cash that they desperately need. Why else do workers eligible for relief find their accounts force-deducted for interest due on existing government loans rather than obtain a complete release of the intended benefit? Why else is the state using the pandemic as a spring-cleaning platform to drop 85,000 workers from the rolls of BPL holders? Is it so that they do not put themselves through the trial-by-fire that applying to the Seva Sindhu Scheme has turned out to be? The state’s callousness is a lesson in how not to disburse Covid relief in the midst of a pandemic which has already put 230 million Indians below the poverty line. If the government wants to come to the aid of vulnerable groups like domestic workers, it must simplify the process (the employment certificate by the employer should suffice and have the Bangalore One centres facilitate the online applications). The state must also dispense funds expeditiously for their immediate needs while also retaining registration information from the Seva Sindhu Scheme for all future welfare schemes for the unorganised sector. Otherwise, by constantly moving the goalpost, placing obstacles where none are necessary and by disqualifying those in need from state support, the government is actively leading the already vulnerable workers further down the path to penury. (Prabha Kotiswaran is Professor of Law at King’s College London. Aditi Chanchani is a researcher working in the area of sustainable tourism)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/schemes-that-offer-zilch-relief-to-workers-1002660.html
29-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hold Monsoon Session in Belagavi this time: Basavaraj Horatti||Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti has asked the government to hold the Monsoon Session of the State Legislature at Suvarna Vidhan Soudha in Belagavi. "I have written a letter to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in this regard. I will remind him on Wednesday," he said. Sessions have not been held in Belagavi in the last two years. The Monsoon Session can be held in Belagavi, and it can be of short duration also, he said. Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri is also in favour of holding the session in Belagavi, Horatti added. Fee payment in private educational institutes Horatti also advised the government to carefully handle the issue of fee payment in private educational institutes. "If the government asks all parents not to worry about fee payment, those who can afford may misuse that. But those who are in trouble, should be given some relaxation. Private schools should also be categorised based on their financial strength," he noted. The majority of private institutes are being run by politicians, officials and other influential people. But institutes in poor financial condition can be given some concession, he said. Education Department officials should work responsibly to frame suitable guidelines on the fee payment issue, Horatti added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hold-monsoon-session-in-belagavi-this-time-basavaraj-horatti-1002769.html
29-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Seaplane project to boost tourism in Karnataka||Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar said a seaplane project has been formulated to boost tourism activities at Almatti, Tungabhadra, Linganamakki, KRS backwaters, Mangaluru and Karwar. He was speaking to reporters after launching the renovation work of the historical Anand Mahal taken up at a cost of Rs 5 crore.  Yogeshwar said the seaplane project would be convenient for both domestic and foreign tourists. The state government is in contact with the Centre and it would be implemented under the Udaan scheme, he said.  He said arrangements are being made for landing and taking off of light aircraft carrying 25-30 passengers. The tourists visiting Goa could be attracted to the state through this project, he added. Yogeshwar said a master plan would be formulated for the development of historical monuments in Vijayapura. He said three-star hotels would be constructed at four locations in the state at a cost of Rs 85 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/seaplane-project-to-boost-tourism-in-karnataka-1002954.html
29-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Why Congress didn't think of Dalit CM for 60 years, asks H D Kumaraswamy||Former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy on Tuesday asked if the Congress leaders were not aware of a Dalit chief minister concept even though they ruled the state for 60 years after the Independence. Speaking to reporters here he said, "We are not preventing people from Scheduled Caste communities from becoming CM." Kumaraswamy said, "The person, who averted such an opportunity, now wants to become CM again. He has been claiming that there is no Congress without him. The person, who brought down the party from 130 to 78 seats, is the one who prevented a Dalit from becoming CM".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/why-congress-didnt-think-of-dalit-cm-for-60-years-asks-h-d-kumaraswamy-1002891.html
29-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||CM change: Arguments over, verdict awaited, says C P Yogeshwar||Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar said on Tuesday that argument (over the change of the CM) was over "judgement" was awaited.  "I have explained my opinion to the party's top brass. As BJP worker, I  am waiting till the pronouncement of judgement", he said. On the debate over the next chief ministerial candidate in the state Congress unit, Yogeshwara said former chief minister Siddaramaiah will never allow KPCC president D K Shivakumar to become chief minister. He said that Congress had meted out injustice to Dalits who had been with the party for the past 70 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cm-change-arguments-over-verdict-awaited-says-c-p-yogeshwar-1002969.html
29-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||'High-command will decide Vijayendra's candidature'||District In-charge Minister B A (Byrathi) Basavaraj stated that the party high-command would take a call on fielding Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's son B Y Vijayendra, who is also State BJP Vice-president, for the assembly by-poll from Hanagal in the wake of the death of C M Udasi. Speaking to media persons here on Tuesday, he said, he has no idea whether Vijayendra would face the assembly by-poll from Hanagal or not and added that no such discussions had taken place. He said, the chief minister, State BJP president Nalin Kumar Patil, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, and Haveri District In-charge Minister Basavaraj Bommai would hold discussions and select an able candidate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/high-command-will-decide-vijayendras-candidature-1002971.html
29-06-2021||Main Article||India's nutritional crisis: Red flags in cash flows||A disturbing scenario in India's paradoxical nutritional landscape — where obesity ails India’s ultra-rich upper-class cities and malnutrition makes those at the bottom of the pyramid suffer — has been evident from the pre-pandemic period as well. Numbers from the 4th National Family Health Survey indicate how 53.1% of all women aged 15-49 are anaemic. An alarmingly high rate of undernourished mothers results in low-weight, poorly-nourished babies/infants, whose in-utero lack of nutrition can have lifelong consequences for them and their families. Almost 21% of all children under five years remain 'unproductive' or 'wasted' (due to low weight for height) as per India’s child wasting statistics. In 2017, having recognised the critical importance to support maternal health and childcare, the Government of India launched the Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana (PMMVY) — a centrally sponsored conditional cash transfer scheme. Under the scheme, pregnant women and lactating mothers are entitled to Rs 5,000 for their first live birth, subject to fulfilling certain conditions. The cash incentive is paid in three instalments with the first Rs 1,000 being awarded on early registration of the pregnancy at an anganwadi centre. Once the beneficiary receives at least one ante-natal check-up (ANC), they become eligible for the second instalment (Rs 2,000). The Union government further complements this scheme with the Pradhan Mantri Surakshit Matritva Abhiyan that offers free, universal ante-natal care to all pregnant women. The final instalment (Rs 2,000) is paid after the birth and immunisation of the child. Between the fiscal years of 2018 and 2020, almost 1.75 crore eligible beneficiaries were paid Rs 5,931.95 crore. By tying the cash transfer to 'conditions', the government hoped to incentivise mothers to engage in undertaking basic (self) maternal and childcare. Meanwhile, the money provided offers financial support for the soon-to-be-mothers to meet their nutritional requirements. However, grassroots level implementation of such schemes has oft remained blemished with structural flaws. For a start, the efficiency of 'conditional cash transfers' has been brought into question given the high administrative cost (or ‘bureaucratic overload’) associated with factors like: identifying eligible beneficiaries, targeting and monitoring the disbursements made to them, and ensuring that intended goals are met with a given scheme’s actual implementation. Moreover, complaints regarding delayed payments of ‘assigned transfers’ have aggravated, especially since the pandemic. What’s startling is how, even after a year and a half since the pandemic affected the nation’s citizenry, particularly the poor, the government’s fiscal priority in allocating more funds to existing schemes still remains woefully low. The focus is only on providing PDS supported foodgrains to the very poor as against supporting that with more funding for existing nutrition-focused welfare programmes. In a rhetorical pitch to allocate most government resources towards the pandemic, budgetary outlays show how the Union government has abdicated its social and financial responsibility towards other equally serious health issues. Pre-existing Union-sponsored schemes were allocated around Rs 2,500 crore every year for the last two fiscal years. But, in the financial year 2021-22, PMMVY has been clubbed with other programmes under Mission Shakti (Samarthya Subgroup). By pooling in the budget of Rs 2,500 crore with other schemes, the effective allocation of PMMVY significantly reduced. Further, in recognising the nature of logistical and administrative challenges posed by the pandemic, a recent study undertaken in Rajasthan by IPE Global brings out micro-snapshots of poor health and nutritional programme implementation scenarios in places like Baran, Jhunjhunu, Jodhpur and Udaipur during the 2020 lockdown period. Covid disruptions to services Observed ethnographic findings from the IPE report suggest how Maternal Child Health and Nutrition (MCHN) day was suspended, terminating regular health services like ante-natal check-ups, immunisation, and child-growth monitoring for respondents across the state (much like what was seen across the nation). Meanwhile, reproductive healthcare workers (ASHAs, ANMs) struggled to deliver adequate services to the public. Due to mobility restrictions, most reproductive healthcare workers were forced to work from home due to which physical tests and examinations were not conducted. ASHA workers, anganwadi workers, and nurse midwives conducted counselling sessions online and provided supplementary tablets and contraceptive devices during house visits, but their services, too, were constrained due to administrative delays and shortage of tech-abled resources (most workers didn’t even have a smartphone). Hospitals and government health facilities were overburdened by Covid-19 patients and were not able to provide adequate delivery services for non-Covid related treatment (including for high-risk pregnant women). With limited capabilities to afford the high fees of private hospitals, many rural women were compelled to opt for ‘private’ delivery options that proved to be economically burdensome — and medically dangerous, for their families. Amidst falling incomes and a burdened state healthcare infrastructure, a robust functioning of PMMVY was supposed to be critical during a public health emergency. As per the IPE’s report, only 27% of the registered beneficiaries received their three instalments in 2020. Conditionalities associated with each transfer made it difficult for most beneficiaries to get their entitlements on time. Pregnant and lactating mothers struggled with access to nutrition when they needed it the most. Further, the IPE’s findings from Rajasthan also reported that despite the meeting of conditions imposed on each entitled cash transfer, maximum beneficiaries still didn’t receive their instalment for months after the documents were submitted. The lack of direction and purpose marks a major red flag in evaluating the success of such condition-based social programmes. Going forward, there is a lot for the Union government and state governments to work on. Findings from districts of Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, as microcosmic case reflections, show how conditional cash transfers have limited effectiveness during times of crisis. It is also about time that a renewed focus on improving community healthcare access through tech-abled, decentralised processes translates into an actual vision and action plan to include (and ensure) the well-being of all engaged key stakeholders, including community health workers (ASHAs, ANMs) to recognise and treat their invaluable work and contributions on the ground with dignity. (Deepanshu Mohan is Associate Professor and Director, Centre for New Economics Studies (CNES), Jindal School of Liberal Arts and Humanities, O P Jindal Global University. Vanshika Shah and Advaita Singh are both Senior Research Analysts with CNES)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/indias-nutritional-crisis-red-flags-in-cash-flows-1002659.html
29-06-2021||National||India, US alliance most consequential of the 21st century, says Congressman||The relationship between India and the United States is the most consequential one of the 21st century, an influential American lawmaker said on Monday. "I believe the US-India alliance is the most consequential of the 21st century, which is why I’m proud to serve as Vice-Chair of the US-India Caucus in the House,” Congressman Mike Waltz said in a tweet. Congressman Waltz is the Vice-Chair of the Congressional caucus on India and Indian Americans. This is one of the largest country-specific caucuses in the House of Representatives. The Republican Congressman favoured a retweet from former US National Security Advisor Robert O’Brien of a Financial Times news report according to which India has moved some 50,000 troops on the China border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-alliance-most-consequential-of-the-21st-century-says-congressman-1002691.html
29-06-2021||National||Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari booked over wrong map of India||Yet another FIR was lodged against the Twitter India MD in Uttar Pradesh's Bulandshahar town for displaying a wrong map of India showing Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh as separate countries. According to the police sources here, Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari and journalist Amrita Tripathi had been booked under section 505 (conducing to public mischief) of the IPC and section 74 of the IT Act (publication for fraudulent purpose). The FIR was lodged at Khurja Kotwali in Bulandshahar late on Monday night on the complaint of Praveen Kumar Bhati, a lawyer and an office-bearer of the saffron outfit Bajarang Dal. Bhati said that Twitter India had 'deliberately' portrayed Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh as separate countries. Police officials in Bulandshahar said they were investigating the matter.  It was the second FIR against the social media giant in UP. Earlier, the Ghaziabad police had booked Twitter for ''inciting communal enmity''. The cases were lodged after Twitter lost legal protection following non-compliance with the new IT rules. Some others, including scribe Saba Naqvi and the news portal The Wire were also booked in this connection. The Karnataka high court had granted protection to Maheshwari from any coercive action by the UP police. The UP government has challenged the high court order in the Supreme Court. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had defended the action against Twitter and said that the state government would sternly deal with anyone found to be spreading fake news or fake videos. ''We will not accept any attempt to vitiate the communal atmosphere,'' Adityanath had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-india-md-manish-maheshwari-booked-over-wrong-map-of-india-1002702.html
29-06-2021||National||India logs 37,566 new Covid-19 cases, 907 more fatalities||The single-day rise in fresh cases was recorded below 40,000 after 102 days, bringing India's Covid-19 infection tally to 3,03,16,897, while the daily fatalities remained below 1,000 for the second consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. India saw 37,566 new cases being reported in a day, while the Covid-19 death toll rose to 3,97,637 with 907 daily fatalities, the lowest in 77 days. According to the data published at 7 am, 32.90 crore cumulative vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. The number of active cases has further declined to 5,52,659, comprising 1.82 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.87 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A net decline of 20,335 cases has been recorded in the active virus count in a span of 24 hours. Also, 17,68,008 tests were conducted on Monday, taking the total cumulative tests done so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 40,81,39,287, while the daily positivity rate has declined to 2.12 per cent. It has been less than 5 per cent for 22 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.74  per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 47th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,93,66,601, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.31 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed one crore on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23. The 907 new fatalities include 287 from Maharashtra, 110 from Kerala, 98 from Tamil Nadu and 93 from Karnataka. A total of 3,97,637 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,21,573 from Maharashtra, 34,836 from Karnataka, 32,399 from Tamil Nadu, 24,967 from Delhi, 22,559 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,644 from West Bengal, 16,011 from Punjab and 13,437 from Chhattisgarh. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-37566-new-covid-19-cases-907-more-fatalities-1002714.html
29-06-2021||National||Possible use of weaponised drones for terrorism calls for serious attention: India at UN||The possibility of the use of weaponised drones for terrorist activities against strategic and commercial assets calls for serious attention by the global community, India has told the UN General Assembly, a day after two explosives-laden drones crashed into the Indian Air Force (IAF) station at Jammu airport. A fresh attempt to attack a military installation with the help of drones was foiled by alert Army sentries at the Ratnuchak-Kaluchak station who fired at the unmanned aerial vehicles that flew away, an incident that came hours after an IAF station saw the first terror attack using quadcopters. The first drone was spotted at around 11.45 pm on Sunday followed by another at 2.40 am over the military station, which witnessed a terror attack in 2002 in which 31 people were killed, including 10 children. The IAF attack is the first instance of suspected Pakistan-based terrorists deploying drones to strike at the country's vital installations. "Today, misuse of information and communication technology such as internet and social media for terrorist propaganda, radicalisation and recruitment of cadre; misuse of new payment methods and crowdfunding platforms for financing of terrorism; and misuse of emerging technologies for terrorist purposes have emerged as the most serious threats of terrorism and will decide the counter-terrorism paradigm going forward,” Special Secretary (Internal Security), Ministry of Home Affairs in the Government of India, V S K Kaumudi said. Speaking at the ‘Global scourge of terrorism: assessment of current threats and emerging trends for the new decade’, he said, “another add-on” to “existing worries” is the use of drones. "Being a low-cost option and easily available, utilisation of these aerial/sub-surface platforms for sinister purposes by terrorist groups such as intelligence collection, weapon/explosives delivery and targeted attacks have become an imminent danger and challenge for security agencies worldwide,” he said at the 2nd High Level Conference of the Head of Counter-Terrorism Agencies of the Member States in the General Assembly. “The possibility of the use of weaponised drones for terrorist purposes against strategic and commercial assets calls for serious attention by the member states. We have witnessed terrorists using UAS to smuggle weapons across borders,” Kaumudi said, according to his statement issued by the Permanent Mission of India to the UN. Kaumudi said the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent isolation have further accentuated the impact of the internet on people making them vulnerable to radicalisation and recruitment by terrorist groups. Spreading terrorist propaganda through the use of "indulging video games" is another strategy that was deployed by terrorist groups during the pandemic, he said. “It is imperative for countries to adopt a multi-pronged approach to tackle the global threats emanating out of misuse of new technologies particularly aiming towards terrorism and violent extremism conducive to terrorism,” he said. India called on the world to remain united against tendencies of labeling terrorism based on terrorist motivations especially those based on religion, and political ideologies. “This will certainly divide us and weaken our fight against terrorism,” Kaumudi said. He said the transborder nature of this threat calls for collective and unified action by the international community, without any excuse or exceptions, ensuring that those countries which provide safe havens to terrorists should be called out and held accountable. India noted with concern that internet and social media platforms have turned into indispensable resources in the toolkit of global terrorist groups for spreading terrorist propaganda and conspiracy theories aimed at spreading hatred among societies and communities and offer additional radicalisation opportunities which may proliferate globally. “The increased use of closed group communications adds to the concern,” he said. Kaumudi told the General Assembly that continuing advancements in evolving technologies, such as Artificial Intelligence, robotics, “deep fakes”, blockchain, dark web are fraught with the risk of being abused by terrorists. “Already, cryptocurrencies, virtual assets, crowdfunding platforms are helping terror financing, owing to anonymity and un-traceability of these technologies,” he said. India has put in place an elaborate counter-terrorism and security architecture, besides introducing a series of measures in the cyber-space encapsulating counter-radicalisation and de-radicalisation strategies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/possible-use-of-weaponised-drones-for-terrorism-calls-for-serious-attention-india-at-un-1002729.html
29-06-2021||National||Fuel prices hiked; petrol nears Rs 100 a litre in Chennai||After a day of pause, petrol prices have been increased by up to 35 paise while diesel by up to 28 paise on Tuesday, 29 June, taking fuel prices across the country to a historic high. The 32nd increase in fuel prices in less than two months took the petrol price in Delhi to Rs 98.81 per litre and diesel to Rs 89.18 per litre.  In Mumbai, petrol price hit an all-time high of Rs 104.90 a litre, with an increase of 34 paise. Diesel price was also increased by 30 paise to retail at Rs 96.72 per litre in the financial capital. In Chennai, petrol and diesel prices were hiked by 31 paise and 26 paise, respectively. The price of petrol was Rs 99.80 per litre and that of diesel was Rs 93.72 per litre in Tamil Nadu’s capital. Oil companies revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on the average price of benchmark fuel in the international market in the preceding 15 days, and foreign exchange rates. International oil prices have climbed in recent weeks on optimism of a quick recovery in fuel demand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fuel-prices-hiked-petrol-nears-rs-100-a-litre-in-chennai-1002733.html
29-06-2021||National||PM Modi to chair council of ministers meeting on June 30||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a meeting of the Union council of ministers on Wednesday, which is likely to discuss the Covid situation and may also review functioning of few ministries, sources said on Tuesday. The meeting will be held virtually on Wednesday evening, the sources said. The work done by the Road and Transport Ministry and Civil Aviation and Telecom ministries may be reviewed in the meeting, the sources said.  A wider discussion on the Covid-19 situation is also likely during the meeting, they said. The meeting is being held a week after Prime Minister Modi held meetings with ministers both Cabinet and Minister of State rank in different groups to review the performance of their respective ministries These meetings were held at the Prime Minister's official residence and BJP president J P Nadda was present in most of these meetings Political observers and BJP insiders feel the council of ministers meeting assumes significance as it is being held at a time when political circles are abuzz with speculation of a cabinet expansion and reshuffle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-chair-council-of-ministers-meeting-on-june-30-1002735.html
29-06-2021||National||Implement 'One Nation, One Ration Card' scheme by July 31: SC to states||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed all the States to implement the One Nation One Ration Card scheme by July 31, 2021, saying they are duty bound to do it as this was a welfare scheme in the interest of poor and marginal sections of the society.  A bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan also ordered the Centre and States to provide dry ration to migrant workers and continue running community kitchens for them as they faced hardships due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.  "The fundamental right to life enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution may be interpreted to include right to live with human dignity, which may include the right to food and other basic necessities," the bench, also comprising Justice M R Shah, said. Passing a slew of directions on an application filed by advocate Prashant Bhushan on behalf of activists Harsh Mander, Anjali Bhardwaj and Jagdeep Chhokar, the top court told the Centre to allocate and distribute food grains as per demands of state governments for the migrant workers.   The top court also directed the Centre and state governments to complete the registration of all migrant workers, including those from unorganised sectors, by July 31, 2021.  However, the court refused to issue any direction for direct cash transfer to workers, saying it was a matter of policy and fell in domain of the State. The court pointed out most of the states have made a scheme for direct bank transfers to construction workers, ranging from Rs 1,000 to Rs 6,000. Few states included auto rickshaw drivers and some other categories.  In its 80-page judgement, the court noted only states of Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi and West Bengal have yet not implemented One Nation One Ration Card scheme, which provided for the nation-wide portability of the National Food Security Act Ration card. "When migrant workers are spread throughout the country, each State has to implement the scheme, which is a necessary welfare measure towards food security to this class of persons," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/implement-one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme-by-july-31-sc-to-states-1002737.html
29-06-2021||National||Answer to crisis is to put money in hands of people: Chidambaram on government's Covid-19 relief package||A day after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a package to support the pandemic-hit economy, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Tuesday said the answer to this "crisis" is to spur demand by putting money in the hands of the people, especially the poor and the lower middle classes. Sitharaman on Monday announced Rs 1.5 lakh crore of additional credit for small and medium businesses, more funds for the healthcare sector, loans to tourism agencies and guides, and waiver of visa fee for foreign tourists as part of a package to support the pandemic-hit economy. Reacting to the development, Chidambaram said, "Some elementary truths: Credit guarantee is not credit. Credit is more debt. No banker will lend to a debt-ridden business." Some elementary truths: Credit guarantee is not credit Credit is more debt. No banker will lend to a debt-ridden business Debt-burdened or cash-starved businesses do not want more credit, they need non-credit capital "Debt-burdened or cash-starved businesses do not want more credit, they need non-credit capital," the former finance minister said in a series of tweets. "More supply does not mean more demand (consumption). On the contrary, more demand (consumption) will trigger more supply," he said. Demand will not grow in an economy where jobs have been lost and incomes or wages have been reduced, Chidambaram argued. "The answer to this crisis is to put money in the hands of the people, especially the poor and lower middle classes," he said. The Congress had on Monday claimed that the measures announced by the Finance Minister "delivered nothing but headlines" and said the government should take steps to spur demand to revive the economy "which continues to be in the doldrums".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/answer-to-crisis-is-to-put-money-in-hands-of-people-chidambaram-on-governments-covid-19-relief-package-1002739.html
29-06-2021||National||Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine likely to get DCGI nod soon||India's drug regulator is likely to grant restricted emergency use authorisation for Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine, official sources said on Tuesday. In a separate communication, Moderna has informed that the US has agreed to donate a certain number of doses of its Covid-19 vaccine through COVAX to the Government of India for use here and has sought approval from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), while Cipla, on behalf of the US pharma major, has requested for import and marketing authorisation of these jabs. According to the sources, an approval is likely anytime as the CDSCO is in favour of granting permission to Cipla for import of Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine for restricted emergency use in India considering the pandemic situation in the country and in public interest. Cipla filed an application on Monday seeking permission for import of Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine referring to DCGI notices dated April 15 and June 1 as per which if the vaccine is approved by the USFDA for EUA, the vaccine can be granted marketing authorisation without bridging trial and assessment of safety data of first 100 beneficiaries of vaccines shall be submitted before rolling out in immunisation programme. Also, the requirement of testing of every batch by the Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL), Kasauli can be exempted if the batch/lot is released by the CDL of country of origin. However, summary lot protocol review and scrutiny of documents shall be undertaken by the laboratory for batch release as per standard procedures, Cipla said referring to the DCGI's new revised rules. Moderna through a separate communication has informed that the US Government has agreed to donate a certain number of doses of the Moderna Covid-19 Vaccine, mRNA-1273, through COVAX to the Government of India for use in India and has submitted the dossiers through e-mail. "This correspondence is to request the CDSCO to open a file for approval of these urgently needed vaccines," Moderna said. In a bid to expedite the roll out of vaccines, the DCGI on June 1 decided to waive off testing of batches at CDL for foreign-manufactured vaccines that have been approved by international drug regulators such as the US FDA, the UK's MHRA or the WHO. The Centre had in April issued detailed guidelines and proactively eased entry of foreign made Covid-19 vaccines approved by the US FDA, EMA, UK's MHRA and Japan's PMDA, and WHO's Emergency Use Listing into India. According to the guidelines, these vaccines will not need to undergo prior bridging trials. The provision was further amended to waive off the trial requirement altogether for the well-established vaccines manufactured in other countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modernas-covid-19-vaccine-likely-to-get-dcgi-nod-soon-1002750.html
29-06-2021||National||Half of India's working population credit active: Report||Half of the country's working population of 40 crore people is credit active, having at least one loan or credit card, a report by a credit information company (CIC) said on Tuesday. Credit institutions are fast approaching a saturation level in new customers as over half of the borrowers are from the existing customer base of a bank, the report by Transunion CIBIL said. India's overall working population was estimated to be at 40 crore as of January 2021, while the retail credit market has 20 crore unique individuals who are credit active, it said. It can be noted that for long, there have been concerns about borrowers ending up in the traps of usurious money lenders who are not regulated and efforts have been mounted to deepen the access to finance. Over the last decade or so, reverses faced on the corporate lending side made banks prefer retail credit but concerns are being raised over the segment's resilience after the pandemic. The data from the CIC said there is an addressable market of 40 crore people aged between 18-33 years in rural and semi-urban areas, and pointed out that the credit penetration in this segment is only 8 per cent. In the new to credit (NTC) universe, there is a higher preference for products including personal loans and consumer durable loans in the segments of under-30 years and ones residing outside tier-I cities, it said. The composition of women, however, continues to be much lower in the NTC segment, it said, pointing out that the composition of female borrowers was only 15 per cent in auto loans, 31 per cent in home loans, 22 per cent in personal loans and 25 per cent in consumer durable loans. The CIC's data also suggests that NTC consumers demonstrate higher loyalty to the credit institution that has provided them their first credit opportunity, the report said. Borrowers also tend to prioritise payment on the first credit facility over the second in times of financial stress, it said. “Identifying emerging NTC consumers across segments and enabling access to financial opportunities for them is vital for driving economic resurgence and sustainable financial inclusion in our country,” the CIC's managing director and chief executive Rajesh Kumar said. He also added that lenders can assess credit risk associated with NTC customers as well with a product of the CIC for improving turnaround time and reducing cost of acquisition. The 'CreditVision NTC' scoring model is based on an algorithm that uses application and enquiry information of the borrower to help better assess their eligibility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/half-of-indias-working-population-credit-active-report-1002756.html
29-06-2021||National||Huge air pollution caused by sugar mills across UP: NGT||Noting that huge air pollution is caused by sugar mills at various locations in Uttar Pradesh resulting in unchecked degradation of environment, the National Green Tribunal has directed the UP pollution control board (UPPCB) to undertake special drive for remedial measures. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel asked the UPPCB to give an action taken report to the Oversight Committee constituted by NGT which is headed by Justice SVS Rathore, former Judge of the Allahabad High Court. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by UP resident Saroj Kumar Mishra alleging violation of environmental norms by a sugar mill at Banda Road, Powayan in Shahjahanpur. The plea stated that ash generated from the mill and the polluted air are resulting in diseases in the area. "The pollution is also affecting the students of Didar Singh Rana School, Takiya Road, Powayan, Shahjahanpur. The mill is required to install requisite equipments including filters to stop pollution," the plea said. Taking note of a report filed by UPPCB on the plea, the NGT said, "The State PCB may ensure that requisite air control device is installed in the interest of health of the students in the adjoining school. "It is a matter of common knowledge that huge air pollution is caused by such units at various locations in the State of UP resulting in unchecked air pollution beyond the prescribed norms in violation of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981. "There is thus need for a special drive by the State PCB to check the status of air pollution being caused by such units throughout the State and take remedial measures," the bench said. The NGT said that if the Oversight Committee considers that any further direction is required, the Committee may give its recommendations to this Tribunal. The Registry may list the report of the Oversight Committee, if and when received, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/huge-air-pollution-caused-by-sugar-mills-across-up-ngt-1002765.html
29-06-2021||National||Monsoon Session of Parliament likely to begin from July 19||The Monsoon Session of Parliament is likely to commence on July 19 and conclude on August 13, sources said on Tuesday. The nearly month-long session is likely to have around 20 sittings, the sources said. The Monsoon Session of Parliament usually commences in the third week of July and concludes ahead of Independence day. A recommendation about the duration of the session has been made by the Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs, the sources said. All Covid related protocols will be followed within the Parliament complex during the session, the sources said, adding that it is hoped that all those entering the complex during the session have taken at least one dose of Covid vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-session-of-parliament-likely-to-begin-from-july-19-1002773.html
29-06-2021||National||Cipla gets DCGI nod to import Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine for restricted emergency use in India||The Government of India on Tuesday granted permission for emergency use of Moderna's Covid-19 vaccines and is in talks with Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson as it seeks to step up the vaccination drive after a devastating second wave of the pandemic. The Drug Controller General of India approved the application of pharma major Cipla to import “ready to inject” Moderna vaccines, making it the fourth Covid-19 jab to be available in the country after Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V. “Our vaccine basket is now richer with this addition,” V K Paul, member (health) Niti Ayog told reporters. He said Moderna's vaccine has received the regulatory approval and other formalities will have to be followed before Cipla starts importing the doses for administering to beneficiaries as part of the vaccination drive. “This new permission for restricted emergency use potentially opens up a clear possibility of this vaccine being imported to India in the near future,” Paul said adding that the government is also in talks with Pfizer and J&J to introduce their vaccines in the country. According to a PTI report, Moderna had informed India's drug regulator that the US administration planned to donate a certain number of doses of its Covid-19 vaccine through COVAX to India and sought approval for emergency use authorisation. India had recently relaxed rules for allowing use of Covid-19 vaccines in the country if they are approved by one of the four regulators in the US, the UK, European Union or Japan. By approving Moderna's vaccine, India also opened the doors for the first mRNA vaccine for use in the country. Among the available vaccines, Covaxin uses an inactivated virus, while Covishield and Sputnik V use viral vectors to deliver genetic code for the antigen. The Moderna vaccines would have to be stored at temperatures between minus 25 and minus 15 degree Celsius for long term storage upto seven months. In the short term, an unopened vaccine vial can be stored between 2-8 degree Celsius for upto 30 days. India had administered more than 33 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines as on Tuesday and hopes to complete the vaccination drive by December this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cipla-gets-dcgi-nod-to-import-modernas-covid-19-vaccine-for-restricted-emergency-use-in-india-1002804.html
29-06-2021||National||Low investment in health sector's private domain; stimulus could be game-changer: V K Paul||Investment in the expansion of the health sector in private domain has been relatively low and the recent stimulus announced by the government provides the country an opportunity to change this situation, Niti Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul said on Tuesday. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced Rs 1.5 lakh crore of additional credit for small and medium businesses, more funds for the healthcare sector, loans to tourism agencies and guides, and waiver of visa fee for foreign tourists as part of a package to support the pandemic-hit economy.             The government will also provide Rs 23,220 crore of additional funding for setting up children and paediatric care/beds at hospitals to prepare them for any emergency arising out of a possible third wave of Covid.              "There has been relatively low investment in the expansion of the health sector in the private domain.The stimulus announced yesterday provides us an opportunity to change this situation," Paul said while releasing a report titled 'Not-for-Profit Hospital Model in India' According to an official statement, the report provides insight into the operation model of not-for-profit hospitals.                It presents research-based findings on such hospitals -- categorized under ownership and premise of service -- and makes subsequent comparisons with private hospitals and health schemes of the union government.             According to the statement, while adequate information exists on for-profit healthcare providers and institutions, there is a dearth of reliable and structured information on their not-for-profit counterparts.             "The not-for-profit hospital sector provides not only curative but also preventive healthcare," the statement said, adding that it links healthcare with social reform, community engagement, and education.         The report proposes short-term and long-term policy interventions, such as developing criteria to identify these hospitals, ranking them through a performance index, and promoting top hospitals for practising philanthropy, among others.                  It also highlights the need to use the expertise of these hospitals in managing human resources with limited finance in remote areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/low-investment-in-health-sectors-private-domain-stimulus-could-be-game-changer-v-k-paul-1002809.html
29-06-2021||National||New guidelines for vaccination among pregnant women: All you need to know||While the ministry says pregnant women “can and should” take the Covid-19 vaccine, it also states in its factsheet that one should make an informed decision. Here’s everything you need to know about Covid-19 vaccination guidelines for pregnant women: 1. According to the ministry, the Covid-19 vaccines are absolutely safe for pregnant women while giving them protection against the virus, like other individuals. 2. The Covid-19 vaccine can be administered at any period of time during the pregnancy. 3. The guideline suggests that before taking the vaccine, the woman should be aware that “the long-term adverse reactions and the safety of the vaccine for foetus and child are not yet established.” 4. In case of any side effects due to the vaccine, the woman will be able to experience the symptoms within 20 days of getting their jab. If symptoms like shortness of breath, persistent abdominal pain with or without vomiting, pain in limbs, small pinpoint haemorrhages or bruising of skin beyond the injection site, and severe and persistent headaches are observed then it should be brought into medical attention immediately. 5. In case a woman suffers from Covid-19 during her pregnancy then she is advised to take the vaccine only after her delivery. 6. Pregnant women are specifically told to follow the 30 minute waiting period after taking the vaccine. It will allow the healthcare authorities to take care of her in case of any side effects. 7. Pregnant women who are above the age of 35, obese, have pre-existing illnesses like diabetes or high blood pressure or have a history of clotting in the limbs are more vulnerable to severe illness due to Covid-19 than others. 8. In order to protect the pregnant woman after getting the vaccine, the guideline asks healthcare authorities to counsel the woman and her family to practice Covid-19 protocols even getting fully vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-guidelines-for-vaccination-among-pregnant-women-all-you-need-to-know-1002814.html
29-06-2021||National||Anmi urges Maharashtra government to allow stock brokers to travel by local trains||Stock brokers' association Anmi on Tuesday said it has urged the Maharashtra government to allow the staff of stock broking and depository services to travel by local trains. “Stock markets are critical for the economy and as such its various constituents are important financial market institutions. Further, they should be allowed to commute so as to ensure that these establishments function smoothly,” Anmi said in a letter to the Ministry of Transport and Parliamentary Affairs, Maharashtra. Association of National Exchanges Members of India (Anmi) is a pan-India body comprising around 900 trading members across the country and around 350 broking houses in Mumbai alone. The stock brokers' association said that despite the Maharashtra government and Ministry of Home Affairs declaring stock broking and depository services as essential services, the staff were not allowed to commute in local trains. Given the magnitude and nature of work in the broking industry, the broking houses require their staff in offices to maintain trading services and assist in technological issues, it added. Stock broking and depository services were declared an essential financial service by the Maharashtra government on April 13, 2021. Anmi said it is still to receive a response from the state government in this regard and urged it to take swift action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anmi-urges-maharashtra-government-to-allow-stock-brokers-to-travel-by-local-trains-1002817.html
29-06-2021||National||Covid-19: Five patients at Ganga Ram Hospital in Delhi suffer rectal bleeding due to CMV infection, one dies||Five Covid-19 patients have suffered cytomegalovirus-related rectal bleeding at a leading private facility in New Delhi during the second wave of the pandemic, hospital authorities said on Tuesday, claiming that it was being reported for the "first time" in immunocompetent persons. These patients face the problem on an average 20-30 days after the diagnosis of Covid-19, doctors at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said. "Until now, it affected only immunocompromised patients, post-transplant, cancer, AIDS, etc., but this is the "first time in India" that cases of CMV-related rectal bleeding in Covid immunocompetent patients have been reported," a spokesperson of the hospital said. According to Prof Anil Arora, chairman, Institute of Liver Gastroenterology and Pancreaticobiliary Sciences at the hospital, "During the second wave of the pandemic, in April-May, we have seen five cases of CMV infection in otherwise immunocompetent patients with COVID-19." These patients presented with pain in abdomen and bleeding during stool discharge. None of them had other predisposing immunosuppressed states accounting for this viral infection, he said. The Covid infection itself and the medicines used for its treatment (like steroids), do suppress the immunity of patients and make them susceptible for uncommon infections with varied presentations, the hospital said in a statement. "One such opportunistic infection is from CMV Cytomegaloirus exists in 80 to 90 per cent of the Indian population in asymptomatic form as our immunity is strong enough to make it clinically asymptomatic. Clinical presentation with symptoms secondary to CMV, is usually seen in patients whose immunity is compromised," it said. But in these five cases, all patients presented with "low lymphocyte count (6-10 per cent as against a normal of 20 to 40 per cent)", indicating Covid-induced suppression of immunity predisposing them to symptomatic reactivation of CMV infection, doctors said. These patients in age group of 30-70, are from Delhi-NCR, and four had presented with lower gastrointestinal bleed, which is bleeding in stools and one of them presented with intestinal obstruction, the statement said. "Two of them had massive bleeding, one requiring emergency life-saving surgery in the form of removal of right side of the colon, while one of them succumbed due to massive bleeding and severe Covid-19 chest disease," the hospital said. Other three patients were successfully treated with antiviral therapy with ganciclovir, said Arora. "Cytomegalovirus colitis was confirmed by PCR testing for CMV viremia and tissue biopsy from the large intestine which showed intranuclear inclusion bodies which was further confirmed to be due to CMV infection by the specific immunohistochemistry stains," said Dr Sunila Jain, senior consultant pathologist, at the hospital. In such cases a high index of suspicion and timely intervention in the form of an early diagnosis and effective antiviral therapy can save many a precious lives, opined Dr Praveen Sharma, senior consultant, gastroenterology department at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-five-patients-at-ganga-ram-hospital-in-delhi-suffer-rectal-bleeding-due-to-cmv-infection-one-dies-1002827.html
29-06-2021||National||Do not have ITR of political parties: I-T dept to RTI activist||The IT Department has given a "contradictory" response when asked for tax returns of political parties under the Right to Information Act, by first saying that the information is not held by it and then citing exemption clauses to refuse disclosing the information, an RTI activist claimed on Tuesday. The Central Information Commission, the highest adjudicator of RTI matters, had ordered in 2008 that tax returns of political parties should be disclosed under the transparency law, a position which was repeatedly reflected in its orders later.  RTI activist Venkatesh Nayak approached the Income Tax Department seeking tax returns filed by political parties in the last ten years. "The applicant is hereby informed that, the requested information is not held as such, by the CPIO as registered information nor is the requested information required to be maintained as such by the CPIO, under extant rules or regulations," the RTI response said. Citing a Supreme Court order, I-T Department's Central Public Information Officer said where the information sought is not part of the public authority's record and where it is not required to be maintained under any law or regulations, the act does not cast an obligation upon the public authority to collect or collate such non-available information and furnish it to the applicant.  The CPIO went on to cite five of the 10 exemption clauses of the RTI Act to underline that the sought information, not held by her, was exempt from disclosure. She also cited another apex court order that stated the information related to matters of an assessee is personal information which stands exempt from disclosure under the RTI Act. "The CPIO gave a totally contradictory reply to this RTI application. First she claimed that she does not hold the information. She also claimed that the information is not available in the desired form as explained in the RTI application. She cited a much-abused para from the CBSE judgement of the Supreme Court in support of her denial. Then she also claimed that five out of the 10 exemption clauses are applicable to the information sought," Nayak told PTI. The RTI exemptions cited by the CPIO to deny information relate to intellectual property rights, trade secrets and information in the nature of commercial confidence, fiduciary relationship, threat to life and safety of persons who give information to law enforcement agencies in confidence, impediment to investigation, prosecution or apprehension and privacy of an individual. "How can exemptions apply to information which she believes that she does not hold, nor even knows who is likely to have it is a big question that she has not looked at while issuing this contradictory reply," Nayak said.  Ordering the disclosure of income tax returns of political parties, the then Information Commissioner AN Tiwari had said it is recognized that political parties do need large financial  resources to discharge their myriad functions.  "But this recognition is tinged with the apprehension that non-transparent political funding could, by exposing political parties, and through it the organs of State which come under the control or its influence, to the corrupting influence of undisclosed money, can inflict irreversible harm on the institutions of government. There is public purpose in preventing such harm to the body-politic," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/do-not-have-itr-of-political-parties-i-t-dept-to-rti-activist-1002849.html
29-06-2021||National||Covid-19 gives birth to modern-day heroes||Take the case of Swati Bheemgaz, a nurse from Chhattisgarh's Bilaspur who learnt sign language after being moved by the struggles of a speech and hearing impaired patient to communicate with her, or Manikandan from Puducherry who ferries patients on his ambulance for free. Swati, who works at the Railway Hospital in Bilaspur, learnt sign language overnight through the internet after she found the struggles of one of her patients. "We were helping all patients but I was not able to communicate with this one person who could not speak or hear. I felt I should do something. After my shift, I started searching the internet for a tutorial on sign language," she recalls. However, there was one twist -- half way into her tutorials on YouTube, she found that she was learning the American sign language and that would not help her in communicating with the patient. "Then I switched to the Indian sign language. I managed to learn it overnight. The next day I communicated in sign language with the patient, who was happy," she says. For Manikandan, it was the tragic loss of life of his brother in an accident that prompted him to start a free ambulance service and continue his service during the pandemic. "No one came to my brother's rescue. Instead of calling for help or an ambulance, everyone just stood around and watched him die. I didn't want anyone else to go through what I went through," he says. Since March 2016, Manikandan, who is a car salesman by day, has donned the cap of an ambulance driver by night, and does not charge anyone who calls him. Since the lockdown, he has been sleeping in the ambulance on most nights because he fears that his family, including his elderly mother, might contract the virus. Swati and Manikandan were among six persons who were on Tuesday honoured as part of the 'Saluting Our Heroes' campaign by PepsiCo's Quaker and Smile Foundation ahead of National Doctors Day on July 1. As part of the campaign, Quaker has partnered with Smile Foundation to provide over one lakh oatmeals to more government and private hospitals across seven states including in Delhi, Maharashtra and Karnataka. Others who were honoured included Dr Jigmet Wangchuk, who set up a Covid-19 facility in a remote village Chushul in eastern Ladakh, which is just 4 km away from the Line of Actual Control, by transforming a dilapidated public health centre. Shugufta Ara, a nurse at Srinagar's JLNM Hospital, was chosen for the honour as she has been helping deliver babies of Covid-19 positive mothers. On duty since the pandemic started, she has not taken leave for a day despite her family getting infected by Covid-19. A Delhi-based laboratory technician with the chief district medical officer of Central Delhi, Ashfaque Ahmad works seven days a week collecting around 200 samples a day from people at their homes. He says he takes less than 40 seconds to collect a sample so he can cover as many people as possible. Dr Anurag Sobhari was also honoured for saving people from the risks of a hospital visit with a doorstep OPD for the underprivileged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-gives-birth-to-modern-day-heroes-1002852.html
29-06-2021||National||Parliament panel tells Facebook, Google they must follow new IT rules||Facebook and Google representatives Tuesday deposed before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology over the issue of social media misuse, with sources saying they were told to comply with the new IT rules, government instructions and court orders. The panel, chaired by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, had asked them to appear in-person at the parliament secretariat here. While from Facebook its country public policy director Shivnath Thukral and general counsel Namrata Singh deposed before the panel, Google was represented by its country head (government affairs and public policy) Aman Jain and director (legal) Gitanjali Duggal. The agenda of the parliamentary panel meeting was to safeguard citizens' rights and prevent the misuse of social/online news media platforms. The sources also said the representatives were conveyed that there are loopholes in their existing data protection and privacy policy mechanism, and were asked to put in place stringent safeguards to protect data privacy and data security of their users. The sources said that Chairman Tharoor expressed concern about the privacy of women users of social media platforms. He said he has also received complaints from several women MPs in this regard. Earlier, Facebook representatives had informed the parliamentary panel that their company policy does not allow their officials to attend in-person meetings because of their Covid-related protocol. But Tharoor conveyed to Facebook that its officials will have to appear in-person since the parliament secretariat does not allow any virtual meetings. The Parliamentary Committee on IT will also summon representatives of YouTube and other Social Media Intermediaries in the coming weeks over the issue. Facebook and Google representatives were called days after Twitter officials deposed before the panel. In the last meeting, several members of the panel had categorically told Twitter that the rule of land is supreme not the social media platform's policies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-panel-tells-facebook-google-they-must-follow-new-it-rules-1002856.html
29-06-2021||National||'Reports claiming Jaishankar's meeting with certain Taliban leaders completely false'||A source in New Delhi dismissed social media reports about the External Affairs Minister’s meeting with the leaders of the Taliban as “completely false, baseless and mischievous”. New Delhi, however, refrained from confirming or denying speculation about meetings that its diplomats and security officials purportedly held with the leaders of the Taliban. Qatar’s special envoy for counter-terrorism and mediation of conflict resolution Mutlaq bin Majed Al Qahtani, however, recently said during a webinar that a delegation of the Government of India had quietly visited Doha and had a meeting with the representatives of Taliban recently. Moeed was quoted by a newspaper published in Pakistan wondering why India was not "ashamed of its outreach to the leaders of the Taliban" after supporting offensives against it for years. Jaishankar recently had stopovers in Doha while travelling to and returning from Kenya. He had meetings with Qatari National Security Advisor Mohamed Bin Ahmed Al Mesned and Foreign Minister Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al-Thani. The Qatar government has been facilitating the peace-process between the US and Taliban as well as the Government of Afghanistan and the Taliban. The Taliban also has a political office in Doha. The External Affairs Minister also had a meeting with US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation, Zalmay Khalilzad, during one of his stopovers in Doha to discuss the progress of the talks with the Taliban. Jaishankar, himself, tweeted about most of his meetings during his stopovers in Doha. But none of his tweets had any reference to a meeting with the leaders of the Taliban. But his stopovers in Doha triggered rumours in social media about his meeting with the leaders of Taliban, like Mullah Baradar, Khairullah Khairkhwa and Shaikh Dilawar. A social media post even hinted that the Taliban had assured the External Affairs Minister that it would not let its relations with India in future to be dictated by Pakistan. The rumours in social media about Jaishankar’s meeting with the leaders of the Taliban followed reports about officials of the Government of India quietly engaging with the Islamist militia of Afghanistan. The spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, Arindam Bagchi, on June 22 told media-persons in New Delhi that India had been in touch with “various stakeholders” in Afghanistan. He was responding to a question on India’s contacts with the Taliban. New Delhi of late started reviewing its policy of avoiding contacts with the Taliban, particularly after the United States started withdrawing its troops from Afghanistan. President Joe Biden’s administration decided that the US would withdraw almost all its troops from Afghanistan by September 11 next. The US had held talks with the Taliban and also facilitated talks between the Afghan Government and the militia. With the peace-process likely to lead to some of the leaders of the Taliban returning to the Government in Afghanistan, India is worried over the possibility of Pakistan finally gaining its much-cherished “strategic depth” in the war-torn country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reports-claiming-jaishankars-meeting-with-certain-taliban-leaders-completely-false-1002885.html
29-06-2021||National||NITI Aayog pitches for 100% I-T exemption for donations to non-profit hospitals||The Centre’s policy think-tank Niti Aayog has pitched for 100 per cent income tax exemption on donations for not-for-profit hospitals to help augment much needed funds and strengthen healthcare services in India and, urged the government to tap their expertise in policy-making for health sector. "Income-tax exemption could be increased from the current 50 per cent to 100 per cent for philanthropy towards the identified not-for-profit hospitals. This could be a catalyst in channelising the much needed funds to deserving hospitals," a report  'Not-for-Profit Hospital Model in India' by Niti said.    “The not-for-profit hospitals have vast experience in providing low-cost high-quality care to the unreached sections of society, some of them existing since before India’s Independence, yet, they remain largely unknown and understudied. To obtain a comprehensive understanding of the sector, and to tap into this vast expertise, the representatives of high-performing not-for-profit hospitals across different geographical locations can be invited to relevant policymaking committees,” it said. It also suggested provision of working capital loans with lower interest rates for not-for-profit hospitals and involving high performing hospitals in public private partnership (PPP) models for managing primary health care (PHCs), operations of government facilities and PSU hospitals.         The report also stressed on need for developing mechanisms to rank not-for-profit hospitals on a performance index, creation of a rating scale based on the volume of services utilised annually, the extent of charity work done, impact on the community health indicators of the location, operational efficiency, and self-sufficiency.          "Create a national level portal/directory of these hospitals in the public domain, wherein all the not-for-profit hospitals can be listed to highlight the hospital and its functions in the public domain," it suggested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/niti-aayog-pitches-for-100-i-t-exemption-for-donations-to-non-profit-hospitals-1002886.html
29-06-2021||National||About 49% of 60 years & above population vaccinated with first dose of Covid vaccine: Centre||More than five months into the Covid-19 vaccination programme, half of India’s senior citizens have received at least one dose, which would partially protect them from the virus, health officials said here on Tuesday. India has an estimated 13.8 crore individuals the age of 60 years and above, of which 49 per cent received at least one dose of the vaccine. The vaccination for this group – considered high risk due to their age – began in February third week marking the second phase of the campaign. "It's reassuring that 49 per cent of the senior citizens are covered. This category was prioritised and in a vast nation protecting half of our senior citizens is no mean achievement,” V K Paul, member NITI Ayog and the government’s principal advisor on Covid-19 said. Among those aged 45-59 years, nearly 42 per cent have been vaccinated with one dose whereas 15 per cent of those between 18-44 years received one shot. The estimated population in the two groups is 20.9 crore and 59.7 crore respectively. Keeping in mind the needs of the senior citizen, the Centre last month permitted creating near-tohome Covid vaccination centres that can be set up in a community centre, RWA centre/office, housing complexes, panchayat ghars, school buildings and old age homes. “The virus doesn't selectively choose to infect one age group over the other. As long as there are unvaccinated vulnerable groups there is a serious risk of transmission. With emergence of highly transmissible variants such as Delta these concerns are amplified,” Oommen John, a public health researcher at the George Institute for Global Health told DH. India’s daily vaccination hit a low of 19.69 lakhs doses in May before rising to 40.35 lakh in June. Since June 21 when the new vaccination regime kicked in which the Centre procured 75 per cent of the doses distributed to the states, the average vaccination was more than 57 lakhs doses. “It is people in the 18-45 age group who are actively engaged in external economic activity and a high proportion of unvaccinated among them is a huge risk. Moreover, in the Indian context those in the 18-44 age are not free of co-morbidities or risk factors that are associated with adverse outcomes,” warned John. Sharing the vaccination data, Agarwal said there were 17.48 crore male recipients as against 14.99 crore females. Also, more than 54,500 people of “other” genders received the shot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/about-49-of-60-years-above-population-vaccinated-with-first-dose-of-covid-vaccine-centre-1002889.html
29-06-2021||National||From the Newsroom: DCGI permits Cipla to import Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine for restricted emergency use||In your daily news update, DCGI permits Cipla to import Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine for restricted emergency use; ICC says this year's T20 World Cup will be played from October 17 to November 14, and former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh fails to appear before the Enforcement Directorate in connection with a money laundering case.  India's drug regulator Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has granted permission to Mumbai-based pharmaceutical company Cipla to import Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine for restricted emergency use in the country, official sources said on Tuesday. Moderna's vaccine will be the fourth Covid-19 jab to be available in India after Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik.   The International Cricket Council announced on Tuesday that this year's T20 World Cup, which has been moved to the UAE and Oman from India due to the Covid-19 pandemic, will be played from October 17 to November 14. The ICC statement came a day after BCCI intimated the governing body that the event can be moved out of India. The ICC stated, "The BCCI will remain the hosts of the event, which will now be held in Dubai International Stadium, the Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi, the Sharjah Stadium, and the Oman Cricket Academy Ground, from 17 October to 14 November 2021."   Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh did not appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED)in connection with a money laundering case on Tuesday, citing Covid-19 and his old age. Deshmukh also requested for a virtual interaction on a day suitable for the central agency. The ED had asked the 71-year-old Nationalist Congress Party leader to appear before it at 11 am on Tuesday, after he did not depose before the investigating officer here on Saturday. That's all for today. For more news and updates log on to deccanherald.com. Have a great evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-dcgi-permits-cipla-to-import-modernas-covid-19-vaccine-for-restricted-emergency-use-1002899.html
29-06-2021||National||Indians generally feel they can practice their religion freely: Pew||Indians generally feel they live in a society where followers of many religions can live and practice freely, according to the latest survey of the US-based think-tank Pew. Based on the face-to-face interviews of adults conducted in 17 languages between late 2019 and early 2020 (before the Covid-19 pandemic), the Pew survey on 30,000 Indians found that Indians of all religious backgrounds overwhelmingly say they are very free to practice their faiths. “Indians see religious tolerance as a central part of who they are as a nation. Across the major religious groups, most people say it is very important to respect all religions to be ‘truly Indian’. “And tolerance is a religious as well as civic value: Indians are united in the view that respecting other religions is a very important part of what it means to be a member of their own religious community,” it said. More than 70 years after India became free from the colonial rule, Indians generally feel their country has lived up to one of its post-independence ideals: a society where followers of many religions can live and practice freely, it said. According to Pew, these shared values are accompanied by a number of beliefs that cross religious lines. “Not only do a majority of Hindus in India (77 per cent) believe in karma, but an identical percentage of Muslims do, too,” it said. “A third of Christians in India (32 per cent) – together with 81 per cent of Hindus – say they believe in the purifying power of the Ganges River, a central belief in Hinduism. “In Northern India, 12 per cent of Hindus and 10 per cent of Sikhs, along with 37 per cent of Muslims identity with Sufism, a mystical tradition most closely associated with Islam,” it said. And the vast majority of Indians of all major religious backgrounds say that respecting elders is very important to their faith, the report found. According to Pew, despite sharing certain values and religious beliefs – as well as living in the same country, under the same constitution – members of India’s major religious communities often do not feel they have much in common with one another. The majority of Hindus see themselves as very different from Muslims (66 per cent), and most Muslims return the sentiment, saying they are very different from Hindus (64 per cent). There are a few exceptions: Two-thirds of Jains and about half of Sikhs say they have a lot in common with Hindus. But generally, people in India’s major religious communities tend to see themselves as very different from others, it said. Among other things, the survey finds that Hindus tend to see their religious identity and Indian national identity as closely intertwined: Nearly two-thirds of Hindus (64 per cent) say it is very important to be Hindu to be “truly” Indian. Most Hindus (59 per cent) also link Indian identity with being able to speak Hindi – one of dozens of languages that are widely spoken in India. And these two dimensions of national identity – being able to speak Hindi and being a Hindu – are closely connected. Among Hindus who say it is very important to be Hindu to be truly Indian, fully 80 per cent also say it is very important to speak Hindi to be truly Indian, it said. “The BJP’s appeal is greater among Hindus who closely associate their religious identity and the Hindi language with being ‘truly Indian’. “In the 2019 national elections, 60 per cent of Hindu voters who think it is very important to be Hindu and to speak Hindi to be truly Indian cast their vote for the BJP, compared with only a third among Hindu voters who feel less strongly about both these aspects of national identity,” Pew added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indians-generally-feel-they-can-practice-their-religion-freely-pew-1002912.html
29-06-2021||National||Electricity (Amendment) Bill likely to be introduced in Monsoon Session: R K Singh||The Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2021, which enables power consumer to choose from multiple service providers as in the case of telecom services, is likely to be introduced and pushed for passage in the Monsoon Session of Parliament beginning in July. Participating in the virtual BloombergNEF (BNEF) Summit, Power and Renewable Energy Minister R K Singh said the Bill seeks to delicense distribution of electricity. "We proposed to delicense distribution of electricity just like the generation. The Cabinet note on the Bill was circulated and all concerned ministries have approved it. But law ministry has one or two queries," Singh said. He exuded confidence that it would be sent for the Union Cabinet approval soon and hopefully be introduced and pushed for passage in the forthcoming Monsoon Session of Parliament. The Monsoon Session is likely to commence on July 19 and conclude on August 13. The proposal to seek the Cabinet approval for the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2021 was circulated in January this year and the draft law was to be pushed for passage in the Budget session. The Bill seeks to delicense power distribution to reduce entry barriers for private players for creating competition in the segment, which would ultimately enable consumers to choose from multiple service providers. The Bill also prescribes the rights and duties of electricity consumers. The minister further said the penalty for non-compliance of renewable purchase obligation (RPO) would be increased. Under the RPO, discoms and other large consumers are required to buy certain proportion of renewable energy prescribed by their respective regulators. They can also buy renewable energy certificates to meet the RPO obligation. Earlier on many occasion, the minister had expressed dismay over persistent non-compliance of RPO norms, especially by state utilities. Singh also said the Cabinet proposal for the National Green Hydrogen Mission has been circulated with concerned ministries and would soon be sent to Union Cabinet for approval. Regarding Reliance Industries' recent announcement of investing Rs 75,000 crore in the green energy sector, the minister said,"It is music to my ears." For the renewables space, he said the government is in the process of introducing 'green tariff'. Green tariff will help the discoms supply electricity generated from clean energy sources like solar or wind at a cheaper rate as compared to power from conventional fuels like coal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/electricity-amendment-bill-likely-to-be-introduced-in-monsoon-session-r-k-singh-1002915.html
29-06-2021||National||Trouble mounts for Twitter as police register more FIRs||Twitter is facing further trouble with law enforcement agencies in the country as police in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi registered cases against it for distorting the Indian map and for the availability of child pornography material on the micro-blogging site, and the Madhya Pradesh government directing its officials to take action. The registration of the cases came as the social media giant is said to have lost immunity from criminal proceedings after the appointment of a US-based grievance officer following the resignation of one based in India in violation of the new Information Technology Rules. Uttar Pradesh Police registered the case for distortion of Indian map in Bulandshahr, while Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra directed the state police chief Vivek Johri to register a case. Acting on a complaint by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), Delhi Police's Cyber Cell registered a case under POCSO Act and IT Act against Twitter citing availability of links and material pertaining child exploitation. The case is against Twitter Inc and Twitter India. The actions by police in three states came on a day Uttar Pradesh Police approached the Supreme Court seeking to quash Karnataka High Court directive not to take cooercive action against Twitter India Managing Director Manish Maheshwari in connection with a case of a controversial video on the attack on an elderly man posted on the website. The UP Police registered a case against Twitter following a complaint by a Bajrang Dal leader under Section 505(2) of Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of Information and Technology Act. The Madhya Pradesh govt said, "something or other has been going on continuously against the country for a long time. Sometimes unrestrained words are spoken against Bharat Mata and sometimes a wrong map of the country is displayed on Twitter. These issues cannot be taken lightly. The governments at the Centre and the state have taken it seriously." Mishra said such incidents of speaking against or doing something against 'Bharat Mata' (Mother India) are on the rise. Twitter had landed in trouble after the distorted map appeared on the career section of the Twitter website under the header 'Tweep Life'. Last October, Twitter had depicted Leh in Ladakh as part of China, prompting the government to issue a warning to the micro-blogging site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trouble-mounts-for-twitter-as-police-register-more-firs-1002918.html
29-06-2021||National||Nitin Gadkari calls for ratings system for MSMEs||MSME Minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday called for creation of a ratings system for the sector and a dashboard for effective monitoring of various schemes. Addressing a webinar, he said a simple and transparent methodology should be evolved to give ratings to MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) having good turnover and GST (Goods and Services Tax) records to enable them to get financing from banks and institutions. The whole world now wants to invest in Indian industry and with an effective ratings system, MSMEs can get good investment from abroad, he added. Gadkari also proposed setting up a dashboard for monitoring schemes to prevent delays in decision-making. He asked SIDBI to take decisions within three months and provide support to the sector. MSMEs contribute nearly 30 per cent to country's GDP and provide employment to more than 11 crore people -- second highest after the agriculture sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitin-gadkari-calls-for-ratings-system-for-msmes-1002922.html
29-06-2021||National||Supreme Court in favour of CA exams from July 5||The Supreme Court on Tuesday indicated to allow in-person Chartered Accountant (CA) examinations scheduled to commence from July 5. A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar asked the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) to prepare a standard operating procedure giving students with Covid an opt-out option.  The bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Aniruddha Bose, told the ICAI to present a note incorporating the suggestions. The bench said it will pass orders on the petitions connected with the CA exams after perusing the note. It put the matter for consideration on Wednesday. The bench said in principle it agreed that CA exams can be held from July 5. The court asked ICAI to consider its suggestions for granting a chance to candidates to opt for a centre of his or her choice. ICAI counsel submitted students appearing for the examinations will be given another opportunity if they face difficulties to take the exam due to Covid-19 restrictions. Senior advocate Ramji Srinivasan, representing the ICAI, submitted the ICAI had given opt-out option to students who were down with Covid-19 and the chief medical officer can issue a certificate for the students.  Hearing a batch of petitions for cancelling or postponing the exam, the top court asked ICAI to come up with a policy where a competent authority can issue a certificate explaining why a Covid-19 positive student cannot appear for the upcoming CA examination. Senior advocate Meenakshi Arora, representing the petitioners, cited issues associated with obtaining RT-PCR positive test reports for students who could not write exams due to Covid. She added that students who live in containment zones may not be able to take the RT-PCR tests and ICAI should examine these problems faced by students. Arora submitted the July exams schedule is the last opportunity to appear as per the old syllabus. The bench noted that persons who recover from Covid, may have long term problems and they may not be able to appear in exams. "General policy may be adopted where an authorised agency can certify that he is not able to appear in exam," the bench added. "RT-PCR test is no test. Some negative persons were actually positive. Evolve a policy that one can certify why one could not appear," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-in-favour-of-ca-exams-from-july-5-1002923.html
29-06-2021||National||Parliamentary panel seeks Twitter's response on locking of accounts of Prasad, Tharoor||A parliamentary panel has sought Twitter's response on the recent locking of the accounts of Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, sources said on Tuesday. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology has sent a letter to Twitter seeking its response within two days, sources said. The panel was instructed by its chairman Tharoor to seek reply from Twitter on the blocking of accounts of Prasad and others on its platform, sources said. Last week, Twitter had blocked Union Information and Technology Minister Prasad from accessing his account which ratcheted up tensions with the government as it came under renewed attack for not following local laws. Twitter denied Prasad access to his account '@rsprasad' for almost an hour on the grounds that he violated the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act, but the minister said the microblogging platform violated new IT rules that require intermediary or a host of user content to give prior notice before locking access. The IT Minister called out Twitter over the brazen arbitrariness and running its "own agenda". Soon after Prasad flagged the issue, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor tweeted that he too had faced something similar. "Raviji, the same thing just happened to me. Clearly DMCA is getting hyperactive. This tweet has been deleted by @Twitter because its video includes the copyrighted BoneyM song 'Rasputin'," Tharoor tweeted. Tharoor further said: "As Chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, I can state that we will be seeking an explanation from @TwitterIndia for the locking of @rsprasad's & my accounts & the rules & procedures they follow while operating in India". Prasad lashed out at Twitter, and in a series of posts on rival social media platform Koo said it was apparent that his statements calling out the "high handedness and arbitrary actions" of Twitter, had ruffled feathers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-seeks-twitters-response-on-locking-of-accounts-of-prasad-tharoor-1002927.html
29-06-2021||National||Shatrughan says pro-Modi tweet a 'humour'; not leaving Congress||With his recent pro-Modi tweet seen as an attempt of "ghar wapsi" in the BJP, actor and Congress leader Shatrughan Sinha on Tuesday dismissed the speculations, saying he made the comments as a "humour" and there is no desire to change sides. Sinha had said in his tweet in Hindi on Sunday that apart from three kinds of Covid variants, there was a fourth type of variant "of people being 'dukhi' (unhappy) with Modi without any reason". "It was a Sunday humour for entertainment. I make some tweets for fun every Sunday and no political meaning should be derived from them. "Neither do I have any feeling to leave Congress and rejoin BJP nor a wish in this regard," the actor-politician told PTI over the phone from Mumbai. Sinha, who served as a union minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, had left the BJP and joined the Congress on the eve of 2019 Lok Sabha polls and had unsuccessfully contested from his native Patna Sahib constituency on a Congress ticket. Sinha popularly known as "Bihari Babu", had twice won with a handsome margin from the seat on a BJP ticket in 2009 as well as 2014. However, he lost with a big margin to Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad from the constituency in 2019. Before walking out of the saffron party, Sinha had made several veiled remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home minister Amit Shah. He used to say that BJP has become "one-man party and two men army" without naming anybody. With the Congress party losing elections after elections and Sinha himself not seen in any significant role in the grand old party, his comment on Modi is being viewed in political circles as an effort of reaching out to his old party. The actor-turned-politician still says that he has been baptised in politics in the BJP and has many "good friends" in the saffron party. "I had left the BJP disagreeing with the leadership on certain issues like demonetisation and rollout of complicated GST and still stand by it,""he said. About the future of the Congress party, he said "we should not write off the grand old party on the basis of having lesser numbers of MPs in the last two Parliamentary elections...Congress can bounce back to power...one should not forget that BJP was also a party of two MPs at one time."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shatrughan-says-pro-modi-tweet-a-humour-not-leaving-congress-1002928.html
29-06-2021||National||India to soon come out with policy to deal with emerging security threats||Expeditious framing of a broad-based policy to deal with emerging security threats and futuristic challenges facing the country was a major focus of a meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi held with Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval on Tuesday, people familiar with the development said. The meeting took place two days after explosives-laden drones were used to carry out an attack on the Jammu Air Force station in the first such instance of suspected Pakistan-based terrorists deploying unmanned aerial vehicles to strike at vital installations. "The government is coming out with a policy to collectively deal with the emerging challenges. It was decided to expedite the framing of the policy," one of the persons cited above said after the meeting. Various ministries and departments are working on the policy to effectively counter the new and emerging non-traditional security challenges facing the country. The defence ministry and the three services will play a leading role in the formulation of the policy as well as in its implementation by coordinating with all the leading stakeholders and security agencies. It has also been learnt that the three forces are being told to adequately focus on bridging the gaps in effectively dealing with new-age challenges such as drone attacks and go for the procurement of the necessary hardware to contain those. The meeting also discussed various other aspects, including equipping the security forces with modern equipment and involving more youngsters, start-ups and the strategic community in the field. The Army has already been working on incorporating artificial intelligence, cognitive sciences, robotics, drones, quantum computing, nanotechnology and cyber capabilities as part of the efforts to deal with future challenges. The people said the three services as well as key national security planners will have a series of meetings in the next few weeks and months to speed up the work on the policy. They said the services have already been told to focus on acquiring anti-drone technologies to deal with attacks by unmanned aerial vehicles. Following the Jammu attack, the Indian Air Force has enhanced the security at all its bases located in the border areas. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has developed anti-drone technology to shoot down hostile drones in the range of two to three kilometres. It is expected to conduct more research on extending the range. A day after the attack on the Jammu Air Force station, fresh attempts to target the Ratnuchak-Kaluchak military station in Jammu with drones were thwarted by alert soldiers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-soon-come-out-with-policy-to-deal-with-emerging-security-threats-1002929.html
29-06-2021||National||Bharat Biotech chairman given central security cover||Krishna Ella, the chairman of vaccine manufacturer Bharat Biotech, has recently been provided a "Y" category armed security cover by the Union government, officials said on Tuesday. Ella, 52, is also the founder of the Hyderabad-based biotechnology company that is manufacturing the Covaxin vaccine approved by India for inoculation against Covid-19. The company is also engaged in drug discovery, drug development, manufacturing various other vaccines, bio-therapeutics, pharmaceuticals and healthcare products. The officials said Ella was provided the security cover of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) armed commandos sometime ago given his current profile of spearheading the production of life-saving vaccines and other medical essentials. About two-three commandos will accompany him whenever he travels to any part of the country under the "Y" category central cover, they said. The premises of the Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) in the Shameerpet area of Telangana's capital Hyderabad was recently accorded an armed protection cover by the same paramilitary force following approval by the Union home ministry. "In light of the increased threat perception to the biotechnology company, BBIL is inherently vulnerable to threats from anti-nationals and saboteurs. The CISF will provide a round-the-clock armed security cover to the facility in Hyderabad," a spokesperson of the force had then said. In April, the Union government had similarly accorded a "Y" category security cover to Adar Poonawalla, the CEO and promoter of the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) that manufactures the Covishield vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-chairman-given-central-security-cover-1002934.html
29-06-2021||National||Centre launches Atmanirbhar Krishi App for farmers||The government on Tuesday launched 'Atmanirbhar Krishi App' to provide farmers with actionable agricultural insights and early weather alerts. The wealth of information relevant to farmers curated by various government departments on a national digital platform 'KisanMitr' is now being made available through the 'Atmanirbhar Krishi App' in a manner comprehensible to them. The App -- in Android and Windows versions -- is available in 12 languages for free of cost for farmers, start-ups, Krishi Vighyan Kendras, Self Help Groups, and NGOs. "With the Atmanirbhar Krishi app of the KisanMitr initiative, farmers will have in their hands, evidence-based information generated by our research organisations like IMD, ISRO, ICAR, and CGWA," Principal Scientific Adviser to Government K VijayRaghavan said during the launch. This information, when used by the farmers to make decisions on cropping patterns, mechanisation of small farmers' holdings, or stubble burning, will ensure that decisions are made factoring in the importance of sustainability of water and environment, and judicious use of resources, he said in a statement. An app available on a basic phone with information in a language comprehensible to farmers will also enhance inclusivity during the decision-making process, he added. The government said that considering the connectivity issues in the remote areas of the country, the app has been designed to work on minimal bandwidth. The app does not collect any inputs from the farmer. It relies on the geo-location of the farm to provide relevant data. Data relevant to another location can be collected by entering the pin code of that area. Bengaluru-based Indian Centre for Social Transformation (ICST) Founder Trustee Raja Seeva is one of the major stakeholders in the development of this app and KisanMitr.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-launches-atmanirbhar-krishi-app-for-farmers-1002938.html
29-06-2021||National||Watch out for rise in Covid-19 cases amid easing of restrictions: Centre to states||Striking a word of caution, the Centre on Tuesday asked states to adopt a “carefully calibrated” approach as they ease restrictions following a decline in Covid-19 cases. In an advisory issued by the Union Home Ministry, the state governments and union territory administrators have been asked to keep continued focus on containment efforts to curb the spread of infection till July 31. “On witnessing any early sign of an increase in the case positivity rate and higher bed occupancy, necessary action should be taken for containment and upgrading the health infrastructure,” Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said in a communication to states and union territories. He asked the states and union territories to “consider implementation of targeted and prompt actions” for Covid-19 management as conveyed in Health Ministry advisory, issued June 28, till July 31. Bhalla said the states should regularly monitor the districts with a high number of active coronavirus cases per million population as it is an important indicator to predict the need for upgrading the health infrastructure and logistics, so that early and prompt action can be taken. The states should consider imposing restrictions in districts with high positivity rate and bed occupancy, the advisory said, adding that such restrictions should remain in place for a minimum period of 14 days. According to the Health Ministry, 111 districts across the country were reporting more than 100 cases daily as on June 27. “There should be a continuous focus on the five-fold strategy for an effective management of Covid-19 i.e. test-track-treat-vaccination and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour,” the Home Secretary said. He said there should be no let up in adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour while easing of restrictions. The Home Secretary underscored that “adequate testing is crucial” for early identification of cases and curbing the spread of infection. He asked states to ensure availability of RT-PCR machines and test kits in all districts. He also asked states to focus on upgradation of health infrastructure, timely commissioning of PSA plants in hospitals, adequate planning for medical oxygen, and maintaining of buffer stocks of drugs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/watch-out-for-rise-in-covid-19-cases-amid-easing-of-restrictions-centre-to-states-1002939.html
29-06-2021||National||NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant gets another extension till June 2022||NITI Aayog Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Amitabh Kant was on Tuesday given one-year extension till June 2022, according to a Personnel Ministry order. This is a third extension for the 65-year-old civil servant in the post. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the extension in tenure of Kant for a further period of one year beyond June 30, 2021 i.e upto June 30, 2022 or until further orders, it said. He was appointed as the CEO of the National Institution for Transforming India (NITI Aayog) on February 17, 2016, for a fixed two-year term. Kant was later given an extension till June 30, 2019. His term was further extended for two years, till this month end, in June 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/niti-aayog-ceo-amitabh-kant-gets-another-extension-till-june-2022-1002957.html
29-06-2021||National||Nirav Modi renews appeal against extradition to India, to be heard on July 21||Wanted diamond merchant Nirav Modi on Tuesday renewed his appeal in the High Court in London against being extradited to India to face charges of fraud and money laundering in the estimated $2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case. "A renewal hearing is listed for 21 July 2021," a court official confirmed on Tuesday. At the brief hearing next month, a High Court judge will determine if there are any grounds for an appeal against the Home Secretary’s decision or the Westminster Magistrates Court February ruling in favour of Modi’s extradition to India for the case should proceed to a full hearing. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), which appears in court on behalf of the Indian authorities, has previously said it is waiting for the next stages in the process. "If they are allowed to appeal then we would contest any appeal proceedings on behalf of the GOI [government of India]," the CPS had said last month. Meanwhile, Modi remains in prison since his arrest over two years ago on March 19, 2019 and his repeated attempts at bail were rejected as he is deemed a flight risk. In his ruling in February, District Judge Sam Goozee concluded that the diamond merchant has a case to answer before the Indian courts and that the bars to extradition under UK law do not apply in his case. As part of a very comprehensive judgment, the judge concluded that he was satisfied that there is evidence upon which Nirav Modi could be convicted in relation to the conspiracy to defraud the PNB. "A prima facie case is established," he said, in relation to all counts of charges brought by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) – including money laundering, intimidation of witnesses and disappearance of evidence. The court had also accepted that while Modi's mental health had deteriorated due to the lengthy incarceration in a London prison, exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic, his risk of suicide did not meet the high threshold to conclude that it would be "unjust or oppressive" to extradite him. Under assurances given by the Indian authorities in court, Modi is to be held at Barrack 12 Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai and provided required medical attention on being extradited to face trial in India. Modi is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings, with the CBI case relating to a large-scale fraud upon PNB through the fraudulent obtaining of letters of undertaking (LoUs) or loan agreements, and the ED case relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud. He also faces two additional charges of "causing the disappearance of evidence" and intimidating witnesses or “criminal intimidation to cause death”, which were added on to the CBI case. "I do not accept the submissions that NDM [Nirav Deepak Modi] was involved in legitimate business and using the LoUs in a permissible fashion,” notes the magistrates’ court judgment forwarded to the Home Secretary. India is a designated Part 2 country by virtue of the Extradition Act 2003, which means it is the Cabinet minister who has the authority to order a requested person’s extradition after considering all issues. The Home Secretary’s order rarely goes against the court’s conclusions, as she has to consider only very narrow bars to extradition, which do not apply in Modi's case. The case will now go through the next stage of the High Court appeals process, with Modi’s lawyers set to argue in favour of a full appeal hearing against the extradition order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nirav-modi-renews-appeal-against-extradition-to-india-to-be-heard-on-july-21-1002967.html
29-06-2021||National||Majority of Indian youth keen on green jobs, finds research by Prince Charles trust||A new research by the Prince’s Trust, founded by Britain’s Prince Charles, highlights that young people in India, and internationally, want careers that will help solve some of the world’s biggest challenges. The initial findings from the ‘Future of Work’ international research report, supported by HSBC, found that 85 per cent of young people in India are interested in a green job, despite only 4 per cent having their main job in the sector, and 84 per cent of Indian youth surveyed believe their generation can create solutions to some of society’s biggest challenges. “Young people, at the end of the day, want to be agents of change in efforts to prevent and adapt to the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis and for what it’s worth, I believe it is our responsibility to help them achieve this, if we possibly can,” said Prince Charles, as he joined international business leaders at an event at St James’ Palace in London last week to discuss the role that business can play in creating sustainable job opportunities for the future. The research, which surveyed young people across four continents, including in India, highlights that young people want to become agents of change in the face of the climate crisis. Results show over four in five (83 per cent) of young people surveyed in India would consider the environmental impact of the company or sector they’re looking to join when choosing a job. Emerging industries, such as digital, also came out high on young people’s agenda with 83 per cent also noting their interest in a job within the digital economy. “This new research highlights the optimism that young people have about their generation and role they want to play in devoting their careers to tackling the biggest issues facing the planet,” said Will Straw, CEO of Prince’s Trust International. “At Prince’s Trust International, we are meeting this demand by working to adapt our existing programmes across the world to prepare young people for more sustainable careers. We are listening to young people and now look forward to advancing discussions with business leaders to provide more opportunities in sustainable careers for the next generation. It is vital that we all put young people at the heart of a successful and sustainable recovery from Covid-19,” he said. Prince’s Trust International said it has been working in India since 2018 and works with local partners such as Magic Bus and the Aga Khan Foundation to deliver employability and enterprise programmes that support young people across India to learn, work and thrive. The charity said it is committed to working with partners to help contribute to a more sustainable future of work for young people. Findings of the research show that 85 per cent of young people surveyed in India would consider whether a job had a positive impact on the community and wider world, with work in the green economy (36 per cent) and health and social care (35 per cent) seen as the most likely ways to do this. The Prince’s Trust, founded in the UK in 1976, says it has helped over 1 million young people into work, education and training and is now present in 18 countries. The complete findings of the ‘Future of Work’ research report will be launched later this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/majority-of-indian-youth-keen-on-green-jobs-finds-research-by-prince-charles-trust-1002968.html
29-06-2021||National||Indians in Afghanistan advised to avoid non-essential travel due to escalating violence||The Indian embassy in Afghanistan on Tuesday issued an advisory strongly asking all Indian nationals to avoid all types of non-essential movements in view of escalating violence, including on civilians, in various parts of the country. The embassy said the security situation in Afghanistan remains "dangerous" in several provinces and that terror groups have escalated violent activities and carried out a series of complex attacks including on civilians, adding Indian nationals are no exceptions as they additionally face a serious threat of kidnapping. It said travelling outside the main cities should be avoided and that any essential movement may be kept as discrete as possible. "The security situation in Afghanistan remains dangerous in several provinces. Terror groups operating in Afghanistan have escalated violent activities and carried out a series of complex attacks in various parts of Afghanistan, including targeting Afghan defence and security forces and Afghan government institutions and even civilians," the embassy said. "Indian nationals are not exceptions, and they additionally face a serious threat of kidnapping," it said. Afghanistan witnessed a series of attacks in the last few weeks as the US looked to complete the withdrawal of its forces from Afghanistan by September 11, ending a nearly two-decade of its military presence in the war-ravaged country. "In recent weeks, targeted attacks are on the rise in various provinces and districts, directed against government establishments and security posts, have seen civilians caught in the middle of the conflict. Incidents of roadside IED (improvised explosive device) blasts and magnetic IEDS used to target vehicles of civilians continue to be reported from many parts of the country," the embassy said. "In view of the heightened security threats, the embassy asked all Indian nationals visiting, staying and working in Afghanistan to exercise utmost vigilance and caution with regard to security at workplace, place of residence and also during movement to their places of work. "All Indian nationals arriving in Afghanistan are advised to register with the Embassy/Consulates on the website: https://eoi.gov.in/kabul/ or by email to paw.kabul@mea.gov.in. Those who are already present but have not registered or not updated their contact details are also requested to do so immediately," it said. It also strongly advised all Indian nationals to avoid all types of non-essential movements. "Movements especially during peak commuting hours should also be avoided. While travelling on roads, maintain distance from possible targets like military convoys, vehicles of government ministries/offices, high ranking officials, law enforcement agencies," it said. The embassy also advised people to avoid visiting crowded markets, shopping complexes, restaurants and other public places. "Any essential movement may please be kept as discrete as possible. Movements generally should not have a predictable pattern and timing and routes taken should be changed wherever possible to maintain an element of surprise. It is advisable to be in a high state of alertness during essential movements," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indians-in-afghanistan-advised-to-avoid-non-essential-travel-due-to-escalating-violence-1002970.html
29-06-2021||National||India tacitly hits out at China, tells UNSC certain nations using cyberspace expertise to target others||India on Tuesday tacitly hit out at China and told the United Nations Security Council that certain nations were using expertise in cyberspace to attack critical infrastructure of other countries, including health and energy facilities. “Some States are leveraging their expertise in cyberspace to achieve their political and security-related objectives and indulge in contemporary forms of cross-border terrorism,” Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said. He was participating on behalf of the Government of India at the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Open Debate on “Maintenance of International Peace and Security: Cyber Security”. He said that the world was already witnessing the use of cyber tools to compromise state security, through attacks on critical national infrastructure, including health and energy facilities. His comment came amid reports of increasing cyberattacks from China on critical infrastructure of India, particularly after the relations between the two nations hit a new low over the military stand-off which started along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh in April-May 2020 and has not yet been resolved. The Foreign Secretary said that cyberattacks by other nations sometimes disrupted social harmony through radicalisation. “Open societies have been particularly vulnerable to cyberattacks and disinformation campaigns,” he said, virtually addressing the UNSC. He, however, did not directly refer to cybersecurity threats from China. The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) of the Government of India last month gave its go-ahead to several firms to conduct a six-month-long trial of the 5G technology, but China’s Huawei and ZTE were kept out of it, apparently due to security concerns. “The integrity and security of Information and Communication Technology products, which form the building blocks of cyber space, are being compromised,” the Foreign Secretary said. “There are widespread concerns that State and Non-State Actors are introducing vulnerabilities and harmful hidden functions, including through backdoor channels, into ICT networks and products. Such nefarious acts undermine trust and confidence in global ICT supply chains, compromise security and create potential flashpoints between States.” Shringla also tacitly hit out at Pakistan, stating said that the world was witnessing a sophisticated use of cyberspace by terrorists around the world to broaden appeal, spread virulent propaganda, incite hatred and violence, recruit youth and raise funds. “Terrorists have also used social media for planning and executing their terror attacks and wreaking havoc. As a victim of terrorism, India has always underlined the need for Member States to address and tackle the implications of terrorist exploitation of the cyber domain more strategically,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-tacitly-hits-out-at-china-tells-unsc-certain-nations-using-cyberspace-expertise-to-target-others-1002973.html
29-06-2021||National||India reported 51 Delta Plus Covid cases in 12 states||India currently has 51 Delta Plus cases in 12 states with health officials keeping a close watch on the latest SARS-CoV-2 variant about which very little is known. "We have 51 (Delta Plus) isolates from 12 states – Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat, Kerala, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir. We are keeping a close watch,” V K Paul, NITI Ayog member said here on Tuesday. Last week, the Union Health Ministry wrote to the states reporting such cases to undertake containment measures in affected districts and send adequate samples for genome sequencing. "There is no scientific data yet on the transmissibility of Delta Plus and the severity of the disease that it can cause. Scientific work is going on to check whether our vaccines work against such a variant,” he said. In comparison to the Delta variant, Delta Plus has an additional mutation known as K417N, which is known to be associated with immune evasion. Delta Plus had been classified as a Variant of Concern because of its potential to have increased transmissibility, stronger binding to receptors of lung cells, reduction in monoclonal antibody response, and post-vaccination immune escape, the Central government said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reported-51-delta-plus-covid-cases-in-12-states-1002982.html
29-06-2021||National||Pre-submission meet held, Covaxin's 'Rolling Data' to start in July: WHO||Taking the approval process ahead, World Health Organisation (WHO) which is currently approached by Bharat Biotech for an Emergency Use Listing of its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, has said pre-submission meeting for it was held and the "Rolling Data will starting in July." The information was provided in the WHO website in the Status of Covid-19 vaccines withinWHOEUL-PQ evaluation process document. Emergency Use Listing (EUL) is a procedure to streamline the process by which new or unlicensed products can be used during public health emergencies,WHOguidelines said. Meanwhile, stating that its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin adheres to international standards, Bharat Biotech's joint managing director Suchitra Ella on Tuesday said external timelinesare in the company's hands. "Covaxin will cross new frontiers, adhering highest international regulatory guidelines. A new vaccine from (India) is all set to make history once again, with proven data, safety & quality. We stand committed to deliver no matter what, external timelines not in our control," Ella tweeted. Her tweet assumes significance in the wake of the company trying to get EUL from the WHO even as its US partner Ocugen preparing to get US Food and Drug Administrations nod to use the jab in that country. Ella also tweeted a table of states and cities in which Covaxin is currently available. It said the jab is used in 27 cities in 18 states||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pre-submission-meet-held-covaxins-rolling-data-to-start-in-july-who-1002987.html
29-06-2021||National||Only 39% schools in India had computers, 22% had net connection in 2019-20: UDISE report||Only 39 per cent schools in the country had computers while only 22 per cent had an internet connection in 2019-20, according to the Unified District Information System for Education Plus (UDISE+) report released on Tuesday. The report also said that more than 90 per cent schools had hand-wash facility in 2019-20, a major improvement from 2012-13 when it was just 36.3 per cent. "About 39 pc schools in India had computers in 2019-20, an improvement by more than 6 pc over the previous year. More than 22 pc schools in India had internet connectivity in 2019-20, an improvement of more than 3.5 pc over the previous year," the report said. During the period, more than 83 per cent schools had electricity in 2019-20, an improvement by almost 7 per cent over the previous year, 2018-19. "In 2012-13, about 54.6 pc schools had electricity. More than 84 pc schools in India had a library/reading room/reading corner in 2019-20, an improvement of nearly 4 pc compared to the previous year. In 2012-13, about 69.2 pc schools had library/ reading room/ reading corner," it said. Unified District Information on School Education (UDISE), initiated in 2012-13 by the Ministry of Education by integrating DISE for elementary education and SEMIS for secondary education, is one of the largest Management Information Systems on school education covering more than 1.5 million schools, 8.5 million teachers and 250 million children. UDISE+ is an updated and improved version of UDISE. A total of 26.45 crore students were enrolled in school education from pre-primary to higher secondary in 2019-20, up by 42.3 lakhs compared to 2018-19, the report has noted. The enrolment of girls increased at all levels of school education in 2019-20 compared to 2018-19. The increase was highest in pre-primary level. "In 2019-20, total students in school education from primary to higher secondary is a little above 25.09 crores. This is higher by 26.3 lakhs compared to 2018-19. There is a net addition of 42.3 lakh students in school education in the year 2019-20 compared to 2018-19 which is higher by 1.6 per cent," the report said. The number of teachers in school education increased by 2.72 per cent in 2019-20 compared to 2018-19. In 2019-20, 96.87 lakh teachers were engaged in school education, about 2.57 lakhs higher compared to the statistics in 2018-19. The report has pointed out that the Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) at all levels of school education had improved in 2019-20 compared to 2018-19. "The GER increased to 89.7 pc (from 87.7 pc) at Upper Primary level, 97.8 pc (from 96.1 pc) at Elementary Level, 77.9 pc (from 76.9 pc) at Secondary Level and 51.4 pc (from 50.1 pc) at Higher Secondary Level in 2019-20 (from 2018-19),” it said. "Between 2012-13 and 2019-20, the GER for girls at both secondary and higher secondary level has increased more than that of the boys. GER for girls at secondary level has gone up by 9.6 pc to reach 77.8 pc in 2019-20, it was 68.2 pc in 2012-13," it added. More than 82 per cent schools conducted medical check-up of students in 2019-20, an improvement by more than 4 per cent over the previous year, 2018-19. "In 2012-13, about 61.1 pc schools conducted medical check-up for students," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-39-schools-in-india-had-computers-22-had-net-connection-in-2019-20-udise-report-1002990.html
29-06-2021||National||Modi to meet council of ministers on Wednesday ahead of Cabinet rejig||Ahead of an impending Cabinet reshuffle soon, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a review meeting of Union council of ministers on Wednesday to take stock of the performance of various departments and discuss the Covid situation. The meeting, to be held virtually, is the latest in the series of meetings the Prime Minister has had with his Cabinet colleagues and senior party leaders in last month amid a growing buzz that there will be a rejig in both the government at Centre and the party as Modi 2:0 government is nearing the middle point of its five-year term. The attempt to give a fresh look to both the government and the party is on the anvil as elections are scheduled in half a dozen states next year and the party would also like to empower the generation-next ahead of 2024 Lok Sabha polls. This is on the line of what Modi had done during his first tenure during 2017 Cabinet reshuffle, bringing in several new faces and sending a message of women empowerment with the elevation of Nirmala Sitharaman as Defence Minister. This had made the entry of two women ministers possible in the crucial Cabinet Committee on security, the other being the then External Affairs Minister, Sushma Swaraj. Besides, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Dharmendra Pradhan, Piyush Goyal had got elevations, while Uma Bharati had lost a crucial ministry, the Ministry of Water Resources and Ganga Rejuvenation, that oversaw Modi's Namami Gange mission. 2021 Cabinet rejig will focus on creating a new leadership before 2024. While Wednesday's meeting is primarily to review the work done by Infrastructure ministries like the Road and Transport Ministry, Civil Aviation and Telecom ministries, Modi had earlier held meetings in different groups with Cabinet and MoS rank ministers, carrying out their performance review. While BJP chief J P Nadda was present in most of these meetings, held at the Prime Minister's residence, a meeting was also held later at BJP headquarters, which was attended by a number of senior ministers as well as senior BJP leaders, giving rise to the buzz that the reshuffle this time could witness changes both at the government and at the party level. Some successful former chief ministers of the party like Devendra Fadnavis and Sarbananda Sonowal could be inducted in the Union Cabinet, while the inductions of some young leaders like Jyotiraditya Scindia in the Cabinet will be done keeping in mind their projection for larger roles later. Some of the articulate Union ministers, who have been in the forefront of defending the government and the party on contentious issues like Covid-19, may get a change of roles. Through the reshuffle, the government may seek to give some more focus on the Information and Broadcasting Ministry as well. Some of the party general secretaries including BJP in-charge for Bihar Bhupendra Yadav, who is close to Home Minister Amit Shah, might find a place of prominence in the Cabinet ahead of UP polls, where BJP's rival Samajwadi Party has solid backing of Yadavs. BJP UP chief Swatantra Dev Singh, Madhya Pradesh leader Kailash Vijayvargiya, a Brahmin face and Bihar's former Dy CM Sushil Modi, are likely to be accommodated. From allies in the Hindi belt, two from JDU, one from Pashupati Kumar Paras-led LJP, one from Apna Dal in UP, maya find a bearth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-to-meet-council-of-ministers-on-wednesday-ahead-of-cabinet-rejig-1002994.html
29-06-2021||National Politics||Did Chirag Paswan meet senior BJP leader in Ahmedabad?||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan, locked in a bitter feud to retain the reins of the Bihar-based party, visited Ahmedabad in Gujarat on Monday. When asked by reporters outside the airport in the night whether he had come to Ahmedabad to meet a senior BJP leader as the speculation is, Chirag evaded a direct reply saying he was on a "personal" visit to the city. Chirag, son of late Union minister and LJP founder Ramvilas Paswan, was removed recently as the party chief by a faction of the LJP headed by his uncle and Hajipur MP Pashupati Kumar Paras, prompting Chirag’s loyalists to respond by stripping five rebel parliamentarians of the LJP’s primary membership. The party, which has six MPs but no MLAs, plunged into a crisis after the five lawmakers, including Chirag's cousin, rebelled against his leadership and chose Paras as the new leader of the parliamentary party. Notably, Chirag said on Tuesday that he had expected the BJP to help sort things during the tussle between him and his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras to retain control of the outfit. "Their silence definitely hurts... My father Ram Vilas Paswan and I stood by BJP like a rock, but they're not there when I expected them in such difficult times," Chirag Paswan had told PTI. Chirag recently announced to undertake "Aashirvad Yatra" from Hajipur in Bihar from July 5 marking the birth anniversary of his father.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/did-chirag-paswan-meet-senior-bjp-leader-in-ahmedabad-1002693.html
29-06-2021||National Politics||It's not a package, but another sham: Rahul Gandhi slams government's Covid-19 relief package||The Congress on Tuesday hit out at the government over the stimulus measures announced by it to support the pandemic-hit economy, with former party chief Rahul Gandhi saying no family can spend the economic package on its daily needs and it was nothing "but another sham". Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced Rs 1.5 lakh crore of additional credit for small and medium businesses, more funds for the healthcare sector, loans to tourism agencies and guides, and waiver of visa fee for foreign tourists as part of the package to support the economy. Reacting to the government's stimulus package for the economy, Gandhi said, "No family can spend FM's 'economic package' on their living-food-medicine-child's school fees." "It's not a package, but another sham!" he said in a tweet in Hindi. FM के ‘आर्थिक पैकेज’ को कोई परिवार अपने रहने-खाने-दवा-बच्चे की स्कूल फ़ीस पर ख़र्च नहीं कर सकता। पैकेज नहीं, एक और ढकोसला! Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram also criticised the government over the package and said the answer to this "crisis" is to spur demand by putting money in the hands of the people, especially the poor and the lower middle classes. "Some elementary truths: Credit guarantee is not credit. Credit is more debt. No banker will lend to a debt-ridden business," Chidambaram said. Debt-burdened or cash-starved businesses do not want more credit, they need non-credit capital, the former finance minister said in a series of tweets. "More supply does not mean more demand (consumption). On the contrary, more demand (consumption) will trigger more supply," he said. Demand will not grow in an economy where jobs have been lost and incomes or wages have been reduced, Chidambaram argued. "The answer to this crisis is to put money in the hands of the people, especially the poor and lower middle classes," he said. The Congress had on Monday claimed that the measures announced by the Finance Minister "delivered nothing but headlines" and said the government should take steps to spur demand to revive the economy "which continues to be in the doldrums".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/its-not-a-package-but-another-sham-rahul-gandhi-slams-governments-covid-19-relief-package-1002751.html
29-06-2021||National Politics||Punjab assembly polls: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal vows to provide 300 units of free electricity, 24X7 power if AAP wins||The AAP leader also promised round-the-clock power supply in Punjab and waiver of pending electricity bills if his party is voted to power. A day before his visit to Chandigarh on Tuesday, Kejriwal had said his party, if voted to power in Punjab, will provide free electricity. "...In Delhi we provide 200 units of free electricity to every family. The women are very happy. Women in Punjab are also very unhappy with inflation. The AAP government will also provide free electricity in Punjab. See you tomorrow in Chandigarh," Kejriwal had tweeted in Punjabi on Monday. AAP's heightened activities in Punjab come against the backdrop of its ambition to overthrow the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government in the state, which is facing trouble from within after cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu rose in rebellion, and assume power. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-assembly-polls-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-vows-to-provide-300-units-of-free-electricity-24x7-power-if-aap-wins-1002763.html
29-06-2021||National Politics||Opposition in Assam in quarantine during pandemic, says J P Nadda||The opposition parties in Assam were in quarantine with some in the ICU during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, BJP president J P Nadda said on Tuesday. The opposition parties emerge only during elections as "political tourists" but after that, they are nowhere to be seen, Nadda claimed while addressing a meeting of the state BJP executive virtually. "All the (opposition) parties were in quarantine with some having reached the ICU. It was the BJP members who reached out to those in distress," he said. Nadda urged the party's newly-appointed state unit president Bhabesh Kalita and Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma to take up vaccination of all eligible people in the state on a "mission mode". He asked Kalita to ensure that all party workers are engaged in vaccination awareness drives throughout the state to remove any hesitancy, if it still exists. Nadda thanked the people of Assam for defeating the "forces of communalism and corruption" and putting their faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's development agenda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-in-assam-in-quarantine-during-pandemic-says-j-p-nadda-1002780.html
29-06-2021||National Politics||Put credible policy in place for drone attacks, Congress tells Centre ||The Congress on Tuesday said a credible and comprehensive policy and measures are the need of the hour to tackle drone attacks by Pakistan-based terror outfits. Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the Modi government needs to act on the strategic advice of experts instead of focusing on mere headlines management. The reaction came after a series of drones were found in Jammu following two drone attacks on the Air Force station there. "Armed drone attacks are a real threat to security forces and government establishments. Armed Drones attack are a real threat to security forces & Govt establishments. A credible & comprehensive policy and measures are the need of hour to tackle attacks by the Pak based terror outfits, backed by the infamous ISI, instead of mere circulars & amendments of rules.1/n "A credible and comprehensive policy and measures are the need of the hour to tackle attacks by the Pak-based terror outfits, backed by the infamous ISI, instead of mere circulars and amendments of rules," Surjewala said on Twitter. The Congress leader hoped the BJP government is aware of the ISI and Pakistan-based terror outfits using Chinese Hexacopters and drones, gifted by Beijing to Pakistan for use in CPEC, to drop arms across the border. He also talked of the sale of 50 Wing Loong II armed drones by China to Pakistan for use in high-altitude areas. "Hope the BJP government is aware that MPs have repeatedly raised the issue of drones attacks through Parliamentary Question on July 9, 2019, March 5, 2020 and on September 20, 2020. "The entire nation stands as one with our security forces and government to repulse such attacks.  "But the Modi government should realise that it needs to act on strategic advice of defence experts with experience of modern warfare rather than rely upon mere headlines management," he said. 3/4Hope BJP Govt is aware that -: 4/4The entire Nation stands as one with our security forces & Govt to repulse such attacks. Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said the central government must focus on procuring equipment to counter drones as Pakistan establishment follows the policy of “cloak & dagger” and cannot be trusted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/put-credible-policy-in-place-for-drone-attacks-congress-tells-centre-1002847.html
29-06-2021||National Politics||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh had warned PM Narendra Modi of drone threat from Pakistan in November: Report||Officials told the publication that there were 70 to 80 such instances, with the drones being shot down in some cases. Soon after the Centre received Singh's letter, meetings were held between top state and central officials, intelligence personnel, and the Border Security Force (BSF). In his letter, Singh had warned that the delivery of weapons as far as 5 kilometres deep into Indian territory would have serious implications for “security of highly threatened protectees, security of public meetings/events.” He asked the PM, among other things, to install radars that can detect low-flying vehicles (not sure if it's the correct term) as part of re-thinking the strategy. He urged the PM to develop "suitable measures" as it was "clear that Pakistan is deploying such platforms to deliver contraband from across the border,” read an excerpt of his letter as shared by IE. The state's DGP Dinkar Gupta told the publication that drone sightings along the border were regular and the dynamic nature of threats posed by them was making border-fencing "redundant."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-had-warned-pm-narendra-modi-of-drone-threat-from-pakistan-in-november-report-1002855.html
29-06-2021||National Politics||Digvijaya Singh praises Ravi Shankar Prasad for stand against Twitter||Congress Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh on Tuesday praised Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad for his "aggressive" stand against Twitter and said the latter must ensure falsities carried on the micro blogging site against the Congress and its leaders is also stopped. In a letter to Prasad, the former Madhya Pradesh chief minister said "you have realised the need to enforce provisions of IT Act, which have been prevalent for quite some time" after Twitter took action against a BJP spokesperson in connection with an alleged fake post. Singh, in his letter, mentioned that a Twitter handle called @leaksclubhouse was created on June 12 and it posted an edited audio clip of his conversation from a meet held on May 15. The Clubhouse chat clip had created controversy as, in it, Singh can be purportedly heard saying that the Congress, if it came back to power, would have a "relook" on the revocation of Article 370 that gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir. The same Twitter handle also defamed the Congress on June 17 by calling it an "anti-national" party and had asked people to leak "internal information" about it, Singh said in his letter to Prasad. Singh said such acts by this Twitter handle was a violation of Section 72A, Section 43(a), (b) and (i) and Section 66 of the Information Technology Act, 2000. "I request you to pass appropriate directions to investigate and prosecute the people responsible behind this in order to set a clear precedent for all social media platforms," Singh said. He also urged the Union minister to direct social media platforms, including Twitter, to block all such accounts that are being used to defame people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/digvijaya-singh-praises-ravi-shankar-prasad-for-stand-against-twitter-1002930.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||SAD leader claims four Sikh women were forcibly converted to Islam in J&K||A Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader alleged on Tuesday that four Sikh women were forcibly married and converted to Islam in Kashmir recently and demanded that they be returned to their families as well as a law against forced conversions. Members of the Sikh community took out marches on roads and highways across Jammu and Kashmir to protest against the alleged abduction and forcible conversion. Addressing a press conference in Srinagar, SAD leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa said they have taken up the issue with Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor (LG) Manoj Sinha. "We have been protesting for two days. Four women have been forcibly converted, including an 18-year-old who was married to a middle-aged man, and it was said that she married according to her own will," Sirsa said. He said it is unfortunate that even the judiciary did not do justice with the woman's family. Sirsa, who is also the president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, landed in Srinagar on Monday and staged a protest along with a group of Sikhs. "The parents of the woman were not allowed inside the court, while all the relatives of the man were inside the court so that they could pressure the girl and then it is justified. Our community will not tolerate it. This is not an issue of a single woman, it is a collective issue. Our community leaders from across the world have reacted strongly to it," he said at the press conference. The SAD leader said the Sikh community demands the return of the women to their families and a law against such forced conversions. "Our highest temporal authority has written a letter to the LG over the issue, wherein they have demanded that the woman be returned to the family immediately and a law framed against forced conversions," he said. Sirsa said the community members called upon the LG and apprised him of the issue. "Union Home Minister Amit Shah also talked to us over the phone in the morning. He told us that he is in touch with the LG since Sunday and monitoring the matter," he said. Sirsa said Shah has assured the Sikh community that the perpetrators of the alleged abduction of the women will be dealt with strongly and the law will take its own course. "A delegation of the members of the Sikh community will meet him (Shah) soon. I assure the community that injustice will not be tolerated in any way," he said. Meanwhile, National Conference (NC) vice president Omar Abdullah said if anyone has broken the law, necessary punishment should be handed out. "Any move to drive a wedge between Sikhs & Muslims in Kashmir will cause irreparable harm to J&K. The two communities have supported each other through thick & thin, having withstood countless attempts to damage age old relationships. "I hope the authorities will move quickly to investigate the recent cause of tension & if anyone has broken the law the case should be prosecuted & necessary punishment handed out," he wrote on Twitter. People's Democratic Party (PDP) leader Naeem Akhtar said Muslims must speak up for the concerns of the Sikh community and amplify their demand for quick and decisive action. "Notwithstanding the situation Muslims in J&K are, we can't allow our minuscule Sikh brethren to feel threatened or unsafe. We must speak up for their concerns and amplify their demand for quick n decisive action. Majority community leaders must add voice to it too (sic)," he wrote on Twitter. Meanwhile, Sikhs took to the streets in Jammu, Kathua, Udhampur, Reasi, Srinagar and Anantnag over the issue. They blocked highways in Kathua and Jammu. The officiating jathedar of the Sri Akal Takht Sahib, Giani Harpreet Singh, wrote to the LG demanding an anti-conversion law. Some Kashmiri Pandit organisations also demanded severe punishment for the culprits and the return of the Sikh women to their families. Mufti Anayatullah, the Imam of the Markazi Jamia Masjid in Jammu, said the issue has led to strong resentment among Sikhs. "The allegation of forced conversion is serious in nature and has no place in Islamic principals. I have strong reasons to believe that these incidents are completely private but certain elements are trying to give these a religious colour," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-leader-claims-four-sikh-women-were-forcibly-converted-to-islam-in-jk-1002692.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||Central Delhi second-most rain-deficient district in India: IMD||Central Delhi has recorded just 8.5 mm rainfall so far this monsoon and is the second-most rain-deficient district in the country, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) data. In India, June 1 to September 30 is officially considered the monsoon season. Central Delhi has received only 8.5 mm rainfall against the normal of 55.2 mm since June 1 -- a deficiency of 85 per cent. The rain deficit in Kishtwar district of Jammu and Kashmir is the largest in the country. It has recorded 5 mm precipitation against the normal of 70.6 mm -- a shortfall of 93 per cent. East Delhi has received 19.2 mm rainfall against the normal of 55.2 mm -- a 65 per cent shortfall. Northeast Delhi has gauged 20.7 mm rainfall, 63 per cent less than normal, and South Delhi got 22.2 mm, 60 per cent less than normal, the data showed. Southwest Delhi and New Delhi have recorded 29.6 mm and 27.7 mm rainfall so far -- 52 per cent less than normal. North Delhi has received 37.7 mm rainfall, 34 per cent less than normal, and Northwest Delhi 29.8 mm rainfall, a 30 per cent shortfall. So far, only West Delhi has received normal rainfall -- 53.5 mm against the average of 55.5 mm. The weather department on Monday said Delhi and nearby areas in northwest India will have to wait for another week for their first monsoonal showers. "Prevailing meteorological conditions, large scale atmospheric features and the forecast wind pattern by dynamical models suggest that no favourable conditions are likely to develop for further advance of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Punjab during the next six to seven days," the IMD said in a statement. The northern limit of southwest monsoon continues to pass through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar, it said. After arriving two days late in Kerala, the monsoon had raced across the country, covering eastern, central and adjoining northwest India seven to 10 days ahead of schedule. Earlier, the meteorological office had said the wind system may reach Delhi by June 15, which would have been 12 days early. However, westerly winds have been blocking its advancement into Delhi, parts of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana. Normally, monsoon reaches Delhi by June 27 and covers the entire country by July 8. Last year, the wind system had reached Delhi on June 25 and covered the entire country by June 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/central-delhi-second-most-rain-deficient-district-in-india-imd-1002695.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||More drone activity suspected in Jammu||After a high alert over the twin drone blasts in the technical area of Jammu airport on Sunday, suspected drone activity was seen late Monday night in Kunjwani, Ratnuchak area of Jammu, news agency ANI reported. Suspected drone activity was seen late night in Kunjwani, Ratnuchak area of Jammu. Details awaited: Sources More details awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/more-drone-activity-suspected-in-jammu-1002709.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||Day after arrest, LeT commander killed in encounter: J&K police||A commander of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) was among two militants killed in an overnight encounter with security forces in Maloora area on the outskirts of Srinagar on Tuesday. Three Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel, including two officers, were also injured in the gunfight, which erupted on Monday evening after a joint team of police, Army and CRPF launched a cordon-and-search-operation in Maloora. A police spokesperson said they had a ‘specific input’ that the militants were planning to carry out an attack on the highway. “Keeping in view the seriousness of the input, a few joint nakas of JKP & CRPF were placed along the highway,” he said and added that at one of the nakas, LeT commander Abrar was arrested. “On sustained interrogation, he (Abrar) disclosed that he had kept his AK-47 rifle in a house located at Maloora. Thereafter, he was taken to that house to recover the weapon after laying proper cordon of the suspected house,” the spokesman said. The security forces’ party came under fire as they entered the house from Abrar's accomplice, a Pakistani militant, who was hiding there. In the initial firefight, he said three CRPF personnel, including an assistant commandant and a sub-inspector, got injured and LeT commander Abrar, accompanying the search party, got hit. “In the ensuing gunfight, both the foreign terrorist and Abrar were killed. Two AK-47 rifles along with ammunition were recovered from the site,” said the spokesman. Vijay Kumar, Inspector General of police (IGP), Kashmir, said Abrar alias Khalid was involved in several murders and that his killing was a big success. He was acting as the commander of Lashkar in central Kashmir and was active since 2018. According to the police , Abrar was also involved in several attacks on security forces and civilians, including on CRPF at Lawaypora in March. In the attack, three CRPF personnel were killed and the rifle was also snatched by the militants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/day-after-arrest-let-commander-killed-in-encounter-jk-police-1002711.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Punjab oxygen cylinders get unique ID as state prepares for 3rd wave||This move is a part of the Oxygen Cylinder Tracking System (OCTS) app, which keeps track of oxygen cylinder ordering to delivery with real-time monitoring.  “OCTS is a step forward while preparing for the third wave of Covid. It will not only benefit citizens, but be also very useful for the administrators,” he added. Currently, there are 25,000 oxygen cylinders and 6,500 oxygen concentrators available in Punjab. These oxygen cylinders and concentrators are called “assets” in the OCTS app. Every asset will have a unique identification number, which will be put up on them physically with a QR code sticker by the supplier. Bhagat mentioned that the OCTS app will help in tracking the movement of the oxygen cylinder and concentrators. It is designed to help the end-users -- hospitals and clinics -- get the status of the oxygen cylinder after they order for it.  The real-time status, which aims to reduce delays and pilferage, will be accessible by the authorities on a central portal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-punjab-oxygen-cylinders-get-unique-id-as-state-prepares-for-3rd-wave-1002716.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||MHA hands over Jammu IAF airbase attack case to NIA||The Investigation Agency (NIA) has taken over a probe into Sunday’s Jammu airport attack triggered by drones in which two Indian Air Force (IAF) personnel received minor injuries. In the first case of the use of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) by militants to target a security installation in J&K, two explosives-laden drones crashed into a high-security IAF station at Jammu airport, damaging the roof of a building during the wee hours of Sunday. Sources told DH that after getting clearance from the Union Home Ministry to take over the probe into the first-ever terror attack using drones in the country, the elite counter-terrorism unit is expected to lodge a case to begin the probe officially. An NIA team led by SP Rakesh Balwal was among the first at the scene of the twin blasts and has already submitted a preliminary report of the incident to the ministry. Though the security agencies are tight-lipped about the incident, preliminary investigations have revealed that an RDX with an impact device was used in twin drone attacks on the IAF station. “It was an impact mechanism blast which was caused by the impact device in which RDX had been used,” a top police official engaged in investigations told DH. He said it seems that the drones had been launched from across the border as there were instances earlier also in Akhnoor and Rajouri districts, where they had flown about 10 kilometers inside the Indian territory. “The border is just 14 kilometres away from the Jammu airport and possibly the drones returned back after dropping the payloads as no meaningful debris were found after the attack. The drones were suspected to be flying at a height of 1.2 kilometers and would have been powered by long-range batteries,” the official added. J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh believes that most probably Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) outfit was behind the drone attacks. “In most of the previous arms smuggling through drones along the Line of Control (LoC) as well as International Border (IB), the role of the LeT outfit was established. Drones are mostly being used by the LeT,” Singh said. The twin drone attacks coincided with the recovery of six kilogram IED by the police from a Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) operative leading to the detention of at least three suspects in Jammu. “It is being investigated whether recovery of IED has any links with the drone attack on Air Force station,” a senior official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mha-hands-over-jammu-iaf-airbase-attack-case-to-nia-1002717.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||UP govt moves SC against Karnataka HC's protection to Twitter MD||Maheshwari, for his part, also filed a caveat, seeking a hearing before before the top court before the passing of any order. On June 24, the Karnataka High Court had granted protection from arrest to Maheshwari in an FIR lodged by Loni Police in Ghaziabad. The Ghaziabad Police issued a notice to the Twitter MD, asking him to appear at Loni police station for questioning in the probe related to the viral video of the assault. The Ghaziabad Police had on June 15 booked Twitter Inc, Twitter Communications India, news website The Wire, journalists Mohammed Zubair and Rana Ayyub, besides Congress leaders Salman Nizami, Maskoor Usmani, Shama Mohamed and writer Saba Naqvi. The police have maintained that the assault took place because the accused were unhappy about the ''tabeez'' (amulets) sold to them by Saifi, a resident of adjoining Bulandshahr district, and ruled out any communal angle in the case. In the video that triggered nationwide reaction, Saifi purportedly says he was attacked by some young men and forced to chant ''Jai Shri Ram''. But, according to the district police, he has not made any such allegations in his FIR lodged on June 7, two days after the incident. The June 15 FIR stated that the Ghaziabad Police had issued a statement with facts of the incident, but despite that, the accused did not remove the video from their Twitter handles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-moves-sc-against-karnataka-hcs-protection-to-twitter-md-1002725.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||13-year-old, among others, gets false Covid-19 vaccination message on MP's day of record jabs||The message from the government came on the day Madhya Pradesh reported to have administered 17.4 lakh doses.  Since the state’s vaccination numbers have shot up, many people like Vendant who never went to get a Covid-19 vaccine have received messages from the government saying otherwise. In a more shocking incident, Chainendra Pandey, 52, from Satna, received messages from the government of Covid-19 vaccine confirmation of three people whom he doesn’t know. "Three messages within five minutes. Just the name is different. I have not got any vaccine to date," he told NDTV. Bhopal’s Nuzhat Salim, 46, also received a similar message with her pension documents recorded as her identity proof, while she is not a pensioner. Denying the allegations made by people, Vishwas Sarang, Medical Education Minister, said, "There is no such problem. I don't know from where you got the information. I am hearing this for the first time. If anything comes up, we will get it investigated.” Leaders in the opposition have been making speculations about BJP-led Madhya Pradesh’s vaccination numbers since June 21.  "New figures are coming out every day. The vaccine was given to a 13-year-old child and a dead person. Forty-seven villages in Betul did not get the vaccine. This vaccine record is nothing but a PR gimmick," Narendra Saluja, Congress spokesperson, told the publication. Since June 21, Madhya Pradesh reported having vaccinated 11.43 lakh people on June 23, 7.05 lakh on June 24, and 9.64 lakh on June 26. However, between all these days, on June 22, it only vaccinated 4,842 people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/13-year-old-among-others-gets-false-covid-19-vaccination-message-on-mps-day-of-record-jabs-1002740.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand postpones Char Dham yatra||The Uttarakhand government on Tuesday postponed the Char Dham Yatra in compliance with the order of the High Court over fears of the Covid situation. More details awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-postpones-char-dham-yatra-1002741.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court dismisses plea challenging Delhi High Court order rejecting to stay Central Vista project||A three-judge bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar dismissed a plea by Anya Malhotra, a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian, against the May 31 judgement by the High Court. The Delhi High Court had called the PIL “motivated” and imposed cost of Rs one lakh on petitioners.   The court questioned senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for the petitioners, as to why he kept harping on non-compliance of the project without showing the facts. "Did you do honest research as how many projects were going on and were of same nature," the bench asked the counsel, further questioning him why the petitioners confined themselves to the project concerned. The bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Aniruddha Bose, pointed out that the court has given nearly 45 minutes to the counsel to argue in the matter, yet he could not convince it on the aspect of non-compliance in the ongoing construction activities at Central Vista project.    Luthra referred to the imposition of Rs one Lakh cost by the High Court along with strictures against the petitioners. "Looking at the attitude, the cost impost by the High Court is too less," the bench told the counsel, saying he could not convince and respond to queries in connection with the project.   "Genuine PILs can do wonders but questionable ones caused problems," the bench said. In their plea, the petitioners claimed the High Court erroneously and without any justification or basis held their plea to be "ill-intended, motivated and lacking bonafides". The judgement, apart from misconstruing the bonafide intention of the petitioners, cast them in a negative light without cause and at the cost of their right to reputation, they claimed. The HC had said the work on the project of national importance has to be completed within time-bound schedule by November, 2021. It also said public is widely interested in the project, which envisaged new triangular Parliament building, with seating capacity for 900 to 1,200 MPs. The ongoing construction has been repeatedly criticised by main Opposition Congress party leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-dismisses-plea-challenging-delhi-high-court-order-rejecting-to-stay-central-vista-project-1002747.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||Bhupesh Baghel asks PM Modi to send 1 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses to Chhattisgarh in July||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide at least one crore doses of vaccines against Covid-19 to the state next month, an official said here on Tuesday. In a letter to the PM, Baghel informed him that 9,98,810 vaccine doses were left in the state, which will be sufficient only for three days, the official from the public relations department said. "Despite repeated demand, sufficient stock of vaccines is not being provided to the state," the chief minister said in the letter. Baghel said Chhattisgarh has set a target of administering first dose of the vaccine to all eligible beneficiaries in a month, and requested the prime minister to immediately direct the Union Health Ministry to provide one crore doses to the state in July, the official said. The chief minister further said the inoculation drive is being carried out at a fast pace in the state where over three lakh people are currently being vaccinated every day. So far, 71 per cent of frontline personnel and 70 per cent of health workers have received both doses of the vaccine, while 100 per cent of the frontline staff and 91 per cent health workers have received the first dose, he said. Besides, nearly 80 per cent of the citizens aged 45 and above have been given the first dose, while 16 per cent of beneficiaries in the 18-44 age category have received the first dose, since the vaccination drive commenced for them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bhupesh-baghel-asks-pm-modi-to-send-1-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-to-chhattisgarh-in-july-1002776.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||Security agencies devising strategy to counter drone attacks in Jammu and Kashmir||Amid a possible threat of further drone attacks by militants on vital security installations, a high alert has been sounded across Jammu and Kashmir with security agencies devising a strategy to counter the new threat. Kashmir police chief Vijay Kumar said men have been deployed at vital security installations across the Valley “but details of the same can’t be shared” due to security reasons. Kumar, along with General-Officer-Commander of Srinagar-based 15-Corps of army and officials of other security agencies also reviewed the drone threat. “It’s a new security challenge and a technical threat. We will deal with it technically,” he told reporters, here. The Valley police chief said that all the security installations were on a high alert in Kashmir after the recent twin drone attacks in Jammu. The use of drones to mount militant attacks marks the beginning of a new security threat for the country. While unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) from Pakistan have been used to drop weapons along the International Border (IB) and Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir in the recent past, the country, in a first-of-its-kind militant attack, witnessed two explosive devices were dropped from suspected drones on the Indian Air Force Station in Jammu early on Sunday. A senior police official said what makes drones particularly dangerous is that they fly very low making them undetectable to radars and leaving little by way of reaction time once detected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-agencies-devising-strategy-to-counter-drone-attacks-in-jammu-and-kashmir-1002777.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||Woman raped in Uttar Pradesh's Sambhal district||A 19-year-old woman was allegedly raped in a village in this district when she had gone to a forest to collect fodder, police said on Tuesday. The alleged incident took place on June 26 and the accused also recorded the act and circulated the video on social media, they said. A complaint regarding the incident was lodged by the woman's father. It was alleged that on June 26, two women of his village took his 19-year-old daughter with them to collect fodder in the forest, where the accused youth raped her, Sambhal Circle Officer (CO) Arun Kumar Singh said. On Monday, a case was registered against the youth and the women and efforts are being made to nab them, the CO said, adding the victim has been sent for medical examination. Police have taken cognisance of the video circulated by the accused on WhatsApp and relevant sections of the IT Act have also been added, Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-raped-in-uttar-pradeshs-sambhal-district-1002790.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||Over 2 crore people vaccinated against Covid in Madhya Pradesh so far: Centre||Over two crore people have so far received vaccine against Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh, an official release quoting the Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Tuesday. The target to vaccinate 50 lakh people in the state till June 30 has already been achieved, it said. According to the state vaccination bulletin, 10,24,423 health care and field level workers have so far received first the dose of the vaccine and 6,75,520 of them have got the second jab too. In the 18-44 age group, 86,62,002 people have so far got the first dose and 1,45,402 of them also received the second jab. Besides, in the 45 years and above category, 82,05,234 people have received the first dose and 15,71,142 of them have taken the second dose also, the bulletin said. Thus, 2,02,83,723 people have so far administered vaccine doses in the state, it said. Meanwhile, MP's vaccination programme director Dr Santosh Shukla said there will no inoculation sessions in the state on Tuesday and Wednesday. On Thursday, only Covishield vaccine doses will be administered in the state, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-2-crore-people-vaccinated-against-covid-in-madhya-pradesh-so-far-centre-1002794.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||Gang murders man, cremates body wearing PPE kit in Agra||Five gang members wore full protective gear to cremate a man they had murdered, pretending he died from Covid-19, police said Tuesday. The victim was invited to a party by the men, whom he owed Rs 40 lakh ($54,000), and suffocated, according to police. The gang wore full PPE and cremated the body at a facility in Agra, registering the dead man under a false name, local police chief Muniraj G. said. "To avoid being caught... they wore PPE kit and used a body bag to pack and transport the body to the cremation ground," Muniraj G. said on Twitter.  "All the five accused have confessed to their crime." A tip-off from an informant led to the arrest of one of the men, according to a police statement. India was devastated by a coronavirus third wave in April and May, overwhelming hospitals and crematoriums across the country. Nearly 1,000 people are still dying on average every day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gang-murders-man-cremates-body-wearing-ppe-kit-in-agra-1002796.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||Court issues fresh summons to Deep Sidhu in R-Day violence case||A Delhi court on Tuesday issued fresh summons to actor-activist Deep Sidhu and other accused in the Republic Day violence case.  Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gajendra Singh Nagar directed all the accused to appear before it on July 12 through video conference.   The court issued fresh summons after it was informed that the summons issued earlier were not received by the accused.  On June 19, the judge had taken cognisance of the charge sheet in the case and summoned all the accused on June 29. However, Harjot Singh was the only accused who appeared before the court on Tuesday.  Counsels for the other accused apprised the court that their clients have not been served the summons yet.  On January 26, protesting farmers had clashed with police during the tractor rally against three farm laws and stormed into the Red Fort, hoisting religious flags on its domes and injuring scores of policemen.   Sidhu, who is accused of being the key conspirator of the violence, is currently out on bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/court-issues-fresh-summons-to-deep-sidhu-in-r-day-violence-case-1002823.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia accuses BJP workers of vandalising his official vehicle||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister and Education Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday alleged that BJP leaders and "goons" vandalised his official vehicle while protesting the construction of a school in Rohtas Nagar. No immediate reaction was available from the BJP's Delhi unit on Sisodia's charge. "BJP leaders and goons protesting construction of school in Rohtas Nagar sabotaged the school and vandalised my official vehicle. They misbehaved with female teachers, engineers and workers by breaking into the school. Why the BJP people are so much irritated by education," Sisodia tweeted in Hindi. Delhi Home and PWD minister Satyendar Jain mentioned the incident in a tweet and said "even if the BJP carried out thousands of such attacks, the AAP government will continue to serve the people".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-accuses-bjp-workers-of-vandalising-his-official-vehicle-1002824.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava to retire on June 30, additional charge to Balaji Srivastav||Delhi Police will not have a full-time Commissioner for some time as the government is giving additional charge of Commissioner to senior IPS officer Balaji Srivastav as incumbent S N Shrivastava is set to retire on Wednesday. Balaji Srivastav, a 1988 batch officer of AGMUT cadre, is Special Commissioner (Vigilance) in Delhi Police at present. According to an order by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), Srivastav will hold the additional charge of Commissioner of Police, Delhi in addition to his regular charge until the appointment of a regular incumbent or until further orders.  He has previously worked as Director-General of Police in Puducherry and Mizoram as well as Special Commissioner of Intelligence, Economic Offence Wing, and Special Cell in Delhi Police. He also worked as Additional Director General of Police in Andaman and Nicobar Island. S N Shrivastava, who was holding the post of Delhi Police commissioner as an additional charge since February last year, will be retiring on Wednesday. He was, however, appointed as full-fledged commissioner of Delhi Police last month. Shrivastava, who has a Masters degree in Economics from Delhi School of Economics, has served in Cabinet Secretariat for nine years and handled sensitive assignments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-commissioner-sn-shrivastava-to-retire-on-june-30-additional-charge-to-balaji-srivastav-1002834.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi's Lady Shri Ram College student Devanshi Ranjan wins prestigious Diana Award||A 21-year-old student of Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College has received the coveted Diana Award for advancing the UN Sustainable Development Goals and empowering young changemakers. Devanshi Ranjan, a final-year student, has been working with NGO Ladli Foundation Trust to help underprivileged children, especially girl students, with their studies amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Established in memory of Diana, Princess of Wales, the award is considered the "highest accolade" a young person can achieve for social action or humanitarian efforts. It is given out by the charity of the same name and has the support of both her sons — the Duke of Cambridge and the Duke of Sussex. "I found out that I will be honoured with the Diana award on May 5. I was extremely elated but couldn't share the news with anyone except for my immediate family till the commencement of the virtual ceremony on June 28," Ranjan told PTI. "My work centred around the Covid-19 pandemic relief work. A number of surveys and reports showed an increase in the number of drop-outs in schools, especially the female students, as availing education online was not affordable for all. I worked with NGO Ladli Trust and under its programme 'Pathanshala' conducted workshops and educated students from slums and villages," she added. Ranjan during this period taught over 1,000 children in the slums across New Delhi. She also distributed books, stationery and other resource material in the semi-urban and rural areas of Delhi-NCR. "We congratulate all our new Diana Award recipients from the UK and all over the globe who are changemakers for their generation. We know by receiving this honour they will inspire more young people to get involved in their communities and begin their own journey as active citizens," said Tessy Ojo, CEO of The Diana Award during the virtual award ceremony. The Diana Award, given to people under the age category 9-25 years, was conferred on 400 people globally. The award recipients have been put forward by adults who know the young people in a professional capacity and recognise their efforts as a positive contribution to society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-lady-shri-ram-college-student-devanshi-ranjan-wins-prestigious-diana-award-1002839.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi meets Devendra Fadnavis in Delhi||BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi arrived in the national capital on Monday and met former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Jarkiholi was in a meeting with Fadnavis at Maharashtra Sadan for more than 45 minutes. Though the details of the meeting are not known, sources within the BJP said Jarkiholi requested Fadnavis to ensure he is inducted within the B S Yediyurappa-headed government in Karnataka. This is the second time Jarkiholi is meeting Fadnavis in the past two weeks. Last week, he met the former CM in Mumbai and described him as his "political guru". Jarkiholi, who had threatened to resign from the BJP on Sunday, has triggered speculation with his sudden visit to Delhi. Earlier, he is learnt to have expressed his unhappiness against the Karnataka government for "not coming" to his aid when he embroiled was in the sex CD controversy. Speaking to the media at the airport, he said he had no grouse against Karnataka CM Yediyurappa and had no plans of leaving the BJP. Sources said he came to Delhi to complain against a few BJP leaders in Karnataka, whom he suspected behind the "conspiracy to defame him".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-leader-ramesh-jarkiholi-meets-devendra-fadnavis-in-delhi-1002859.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||SC slams Centre over 'unpardonable' apathy on registering migrant workers||The Supreme Court on Tuesday slammed the Centre for its lackadaisical approach in developing a portal for registration of the unorganised or migrant workers, to allow them to reap benefits from various government schemes. Giving the Centre a deadline of July 31 for it, a bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan "strongly disapproved" non-action by the Ministry of Labour and Employment, saying their "apathy is unpardonable". In a judgement in the Suo Motu matter related to migrant labourers, the court stressed that registration of the workers was "pivotal" and "most important" and only after that, states and the Centre will be able to extend the benefits of the welfare schemes to them. The unorganised workers constituted 94% of the work force. A survey by National Statistics Office (NSO) in 2017-2018 stated that there were around 38 crores workers engaged in the unorganised sectors, it noted. "Unless the registration is complete, tall claims by all the States and Union that they have implemented various welfare schemes for the migrant workers and unorganised workers remain only on paper without giving any benefit to them," the bench said. The court said there was urgency in the portal to be finalised and implemented looking at the Covid-19 pandemic and dire need of unorganised workers to receive the benefit. "The attitude of Ministry of Labour and Employment in not completing the module even though directed as early as August 21, 2018 shows that Ministry is not alive to the concern of the migrant workers," the bench said. The bench directed the secretary, Ministry of Labour and Employment to ensure that National Data Base for Unorganised Workers (NDUW) portal is finalised, and implementation of the portal commences on or before July 31. The top court directed the Centre to develop the portal in consultation with National Informatics Centre (NIC) for registration of the unorganised labourers/migrant workers. Karnataka government, for its part, said State Unorganised Workers Social Security Board was functioning under Labour Department in registering 11 categories of unorganised sector workers on web portal “ksuwssb.in”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-slams-centre-over-unpardonable-apathy-on-registering-migrant-workers-1002863.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||PM Modi reviews security scenario after Jammu drone attack||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday reviewed the security scenario in the country against the backdrop of the drone attack on an IAF airbase in Jammu and held discussions with the top political and security leadership regarding the futuristic challenges before the defence sector. At the meeting, Modi was given a detailed briefing on the twin explosions caused by drones on Sunday, as well as other incidents in Jammu and Kashmir. The meeting was also attended by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval. Sources said the discussions were held on futuristic challenges in the defence sector and providing the forces with modern equipment. They also discussed involving more youth and the strategic community. Security officials have said they could not locate the debris of the drones used for dropping the explosives and believe that the drones flew back to safety. There were also sightings of drones on Monday early morning, besides terror incidents in the region, days after Modi held a meeting with 14 Kashmiri leaders. The task before the security establishment is to effectively tackle new methodology used by the terror outfits like the deployment of drones. India has already taken steps to counter drone attacks by investing more on anti-drone technology. Investigators are ascertaining from where the drones took off, as the international border with Pakistan is just 14 km away from the IAF base where the incident took place. Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbagh Singh said Pakistan-based terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba is suspected of involvement in the attack. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), the country's elite anti-terror probe agency, has already taken over the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-reviews-security-scenario-after-jammu-drone-attack-1002880.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||UP man killed by friends, Cremated by them in PPE kit to avoid being caught||Five people killed their friend, son of an industrialist, for ransom in Uttar Pradesh's Agra town and later cremated him wearing PPE kits in a bid to avoid being caught. According to the police sources here, the victim, identified as Sachin Chauhan, was lured by his friends on the pretext of a liquor party and was strangled to death last week. The alleged killers, all friends of Sachin, were arrested by the police on Monday. Police said that the perpetrators, some of whom were head over ears in debt, hatched a conspiracy to kill Sachin and then demand a ransom of Rs. two crore from his family. As per the plan, they took Sachin to a closed water purifying plant on the outskirts of Agra town on the pretext of a liquor party. They later strangled him to death. They then had Sachin's body wrapped in a plastic bag and put on PPE kits themselves before taking the body to the cremation ghat. They told the staff at the crematorium that the body was that of a man who had died from Covid-19. They cremated Sachin's body at the cremation ghat and also collected the ashes the next day and immersed them in the Yamuna river. The case was handed over to the special task force (STF), which arrested all the five accused persons on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-man-killed-by-friends-cremated-by-them-in-ppe-kit-to-avoid-being-caught-1002940.html
29-06-2021||North and Central||Lightning claims 11 lives in Bihar, 4 districts hit by floods||Eleven people were killed while six were injured in various parts of Bihar upon being struck by lightning on Tuesday, the disaster management department said. According to the department, West Champaran and East Champaran districts accounted for three deaths each followed by Patna (two) and Nalanda, Madhepura and Aurangabad (one each). Besides, four people were seriously injured in East Champaran and another two in Patna districts. According to the department, the state has received 339 mm of rainfall since the onset of monsoons, which is 139 per cent above normal. This has led to floods in at least four districts of north Bihar West Champaran, East Champaran, Gopalganj and Saran where nearly 80,000 people in 65 villages have been affected. No loss of life has been reported from the flood-hit areas so far but 10,916 people have been rescued from marooned places. Four teams of the NDRF and three of the SDRF have been pressed into service for the rescue operations. Altogether 98 boats have been plied for the purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lightning-claims-11-lives-in-bihar-4-districts-hit-by-floods-1002981.html
29-06-2021||Oasis||Being frank is good||In Shakespeare’s play King Lear, an ageing ruler renounces his responsibilities and announces the partition of his kingdom. When he enquires how much his three daughters love him, the elder two profess unbounded affection. King Lear allots generous portions to them.  “What can you say to draw a third more opulent than your sisters” he asks his favourite child, Cordelia. “Nothing,” she states flatly. She adds that while she owes her father filial devotion, she will reserve half her love for her future husband. “So young and so untender?” remarks King Lear. Cordelia replies, “So young, my lord, and true.”  Although she risks losing her inheritance, Cordelia cannot bring herself to utter honeyed, hollow words. King Lear, who prefers sycophancy to sincerity, disowns his youngest daughter. He pays a heavy price for this error of judgment and learns, too late, that Cordelia alone is loving and loyal. We may not display such a lack of discernment or be fooled by flattery, but many of us find adulation agreeable. We believe that we deserve acclaim and appreciation and this is not necessarily an unreasonable expectation. Without underestimating ourselves, however, we should be open to the honest appraisal of well-wishers. Not long ago, a few of my colleagues told me that I had put on weight since they had seen me a few months earlier. I was aware of that fact but still found their observations unpalatable. After all, I am certainly not the only one who likes to hear “You look the same as you did when I last met you,” or “You haven’t changed a bit since I first knew you.”  We must remember that while compliments are not to be lightly dismissed (indeed, they are essential to our happiness), there is much to be gained from a candid comment. I am grateful now for the outspoken opinions expressed at school, which have made me mindful of my health and fitness. Let us regard frankness as a friend.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/being-frank-is-good-1002656.html
29-06-2021||Opinion||50 years ago: June 29, 1971||Yahya announces plan to impose new Constitution NEW DELHI June 28 PRESIDENT YAHYA KHAN today disclosed plans to impose a new constitution of his own on Pakistan to change the complexion of the National Assembly by disqualifying an unspecified number of Awami League members and holding byelection to fill their seats. In a broadcast— his first since he announced the army crackdown on East Bengal on March 26, General Yahya Khan made it clear that the new Constitution, already under preparation by a committee of experts, would be designed to hold the two wings united in an Islamic Republic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/50-years-ago-june-29-1971-1002654.html
29-06-2021||Opinion||25 years ago: June 29, 1996||Jalappa quits in a huff over being made minister of state NEW DELHI, June 28 The 28-day old H D Deve Gowda ministry received a jolt today within minutes of its first expansion as senior Karnataka leader R L Jalappa put in his papers, obviously upset with not being given a Cabinet rank. Though the Junior rank given to him took the senior leader by surprise just as he sat among the seats meant for new ministers, Mr Jalappa took the oath of office and secrecy but within no time he was seen writing something on a small sheet of paper and handing it over to the prime minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/25-years-ago-june-29-1996-1002655.html
29-06-2021||Opinion||How Cinderella lost its original feminist edge in the hands of men||By Alexander Sergeant for The Conversation In the words of its publicity department, Andrew Lloyd Webber’s new production of Cinderella offers audiences nothing less than “a complete reinvention of the classic fairy-tale”. Written by Emerald Fennell (Oscar-nominated for Promising Young Women), the production promises a feminist revision of the classic fairy tale, updating the well-known story to reflect contemporary attitudes towards gender. But Cinderella has always been a feminist text. You might have heard of figures like Charles Perrault, the Brothers Grimm and Walt Disney, each playing a key role in popularising the folk story for a new generation. But behind their versions of the classic fairytale lies an untold story of female storytellers like Marie-Catherine D’Aulnoy and the Comtesse de Murat. Before the Grimms, these pioneering women were drawn to Cinderella not because they felt the story needed updating or revising, but because they were attracted by the culture that birthed it – a storytelling network created by and for women. Cinderella’s origins Cinderella began its life as a folk tale, passed orally from household to household. The earliest recorded copy dates back to China in 850-860. This version of the story probably entered into European society by the women working on the Great Silk Road. At a time when only men could be writers or artists, women used folk tales as a means of expressing their creativity. Female labourers and housewives passed the stories onto one another to dispense shared wisdom, or else to break up the boredom of another working day as they toiled away from the prying eyes of men. These storytelling traditions echo to this day. It is where we get the notion of the old wives’ tale. According to feminist writers like Marina Warner, it is also why we have to come to associate gossip with women. Cinderella reflects these customs. It is a story about domestic labour, female violence and friendship, and the oppression of servitude. Perhaps most significantly, it is a story about female desire in a world where women were denied any role in society. The precise story of Cinderella has always been in flux. In some, she still has a mother. In others, the stepsisters resort to slicing off their heels to win the heart of the prince. But whatever incarnation, Cinderella has historically been a story about women and for women. So what happened to poor Cinders to make her so powerless? Well, men. As the story became increasing popular, male writers and artists became interested in adapting the tale. But in doing so, they found in Cinderella not a story of female wish-fulfilment but a more general sense of escapism. It was Perrault who introduced the famous pumpkin and the glass slipper, giving the tale its two most iconic features. The Grimms turned the stepsisters ugly, as well as removed the fairy godmother in favour of a magical wishing tree. These adaptations reflected unconscious misogyny, stripping the story of much of its feminist potential and making it instead about enchantment over representation. Cinderella goes to the cinema These traditions continue in Cinderella’s cinematic adaptations. The first person to adapt Cinderella for the big screen was the French magician turned film director Georges Méliès. In his hands, the character became little more than a passive, frightened waif, her job seemingly to stand in the corners of the shots and look amazed at the latest special effect appearing on screen. Decades later, Walt Disney used Cinderella as part of the studio’s strategy of mining European folk tales for popular entertainment, a tradition begun with Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937). Released in 1950, Disney’s Cinderella reflected the conservative values of US society at the time. The figure of the wicked stepmother took on a super villainesque quality in the form of Lady Tremaine. While the figure of the stepmother had been the antagonist in most versions of the folk story, Disney’s Tremaine was a villain to rank among the studio’s many infamous examples of monstrous women. In Disney’s hands, an often nuanced character within the original tale was turned into a vivid caricature of feminine power and greed. The most recent live-action remake starring Cate Blanchett as Tremaine did little to change these preconceptions of the folk tale, as Cinderella became a nostalgic symbol not only for childhood storytelling but for Disney as its most popular storyteller. The role of women in the creation of Cinderella as we know it was lost to animation and special effects. So what is the moral of the story of this particular fairy tale? If anything, it’s that Cinderella is not a story that needs a complete reinvention. Instead, the story needs reclaiming from the hands of those who would dismiss it as just a fairy story or would use it as a vehicle for spectacle at the expense of the story buried beneath. (The author is a lecturer at the University of Portsmouth)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-cinderella-lost-its-original-feminist-edge-in-the-hands-of-men-1002803.html
29-06-2021||Opinion||Why India needs tougher financial regulators||The Indian financial sector, for years, has been facing a credibility crisis. For a good reason, too. Imagine this: Every middle-class/upper-middle-class person gets a few calls daily from telemarketers peddling credit cards, personal loans, and of course, insurance products. But they are not the only chosen ones. Even former President and then-Finance Minister, late Pranab Mukherjee, once fumed that he was getting four-five calls a day from telemarketers selling home loans. It isn't just about the leaking of the mobile number, which is terrible enough despite applying for DND (do not disturb), but the details of financial status that many of them possess. For example, someone from an X bank will happily ask you to transfer the existing personal loan at a 10 per cent interest rate to another bank at 9 per cent or less. The distrust begins at this stage. And this distrust only grows over the years. Three to four months before every financial year-end, one is likely to get calls for buying tax-saving products. Many sales pitches, to say the least, are damning. For example, investors are sold unit-linked insurance plans (ULIPs) as fixed deposits with tax benefits. Then, when the stock markets are rising, these ULIPs are sold as mutual funds with tax benefits. Similarly, unsuspecting investors are sold multiple mutual fund schemes with the pitch that new fund offers are cheaper than existing schemes. And brokerages have been known to use investors' money to play in the futures and options markets, yes, without permission. As people grow older, fears of being fleeced only multiply. There are dreary stories of how insurance agents sold life insurance policies to people suffering from terminal illnesses. The premium is hefty, and so, the commission. An exasperated mutual fund manager once confessed to the futility of sound financial advice. Once a family friend approached him. She had received a hefty sum from her late husband's provident fund and sought investment advice. The fund manager divided the sum into parts and suggested mutual fund schemes to deploy the money. However, when the lady approached the bank branch, she was coaxed into buying insurance products. Unfortunately, the fund manager came to know about this misadventure after months. The old lady was awe-struck by agents producing 'magical numbers' through excel sheets. You know the type that says, "Oh, you are 50 years, by 70 you will require X crores and this product will give…." Anyhow, the money was gone by the time she realised her mistake. Interestingly, there are loads of such cases of mis-selling against reputed and listed companies. But their stock prices seldom take a knock. Why? Investors, even reputed global ones, have the comfort that the cases will go on for years in India without any outcome. There will be some nominal fine in the worst-case scenario that the firm will happily pay and go on with its business. Occasionally, there is some action, such as the sacking of the wrongdoer or even jail. But that is rare, even wishful thinking. But truth be told, this is not about telemarketers or relationship managers since they have targets and incentives linked to their performance. It's more about the top management of these firms who set astronomical targets for their staff to earn a few rupees more. So there is a need to rein them in. But that requires more aggression from our financial regulators – the Reserve Bank of India, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), or the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). Cases of mis-selling or impropriety, as soon as reported, should be resolved fast. If proved guilty, the fines should be exemplary – five times or ten times the amount defrauded. Moreover, depending on their history, the wrongdoer should be given just one chance or none. It's not that the regulators don't impose fines or issue orders. The IRDAI or SEBI do penalise companies regularly. But the amounts don't deter mis-selling or put the 'fear of fines' in the errant firms and their top honchos. Fines of Rs 5 lakh or Rs 5 crore won't deter firms and managements with profits running into hundreds and thousands of crores. Rs 100 crore or more, though, maybe a good start. Financial frauds happen in other countries, too. But the fines are exemplary. For example, the US Securities and Exchange Commission, in 2020, imposed a total of $ 4.7 billion in penalties and disgorgement – up from $4.3 billion and $3.9 billion in 2019 and 2018, respectively. A CEO of a fund house makes an important point. While visiting the US a few years back, he met a pension fund manager, a long-time friend, for breakfast. But the fund manager refused to eat. The reason: the pension fund had strict ethical guidelines that fund managers should not accept any entertainment, whether food, drinks or any gifts, from sales-side people. Unfortunately, the CEO was a sales-side person. In India, having lunch with a mutual fund distributor and even allowing them to pay is considered fair game, admits the CEO. Though guidelines aren't lacking in Indian firms either, follow up is rare unless there's blatant flouting. And are people fined for breaking the rules? Well, that is a different matter altogether. (The writer is a senior journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-india-needs-tougher-financial-regulators-1002815.html
29-06-2021||Opinion||Mamata's win in Bengal helps Nitish claw back in Bihar||Politicians are like fast bowlers. They have a long and hard memory. They do not forget, and they do not forgive. And like fast bowlers, politicians are born with an uncanny knack to work in pairs. Or in packs, if the situation so desires. If the bowler operating from the far end keeps it nice and tight, there is a fair chance of getting one through the gate from the other end. In India, this election season, Mamata Banerjee, up against the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP), kept pitching at a very good length. Conceding very few runs while picking up just enough scalps for every spell she bowled, the West Bengal chief minister created enough opportunities for others in the league to free their arms a bit. Those who were warming up at the fence all this while have had a day field day since. The Samajwadi Party is up on its feet, talking to potential allies to stitch up an alliance for the Uttar Pradesh elections. The Telangana Rashtra Samithi has begun to get its house in order showing the door to potential challengers within. The Akalis see hope in Punjab sans the BJP. They have tied up with the Bahujan Samaj Party. However, the most significant collateral beneficiary of Banerjee's triumph in Bengal seems to be her immediate first door neighbour in Bihar. In his two decades of experiments with the BJP, the electoral outcome of Bihar Assembly polls late last year rendered Nitish Kumar in an un-envious situation. The BJP challenged his suzerain status over Bihar as it emerged as the single largest party by a fair margin. Despite emerging as the bigger partner in the Bihar NDA, the BJP kept its pre-poll promise and allowed Kumar to continue as the chief minister. But there are no free lunches in politics. So a political price had to be extracted to demonstrate who called the shots in the new set-up. Post elections, Sushil Modi, the trusted deputy chief minister Kumar was comfortable working with, was dispatched to the Rajya Sabha. The BJP nominated from its quota two deputy chief ministers instead. And what is more, the BJP snatched away the strategically critical position of the house speaker in a hung assembly. Like any good politician, Kumar conceded without betraying any signs of discomfiture. But speculation persisted whether the BJP will seek to further strengthen its now dominant position in Bihar after the Bengal elections. Political parties, like us mortals, strive to make hay while the sun shines. So what would have happened in Bihar had the BJP come up trumps in Bengal is a matter of conjecture.                                                                                                                           But Kumar, it seemed, was already at work planning to put in place a slew of corrective measures to arrest any further downslide. He went back to the drawing board to reboot the social coalition he had built to trump Lalu Prasad Yadav's brand of social justice. The return of former union minister Upendra Kushwaha, Kumar's friend-turned-foe, was the first step towards this end. Kushwaha's homecoming after an extended outing was an indication of Kumar's efforts to mobilise the non-Yadav OBC's. Kushwaha comes from the backward Koeri caste and has long projected himself as the natural successor to Lalu Prasad and Nitish Kumar in the process of decentralisation of power within the Mandal caste groups. Kumar's ability to carve out an independent support base for his party has sustained his long innings in Bihar politics. This social combination includes non-Yadav backwards like Kurmis and Koeris, other extremely backward communities and non-Paswan Dalits. These communities together account for 15 to 20 per cent of the polity, a number good enough to establish Kumar as the critical third pole that can swing elections either way. In the 2020 Bihar Assembly polls, Kumar's Janata Dal (United) chose to contest elections in alliance with the BJP but won a far lesser number of seats than the BJP. The BJP closed in further by appointing two deputy chief ministers - one from the extremely backward community and the other from a sub-caste of Vaishya community which come under the backward category in Bihar. After being sworn in, Kumar first sought to firm up his position by calling a truce with Kushwaha. Moreover, he became more accommodative towards smaller parties in the alliance, like Jitan Ram Manjhi's Hindustan Awam Morcha. The consolidation picked further momentum after the Bengal elections, and wheels turned in Delhi and Patna. The Lok Janshakti Party imploded with Pashupati Paras leading the charge against nephew Chirag Paswan. A testimony to the altered political equations was that the BJP had to acquiesce and march along in step with the JD(U) on the LJP split. The tables had turned. The BJP, post the Bengal polls, needs allies.  At least for appearance's sake. To show that the NDA is still alive and the BJP still has friends. Ramdas Athawale of the Republican Party of India (A) is currently the only non-BJP minister in the union council of ministers. A cabinet expansion at the Centre looks likely. Hence, Kumar, who did not join the Union government in 2019 for being offered just one seat, may finally have his way of getting a respectable share for his party. (The writer is an independent journalist)   Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/mamatas-win-in-bengal-helps-nitish-claw-back-in-bihar-1002822.html
29-06-2021||Opinion||Two lessons for Chirag Paswan||When out of power, politicians are a tribe willing to tolerate much adversity, even insult and unsolicited advice. Lok Sabha member Chirag Paswan has had some of both heaped upon him ever since his two uncles outfoxed him. One of the uncles is related to him by blood, Pashupati Kumar Paras; the other his late father's brother-in-arms from the socialist movement, Nitish Kumar. Beseeching the man he considered his guardian angel, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has not helped. As he flits frenetically between Delhi, Patna and Ahmedabad for succour, a flailing Chirag Paswan is losing precious time. Before he hurtles to irredeemable political obscurity, Chirag Paswan might do well to learn from the recent tribulations of another of his father's old comrades, Sharad Yadav.  He might also find helpful the experiences of Dalit leaders such as BR Ambedkar and Kanshi Ram, both of whom launched their independent parties instead of becoming appendages of parties run by upper-caste elites. A lesson from 7, Tughlaq Road On the evening of July 25, 2017, in the living room of his Lutyens Delhi bungalow, Sharad Yadav had sat watching news channels beam visuals of a pleased Nitish Kumar walking out of the Patna Raj Bhavan. Nitish Kumar had severed his party's alliance with the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and walked out of Bihar's 'grand alliance' - comprising Kumar's Janata Dal (United), RJD and Congress - that had worsted the BJP in 2015 Bihar Assembly polls.  Sharad Yadav was a leading light of the JD(U) but now uncertain of his future. Some in his party implored him to take a principled stand on the issue, protest Kumar's truck with the BJP as a betrayal of the 2015 Assembly poll mandate, quit the JD(U), and launch an anti-BJP front in a blaze of rebellious ideological glory.  But Sharad Yadav was uneasy quitting the JD(U) to sup with friend-turned-foe RJD's Lalu Prasad Yadav, someone he had challenged and opposed for over two decades. There were also voices closer home that told him to exercise caution, even patience. The PM might relent and include him in the Union cabinet, they argued. At stake also was his Rajya Sabha seat. But this was inconsistent with the vociferous anti-BJP campaign Sharad Yadav had led in and outside Parliament since 2014. Barely a month before these events, in June 2017, the socialist leader had accompanied Congress's Rahul Gandhi to Mandsaur in Madhya Pradesh to protest the killing of five farmers by the police in the BJP ruled state. Sharad Yadav believed Arun Jaitley, his close friend from the days of the Emergency four decades back, will help get him into the Union cabinet. However, it was not to be, and Sharad Yadav had no alternative but to align with the RJD in Bihar and seek the help of the Congress party in launching the 'Sanjhi Virasat' platform. Opposition leaders rallied behind him, but his associates believe to this day that Sharad Yadav lost the moment that could have propelled him to be a much more influential leader in the Opposition's fight against the BJP. Young Chirag Paswan faces a similar predicament as he plans to launch his 'Aashirwad Yatra' on the birth anniversary of his father on July 5. His options are identical to the ones that confronted Sharad Yadav four years back. Chirag Paswan needs to decide soon if he will wait for the PM to reconstitute the union council of ministers or align with the RJD and Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) in Bihar against the BJP-JD(U) alliance. RJD's Tejashwi Yadav has moved quickly in inviting Chirag Paswan to join him. Lessons from another Ram  As Chirag Paswan waits for his Lord Ram, or Modi, to respond to his pleas, he might as well read up on the writings of Kanshi Ram, the founder of the Bahujan Samaj Party and author of the eponymous treatise on Dalit politics, Chamcha Yug (The Era of Stooges). Kanshi Ram published the book on the eve of the 50th anniversary of the Poona Pact of 1932. He argued Dalits need their independent politics to fight against inequality and discrimination. Else they will remain stooges in political parties run by the upper caste elite. It is a sentiment that had BR Ambedkar found the Republican Party of India, Kanshi Ram shape the BSP, and Chirag Paswan's father, Ram Vilas Paswan, found the Lok Janshakti Party in 2000. Will Chirag Paswan find the courage to risk losing the comfort of his Lutyens bungalow to fight for his place in the pantheon of Dalit leaders who carved out independent politics? Or will he opt to be an appendage of an upper-caste run party? That decision could determine the 38-year-old leader's longevity in Indian politics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/two-lessons-for-chirag-paswan-1002897.html
29-06-2021||Panorama||Need of the hour: Electoral reforms||After decades of Independence, India continues to be haunted by issues including poverty, illiteracy, malnutrition, border tension, income inequality, water scarcity, lack of progress in research and innovation and inaccessibility of quality health and education by low-income groups. With such issues still prevalent, there is an urgent need for quality public representatives to emerge from an inclusive democracy. Unfortunately, elections in India are different and their results are influenced by factors such as money and muscle power, populism, caste, religion and language et al. Political parties of all hues give tickets to candidates who can afford to spend on election campaigns, donate a hefty amount to party funds and influence vote banks. Ideology, a candidate's honesty, integrity and efficiency don’t matter— the potential to win an election is the only criterion to get the tickets, which are literally sold. Such an environment blocks the entry of educated, honest and efficient people into politics. Turncoat politics adds to the already existing problems. This kind of politics has eroded people’s trust in democratic systems. Political leaders should groom their cadres to become potential candidates instead of managing turncoats to help bring down governments. There is an urgent need for a strong law against this practice. Meanwhile, committed party workers continue to remain foot soldiers only because of lack of money. The cadres play an important role, without their moral and physical support, political parties look vulnerable and it is for this reason the parties woo their workers with money. This money, which comes from sources including corporate donations, funds from foreign companies, unlimited donations through electoral bonds and trusts, gives immense power to parties to win elections. According to a report by the Centre for Media Studies (CMS), political parties spent $8 billion for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, which is touted as the most expensive election in the world. The CMS estimates that about Rs 15,000 crore (roughly 25% of the election expense) was illegally distributed among voters. Ten to 12% of voters acknowledged receiving cash ‘directly’ from the parties. Two-thirds acknowledged that people around them also received cash for a vote. The 2019 Lok Sabha election expenditure went up by over six times since the election in 1999— from Rs 9,000 crore to Rs 55,000 crore. Some politicians have reportedly said a candidate requires at least Rs 10 crore to win in a big urban Lok Sabha constituency and Rs 5 crore for a rural one. Parties receiving funds from unidentified sources is a threat to democracy. Many bogus foreign companies and corrupt people route their black money to political parties. It is easy for countries sponsoring terrorism to fund the party of their choice. Niranjan Sahoo, a senior research fellow at the Observer Research Foundation in Delhi, says that this provision (receiving funds from unidentified foreign sources) may open the floodgates for external influence on key policies and potentially affect the country's strategic interests.  Corporate interference too does the damage. Milan Vaishnav, director and senior fellow of South Asia Program at Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington, says: "Evidence suggests that politicians help builders negotiate the labyrinth of regulatory permissions dealing with land in exchange for cash infusions around election time." For example, corporate interference in real estate policy has affected many cities. The growth in the real estate sector has led to the disappearance of many water bodies in and around major Indian metros causing an acute shortage of water there.  Political parties should make public, the funds they have received; put a cap on election expenditure; ensure audit of their funds and periodically report to the Election Commission. Politicians should be brought under the RTI. There has to be a mechanism to recall elected representatives in case of corruption and poor performance— this will improve governance. It’s high time electoral reforms are given priority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/need-of-the-hour-electoral-reforms-1002653.html
29-06-2021||Panorama||Redesign around Mosul landmark prompts outcry||The palm trees were the last straw. In a Unesco competition to restore this city’s most famous landmarks, there they were, in the winning design. Neither the palms nor the Persian Gulf-style design are indigenous to the historic city, Iraqi architects complained. At stake were not only the $50,000 award and the contract for a final design — which was funded by the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and went to an Egyptian architectural team — but, seemingly, the pride of Iraq’s second-largest city, which was rising from the rubble of its battle against the Islamic State (IS) group four years ago. “It’s a fiasco, honestly,” Ihsan Fethi, one of Iraq’s best-known architects, said of the competition for the Nouri mosque project. “The whole thing has been a terrible tragedy for us.” Fethi and the Iraqi architects’ union had more substantive complaints about the winning entry for a new mosque complex than transplanted trees, including elements they viewed as anti-Islamic and a lack of parking. They say it betrays the architectural heritage of the historic city. It is a resentment all the more keenly felt in a country with a proud architectural history that fostered Rifat Chadirji, considered the father of modern Iraqi architecture, and design icon Zaha Hadid. In previous decades, architecture was so important to Iraq that it commissioned buildings by Le Corbusier and plans by Frank Lloyd Wright. The Iraqi Society of Engineers, which oversees the architects’ union, issued a statement opposing the project. The Iraqi Architectural Heritage Preservation Society rejected the winning design in the 123-entry competition as seriously flawed. It said the design introduced numerous “alien” concepts that would change the site beyond recognition and called on Iraq’s prime minister to intervene. It is not the site of just any mosque. Formally known as the Great Mosque of Al-Nouri, it was where in 2014 Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, then the leader of Islamic State group, declared a caliphate after the group’s fighters took control of Mosul along with almost one-third of Iraq and parts of Syria. Three years later, as US-backed Iraqi forces fought to defeat the terrorist group, Islamic State group fighters blew up the mosque and an even more iconic minaret as they retreated. Airstrikes and explosives flattened large parts of the old section of Mosul and killed thousands of civilians as well as hundreds of Iraqi security forces. Rebuilding the mosque complex is seen as essential to the idea that despite its losses, the battered city has moved beyond the Islamic State group. Al-Nouri mosque, named after Nur al-Din Mahmoud Zangi, ruler of Mosul and Aleppo, dates back to the 12th century but was completely rebuilt in the 1940s. The $50 million project will also restore two heavily damaged churches nearby and repair a 12th-century brick minaret near the mosque — a symbol of Mosul so iconic that the tilted minaret is on Iraq’s 10,000 dinar note. In announcing the architectural competition, the UN cultural agency said the new design was intended to advance the city’s reconciliation and cohesion. But in many circles, it has done anything but, prompting an uproar among architects, urban planners and some Mosul residents who say it ignores Iraqi heritage. Perhaps in a nod to the UAE, which is footing the bill, the winning design features cream-colored brick and straight angles of the kind found in the Persian Gulf — a contrast to the arches, blue-veined local alabaster and limestone of traditional Mosul buildings. “The local architectural language isn’t there,” especially given this city’s history, said Ahmed Tohala, a lecturer in architecture at the University of Mosul. “The materials, colours, elements, proportion, rhythm, relationship between the elements — it is another strange language.” “It looks very much like the Emirates,” Fathi said. To be fair, some of the requirements were mandated by Iraq’s Sunni Endowment Office, which oversees Sunni mosques in Iraq. On a recent day at the worksite, above the roar of a generator, Maher Ismail, the Sunni endowment’s project manager, declared it “a beautiful design.” The expanded mosque complex will include a public park, a religious high school and a cultural centre, while the mosque and minaret will be restored and architecturally unchanged. Ismail said the criticism of the complex design had been generated by jealous architectural firms. “Some of the people who wanted to work on the mosque and had no chance to do it have created many problems to stop the work,” he said. After the outcry, Unesco held a meeting with the Iraqi architects’ union, which maintained that it should have been consulted from the start. Among the main complaints besides aesthetics were competition requirements that called for an open courtyard next to the mosque to be opened to the general public and a separate section for dignitaries to be built on a balcony of the prayer hall. Unesco also points out that the competition rules were developed in coordination with the Iraqi Ministry of Culture. It says the winners are expected to produce a more detailed final design with construction to start this fall. Paolo Fontani, Unesco’s Iraq director, said there could be changes made to the final plans, as is normal in a competition for an initial design. He said Unesco would consult with local experts and architects. The lead partner in the winning Egyptian firm, Salah El-Din Samir Hareedy, died shortly after the competition results were announced. Hareedy died of complications from Covid-19, but mean-spirited Iraqis joked on social media that it was the curse of Mosul residents upset over his design that killed him. At the construction site in the heart of Mosul’s historic section on the west side of the Tigris River, crews have removed almost 6,000 tons of rubble from the bombed site, recovering and cleaning 45,000 bricks that will be used to rebuild the minaret. Pieces of marble and stone from the heavily damaged mosque have been catalogued and sorted for restoration. Local carpenters working under the supervision of an Italian expert are restoring damaged woodwork in the mosque. Across the street from the planned complex, a new coffeehouse started by local activists flanks a row of brightly coloured shops intended to help bring life back to the devastated area. “It’s too modern,” Mobashar Mohammad Wajid said of the complex design. But Wajid, standing in his tiny art studio across from the coffeehouse featuring his calligraphy designs, said that once the complex was completed, Mosul residents would probably be pleased with it. “When they see buildings are being rebuilt,” he said, “they are going to be so happy.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/redesign-around-mosul-landmark-prompts-outcry-1002663.html
29-06-2021||Panorama||Better to give jobs to the poor than give them money without work: T V Narendran||T V Narendran, newly elected president of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), suggests a Rs 3 lakh crore stimulus to deal with the second wave of Covid. His views about Universal Basic Income is a bit different. According to him, it is better to give jobs to the poor than to give them income without any work. He talks about the impact of the pandemic in detail with DH's Annapurna Singh. Excerpts: Q. At CII, you were the first one to raise the pitch for a Rs 3 lakh crore stimulus package to deal with the second wave of Covid-19. What is your sense of the size of stimulus for the informal sectors of the economy?  A. The package suggested by CII includes informal sectors as well. These include cash transfers through Jan Dhan accounts, increase in support to farmers through PM-Kisan and greater allocation for the MNREGA programme. With the majority of the workforce employed in the informal sector, their wellbeing is extremely important for the overall health of the economy. Public works and construction projects create employment in the informal sector. Further, the travel and tourism sector, which employs may people in the informal sector, is facing tremendous distress. For the formal sector, our suggested measures are focused on the small and medium  sector. We suggest expansion of the credit guarantee scheme (ECLGS) which has been working well for sustaining the MSMEs. Q. This time, consumption in rural areas is also impacted. Steps to lift that up?  A. Many of the measures suggested above such as increased spending on MNREGA and PM-Kisan are targeted at rural areas. In addition, there should be more focus on vaccination as well as healthcare facilities in rural India. Public expenditure on health should be stepped up so that healthcare facilities are available in remote areas. Government should invite private sector to join hands with the district administration to set up hospitals with connectivity for digital healthcare provision. Special incentives could be provided for setting up medical facilities such as free land, deemed clearances and tax benefits. Q. Inflation is raising its head once again. Fuel prices inflation will add more to it. Added to that, vaccine optimism has led global commodity prices to soar. What are the ways to tackle inflation and inflationary expectations of households?  A. It is likely that inflation will moderate from the high level of 6.3%, touched in May, as the lifting of lockdowns will ease supply bottlenecks. Food prices are especially affected by restrictions on movement. The unlock over June and July in most states will have a moderating impact on food prices. Further, a good monsoon leading to a good crop this year will keep food prices moderate. Fuel prices can be brought down by reducing the high level of central and state taxes. The Centre had increased excise on fuel products when the global prices had declined during the first wave but has not reduced them now. Q. Certain businesses have been shut for ever. Migrant labourers are hesitant to come back to work due to an impending third wave of Covid-19. Poor are getting poorer. Jobs are less. In this scenario, do you also support a Universal Basic Income for Indians?  A. It is critical to get back growth which will generate jobs and livelihoods. It is also important to provide better facilities to migrant labourers. Many migrants chose not to go back in the second wave as they were taken care of by their employers. The affordable housing scheme initiated by the government for low-cost worker housing should be pursued. It would not be appropriate to comment on the UBI without knowing how much it would cost and whether it is affordable. I believe it is better to give jobs to the poor than to give an income without any work, as the former is more sustainable. We may also think about providing Universal Social Health Insurance so that healthcare costs are taken care of. Q. Things that you suggest to the government to help create jobs at a faster pace and which sectors to tap first?  A. Companies in the tourism, aviation, hospitality sectors need auto-renewal of licenses without any fees for this financial year as well as waiver of any property taxes, licenses, fees etc. Waiver of statutory dues related to customs duties, excise fees, levies, taxes, power and water charges, across the tourism, travel, aviation, and hospitality industry is also required. The registration for Aatmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana (ABRY) which had commenced from October 1, 2020, to incentivise employers for creation of new employment along with social security benefits and restoration of loss of employment during Covid-19 pandemic is closing on June 30, 2021. Since the impact of the second wave on the livelihoods has been very brutal, it is imperative that the registration for this scheme remains open till 31st March 2022. Funding public infrastructure has been a tried and tested route of stimulus that not only creates demand for many industries but also creates jobs as well as improves long term productivity. Q. Are you optimistic about India’s growth turnaround this fiscal if the vaccination programme achieves its target? This year, we are operating in a supportive global environment where stimulus provided in all major economies has lifted growth. I am therefore optimistic that if we do not get into another wave of Covid infections, growth levels across sectors will start climbing. Of course, it is critical to achieve our vaccination target both to avoid another wave as well as to be able to restart economic activity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/better-to-give-jobs-to-the-poor-than-give-them-money-without-work-t-v-narendran-1002664.html
29-06-2021||Right in the Middle||Count your blessings||Optimism thy name is my dearest hubby. Stoic to a fault. Nothing and no one can dampen his spirits however extenuating the circumstances. The whole sky can collapse but our homegrown Buddha will say: “Count your blessings". Government service can lift you to head-turning highs and throw you down to embarrassing lows. After having lived in a palatial bungalow set in one and a half acres of land, surrounded by lush green vegetables and fruit-laden trees, we were thrown right into the heat and dust of the national capital. I was more than sceptical about how we would manage our administrative concerns, but my husband said: “Who gets to live in the national capital. It is the centre of power after all”. I could not see what was the connection between us and power but refrained to comment. The only power, I could think of was the fat power bills we would have to pay for the air conditioners and heaters we would be forced to use to combat the weather right through the year. We were allotted a two-room-and-kitchen set. Rats and snakes had made their home before us and had the right of way. The sound of rats doing a midnight dance between the false ceilings kept me up most nights. The seepage made modern art designs on the wall. The branches of a nearby peepal tree had made inroads into the house through cracks in the false roof.  When I was at my wit's end and reported to my husband, he cheerily remarked, “count your blessings wifey, we have a roof over our heads at least, how many people in our country, have a roof over their heads. After an agonising wait, we were finally allotted accommodation in a supposedly elite neighbourhood of the town. Now came the most taxing part. Our house was a big bag of troubles right from the word go, an antediluvian wiring would only allow and support two electrical appliances at a time. Plaster peeling off the walls, flushes not working, air-locked taps, clogged drains et al. Before I could even complain my husband pointed out that our house was one of the architectural marvels of the colony.   One late evening my husband came out looking like a thunder cloud. He raved and ranted that my beagle (who is no angle by the way), had knocked over my husband's bedtime hot chocolate over his important file. At last, my husband got his comeuppance. I remarked, "don’t fret dear, count your blessings, the poor boy hasn’t torn the file, the papers can always be dried."||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/count-your-blessings-1002657.html
29-06-2021||Second Edit||More work against gender bias needed||The annual report of the Civil Registration System for 2019, which is a part of the Census Department of India, has provided some good news about gender balance in the country. The report has shown that no state or Union Territory has a sex ratio at birth which was less than 900 girls for every 1,000 boys. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has estimated that the natural sex ratio at birth is about 952 females to every 1,000 males. The 2019 ratio shows a much-improved performance by a country which till recently had a poor sex ratio. But the report also had bad news because it showed that many states had registered a fall in sex ratio from 2017 and 2018. This was confirmed by the National Family Health Survey also which shows that eight states which had improved their sex ratios had slipped in 2019.  Arunachal Pradesh had the highest sex ratio at 1,024, but it saw a decline from 1,047 in 2018. States like Kerala, Himachal Pradesh and Chhattisgarh which have traditionally had a high sex ratio saw it decline from the previous years. But Punjab and Chandigarh where the sex ratio was low in the past, improved their figures. Gujarat, Assam and Madhya Pradesh registered the lowest ratios among all states. It is difficult to pinpoint any reason for the falling trend. It is clear that the Centre’s Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao scheme has not had much of an impact. It is not known whether the ban on sex determination tests is increasingly violated, but if there is widespread violation there must be a nationwide reason for it. The official and unofficial campaigns against gender discrimination may also not be working as they did in the past.  It is necessary to make a comprehensive study of the trend because if it persists it will erase all the gains made over decades to achieve a better gender balance. It is a regressive social attitude that shows a preference for the male child and that was once entrenched in the country. If such patriarchal values and attitudes are revived and gain dominance, that should be a matter of serious concern. It is also likely that periods of economic distress can change attitudes and perceptions about the roles of men and women in society. Even when such attitudes change, there must have been active interventions in the natural gender equations which caused the decline in sex ratio in consecutive years, because children are not just born or unborn in minds. The shift in attitudes and the interventions need to be identified and acted upon so that the positive trend is resumed for the good and health of the society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/more-work-against-gender-bias-needed-1002667.html
29-06-2021||South||Kerala: Man gives 8-year-old daughter beer, lands in jail||A 45-year-old man was arrested for allegedly feeding his minor daughter beer at Hosdurg in this north Kerala district, police said on Tuesday. Radhakrishnan, a native of Thoyammal here, gave the alcoholic beverage to his eight-year-old daughter while consuming it himself at home on Sunday. The child suddenly developed uneasiness and started throwing up, following which her mother rushed her to a nearby hospital. After being alerted by the hospital authorities, the police came to the spot and recorded the statement of the girl in her mother's presence. "A case was registered and the father was arrested later based on her statement," a police official said. IPC 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, any stupefying, intoxicating or unwholesome drug, with intent to commit an offence) and Section 77 of Juvenile Justice Act were slapped against the man. A local court here remanded the accused for two weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-man-gives-8-year-old-daughter-beer-lands-in-jail-1002752.html
29-06-2021||South||Schools, colleges in Kerala to be made friendly for differently-abled: Minister||Schools and colleges in Kerala would be soon made disabled-friendly, state Minister for Higher Education and Social Justice, R Bindhu said here on Tuesday. Noting that the care and protection of orphaned children was the responsibility of the society, she said the state government has plans to set up settlement villages for their rehabilitation. The minister was speaking after launching the state-level distribution of supportive devices to the differently-abled persons at the National Institute of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (NIPMR) in this central Kerala district. The equipment were distributed as part of the preparatory initiatives of the state government's objective to create a 'disabled-friendly Kerala' in near future. The distribution of devices is only the primary responsibility, Bindhu said adding that bigger goals need to be achieved for the differently-abled persons. "Schools and colleges in in the state will also be made disabled-friendly soon as part of the initiatives," the minister added. State Social Justice Director, Sheeba George and Kerala State Handicapped Persons Welfare Corporation LTD managing director, K Moideenkutty were among the officials who were present during the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/schools-colleges-in-kerala-to-be-made-friendly-for-differently-abled-minister-1002828.html
29-06-2021||South||Kerala elephant that cut cake to celebrate birthday dies||An elephant calf in Kerala, that was in the news after its first year of survival was celebrated with a cake cutting by the state forest officials died on Monday, following a brief illness. 'Sreekutty', as it was named by the forest officials, came under the care of forest officials when it was just around one month old. The chances of survival of the newborn outside a forest environment was very remote and that was why the forest officials celebrated its first birthday, or rather the first year of its survival, in last November. However, by Sunday the elephant calf, which was at the forest department's Elephant Rehabilitation Centre at Kottor on the suburbs of Thiruvananthapuram, developed fever and drowsiness, and died by Monday. With the exact cause of death yet to be diagnosed, forest officials assume that the calf could have been suffering from some genetic inferiority and that could be why its parents abandoned it. Thiruvananthapuram wildlife warden J R Ani told DH that though efforts were made to send the calf back to the forest, it was not accepted by the elephant herds. Now it is assumed that the elephant could have been suffering from a genetic inferiority and it would have been difficult for it to survive in the forest. That could be why it was not accepted by the elephant herds. Since at least 25 staff at the rehabilitation centre recently got Covid infection, there was a fear whether Sreekutty was also Covid victim. However, veterinary doctors who conducted the postmortem examination ruled it out. It was suspect that it could be due to herpes virus infection, said Ani. The elephant calf was hardly one month old when it was spotted in a weak condition at an estate close to the forest areas of Thenmala in Kollam district in November 2019 with wounds and bruises and leg injury. It was suspected to be washed away from its parents owing to the heavy waterflow in the river. Since the chances of survival of the elephant calf outside the forest was remote, the forest authorities kept it at the spot itself for couple of days with hopes of its parents coming in search of it and taking back to the forest. But with no response from parents even after a few days, it was brought to the Elephant Rehabilitation Centre. A special forest like enclave was set up and it was fed with glucose, lactogen, B-Protein and ragi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-elephant-that-cut-cake-to-celebrate-birthday-dies-1002919.html
29-06-2021||South||Kerala launches Covid-19 vaccination drive for migrant workers||With the third Covid-19 wave looming large, Kerala has initiated a mission to vaccinate the highly vulnerable migrant labourers, who number in several lakhs. Being unorganised and remaining floating are the major challenges involved in vaccinating the migrant labouers. Even though around 5.9 lakh migrant workers had registered for Aawaz medical scheme offered by the Kerala government, the labour department can now trace only 2.9 lakh migrant workers so far for vaccinating. The state labour department is trying to track the migrant workers and collect their data through various measures like offering food kits at their camps and conducting the registration. Kerala labour commissioner S Chithra told DH that vaccinating the workers would be a tedious task. Labour officials at the grassroots level are trying to track them with the help of NGOs. Those working in organised sectors like construction and plantations were being vaccinated with the help of the labour contractors and plantation owners. She also said that so far the rate of infection among migrant workers was very low, and only four migrant workers reportedly died due to Covid-19 in the state so far. Sources in the labour department said that a major chunk of the migrant workers in Kerala would be involved in footloose jobs and many may also be lacking a valid identity card. Hence, tracking all of them was very challenging. Moreover, scores of migrant workers who returned to their native places were likely to return in the coming weeks. Benoy Petre, executive director of the Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development, a NGO working among the migrant workers, said that Kerala could be the first state to initiate such a drive to vaccinate the migrant workers. Chances of Covid spread among the migrant workers was very high as they live in camps and use common facilities like toilets. Migrant workers in Kerala come from mainly from places like West Bengal, Odisha, Bihar, UP, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Chhattisgarh. There were also reports that many illegal immigrants from Bangladesh were also present in Kerala under the cover of migrant workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-launches-covid-19-vaccination-drive-for-migrant-workers-1002925.html
29-06-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Congress leader named chief of state minority commission||Senior Congress leader S Peter Alphonse was on Tuesday named as the chairman of State Minorities Commission, Tamil Nadu by Chief Minister M K Stalin. Alphonse, a three-time MLA and a former Rajya Sabha member, is known to enjoy close relations with the DMK, an ally of the Congress. In a statement, Stalin said he has reconstituted the State Minorities Commission and has appointed Alphonse as its chairman. The commission is aimed at safeguarding the interests of both religious and linguistic minorities in the state. Alphonse’ appointment as chief of the minorities commission has political undertones as it is being interpreted as Stalin’s way of keeping his ally Congress happy. The national party has been an ally of the DMK since 2004 – both parties have contested all elections from 2004 to 2021 barring the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Alphonse, a staunch loyalist of late Congress veteran G K Moopanar, was close to late DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi. The senior Congress leader had represented Tenkasi and Kadayanallur assembly constituencies in the past and was Rajya Sabha once.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-congress-leader-named-chief-of-state-minority-commission-1002933.html
29-06-2021||South||Sylendra Babu appointed Tamil Nadu DGP||C Sylendra Babu, a decorated and upright police officer, will be the new Director-General of Police (DGP) of Tamil Nadu succeeding incumbent J K Tripathy who retires on June 30. Babu, a 1987-cadre IPS officer, will take charge on July 1. The name of Babu was chosen from a list of three IPS officers short-listed by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). Babu, 59, will have a two-year fixed tenure as DGP. The police officer, who has won many laurels including President’s Medal for devotion to duty, and Prime Minister’s Medal for life saving, is also a motivational speaker and an active proponent of cycling and physical exercises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sylendra-babu-appointed-tamil-nadu-dgp-1002935.html
29-06-2021||South||SC dismisses plea against Tamil Nadu Land Acquisition Act||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a batch of writ petitions challenging the validity of Tamil Nadu Land Acquisition Laws (Revival of Operation, Amendment and Validation) Act, 2019 concerning highways, industries and Harijan welfare schemes. “We hold the 2019 Act to be a legitimate legislative exercise and find it to be consistent with and within the four corners of Article 254 of the Constitution of India and also of the High Court judgment," a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari said. The bench noted that the Act is well laid ­out and it is not cryptic in any manner so as to play a fraud upon the mandate of the Constitution. “More importantly, the concerned constitutional bodies i e, legislative assembly, Governor and President have understood the substance of what is placed before them. We are concerned with the substance of the legislation, and not its form," the bench said. The Madras High Court in July 2019 had held that three land acquisition laws enacted by Tamil Nadu legislature - Tamil Nadu Highway Act 2001, Tamil Nadu Acquisition of Land for Industrial Purposes Act 1997, and Tamil Nadu Acquisition of Land for Harijan Welfare Scheme Act 1978 – are repugnant to the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, passed by Parliament. The High Court ruled all acquisitions done under these three Acts would be illegal from September 27, 2013, the date on which Centre’s Act received the presidential assent. Subsequently, the state government brought in 2019 Act, which received the presidential assent on December 2, 2019. A group of petitioners led by G Mohan Roa contended the state enactments violated Articles 14, 19, 21 of the Constitution on account of unreasonable classification between those persons whose lands were acquired for industrial purposes and those whose lands are acquired for other purposes thereby impacting their right to trade and occupation coupled with right to livelihood. The petitioners argued that the actual repugnancy was not pointed out to the President while obtaining assent and thus, requirements of Article 254(2) remained unfulfilled. The bench noted that the mandate of Article 254 required placing the state law before the  President for his/her consideration for permitting the State law to prevail over a specific law made by the Parliament. “In other words, there can be no general assent against all laws made by the Parliament operating on the subject. The judicial review of assent does not permit examining whether the assent was rightly or wrongly or erroneously given," the bench said. The top court noted that the state government letter to the President stated that the law made by the Parliament rendered the three enactments repugnant and out of operation owing to the Madras High Court judgment. It also stated that the state has considerable interest, having a strong bearing on the public exchequer, in saving and reviving the three state enactments. "Suffice it to say that the communication was in compliance with the mandate of Article 254 as well as with the decision of this Court in Kaiser­ I­ Hind Pvt Ltd. We see no reason to intervene on this ground," court said. The bench noted that the effect of the 2019 Act was to change the law retrospectively and not to overrule the judgment of the High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-dismisses-plea-against-tamil-nadu-land-acquisition-act-1002936.html
29-06-2021||South||Madras High Court issues notice to Tamil Nadu govt on NEET panel||The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admissions into medical colleges is back on the centre stage in Tamil Nadu yet again. Weeks after the new DMK government constituted a committee to study the impact of NEET on students from disadvantaged sections, the Madras High Court on Tuesday raised questions over the panel. The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy wanted to know if the state government had sought the permission of the Supreme Court before constituting the committee. They also sought to know whether the move would not violate a Supreme Court verdict that made NEET compulsory for admissions into medical colleges. The judges were hearing a petition filed by K Nagarajan, General Secretary of Tamil Nadu BJP, that sought to quash the constitution of the committee headed by Justice (retired) A K Rajan. The committee has held three meetings with stakeholders so far and has received over 80,000 petitions from people in the state. "Have you obtained the permission of the Supreme Court? Would it not amount to a violation of the ruling of the apex court?" the first bench asked, while Justice Banerjee observed that Tamil Nadu must fall in line and accept NEET since the Supreme Court has made it clear that the exam was mandatory. Responding to the remarks of the first bench, Advocate-General R Shanmugasundaram said the constitution of the committee headed by a retired judge was a policy decision of the DMK government. To this, the judges said, "Maybe. But if it is contrary to the Supreme Court order, then it cannot be permitted." However, the court ordered notice to Tamil Nadu and Union Governments, returnable by a week. The petition triggered a political slugfest with Health Minister Ma Subramanian accusing the BJP of adopting “double standards” on the issue. Except for the BJP, all other political parties in Tamil Nadu oppose NEET and want the exam to be dispensed with – the DMK had promised to do away with the exam of voted to power. Opposition AIADMK has also asked the state government to clarify whether NEET will be held in Tamil Nadu this year. NEET is a highly emotive issue in Tamil Nadu as many believe the exam is discriminatory against students from rural areas as they are made to compete with those from urban areas who have better education facilities and exposure. More than 10 students have so far died by suicide after failing to clear the exam or in fear of the entrance test.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-high-court-issues-notice-to-tamil-nadu-govt-on-neet-panel-1002937.html
29-06-2021||South||Nilgiris almost completes vaccination among eligible tribal population||The 27,000-odd tribal population in the district was very hesitant to get inoculated as many believed they would “die after a few days” or “men would become impotent” after taking the jab. With the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic not sparing anyone, Nilgiris administration pulled all stops to take the vaccination drive to the doorsteps of the tribals by roping in NGOs who have worked among them for years together.   The month-long efforts have now paid off -- the entire eligible population among the tribals have received their first dose. Out of 27,032 tribals in the district, 21,435 were eligible and all of them have been partially vaccinated. Niligiris has also fared better when compared to other states by inoculating nearly half of those above 18 years of age. Besides, the administration has also reached out to another vulnerable section – plantation workers by vaccinating all 23,000 who reside in the district. Administering vaccines to tribal populations was the most difficult task as most of these hamlets are in far-flung areas and the health team had to travel for long hours to navigate through dense forests to reach them. The team travelled in “sturdy” vehicles used by officials of the Forest Department and the NGOs to reach the villages and convince the population of the need to get a jab. “It was very difficult to convince them. We sought the help of NGOs who were working among the tribal population. Since they (tribals) trusted the NGOs, they listened to them and agreed after much thought and persuasion. The role of NGOs is crucial in this achievement,” J Innocent Divya, Nilgiris District Collector, told DH. The team consisting of health care workers, district officials, and representatives of NGOs went to villages, spending hours together explaining the need to get vaccinated and busting myths on vaccination. “The teams convinced village heads to get vaccinated first which instilled trust and hope in others. This process was repeated in every single hamlet. On the first day, our teams visited hamlets and convinced the population. The next morning, they landed early in the morning to vaccinate the eligible population before they left the hamlet for work or other reasons,” the district collector said. The state government was also keen on inoculating the tribal population with Health Minister Ma Subramanian undertaking a visit to the district. Seasoned bureaucrat Supriya Sahu, CEO of INDOSERVE India’s largest Tea Co-operative Federation and Covid-19 monitoring officer for the district, also helped the district administration devise strategies on vaccination. The reach out was carried out in phases with the district administration choosing to first inoculate those belonging to Todas and Kotas who are in the upper reaches. Since these are a mobile population who go out for work regularly, the district administration found it quite easy to bring them to the primary health centres for getting vaccines. The difficult task was to convince people belonging to tribal communities such as Paniyas, Kurumbas, Irulas and Kattunayakans. Since the hamlets of these communities were in the plateau region and the vaccine hesitancy was most high here, the NGOs played a crucial role in convincing the population. “Reaching the villages was itself an arduous task as they are located in far-flung areas, especially those that are not connected by road. The health care team navigated dense forests to reach these villages and get them vaccinated. The problem was less in reaching the villages that are connected by road,” Divya said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nilgiris-almost-completes-vaccination-among-eligible-tribal-population-1002943.html
29-06-2021||South||Kerala extends Covid lockdown with TPR based classification of local bodies||With Covid-19 cases not witnessing the expected decline, the Kerala government on Tuesday decided to extend lockdown restrictions for one more week. The state reported 13,550 new cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative cases to 29,10,507 while the toll mounted to 13,093 with the addition of 104 recent deaths. Briefing the media after the Covid review meeting, Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said it has been decided to make small changes in the classification of areas according to the spread of the disease. The LSG bodies have been reclassified on the basis of the average Test Positivity Rate (TPR) for the last seven days. Accordingly, there are 165 local bodies in the A category (TPR less than 6 percent), 473 in the B category (6 -12per cent TPR), 316 in the C category (12-18 per cent TPR) and 80 in the D category (TPR more than 18 per cent). The new restrictions would come into effect from Thursday, Vijayan said. "The average TPR is still above 10 per cent, but down from a high of 29.75 cent.The expected progress in TPR decline is not visible.The lockdown cannot continue all the time.That's why the relaxations were allowed but there is concern that TPR is not falling below 10 per cent," he said. Statistics from the past week indicate that there was no considerable decline in the number of patients, the Chief Minister said. "The TPR is expected to decrease gradually.There are many non-infected people in Kerala as the speed of transmission was well controlled in the first wave." According to the Sero Survey conducted by ICMR, only about 11 per cent of the people in the state were infected during the first wave as against the national average of 21 per cent. The delta variant is spreading as part of the second wave, according to the Chief Minister. Although the disease spread faster than the first wave, the state was able to contain the wave in a manner thatensured that health system did not crumble. In this scenario, it was decided that there was no need to relax the existing restrictions, the CM said. The Chief Minister also announced a change in the funeral protocol of Covid victims allowing close relatives to pay their respects and perform limited religious rites, all within an hour. Banks have been directed to halt the revenue recovery proceedings of those Covid victims who have defaulted on bank loans,he said. As on June 29, 1,38,62,459 doses of vaccine have been distributed in the state. Among healthcare workers, the first dose was given to 5,36,218 people and the second to 4,26,853. Of the other frontline workers, 5,51,272 were given the first dose and 4,29,737 the second dose. The first dose was given to 78,12,226 people over the age of 45 and the second to 22,76,856. Among the 18-44 years category, the first dose was given to 18,05,308 persons and the second to 23,989. A total of 1,07,05,024 persons in the state have so far received the first dose, while 31,57,435 have received both doses. Forty per cent of the State's population has got the first jab while 12 per cent have got both shots. "Once the vaccine is available, it can be delivered quickly and systematically.If we get the required amount of vaccine from the central government, we will be able to achieve herd immunity within three to four months," Vijayan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-extends-covid-lockdown-with-tpr-based-classification-of-local-bodies-1002964.html
29-06-2021||South||Construction begins for units 5 and 6 of Kudankulam nuclear power plant||The construction work for units 5 and 6 of the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant (KNPP) in Kudankulam in Tirunelveli district commenced on Tuesday. The work was launched by pouring the first concrete into the foundation plate of the reactor building. Russia's Rosatom and Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd (NPCIL), a public sector undertaking of the Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), will jointly build the nuclear power reactors. Already KNPP has four nuclear reactors with first two are running and the remaining two under construction. On completion, the KKNPP will be the highest nuclear power generation park in the country. "The construction of Units 5 and 6 at Kudankulam commenced today with the placement of First Pour of Concrete (FPC). The First Pour of Concrete is an important milestone in a nuclear power project that is reckoned as the start date of the project," a statement from the NPCIL said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/construction-begins-for-units-5-and-6-of-kudankulam-nuclear-power-plant-1002974.html
29-06-2021||South||Kitex Garments backtracks from Rs 3,500 crore investment plans in Kerala alleging political revenge||Kitex Garments, a leading garment manufacturer based in Kerala, is backtracking from an Rs 3,500 crore investment proposal in Kerala alleging anti-industry conditions in the state. Kitex Garments chairman and managing director Sabu M Jacob, who is also founder of Twenty20 forum that contested in the elections, said that at least eleven government agencies carried out raids at its units at Kizhakkambalam on the suburbs of Kochi over the last few weeks. He alleged that it was political revenge against Twenty20, which was initiated as part of the CSR activities of the Kitex group. He said that the group would be scrapping an Rs. 3,500 crore investment plans in Kerala for which a memorandum of understanding was signed with the Kerala government in a global investor meet held last year. Apparel parks and industrial parks were part of the proposal and the company had also initiated land acquisition measures. Jacob alleged that while many states were giving red carpet welcome to industrialists, in Kerala, industrialists were being considered as law offenders. The harassment of investors by government agencies would make Kerala a graveyard of industries, he alleged. With the fresh development causing embarrassment to the state government, the government is likely to initiate discussions with Kitex Garments, said sources. Congress MLA P T Thomas recently alleged that the Kitex group was causing severe pollution to the water bodies at Kizhakkambalam. Kitex Garments had moved a defamation notice against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kitex-garments-backtracks-from-rs-3500-crore-investment-plans-in-kerala-alleging-political-revenge-1002980.html
29-06-2021||State||Decisions to hold SSLC exams was not unilateral: Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||Amid reports that the Health and Education departments were not on the same page over holding class 10 board exams, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday said the decision was arrived at after thorough discussions and was not unilateral. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar on Monday had announced that SSLC board exams will be held on July 19 and 22, amid fears of the possible third-wave of Covid-19. "Education Minister Suresh Kumar after preliminary discussions with me has taken the decision on fixing the dates for SSLC exams. This decision has been taken in the interest of students, after thorough discussions, and it is not a unilateral decision. It is unnecessary to create confusion in this regard," Yediyurappa tweeted. After the CM's tweet, Health Minister K Sudhakar, who had last evening stated that he was unaware of the decision to hold the exam, also said the Education Minister has discussed with experts before taking the call, and Yediyurappa was also informed. "He (Kumar) told me last evening that he had discussed with the CM regarding the decision (about holding exams), as I was in another meeting, I was not aware of.... in the evening he informed me about it.... I think the discussions were also held with the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC)," he said. Hours after the announcement of the timetable for the exams on Monday, Sudhakar had said that his department was unaware of the decision, triggering reports of lack of coordination within the government regarding holding SSLC exams. However, Kumar on his part had said the decision to hold exams was arrived at after several rounds of discussions, and also talks were held regarding the measures that need to be taken with the Health Department officials, who have given SOP that need to be followed. During the early weeks of Covid-19 too, the government had drawn criticism over lack of coordination regarding handling the pandemic, with the then Health Minister Sriramulu and Sudhakar seen "competing" with each other to lead from the front, sometimes creating confusion. Subsequently, Sriramulu, who is now Social Welfare Minister, was divested of the Health and Family Welfare portfolio, by the Chief Minister, and it was allocated to Sudhakar, who was only holding Medical Education portfolio then, with an intention of one minister handling the related portfolios amid the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/decisions-to-hold-sslc-exams-was-not-unilateral-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-1002754.html
29-06-2021||State||Decision on releasing water into Visvesvaraya canal after ICC meeting, claim authorities||With the farmers urging the authorities to release water into the Visvesvaraya canal to facilitate agricultural activities in the region, the authorities claim a decision will be taken next week.  Cauvery Neeravari Nigam executive engineer Shankaregowda said that the Irrigation Consultative Committee meeting to discuss releasing of water to the canals will be held at KRS next week. At a meeting in Mandya, he said, "A small quantity of water is being released into the canals now. A decision on releasing water into the canals for crops will be taken during the ICC meeting". However, farmer leaders have opposed this claim saying that while the farmers here have to stage protests to get water to canals, the officials are letting water into the river to Tamil Nadu regularly. Water is being released to Tamil Nadu for the last 15 days, they alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/decision-on-releasing-water-into-visvesvaraya-canal-after-icc-meeting-claim-authorities-1002783.html
29-06-2021||State||Travellers from Maharashtra will need Covid-19 negative RT-PCR test or vaccination report to enter Karnataka||The government has ordered that all people entering Karnataka from Maharashtra need to produce a negative RT-PCR report or show proof that they have received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.  “This will also be applicable for all flights originating from Maharashtra to Karnataka,” chief secretary P Ravi Kumar said in his order, adding that those travelling by bus, train, taxi and personal transport will also need to comply.  The negative RT-PCR report should not be older than 72 hours, the order stated.   Deputy commissioners of the border districts of Belagavi, Bidar, Vijayapura and Kalaburagi should make arrangements to "deploy necessary staff at checkposts to ensure that all vehicles entering Karnataka are checked for compliance," the order said. Constitutional functionaries, healthcare professionals and children below two years of age are exempted from producing the negative RT-PCR report. In dire emergency situations such as a death in a family or medical treatment, the passenger’s swab will be collected on arrival and further action will be taken based on the RT-PCR test report, the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/travellers-from-maharashtra-will-need-covid-19-negative-rt-pcr-test-or-vaccination-report-to-enter-karnataka-1002944.html
29-06-2021||State||Online gambling: HC directs chief secretary to file statement||The High Court on Tuesday directed the chief secretary to make a statement on the issue of online gambling. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka passed this order after noticing that the government had been reluctant to take a stand on the issue despite allowing several adjournments.   The court recalled that a notice was first issued in the PIL in November 2020 and for the past four months, the government had failed to place a cabinet decision as well the statement of objections before the court. On Tuesday, again the government sought two weeks time to file a statement of objections. “Even as of today, the government has not placed on record its stand and the cabinet decision. Thus, there is a failure to abide by the assurance. Hence, we have no option but to direct the chief secretary to file an affidavit explaining as to why the orders of this court are not complied with. The affidavit shall be filed within one week from today,” the court said. The PIL is filed by D R Sharada, a resident of Davangere. The petition said the government had not created any regulatory regime for online games, gambling or betting of any nature. The gullible and hapless sections of the society, particularly the youth, are falling prey to online gambling and betting in the midst of a pandemic situation, it stated. On the other hand, The Online Rummy Federation (TORF) has claimed Rummy as a game of skill and not gambling as such and is thus exempted it from the applicability of the penal provisions. It said that the policy prohibits the use of automated players (technically known as ‘BOTS’) and an in-house policy precludes employees from playing real money games on the platform.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/online-gambling-hc-directs-chief-secretary-to-file-statement-1002949.html
29-06-2021||State||No thought of changing names of Kasargod villages: Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has termed as baseless the reports that names of many villages close to the Karnataka border in Kerala’s Kasargod district were being changed. Vijayan alleged ulterior motive behind the allegation that Kannada names of villages in Kasargod were being changed. He said that he had not received any formal representation from Karnataka on the issue. “It is surprising how such baseless news is originating. It could have been done with ulterior motives to create unnecessary issues” he said. With many political leaders of Karnataka, the Kannada Development Authority and the Karnataka Border Area Development Authority alleging that the Kerala government had decided to change the Kannada names of many villages of Kasargod, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had said that he would take up the matter with his Kerala counterpart.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-thought-of-changing-names-of-kasargod-villages-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-1002950.html
29-06-2021||State||Over 500 cases of MIS-C among children in Karnataka during pandemic||Some 500 children in the state have been hit by Multisystem-Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), a post-Covid-19 complication, in the course of the first and second waves of the novel coronavirus outbreak. Karnataka, unlike Maharashtra, has not yet designated MIS-C as a notified disease, which means that not all cases have been systematically documented by the government. “Based on available information, there have been 500 cases so far, out of which roughly 300 cases have been reported in Bengaluru,” explained Dr Sanjay K S, director of Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health (IGICH), where some 50 children have been treated for the condition since mid-2020. Paediatricians across Bengaluru spoke of having encountered many more MIS-C cases in the second wave than in the first wave. “In the last 3-4 weeks alone, we have seen eight to 10 cases. The cases can be split into two camps: mildly symptomatic and moderate to seriously symptomatic. In the former, the symptoms are fever, rash. In the latter, it is low blood pressure, shock, cardiac, liver and kidney problems,” explained Dr Yogesh Kumar Gupta, Head of Paediatric Intensive Care unit, Fortis Hospitals (Bannerghatta Road). At the same time, the manifestation of these cases is unsurprising. Researchers have noticed a link between the “peaking” of a Covid-19 outbreak and reports of MIS in children. Doctors explained that this is because the process of seroconversion, which produces an antibody response to the virus, is a delayed process in children, requiring as many as two months. While the exact cause for MIS-C is not yet known, scientists see it as an excessive immune response related to Covid-19. Dr Gupta said there could also be a genetic predilection for the syndrome among some children. Manipal Hospitals (Old Airport Road), for example, said it had treated 16 children for MIS-C in the second wave, as opposed to 14 last year. “The common reason for them to come to paediatric ICU was circulatory shock with poor blood circulation, some had multiorgan dysfunction with involvement of liver, kidney and brain as well,” said paediatric intensivist Dr Jahnavi Kare. At Aster CMI Hospital, paediatrician Dr Sagar Bhattad said 24 cases of MIS-C had been seen over the last five weeks. 2-3% mortality rate While treatment of intravenous immune globulin, glucocorticoids or interleukin-6 inhibitors are effective, Dr Sanjay specified that the mortality rate of MIS-C is roughly the same as Covid-19: 2-3%, if the child is not treated in time.  Unusual case In some cases, the syndrome is camouflaged. Paediatrician Dr Yogesh Kumar Gupta of Fortis explained that he had treated a four-year-old boy recently who suffered from a persistent fever but had never been identified as having had Covid. An antibody test also failed to detect any Covid antibodies. Doctors later came to know that his entire family had been infected a month ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/over-500-cases-of-mis-c-among-children-in-karnataka-during-pandemic-1002952.html
29-06-2021||State||KMF slashes prices of ghee, butter and milk powder||The Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) on Tuesday reduced the prices of its products such as ghee, butter and milk powder keeping in mind the Covid pandemic induced hardship on the general public. In an official statement, the country's second-largest milk producer stated, "KMF has been rolling out various programmes in the interest of the consumers. During the first (Covid) wave, we had not only reduced the prices of ghee, butter but also distributed Cheese free of cost along with Nandini Paneer. Similarly, during this second wave of the pandemic, we have cut down prices on our products --- butter and skimmed milk powder benefitting the people." According to the revised tariff, one kg ghee will be sold at Rs 450 from its earlier price of Rs 470. The butter, which was sold at Rs 440 per kg, will be sold at Rs 420. The skimmed milk powder price has been reduced from Rs 300 to Rs 270 per kg.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kmf-slashes-prices-of-ghee-butter-and-milk-powder-1002960.html
29-06-2021||State||II PU: Panel suggests 3 formulas to announce results||The department of pre-university education (DPUE) department has submitted the report of the 12-member expert committee to the state government in connection with the announcement of the results of the second PUC students.  The committee has suggested three formulas to grade the students who have been declared as promoted without examinations. According to the department sources, the first two formulas involve consideration of both SSLC and first PUC marks in the ratio of 50:50 or 60:40 to announce the results. The third suggestion is to consider the SSLC marks to award grace marks. “We are waiting for the response from the government to finalise the results,” an official from the department said. According to official sources, they have suggested considering 50:50 criteria. “Some students have not performed well in both SSLC and first PUC examinations and aimed to do well in the second PUC. The cancellation of the examinations should not be an injustice to any students. We have suggested to consider the 50:50 formula But we have to see what the government decides,” an official added. Earlier, when the government had cancelled the examinations and had declared all second PUC students as pass. It had said the results will be announced based on their first PUC performance. Later, following the suggestions from various stakeholders, the department decided to consider both SSLC and first PUC marks as weightage while calculating the second PUC results. The official sources even said the committee has recommended the promotion of repeater candidates considering their previous grades performances. The repeater candidates had approached the high court questioning the decision of the government to promote only fresh candidates. Following the court’s direction, the department had constituted a 12-member committee seeking recommendations. On Monday, Primary Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said the results of second PUC students will be announced in July second week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ii-pu-panel-suggests-3-formulas-to-announce-results-1002961.html
29-06-2021||State||Finish first phase of Yettinahole by July: B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has set a July deadline for the completion of the first phase of the much-delayed Yettinahole project. In a review meeting on Upper Bhadra and Yettinahole projects here on Tuesday, Yediyurappa directed the officials concerned to ensure that water is released to the Vedavathi valley in the first phase by end of July. The Yettinahole project envisages providing drinking water to about 68 lakh people in 6,557 villages across Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Tumakuru, Bengaluru Rural, Ramanagara, Chikkaballapur and Kolar districts. Until now, about Rs 9,000 crore has been spent on Yettinahole project. The government has allocated Rs 1,500 crore for the project under this year's budget. The government has also urged the Centre to declare Upper Bhadra as a national project. The approval is pending from the cabinet and is expected soon, Yediyurappa said. The Upper Bhadra lift irrigation project will benefit Tumakuru, Chitradurga and Davangere. Yediyurappa has directed the officials to expedite the works of the project and warned of stringent action in case of discrepancy in execution of works. In the last two years, about Rs 2,300 crore has been spent on the project, an official statement from the chief minister's office said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/finish-first-phase-of-yettinahole-by-july-b-s-yediyurappa-1002966.html
29-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kumaraswamy pushes 'regionalism' citing 'negligence' by Centre towards people of Karnataka||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Tuesday urged the people of Karnataka to give thrust to "regionalism" in order to put an end to "neglect and injustice" meted out to the State by the Centre. He termed lack of unity among politicians in the State on such issues as both "threat" and "misfortune". The former Chief Minister also lamented over the "attitude of detachment" by politicians towards issues concerning the state, as he urged the people to give more strength to regional parties in order to protect "regional identity" and the rights of the people. "Let there be no doubt on this, most of our public representatives, except a few, show an attitude of detachment towards issues concerning the State.This is the biggest threat that we are facing today," the son of former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda said in response to a question. Speaking to reporters here, he pointed out that in neighbouring Tamil Nadu, the two Dravidian parties AIADMK and DMK are political opponents, but on the issue concerning their state, like Mekedatu, they work unitedly. "It is a misfortune that we don't have the unity that they have.If we have to stand against the injustice meted out to us by Centre's decisions, it is not possible until we unite and fight with one voice...to put an end to neglect that we are facing, people of the state will have to give more thrust to regionalism," he added. The JD(S) leader recently claimed that like other South Indian states, Karnataka too will reject the national parties during the 2023 Assembly polls and choose a regional party, as people don't want the administration here to be run by high commands sitting in Delhi. Citing the rise of regional parties in West Bengal and neighbouring states like Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, Kumaraswamy said only if strength is given to regional parties, the regional identity of the people and their rights can be protected. "Regional parties lend their voice and give strength to fight for the cause of the people, we are experiencing it in several parts of the country now," he said. Kumaraswamy alleged that the two national parties, the Congress and BJP, which the people of Karnataka have "nurtured" so far, on coming to power have neglected the state's issues, whether it is concerning land, water or language. The JD(S) led by former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda is the only major regional political party in Karnataka, which is currently ruled by the BJP. Taking a dig at infighting within the Congress and BJP on the next CM issue, the JD(S) leader said they are not concerned about the issues faced by the people of the state. "Congress which is the principal opposition party in the state, did not speak at all on the Kasaragod and Manjeshwara issue," he said. It is the JD(S) that raised voice on the matter, as also on matters concerning Kannada language, aimed at protecting "Karnataka Asmite" (Karnataka's identity), he claimed. Kumaraswamy, who had written to Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan asking him to halt the reported renaming of places in the Kannada-speaking regions of Kasaragod and Manjeshwara, on Tuesday said the government there had denied such moves. Regarding calls for "Dalit CM" after 2023 polls that have cropped up in the Congress party, Kumaraswamy said, they did not make one when they had an opportunity in 2008 and in 2018, when he had offered an unconditional support to the national party to form the government under the leadership of Mallikarjun Kharge. There is also a fight between "old guard" and "new migrants" in the Congress, he said, adding, "it won't end for now, it will continue, and that party will have to bear the consequences for supporting those who "backstabbed" JD(S)."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kumaraswamy-pushes-regionalism-citing-negligence-by-centre-towards-people-of-karnataka-1002801.html
29-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: A scoring system proposed for mucormycosis, to enable better diagnosis||In many cases of mucormycosis, patients present clinical manifestations of the fungal infection, but their microbiology reports and cell culture reports do not reflect the same. Keeping this in mind, members of the sub-committee set up by the state government for this infection have proposed a scoring system to diagnose such patients. Dr Sampath Chandra Prmasad Rao, a skull base surgeon at Manipal Hospital, and a member of the sub-committee on mucormycosis, said, "We've proposed a scoring system for mucormycosis. The problems that we face during treatment and procurement of drugs like Amphotericin are that we need to prove it first, via a histopathology report or a culture report." "In a lot of cases, among 57 patients treated at Manipal, patients are neither positive in histopathology nor cell culture tests. We have already scored 30-40 patients at our hospital. Mucormycosis is notorious for throwing up a false negative. Such patients are not authorised to get Liposomal Amphotericin B because of the short supply of the drug. We then have to go for other drugs like Isoconazole that are not specific for mucormycosis. This is a problem that we have been facing for the last few months," he said. Asked how many such patients were there at Manipal, Rao said, "We would never know as they were treated as non-mucormycosis patients. They were sent back after being treated with other drugs. At least 15 patients were there at our hospital. Right now, we only have a confirmed mucormycosis database. That’s precisely the problem." "Medical literature says only 50% of patients, where histopathology comes positive, come positive in culture. So the scoring system takes into account history of diabetes, Covid, vaccination, and hypoxia. Even if they have negative histopathology reports or culture reports, if their score is high, patients will be categorised as 'probable' or 'likely to have Mucormycosis'. Based on this, the government should be able to make these patients eligible for receiving Amphotericin. The government has accepted our proposal," he added. However, when DH spoke to government hospitals, they said they were able to raise indents for Liposomal Amphotericin B, even for suspected patients. Dr Sujatha Rathod, Director, Minto Hospital, who has overseen treatment of 201 mucormycosis patients at Victoria Hospital, said, "We have also got many patients where clinically they show signs of mucormycosis, but their histopathology or cell culture tests are negative. They may be KOH positive but culture negative. We have procured Liposomal Amphotericin B for suspected patients too." The KOH Test is a quick, inexpensive fungal test to differentiate fungal infection from other skin disorders. Dr Manoj Kumar, Dean, Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital, who has overseen treatment of 285 mucormycosis patients, said, "We have also found many cases like this. We have been diagnosing using CT scan, MRI or by clinical manifestations. Even if the reports are negative, we have raised indents for Liposomal Amphotericin B saying they are 'suspected' patients. Many times, cell culture tests do not reflect the growth of mucormycosis. Sometimes, it can also be another fungal infection like aspergillosis or candida (white fungus)."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-a-scoring-system-proposed-for-mucormycosis-to-enable-better-diagnosis-1002845.html
29-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||NITI Aayog advises Karnataka to focus on nutrition of pregnant women, children||NITI Aayog on Tuesday advised Karnataka to focus on areas such as nutrition of pregnant women and children, gender equality, housing, education, among other areas, as the state aims for first place in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Index. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa today held discussions with Sanyukta Samaddar, Advisor to NITI Aayog and other officials about successfully achieving Sustainable Development Goals 2030, during which they expressed content over improvement in the state's position in SDG index. "We have discussed the achievements of the state. There is considerable improvement in Karnataka's position in the NITI Aayog's sustainable development index.We have discussed priorities that have to be set aimed at taking the state to the number one position," Yediyurappa said. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, he said, suggestions were made during the meeting to give more focus on issues such as malnutrition among pregnant women and children, gender equality, housing, education among others. "Already an announcement has been made in the budget to implement programmes aimed at achieving SDG and the government will work towards it," he added. Karnataka is ranked third in SDGs India Index for 2020-21, improving its score from 66 in 2019-20 to 72 in 2020-21. Stating that the state is working towards attaining the SDG 2030 targets, Yediyurappa, according to a release from his office, said the goal committees have identified different innovative projects with a total of 20 of the best practices implemented by the state. In the SDG India 2020-21 report, Karnataka ranked 3rd with Andhra Pradesh and Goa with an Index score of 72. Of the 16 goals in SDG India 2021 report, Karnataka has one Goal (goal 7) in achiever, 9 goals are in front runner and 5 goals are in performer categories. Agriculture, Horticulture, Water Resources, Health and Family Welfare, Education, Food & Civil Supplies, Energy, Industry & Commerce, ITBT, Science & Technology, Urban Development (Municipal Administration), E-Governance, Housing Department (Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation Limited), Directorate of Economics & Statistics are implementing their new initiative. This will improve the SDG indicators of the state and change the life of the citizens as well as to ensure a better sustainable future, the CM said. Yediyurappa released a handbook regarding 20 best practices implemented by the state on the occasion of the Economics and Statistics anniversary programme, organised by the Directorate of Economics and Statistics, Planning department, here today. The handbook is brought out by the Planning, Programme monitoring and Statistics Department in collaboration with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), through the partnership of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Coordination Centre, the release said. The book offers technical solutions, processes and methods of the implementation, techniques for more emphasis to strengthen each of the best practices, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/niti-aayog-advises-karnataka-to-focus-on-nutrition-of-pregnant-women-children-1002868.html
29-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||After easing curbs, Karnataka mulls reopening malls||The state government is discussing the possibility of reopening malls subject to some conditions, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said Tuesday, noting that the benefit of declining Covid-19 case numbers should be passed onto citizens. “We are discussing how we can give concessions to malls with some conditions. No final decision has been taken yet,” Yediyurappa told reporters. “We’re happy that Covid is reducing and its benefit should reach the common man and help those in distress. In that direction, we will make a decision soon,” he said. Earlier in the day, an association of malls met Yediyurappa and petitioned him to allow resumption of their business for 12 hours a day. “We told the CM that operating from 9 am to 6 pm won’t work. We asked for the business hours to be set from 9 am to 9 pm. We said we will comply with whatever measures necessary, including Covid-19 protocols,” Garuda Mall general manager Nandeesh MR, who represents the association, said. The state government has refrained from allowing malls and such air-conditioned shopping complexes to open under the first two phases of Unlock. With Unlock 2.0 ending July 5, Yediyurappa is expected to hold a meeting with ministers and officials to finalize Unlock 3.0, which is likely to be more liberal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/after-easing-curbs-karnataka-mulls-reopening-malls-1002892.html
29-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Gauri Lankesh murder: SC issues notice to Karnataka govt on dropping KCOCA charges against accused||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Karnataka government on an appeal filed by filmmaker Kavitha Lankesh, sister of slain activist Gauri Lankesh, against the High Court's decision to quash charges under the Karnataka Control of Organised Crimes Act (KCOCA) against one of the accused in the murder case.  A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar sought a response from the state government as well as accused Mohan Nayak, a resident of Dakshina Kannada, and put the matter for consideration on July 15. Senior counsel Huzefa Ahmadi assisted by advocate Aparna Bhat, representing the petitioner, contended that after the High Court order, the accused had moved the bail on which hearing has been completed. The top court observed that the accused cannot be granted bail till the plea was heard and disposed of by the Supreme Court. The plea claimed the investigation by SIT has revealed that Nayak, was part of the syndicate led by Amol Kale which has committed multiple organised crimes apart from the murder of Gauri. The plea said charge-sheets have been filed with respect to the murders of Dr Narendra Dabolkar in 2013, Govinda Pansare in 2015, Dr M M Kalburgi in 2015 and conspiracy to murder Prof Bhagavan in 2018.  “Accordingly, the condition of at least 2 charge-sheets having been filed against the syndicate in the last 10 years along with cognisance by competent court stands fulfilled and invocation of KCOCA against the accused stands justified," it contended. The High Court had on April 22, quashed the order of Bengaluru Commissioner of Police passed in 2018 and the supplementary chargesheet filed thereafter. The plea claimed Nayak has been actively involved in providing shelter to the killers prior to and after committing the offence and has participated in a series of conspiracies, abetting, planning, providing logistics.  Lankesh, a leading journalist, was killed on September 05, 2017 outside her house at Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Bengaluru. Kavitha is a complainant in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/gauri-lankesh-murder-sc-issues-notice-to-karnataka-govt-on-dropping-kcoca-charges-against-accused-1002908.html
29-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 3,222 new Covid-19 cases, 93 deaths||Karnataka has reported 3,222 new Covid-19 cases and 93 related deaths taking the total number of infections to 28,40,428 and toll to 34,929 respectively, the Health department said on Tuesday. The day also saw 14,724 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 27,19,479. Out of 3,222 new cases reported on Tuesday, 753 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 10,722 discharges and 16 deaths. The total number of active cases in the state is at 85,997. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 2.54 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 2.88 per cent. Of the 93 deaths reported on Tuesday, 16 were from Bengaluru Urban, followed by Dakshina Kannada (15), Mysuru (10), Ballari and Haveri (8 each) among others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 753, Mysuru (415), Dakshina Kannada (385), Hassan (242), Shivamogga (225), followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,12,746, followed by Mysuru 1,66,207 and Tumakuru 1,14,818. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 11,44,685, followed by Mysuru 1,59,759 and Tumakuru 1,12,188. Cumulatively a total of 3,40,98,615 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,26,670 were tested on Tuesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-3222-new-covid-19-cases-93-deaths-1002926.html
29-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Safari resumes at Bandipur from June 30||With Covid 19 coming under control in Chamarajanagar district, and the government relaxing the lockdown norms, the Forest department has resumed the safari and other tourism activities in the Bandipur Tiger range, in Gundlupet taluk, from June 30. Bandipur Tiger Project director S R Natesh, in a press release, has stated that safari will resume from June 30. All tourism activities will be available online from July 15, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/safari-resumes-at-bandipur-from-june-30-1002932.html
29-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt revises labour aid rates||: In some good news, the state government has revised the rates of financial assistance offered by the Karnataka Labour Welfare Board, which is expected to benefit nearly 41 lakh workers.  According to Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar, the monthly wage limit has been raised from Rs 15,000 to Rs 21,000 for parents whose children are to receive financial assistance for education. Financial aid for medical purposes for labourers has been revised from Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000. Similarly, accident aid is up from Rs 3,000 to Rs 10,000 and last rites aid from Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000.  Trade unions and associations will get Rs 1 lakh (from Rs 30,000) every year to conduct medical examination camps. The annual sports competition will receive Rs 1 lakh from Rs 50,000.  The government has also introduced a new component for women labourers. They will receive an allowance of Rs 10,000 for the delivery of the first and second child.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-revises-labour-aid-rates-1002965.html
29-06-2021||West||Thunderstorm, lightning claim 2,000 lives annually||Thunderstorms, accompanied by lightning, cause more than 2,000 deaths every year in India, state experts from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) said. “In India, over the recent years, there's an increasing trend in death toll and damages reported due to lightning. Lightning and thunderstorms cause widespread loss every year, despite the improved understanding, monitoring, and prediction capability brought about by scientific and technological progress,” said Rajendra Singh, Member, NDMA. “Lightning has become a serious threat in recent years. This is due to, primarily increased exposure of people, especially farmers, fishermen and labourers who remain outside for reasons of livelihood,” added Dr M. Mohapatra, Director General, IMD. The reason for this has been identified by experts as a communication gap that does not result in last-mile connectivity. In order to address this issue, the Indian Meteorological Society (IMS) along with the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) and the National Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasting (NCMRWF) organized the workshop-cum-awareness session on the lightning forecast and warning dissemination, for media and state-level disaster managers from Maharashtra, West Bengal, Odisha, Kerala, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and other parts of the country. “Loss of human lives and properties due to lightning is significantly high - it is more than that of people killed in tornadoes or hurricanes globally,” said Singh. According to Mohapatra, economic losses like that of cultivated fields and buildings occur, infrastructure like communication networks, power plants and so on are often destroyed by lightning events and sometimes, lightning and thunderstorms may ignite potentially devastating wildfires. He stated that the joint initiative taken by scientists of IITM, IMD and NCMRWF in 2018 had led to the development of a Lightning Warning System having a location-specific forecast up to 48 hours about the occurrence of thunderstorms, lightning, squally winds, gusty winds, hailstorms. This apart, IMD has about 30 radars in the country, which help to provide weather information in every 10 mins. Besides, ISRO is providing satellite information from INSAT-3DR about convective clouds, which is uploaded every 15 mins. “We are also capable of having real-time information about lightning updated every 5 mins,” added the weather scientist. The models developed by the Ministry of Earth Sciences, in real-time, are very definite and are utilized by forecasters. Information is provided every three hours for each and every district of the country. Damini App provides location-specific information which remains valid for every half an hour, informed Dr Mohapatra. "We also have very location-specific information for 1085 stations spread across the country. We are going to increase that number so that we can reach out to every block and sub-blocks at the panchayat level", stated Dr Mohapatra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thunderstorm-lightning-claim-2000-lives-annually-1002697.html
29-06-2021||West||Hold your breath: Transport sector is now the biggest source of Mumbai’s air pollution||Tiny, deadly particles in Mumbai’s air from the transport sector have nearly doubled over the past five years, making it now the biggest contributor to the city’s already deteriorating air quality. A 2019-20 source estimation analysis for PM2.5 pollutant by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), under the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) Pune, has revealed that the share of PM2.5 emissions coming from the transport sector was 30.5% in 2019-20 as compared to 16% in 2016-17. Air has suspended particulate matter (PM) of different sizes. Many of these are a complex mixture of dust, pollen, soot, and smoke, and they are hazardous. Of this, PM 2.5 is the smaller kind, with a diameter, not more than 2.5 micrometers (fine particles). PM2.5 is considered to have a very significant health impact as it can stay in the air for days or weeks, and is small enough to invade the lung airways. As per SAFAR, the contribution to PM2.5 emission from different sectors, between 2019-20, was 30.5% from the transport sector, 18% from industries and power sector, 15% from residential burnings, which includes residential cooking in households and slums, trash burning, cow dung burning, emission from street vendors, and wood burning. The remaining sources polluting Mumbai’s air with more PM2.5 particles include wind-blown dust (15%) and other sources (21.5%) including municipal solid waste (MSW) plants, MSW open burning, crematories, aviation sector, incense, brick kilns, etc. Dr Gufran Beig, Senior Scientist and Founder Project Director, System of SAFAR, said, “Transport sector has shown a drastic increase over five years as a sector contributing to PM2.5 pollution in Mumbai. This is a combination of both an increase in the number of vehicles in Mumbai and more stagnation at traffic junctions leading to congestion.” Pulmonologist Dr Sanjeev Mehta, said, “Vehicles are literally blowing poison into our lungs. Emissions from the transport sector, especially diesel and petrol vehicles, have a noxious mixture of suspended particles of all sizes that causes damage to the upper, middle and lower airways or nose, throat and lungs.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hold-your-breath-transport-sector-is-now-the-biggest-source-of-mumbai-s-air-pollution-1002768.html
29-06-2021||West||Don't spare 'big fish' in fake vaccination cases: HC to Mumbai police||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday said the Mumbai police, probing instances of fake vaccination camps against Covid-19 in the city, must identify the "big fish" in such cases and should not spare them. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni also directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to inform the court about steps that the civic body proposed to take to check those duped by such camps for antibodies and any adverse effects on their health because of the fake vaccine. The court was hearing a bunch of public interest litigations (PILs) on increasing the accessibility of citizens to the vaccination drives against Covid-19. The state's counsel, advocate Deepak Thakare, told the HC that seven FIRs had been registered and 13 people arrested in the case. He said the probe into the case is still going on. The BMC's counsel, senior advocate Anil Sakhare, told the court that the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for private Covid-19 vaccination camps for housing societies and offices will be finalised by Wednesday. The HC then said advocate Thakare must tell the investigating officers in the case not to spare anyone found to be involved in the "scam". "There might be big fish yet to be identified. They must be identified and should not be spared. Tell the police the investigation must be proper and no one should be left out," the court said. It further said the BMC must inform the court of the steps it was planning to take to test the victims. The court asked why the BMC and state authorities were so far unable to determine what the victims were administered in the name of anti-Covid-19 vaccine. "This appears to be a state failure. Why doesn't the corporation think of testing? What are you thinking of doing for the unfortunate people, you must tell us on Thursday," the HC said. The state and the BMC had earlier told the high court that a total of 2,053 people across the city fell victim to the fake vaccination camps. The HC will continue hearing the PILs on July 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dont-spare-big-fish-in-fake-vaccination-cases-hc-to-mumbai-police-1002786.html
29-06-2021||West||Maharashtra gears up to protect children from looming third wave of Covid-19||India's western state of Maharashtra is training thousands of health workers in how to care for children afflicted with Covid-19 as a first line of defence against surges involving new variants, health officials and experts said on Tuesday. The state, home to the financial capital of Mumbai, was the worst hit by a devastating second wave of infections in April and May that killed lakhs, and is still reporting a quarter of all new cases nationwide. It has re-imposed curbs to rein in the fast-spreading Delta variant that has touched off new outbreaks globally, even as daily national tallies stand at their lowest in nearly two months, allowing some states to re-open businesses. "We are training thousands of health workers, who are usually the first point of contact for families, on how to deal with Covid care in children," Suhas Prabhu, head of the state's pediatric task force, told Reuters. While there is no data showing children are more vulnerable, a government survey in Mumbai from April to mid-June showed the presence of virus antibodies in at least half of those younger than 18. "The experts are indicating that a sizeable number of children are likely to be infected in the third wave," said government adviser Dr Subhash Salunke. Paediatric critical care remained a 'weak link' in the health system, the former World Health Organization official told Reuters. India, which is using AstraZeneca's domestically produced Covishield doses and the home-grown Covaxin, has yet to approve any vaccines for children. Maharashtra, with a population of more than 11.4 crore, is one of the country's most populous states, and has reported 50 cases of the new Delta Plus variant that India has designated as being of concern. It is an offshoot of the highly infectious Delta variant that caused a spike in cases in April and May which overwhelmed healthcare facilities, swamping crematoriums. From 4,00,000 cases a day in May, daily new infections now stand at 37,566, health ministry data showed on Tuesday. The country's tally stands at 3.03 crore, with a death toll of 3,97,637.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-gears-up-to-protect-children-from-looming-third-wave-of-covid-19-1002789.html
29-06-2021||West||Money laundering case: Anil Deshmukh fails to appear before ED, requests virtual interaction||For the second time in four days, former Maharashtra home minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh – who is facing allegations of corruption and misconduct – failed to appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Already facing an FIR by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Deshmukh (72) exempted himself from appearing before the federal agency on Saturday and Tuesday. Deshmukh has sought a copy of the Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) and also requested to record his statement on audio-video mode. In a letter to ED’s Mumbai-based assistant director Tassine Sultan, citing comorbidities, Deshmukh wrote: “I am a septuagenarian, about 72 years of age, suffering from various comorbidities including hypertension and cardiac problems, etc. I have already exposed my person to some extent on June 25 in my long interaction with you spanning over several hours during the course of the search and recording my statement. Thus, it may not be prudent or desirable to appear in person today and I am sending my authorised representative.” The ED on Saturday arrested Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande (51) and personal assistant Kundan Shinde (45).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/money-laundering-case-anil-deshmukh-fails-to-appear-before-ed-requests-virtual-interaction-1002807.html
29-06-2021||West||Gujarat has controlled second wave of Covid-19 pandemic: CM||The second wave of the coronavirus pandemic has come under control in Gujarat though the threat of coronavirus remains, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said on Tuesday, a day after the state reported less than 100 fresh cases in a day after a gap of 14 months. In a virtual address, the CM said the fight against the pandemic is still on as coronavirus is still around. Gujarat on Monday reported 96 new infections which took the cumulative caseload to 8,23,340, as per the state health department. The state had reported 78 Covid-19 cases on April 14 last year and 127 cases a day later.  On April 30 this year, when the second wave was at its peak, Gujarat recorded the highest 14,605 cases in a single day. "The second wave of coronavirus is almost under control now. As against over 14,000 daily cases getting registered during its peak, less than 100 cases emerged yesterday. However, the virus is still not eradicated and our fight against Covid-19 is still on," Rupani said while addressing the function to distribute uniforms to the students of Anganwadis. As per a release issued by the state government, Gujarat has become the first and only state in the country to provide uniforms to Anganwadi students. Under this initiative, 14 lakh children enrolled in 53,029 Anganwadis or child care centres across Gujarat will be given free uniforms. The state government would spend Rs 36.28 crore on this scheme which is aimed at motivating these children, the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-has-controlled-second-wave-of-covid-19-pandemic-cm-1002808.html
29-06-2021||West||Why Centre's approval needed for door-to-door vaccination? HC asks Maharashtra govt||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday asked the Maharashtra government why it needs an approval from the Centre to start door-to-door vaccination programme for senior citizens, specially-abled and bedridden persons in the state. The state government on Tuesday filed an affidavit in the HC, saying home vaccination on an experimental basis can be started, but only for those who are completely immobile and bedridden. It, however, also said the proposal will have to be first approved by the Union government. "Why do you (Maharashtra government) need approval? Health is a state subject too. Is the state government doing everything after taking approval from the Centre? Have states like Kerala, Bihar and Jharkhand taken approval from the Union government?” a division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni asked. The bench was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by two advocates - Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari - seeking a direction to the Union government to start door-to-door vaccination for senior citizens above the age of 75, specially-abled persons and those who are bedridden. Earlier, the Union government had said door-to-door vaccination cannot be introduced currently due to various reasons, including vaccine wastage and the risk of adverse reaction to the vaccine. The court had then asked the Maharashtra government if it was willing to start door-to-door vaccination in the state. In its affidavit, the State Family Welfare Board said the Maharashtra government has been following guidelines laid down by the Union government for vaccination and till date, it (state) has not made any request for door-to-door vaccination. As per the affidavit, door-to-door vaccination can be introduced on an experimental basis for bedridden persons. It said even for these people, a certificate has to be issued by the person's doctor, saying the person is not likely to have any adverse reaction to the vaccine, and if there is any such reaction, then the doctor concerned shall be entirely responsible to manage and administer appropriate medical treatment to the person. The affidavit also said family members of the person concerned shall have to provide a written consent before the vaccine is administered to the person at home. “In order to avoid vaccine wastage, at least 10 beneficiaries concerned shall be made mandatorily available in the closed proximity as one vial contains 10 doses of vaccine,” it further said. The affidavit said if this proposal is accepted by the state government, then the same shall be sent to the Centre for approval. The bench posted the matter for further hearing on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/why-centres-approval-needed-for-door-to-door-vaccination-hc-asks-maharashtra-govt-1002857.html
29-06-2021||West||Air safety dept in ‘dark’ about bird-hit threats to Navi Mumbai airport, say environmentalists||The Directorate of Air Safety has been kept in the ‘dark’ over the concerns of bird-hit threats to flights at the upcoming Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA), environmentalists said quoting an RTI response. Environmentalists have been raising voices against the burial of wetlands and destruction of landing sites of thousands of migratory birds stating that this could increase bird-hit gangers to the NMIA flights. The CIDCO targets to launch the first phase of the Rs 16,000 crore Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA) within the next two years. In this context, environment-focused NGO NatConnect Foundation filed an application with the DGCA under the Right To Information (RTI) Act seeking information on the risk mitigation measures against the possible bird-hits at NMIA. NatConnect Director B N Kumar said: “We sought to know the process or protocol of safety measures that DGCA takes before giving clearance to any national or international airport, the studies done by the DGCA or IAAI on the possible bird hit dangers to flights at the upcoming Navi Mumbai International Airport, the Environment Assessment done for the Navi Mumbai International Airport and the mitigation steps planned to ensure safety of flights, passengers and crews in view of the concerns of bird hit threats.” The application has been referred to different Public Information Officers (PIO) and one of them has responded: “The information sought is not available with the Directorate of Air Safety”. “This is absolutely shocking. That such an important department does not have the key information. This shows that the DGCA has been kept in the dark about the important developments,” Kumar said. It may be recalled, BNHS and several environmentalists have been writing to the Maharashtra Government asking it to stop the destruction of the wetlands in Uran and other parts of Navi Mumbai. The then BNHS director Deepak Apte said in his letters to former and present CMs that the three major roosting sites in the vicinity of NMIA which provide safe refuge to the birds are being filled by NMSEZ. Though birds prefer wetlands, in the absence of safe places, they could flock to high ground airport zones which could provide them safe refuge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/air-safety-dept-in-dark-about-bird-hit-threats-to-navi-mumbai-airport-say-environmentalists-1002858.html
29-06-2021||West||Western Railway offers prime space for warehouse development||The Western Railway has put up a prime piece of its land for lease near Grant Road station in Mumbai for development of a rail-side warehouse. The location consists of a built up area, covered shed and open spaces of about 2,058 sq mts. According to Sumit Thakur, Chief Public Relations Officer, WR, it has decided to lease out space to set up a warehouse at Parcel Depot Grant Road under the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) model. The Grant Road is situated in the heart of Mumbai and it is surrounded by wholesale markets such as Lamington Road, which is famed for electronics and computers, MangalDas Market for clothes, Kalbadevi, Bhuleshwar. These commercial establishments are very close to the Grant Road Parcel Depot. Though highly commercialised, being a congested area, developing a warehouse in this area is a challenge. Hence, WR has offered the Parcel Depot at Grant Road (PDGR) to be leased, which can generate revenue for the Railways. Development of warehouse at PDGR with ample capacity and facility in the vicinity of these business centres shall also benefit the overall business environment of the area. It will bring shops and warehouse closer to each other, thereby saving time, fuel and labour to the businesses. Said Thakur: “WR has invited bids for developing rail-side warehouse at PDGR, which can be used by the licensee for office purposes, storage, sorting, parking etc. Reserve price of Rs 4.83 crore per annum has been set for an area of 2,058.25 sq mts. This will be a good source of providing non fare revenue to the railways.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/western-railway-offers-prime-space-for-warehouse-development-1002862.html
29-06-2021||West||No mega Ganesh celebrations in Maharashtra this year too||With the coronavirus threat not yet over, for the second year in a row, there would not be any mega-celebrations, processions, and crowding during the Ganesh festival. This year, the Ganesh festival starts on 10 September on the auspicious occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi and ends on 19 September coinciding with Anant Chaturdashi. Like last year, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government decided to cap the height of public Ganesh idols to 4 feet and those installed at households to 2 feet. Brihan Mumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti (BSGSS), the apex body of Ganesh mandals of Mumbai, has appealed to the government to reconsider their decision. The state is now at the tail of the second wave of Covid-19 and the threat of the third wave looms large. In 2020, the state was during the first wave of the pandemic. According to a notification of the state Home Department, the government has called for simple celebrations and festivities, without crowding. The government has further suggested that the public mandals switch over to online ‘darshan’ or relaying the celebrations in the pandals through the local cable television networks, websites, or social media platforms, said Sanjay Khedekar, Deputy Secretary, Home Department, in the notification. Instead of the usual cultural or entertainment programmes, the government has recommended giving priority to health camps or blood donation drives or health awareness campaigns for Coronavirus, malaria, dengue. Besides, highest levels of cleanliness is maintained by all the public mandals and organisers of the mega-Ganeshotsav groups - and ensure whatever is needed during the new normal. “We are surprised…it is a rude shock for the Ganesh idol artisans and mandals,” said Naresh Dahibawkar, the President of BSGSS. “Over the last two months we have been sending letters to the government, however, we have not received any replies,” he said. “Over the last few decades, we have together taking decisions,” he said, adding that the government just announced a once sided order without any consultations from the stakeholders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-mega-ganesh-celebrations-in-maharashtra-this-year-too-1002882.html
29-06-2021||West||Gandhi-founded Gujarat Vidyapith appoints controversial ex-registrar as vice-chancellor yet again||In a controversial move, Mahatma Gandhi founded Gujarat Vidyapith, a deemed university, on Tuesday appointed its former registrar and current honorary director Rajendra Khimani as its next vice-chancellor. Khimani's earlier appointment had been revoked following the University Grants Commission's (UGC) objection for not following due procedure. As a result of this, the varsity was forced to begin the process afresh. The appointment for the second time comes despite the fact that one of the three members of the search committee had objected to Khimani's candidature. "I had given my dissent on two counts - he was a registrar, which is not equivalent to a professor and the other reason was that he (Khimani) is facing vigilance inquiry," a source told DH. The source added, "At least the varsity should have waited for the inquiry to be over." Soon after a trustees' meet at around 3 PM, where chancellor Ela Bhatt, also the founder of Self Employed Women's Association or SEWA) announced Khimani's name, the varsity officials issued a notification, appointing Khimani as the vice-chancellor to be effective from today (June 29) itself. The notification reads, "It is to be notified that chancellor of Gujarat Vidyapith has appointed Dr Rajendra Amulakhbhai Khimani as Vice-Chancellor of Gujarat Vidyapith." It adds that "...Khimani has resumed his duties w.e.f (with effect from) 29/06/2021." The quick decision has come as a surprise to many who have been closely following the developments in this Gandhian institute. Sources said that Khimani's appointment may be challenged in the court. Earlier in December, days after the varsity announced Khimani's name as vice-chancellor, the UGC objected, stating that as procedure the search committee didn't have any representation from the commission. The varsity protested but was forced to revoke the entire exercise and sought applications afresh for appointment of the vice-chancellor. The 100 years old varsity, situated close to Sabarmati Ashram, is one of the key institutes Gandhi founded in his early years in Ahmedabad. The varsity is also having a long standing tussle with the UGC over the issue of autonomy and rules that a 100 per cent UGC-funded institution is supposed to follow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gandhi-founded-gujarat-vidyapith-appoints-controversial-ex-registrar-as-vice-chancellor-yet-again-1002883.html
29-06-2021||West||Memorial dedicated in honour of Corona warriors in Maharashtra||It has been over a year, and the Covid pandemic is upending life on a global level. In India, lakhs of people have succumbed to Covid-19. To laud the selfless, tireless fight put up by those at the forefront of the battle against the pandemic, Rotary Club of Bombay Airport has set up an 18 x 10 feet sculpture dedicated to Corona warriors at Bandra in Mumbai - a first-of-its-kind in India. The Covid pandemic has affected each and every aspect of the lives of people in India. There is a burden on the healthcare system, and people are also stressed owing to the financial crises during these unprecedented times. Rotary Club of Bombay Airport has come forward to motivate people to battle coronavirus. Nitin Mehta, President of Rotary Club of Bombay Airport said, “We are passing through strange and difficult times. In this corona crisis, many families have been affected as the death toll continues to surge in the country.” “On behalf of the entire nation, I want to thank the efforts of all corona-warrior like Doctors, Nurses, Safai Karmachari, Policemen, Media, and Engineers kept alive the spirits of citizens at the cost of their own lives and families,” he said. To acknowledge their dedication and efforts, the Rotary Club of Bombay Airport installed the memorial designed by an artist Minali N. Thakkar, Limca Book of World Records awardee, dedicated to the frontline workers, and pledged to work for the betterment of society. “This is the first of its Kind memorial in the country built in the honor of frontline workers, who sacrificed their lives while fighting the deadly coronavirus” , adds Mehta. Senior BJP leader and former minister Ashish Shelar said, “The medical army, policemen, and other essential workers are doing a commendable job. A big salute to all the people involved in the battle against Covid-19. We are taking all the necessary steps to help people overcome the Covid crisis.” .||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/memorial-dedicated-in-honour-of-corona-warriors-in-maharashtra-1002942.html
29-06-2021||West||BJP on the back foot after Goa's biggest nightclub is sold due to harassment||A day after Ricardo D'Souza, a promoter of Goa's iconic nightclub 'Club Tito's' announced the sale of all businesses in the state citing harassment by politicians and bureaucrats, the Goa BJP appeared to be on the back foot, even as an outgoing president of the Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry bemoaned the downward slide in ease of doing business mechanisms in the coastal state. While state Bharatiya Janata Party president Sadanand Shet Tanavade expressed sorrow at a native businessman having to wind up an established business due to harassment, Ports Minister Michael Lobo urged D'Souza to name government officials who had harassed him. "If anybody has harassed him, he should tell me the name. We will take action if anybody from our departments has harassed him," Michael Lobo told reporters. Lobo is also an elected legislator from the Calangute assembly constituency, where Club Tito's is located. "Until I speak to him, it is not right of me to comment on this. I have never gone there (Club Tito's), but I know him by name and as a good person. No one should shut down a business due to harassment. This should not happen," state BJP president Tanavade also said. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant however dodged comment on the issue. On Monday, D'Souza announced the sale of all business in Goa through a Facebook post that went viral, with fans and patrons of the clubs slamming government indifference to local businesses. Earlier on Tuesday, Manoj Caculo, the outgoing president of the Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry also slammed the dipping standards of ease of doing business norms in Goa. "Caculo also expressed concern about the downward slide in Goa’s ranking on Ease of Doing Business," a statement issued by the Chamber said.The Chamber also rued the lack of progress vis a vis implementation of its suggestions made to the Goa government to revive business and industry sectors, which have been affected by the pandemic. "Caculo also expressed the industry’s opposition, apprehensions and disappointment  about the amendments in the Industrial Disputes Act, Goa Factory Rules, charging all levies in full to all establishments by the municipalities and panchayats during such a major crisis," the statement also said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-on-the-back-foot-after-goas-biggest-nightclub-is-sold-due-to-harassment-1002956.html
