30-06-2021||First Edit||Covid-19 relief package: Again, too little, too late, misdirected||The government’s fresh package of stimulus and relief measures intended to revive the economy and to alleviate distress is, once again, too little, too late, misdirected, and unlikely to make an impact. Even the little that has been promised may not reach the people who really need support. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced on Monday a package of eight relief measures that offered job benefits and loan guarantees for Covid-affected sectors. It comprises a Rs 1.1 lakh crore loan guarantee scheme for vulnerable sectors, including health and tourism, and guarantee cover for expansion or for new projects. The limit for the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) has been enhanced. The government will provide free visas to five lakh tourists and financial support to more than 11,000 registered tourist guides and other stakeholders. The package is mostly made up of government guarantee to banks and microfinance institutions for loans they extend to Covid-hit sectors. Together, with the previous spending on providing free food grains and an additional fertiliser subsidy, it totals up to Rs 6.29 lakh crore. The main ingredients are more credit guarantees, direct action in health and tourism, and support for weaker sections.  All sectors and their stakeholders have been demanding aid and relief for a long time. Most of them are broke, having been hit a second time by the second wave of the pandemic. It would have benefitted them if the package had come earlier. Some of them may not be in a position to utilise the incentives that have been offered. The usefulness of the entire package of credit and guarantees depends on the willingness of banks to lend. They have not been enthusiastic about it in the past, and it may not be different this time when the risks are greater. The economy is on the sickbed and in such a condition that it is unable to take and digest conventional medicine. It needs direct transfusion but the government has been unwilling to do that. It has concentrated its attention on the supply side while the right prescription for relief and revival now is to create demand by putting money in the hands of people through means like direct cash transfer, doles, wages, etc., which will have an immediate impact. Inflation is at an elevated level and purchasing power has gone down. Continuing fuel price hikes have contributed to an all-round increase in prices. A reduction in taxes would help people to spend more, but the government is unwilling to do that. Some of the policies and decisions that form the package will have impact only in the medium and long term, while the need is for relief and recovery now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/covid-19-relief-package-again-too-little-too-late-misdirected-1003011.html
30-06-2021||In Perspective||Establishing healthy food systems||While envisaging Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), one of the main targets was to achieve ‘zero hunger’ by 2030. The Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) has released “State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World” report for 2020. It categorically states that the world is not in a position to meet the ‘zero hunger’ target. The prolonged pandemic raging in different parts of the world has had a negative impact on the supply of healthy food, adding some 83 million to 132 million people to the already high number of chronically hungry and the total number of malnourished people in the world. The existence and increasing burden of malnutrition in many forms is a challenge. Ironically, the report also notes that adult obesity is also on the rise in all regions. These trends call for adopting healthy food systems that can provide food security, not just the recommended calories through starchy staples like rice and wheat, but nutritious food to maintain good health. The FAO and WHO recommend daily consumption of a minimum of 400 grams per person per day of fruits and vegetables. However, they are five times more expensive than the diets that meet one’s energy needs. Obviously, only the rich and upper middle-income groups are able to afford these healthy diets. With the loss of livelihood opportunities due to the pandemic, more than three billion people are unable to afford healthy diets. The FAO estimates that in the global south, more than 57% of the population is not in a position to afford healthy diet. India boasts of tropical climate that provides a favourable environment for the production of fruits and vegetables and we boast of overproduction of cereals. We are the biggest producer of milk in the world. Our traditional diet is hailed as one of the healthiest, providing nutrition.  Despite this, we have become the diabetic capital of the world, with 73 million people suffering from diabetes. We also have the highest number of obese people and the highest number of malnourished children in the world. The reasons are well known as we consume low-quality carbohydrates sourced from white rice, sugar and bread loaded with starch. Indians consume, on an average, 15 spoons of sugar, against the WHO recommended five spoons per person per day! The vegetable oils used in Indian cooking— sunflower, palm oil, and canola and soybean oil — become toxic when heated and are not healthy. About 84% of people in our country are protein-deficient, according to the Indian Dietetic Association. National Family Health Survey 4 (2015-16) revealed that about 54% of women do not consume fruits, eggs or dark leafy vegetables on a daily basis. Most shocking is the hidden gender bias and cultural prejudices among the Indian population, due to which women are not able to eat healthy food. Thus, we face the double burden of inefficient diets with additional dose of cultural taboos that lead to anaemic condition among women and children. With rising incomes, food habits are changing drastically, having an impact on health, especially increasing the rates of non-communicable or lifestyle diseases like obesity and diabetes. A study conducted around Pune showed that both children and adults were snacking more frequently, as they consumed cheap snacks with high sugar, salt and low-quality fat. It concluded that “unhealthy and cheap snack foods are crowding out healthier foods, including pulses, coarse grains and vegetables. More than 50% of the adults in urban areas, and 29% of women in rural areas, were obese.”   The report calls for addressing the food system to transform healthy diets to improve the nutrition status of socially disadvantaged groups like women and other disempowered groups. Our policymakers target these groups by providing food supply through PDS, but the need of the hour is to change consumer behaviour that leads to addiction of highly processed foods that have negative impacts on the health and nutrition status of children and the marginalised communities. We are already into the second year of the pandemic, but there is no inclination from the government or policymakers to evolve a practical strategy to build a healthy food system as part of economic resilience in the post-Covid scenario. Using the existing model of NREGS (National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme), the scope can be widened to support people with rightful employment to produce food and vegetables. As these are short-duration crops, it can enhance nutritional security in the times of economic slowdown caused by the pandemic. It also provides a road map for greening the economy with minimal capital and maximum ripple effect of providing meaningful employment. Establishing a healthy food system is the best way to boost the immunity of common people in times of a pandemic. It is high time that this initiative should be launched by the state government, supported by the central government, as a step towards food and nutritional security. (The writer is a well-known environmental activist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/establishing-healthy-food-systems-1003021.html
30-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three end lives by coming under trains at three different places in Belagavi district||Three persons, one identified and two unidentified ended their lives by coming under trains at three different places in the Belagavi district on Tuesday. Police said Ashok Irappa Kattimani (46) resident of Ankalgi village in Gokak ended his life by coming under a train between Paschapur-Suldhal railway stations. In the second incident, an unidentified male aged about 60 years ended his life near Samarth Nagar on the outskirts of Belagavi city. In the third incident, an unidentified male aged about 55 years ended his life by coming under the train on the outskirts of Chikkodi Road railway station. Railway police have registered cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-end-lives-by-coming-under-trains-at-three-different-places-in-belagavi-district-1003046.html
30-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Plan to sterilise 1,000 dogs this year in Hassan||In an effort to curb the stray dog menace in the city limits, Hassan City Municipal Council will allocate Rs 950 to capture and sterilise each dog, said CMC commissioner Krishnamurthy. With the stray dog menace going out of control in the city, the authorities have decided to sterilise the dogs on priority. The CMC has received several complaints from the public in this regard. There are thousands of dogs in the city limits. But, only around 400 dogs have been captured from 2018, he said. As the stray dog menace has gone out of control, the CMC has set a target to capture and sterilise around 1,000 dogs this year, he said. The dogs would be taken care for six months after sterilisation, before releasing it, as per the directions of the Animal Husbandry department, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/plan-to-sterilise-1000-dogs-this-year-in-hassan-1003127.html
30-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Odiya poet Rajendra Kishore Panda chosen for Kuvempu award||A three-member panel has selected Odiya poet Rajendra Kishore Panda for the Kuvempu Rashtriya Puraskar for 2020. In a press note, Rashtrakavi Kuvempu Pratishtana secretary Kadidal Prakash said the panel -- comprising Kannada poet H S Shivaprakash, member Agrahara Krishnamurthy and eminent writer of Bengali literature, Shyamal Bhattacharya -- selected Panda for the prestigious award that carries a cash prize of Rs 5 lakh, a silver medal and a citation. Following the Covid-19 pandemic, the award presentation ceremony was delayed. It would be conferred on Panda in the near future, he added. He said the Rashtrakavi Kuvempu Trust instituted this national annual literary award in 2013 in the name of Kuvempu to recognise writers of various languages, who contributed to enrich Indian literature. Writers from Malayalam, Hindi, Marathi, Urdu, Kannada, Punjabi languages have been presented with the award so far. Furnishing details about the writer, he said Rajendra Kishore Panda is a well-know writer in Odiya language. He has published 16 poetry collections and a novel. He is a major Indian poet who steered modern Odiya poetry to great heights. He was awarded the Gangadhar National Award in 2010, and the Sahitya Akademi Award in 1985. He was awarded a D.Lit. by Sambalpur University.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/odiya-poet-rajendra-kishore-panda-chosen-for-kuvempu-award-1003264.html
30-06-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vivekananda Memorial to be constructed without harming school building||Suttur Mutt seer Shivaratri Deshikendra and BJP vice-president B Y Vijayendra held a talk with the members of the Maharani’s New Type Model School Ulisi Horata Samiti and the representatives of Sri Ramakrishna Ashrama, in connection with the development of Vivekananda Memorial on the school premises. Kannada Book Authority chairman Nandeesh Hanchya, who was present in the meeting, said, the SRA authorities have agreed to develop the memorial without harming the school building. Both the parties have agreed to continue the school on the existing premises and the school will not merge with Devaraj Urs School, as per the earlier plan. Though the existing building is in a dilapidated state, the members of the Horata Samiti are not ready for the reconstruction of the building. However, the members will decide over it within three days after discussion with other organisations, he said. The members of the Horata Samiti, Pa Mallesh, Sa Ra Sudarshan, former mayor Purushottam, historian P V Nanjaraj Urs and others were present. Former vice-chancellor of Kuvempu University Chidanandagowda, D Madegowda, C P Krishna Kumar and others represented the SRA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vivekananda-memorial-to-be-constructed-without-harming-school-building-1003367.html
30-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Minister post to Ramesh Jarkiholi soon: Narayan Gowda||Minister of Youth Empowerment and Sports K C Narayan Gowda, on Wednesday, said that MLAs Ramesh Jarkiholi and Munirathna will be made ministers soon. Speaking to reporters during his visit to Chamarajanagar, he said, "I have respect towards Ramesh Jarkiholi. The allegations against him are false and he will be free from it. The cabinet expansion will be held soon, and he will definitely be made a minister. Munirathna too will get ministership", he said. To a query, Narayan Gowda said, "The Bombay team are all united and a few might have minor differences of opinion. The change in leadership is just speculation. B S Yediyurappa will continue as the CM for the next two years. The next assembly elections will also be fought under the leadership of Yediyurappa", he said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/minister-post-to-ramesh-jarkiholi-soon-narayan-gowda-1003293.html
30-06-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah in Mysuru after 2 months||Opposition Party Leader Siddaramaiah visited Mysuru after a gap of two months on Wednesday. According to Congress leaders, Siddaramaiah will tour the district on Thursday and discuss the ongoing political developments with his supporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-in-mysuru-after-2-months-1003368.html
30-06-2021||Main Article||Authoritarianism undiminished in China||China’s sole ruling party, founded in 1921, four years after the Communist Party of the (now former) Soviet Union and on identical Leninist lines, turns 100 on July 1. It persists in calling itself the Communist Party of China (CPC) although since a few years after Mao Zedong’s death in 1976, and under the leadership of Deng Xiaoping, it began pursuing pro-market reforms. Deng coined several phrases to defend his policies: “Socialism with Chinese characteristics”, “Let some people get rich first”, “To get rich is glorious”, “It doesn’t matter whether a cat is black or white as long as it catches mice” (meaning State planning and the market must stand the test of economic development), and “When you open the window, flies and mosquitoes come in” (i.e., pro-market reforms inevitably lead to corruption). In 1992, Deng used the term “socialist market economy” and ordered the kickstart of development that had slowed following the crushing of the student-led pro-democracy movement in 1989, an event mourned and remembered worldwide to this day. Result: double-digit economic growth for over three decades and China’s emergence as the world’s second-largest economy after that of the US. Another result: smashing of what had been known as the “iron rice bowl”, i.e., guaranteed salaries and benefits, including housing, etc., in the large public sector. Not only did a private-sector bloom, but starting from the early 1980s, parts of the public sector were sold off by party apparatchiks, and the proceeds pocketed. All silently witnessed by an entity named the All-China Federation of Trade Unions, controlled by the CPC. Hundreds of thousands of workers’ struggles have been taking place all over China every year, rarely reported except in provincial media, i.e., those that briefly escape the central censors’ gaze. Meanwhile, the CPC’s policies as regards those not from the majority Han ethnicity make it seem like the Bharatiya Janata Party on steroids. The latter’s progenitor, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, may still be dreaming of an ‘Akhand Bharat’ stretching from lands to the east and west of the current boundaries of India, but the CPC already rules over vast stretches that had been independent of Han China until the mid-20th century, i.e., Southern Mongolia (or what Beijing calls Inner Mongolia), East Turkestan (Xinjiang) and Tibet. The three regions make up two-thirds of the map of China today. The CPC is tolerant of homegrown Daoism and Chinese Buddhism but frowns upon Tibetan Buddhism. While the CPC requires its members to be atheists, it reserves for itself the right to choose the next “reincarnation” of the Dalai Lama, the highest spiritual leader of Tibetan Buddhists. In 1995, when the Dalai Lama chose six-year-old Gedhun Choekyi Nyima as the 11th Panchen Lama – the second-highest figure in Tibetan Buddhism – Beijing named another, Gyaltsen Norbu, as proxy and the former has never been seen again. Several well-documented reports in the western media say that a million or more Muslims in East Turkestan have been put in concentration camps. The plight of Muslims elsewhere in China is the same as that of Christians: they function under strict State surveillance. Beijing disallows the Vatican to name bishops. Thousands of ‘underground’ Catholic churches abound, as do Protestant ones, and are frequently subject to raids. Under its current General Secretary Xi Jinping, the CPC appears to have gone back in part to the authoritarian ways of Mao Zedong, albeit without some of the disastrous experiments and campaigns of the Mao era such as the Great Leap Forward (1958-60) when farmers were ordered to "over-fulfill" quotas, leading to a crippling famine, or the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution (1966-76), when Mao urged young people to "bombard the headquarters" and called for the removal of "revisionists" through violent "struggles".  However, unlike in the Mao era when he and his trusted lieutenant, Premier Zhou Enlai, were engrossed with minding domestic business or the consequences of extreme policies and generally ignored happenings in the neighbourhood, save for the Korean War (1950-53) in the very early years of the People's Republic of China and the 1962 war with India, the Xi era CPC pursues what has come to be known as "Wolf Warrior diplomacy" (after a film of that name depicting an aggressive confrontational stance on the part of Beijing). Thus, Beijing rode roughshod over once free-wheeling Hong Kong, last year imposing a national security law that all but in name ended the "One Country, Two Systems" formula Deng had promised the former British-ruled territory. And Chinese fighter aircraft have recently intensified sorties over Taiwan, which Beijing claims as one of its provinces. What of the future? Few serious China-watchers would venture to predict. One of them, Gordon G Chang wrote a book titled The Coming Collapse of China in 2001. Twenty years have passed, and China and its ruling party have only grown stronger. The CPC underwent several upheavals and purges, in almost every decade until the 1980s, as noted above but has been relatively united since 1989 when a deep split amongst its leadership got reflected on the streets of Beijing in the form of a student-led pro-democracy movement that was put down with the help of tanks and armoured personnel carriers. Of course, there are a number of destabilising factors. To mention but two: economic slowdown and recent changes to the party’s succession process. So long as the economy was growing apace and the middle class was seeing its wealth multiplying, its stake in not rocking the CPC boat held. Whether the party can command loyalty as income rises decelerate remains to be seen. As for succession, Deng had put in place a system whereby the party’s politburo, consisting of about 20 members, and the standing committee, made up of five to nine leaders, partly renew themselves every five years, with those above 65 retiring and the General Secretary holding office for two terms. Xi Jinping has now disturbed that arrangement. Younger leaders aspiring for the highest post will therefore be a restive lot. Together, with a populace prevented from voicing its concerns over myriad issues, including massive corruption that the party itself admits to, they make for a recipe for instability. Back in 1989, the People’s Daily, the official mouthpiece of the CPC, as well as the government-controlled Xinhua (New China) news agency and other party-controlled media had carried a number of reports and articles supportive of the then ongoing pro-democracy movement, for a few days. They were able to do so because the then CPC General Secretary Zhao Ziyang was on their side, until he was airbrushed out of the picture in official narratives: In May 1989, when the party was deeply split over how to handle the pro-democracy movement, Zhao went on a scheduled visit to North Korea amidst the drama, only to find himself vanquished on his return. Xi might want to watch his back. (The writer was the Press Trust of India’s Beijing correspondent 1988-94 and was on the Agence France-Presse’s Asia-Pacific Desk in Hong Kong 1995-2006)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/authoritarianism-undiminished-in-china-1003018.html
30-06-2021||National||Amid fuel price hike, Madhya Pradesh minister lists advantages of cycling||As the prices of petrol and diesel touch record highs, Madhya Pradesh Energy Minister Pradyuman Singh Tomar has highlighted the advantages of cycling and said the government was spending tax revenue earned from petroleum fuels for the benefit of the poor. The minister was on Monday responding to a query by reporters on the skyrocketing prices of petroleum fuels. "I have been criticised for this earlier also. But, I am saying it again today, do we ever go to the vegetable market on bicycle? Cycling will keep us physically fit and also free from pollution," he said. The minister was on a personal visit to Indore. "What is important for us - petrol and diesel or are the country's health services?" the BJP leader asked. Tomar said the habit of cycling applies equally to him as well as common citizens. "If you look at my diary for the last 30 days, you will come to know how much I travel in car, how much I cycle and how much I walk," the minister said. Asked about the impact of diesel price hike on the transport industry, Tomar said, "Is the money (tax revenue) generated from petrol-diesel going to the house of any particular person or leader? This money is being used for the poor people who are in need of treatment, education and ration."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-fuel-price-hike-madhya-pradesh-minister-lists-advantages-of-cycling-1003048.html
30-06-2021||National||India records 45,951 Covid-19 cases, 817 deaths||India reported 45,951 new cases of coronavirus on Wednesday, with 817 more people succumbing to the virus across the country, Union Health Ministry data showed. Amid a receding second wave of Covid-19, active cases declined to 5,37,064, pegging the recovery rate to 96.92 per cent. India's total death toll since the beginning of the pandemic is at 3,98,454. Health officials are on high alert as a plausibly more transmissible Delta Plus variant has been detected in India, but many states have started relaxing curbs as cases dip. Under the national immunisation drive, 33,28,54,527 have been vaccinated so far. India has now overtaken US in the number of vaccines administered.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-45951-covid-19-cases-817-deaths-1003071.html
30-06-2021||National||Moderna gets DCGI approval: All you need to know about this Covid-19 vaccine||Before India, the Moderna vaccine was approved in more than 40 countries like the US, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Israel, Qatar, the UK, etc. It is one of the four vaccines that have received the “green pass” after European Medicines Agency’s (EMA) approval. Here’s everything you need to know about this Covid-19 vaccine: How does the Moderna vaccine work? Unlike Covishield and Covaxin, Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine is made up of messenger RNA (mRNA). It consists of a genetic material that helps the cells in our body to make proteins to fight the virus.  After the spike proteins are created from the vaccine, they get stuck onto the cells. Once the immune system recognises these proteins, the mRNA from the vaccine is eventually destroyed. Slowly, antibodies are created in the body which help the immune system fight the Covid-19 virus. When the virus enters the body, the antibodies get attached to the spikes of the Covid-19 virus and destroy them. What is Moderna vaccine’s efficacy? Moderna’s mRNA-1273 Covid-19 vaccine has shown an efficacy rate of approximately 94.1 per cent, 14 days after taking the first dose. This two-dose vaccine should be administered within a gap of 28 days, according to SAGE. However, similar to Covishield, Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine has shown a better efficacy rate when both doses are administered at a longer gap. According to WHO, the Moderna vaccine can be used by countries like India, which have a higher number of Covid-19 cases and face vaccine shortage. The company has also stated that its vaccine has a 96 per cent efficacy rate against the Covid-19 virus for the age group of 12-17 years old. What are the side effects of the vaccine? While it has some minor side effects like pain in the arm, redness, swelling, tiredness, headache, muscle pain, chills, fever, and nausea, the Moderna vaccine is found to be safe.However, people with severe allergic reactions to any of the components of the vaccine are advised by the WHO to refrain from getting it.  In the case of “very frail older persons with an anticipated life expectancy of fewer than 3 months”, a case to case assessment is required to decide whether to administer the vaccine or not. Pregnant women are only advised to take the vaccine if the benefits of vaccination outweigh the potential risks. Can the Moderna vaccine defeat the mutated Covid-19 virus? The Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine is seen to give protection against the Alpha variant (B.1.1.7), first detected in the UK, and the Beta variant (B.1.351), first detected in South Africa.  While there are no studies to claim that this mRNA vaccine can give protection against the Delta variant (B.1.617 ), first identified in India, the company is exploring the possibility of getting protection against new variants through a third booster shot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/moderna-gets-dcgi-approval-all-you-need-to-know-about-this-covid-19-vaccine-1003078.html
30-06-2021||National||A timeline of Twitter India's woes and various controversies||Over the last few months, Twitter India has come under the scanner of the Government of India, ever since the new IT rules came into effect. On June 29, an FIR was filed against Twitter by Delhi Police for the availability of child pornography material on the micro-blogging site. This new case comes at a time when Twitter has lost immunity from criminal proceedings, as it appointed a US-based grievance officer which is in violation of the new Information and Technology Act.  This tussle between the Centre and the social media giant has been going on for months, with various grievances filed against the tech company. Here's a list of all the times Twitter has faced trouble in India: 'Manipulated Media' In December 2020, Twitter India tagged BJP IT Cell head Amit Malviya's tweet as 'manipulated media'. His tweet was aimed at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. The latter had shared a photo of policemen attacking farmers during the protest; however, in an attempt to refute it, Malviya shared a video which was a supposed reality of the events. The video shared by Malviya was later called out by Alt News, a fact-checking site, who said the video was cropped and fake. According to Twitter’s “synthetic and manipulated media policy”, it uses three criteria to judge whether a post deserves the tag — is the content synthetic or manipulated? Is it shared in a deceptive manner? Is it likely to impact public safety or cause serious harm? Farmers' Protest During the farmers' protest earlier this year, when the protest turned violent on Republic Day, the Centre asked Twitter to take down several accounts. It did not comply initially, but later did so partially. Toolkit case When the Greta Thunberg-Disha Ravi toolkit case happened, India accused Twitter of causing unrest in the country. Removing blue ticks Last month, Twitter had removed the blue tick verification badge from the personal accounts of Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu and several senior RSS leaders, including its chief Mohan Bhagwat. Ghaziabad case On June 16, Twitter and several journalists were named in an FIR for “flaring communal sentiments” after an elderly Muslim man claimed in a video that his beard was cut off and he was forced to chant “Jai Shri Ram”. Police, however, said there was no “communal angle" in the FIR lodged by the man. Despite clarification from Ghaziabad police, the social media site allegedly did not take down the tweet, and came under fire. Locked out of account On June 25, Twitter locked Union Information and Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad out of his account for almost an hour. While the account was visible, no one was allowed to access it, because he violated the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act, as per the microblogging site. Promoting vaccine hesitancy Covid-19 variants The ministry also added that Twitter was 'discriminatory' and that it 'maliciously' let tweets of Indian Variant stay up despite WHO guidelines. "Discriminatory behavior has been practiced against Indians and people of Indian origin because of malicious tagging of B.1.617 mutant as ‘Indian variant’ name despite strict WHO guidelines against it. Again, Twitter has taken no action against such fake narratives and Tweets while grandiosely claiming to serve the people of India", the Ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-timeline-of-twitter-indias-woes-and-various-controversies-1003094.html
30-06-2021||National||Odisha artist gets UAE's golden visa||Mona Biswarupa Mohanty, an artist from Odisha's Mayurbhanj district, has received the UAE's coveted 'golden visa' or long-term residence visa for 10 years. The long-term cultural visa is granted to talents in the fields of arts, creative industries, literature and culture, heritage history and cognitive studies. It enables foreigners to live, work and study in the West Asian country without the need of a national sponsor and with 100 per cent ownership of their business on the UAE's mainland. In 2019, the UAE implemented the new system, in which these visas are issued for five or 10 years and renewed automatically. Mohanty is the first Odia artist to receive the UAE's golden visa, according to a statement. Mohanty has been living in Dubai since 2007, worked in the academic field and in the design industry for about eight years. She is a self-employed art practitioner registered with the Dubai Economic Department. She has a diploma in fine arts from the School of Art and Crafts, Baripada, apart from bachelors and masters degrees. "A long-term residency gives me an opportunity for a more meaningful cultural exchange and possibilities of working on collaborative projects with other artists," Mohanty said. "I see this as an opportunity to represent my country and culture and mingle with other cultures to contribute to the ever-growing global cultural heritage," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-artist-gets-uaes-golden-visa-1003098.html
30-06-2021||National||Navjot Singh Sidhu a misguided missile: SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday hit out at Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has been at loggerheads with Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh.  "Navjot Singh Sidhu is a misguided missile that is not under control, can hit in any direction including himself," Badal told news agency ANI. He added that as of now Punjab "doesn't need a person who does acting but one who thinks about the development of the state."    More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navjot-singh-sidhu-a-misguided-missile-sad-chief-sukhbir-singh-badal-1003100.html
30-06-2021||National||Modi meets ministers over formulating India's drone policy: Report||In a key meeting, Prime Minister Narendra Modi met Union Home Minister Amit Shah, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on June 29 to formulate a drone policy for India. While the meeting was called in the light of emerging security threats and futuristic challenges of India, the discussions of the meeting mainly centred on accelerating the process of formulating India’s drone policy, according to CNN-News18’s sources.  It also mentioned that India’s drone policy will be out very soon. After a drone attack on Jammu’s Airbase on Sunday, the meeting was called by Modi to have ‘security and policy-related discussions’.  The officials also claimed that these meetings were planned days before the drone attack on Jammu’s Airbase. The meeting coincidentally happened right after the drone attack. "The government is coming out with a policy to collectively deal with the emerging challenges. It was decided to expedite the framing of the policy," one of the persons cited above said after the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-meets-ministers-over-formulating-indias-drone-policy-report-1003101.html
30-06-2021||National||India adopts 'zero-tolerance' policy for serious misconduct of peacekeepers, says Tirumurti||India pays great attention to the conduct of peacekeepers and has adopted a “zero-tolerance” policy for sexual exploitation and abuse (SEA) related serious misconduct, and the country aims to strengthen mechanisms to ensure prevention and mitigation of these issues, India’s envoy to the UN has said. Speaking at the high-level meeting with the UN Member States on 'Strengthening the Conduct of Peacekeeping Personnel' on Monday, India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti said a clean image of the UN peacekeeper was the cornerstone for the success of United Nations peace operations. India, which is among the largest troop contributing countries to UN peacekeeping missions, is also the only country among the top 20 troop contributing countries that does not figure in the list of SEA-related cases on the UN website. "India pays great attention to the conduct of the peacekeepers. We have adopted a ‘zero-tolerance' policy for sexual exploitation and abuse (SEA) related serious misconduct and aim to strengthen mechanisms to ensure prevention and mitigation of these issues,” he said. Tirumurti said prevention lay at the core of India’s efforts to combat SEA and serious misconduct issues, and screening, training, and awareness were the prime components of this approach. India’s Center for UN Peacekeeping (CUNPK), which provides training to peacekeepers from India as well as partners with countries for the last 20 years, had introduced “peacekeeping conduct and discipline” related training modules some 10 years ago, he said. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, in a video message to the meeting on Monday, said while the UN has steadily made progress on improving training and creating safe ways to report misconduct by UN peacekeepers, the organisation is working to increase transparency, strengthen internal accountability, and emphasise the needs and rights of victims and survivors. Guterres said the UN Member States were “our vital partners” in these efforts and thanked those nations that have concluded a voluntary compact, joined his Circle of Leadership and contributed to the Trust Fund for the Victims of Sexual Exploitation and Abuse. "I now ask all of you to go further. This is key to improving our ability to prevent misconduct, enforce standards, and remedy harm. We must support victims and survivors, as well as children born from acts of sexual exploitation or abuse by United Nations personnel. This includes ensuring that peacekeepers who father children take full responsibility for them, by helping women to make paternity and child support claims,” he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi joined the Circle of Leadership (CoL) on the prevention of and response to SEA in United Nations operations in 2017. India signed the Secretary General’s initiative of voluntary compact on preventing and addressing SEA issues and has also been supporting UN’s “Pipeline to Peacekeeping Command Program” (PCP) which aims to develop the capacity of future commanders and managers to lead by example and raise awareness of UN standards of conduct among their personnel. India has made a voluntary contribution of over half a million dollars to the programme in the last 3 years, Tirumurti told the meeting. Under-Secretary-General for Peace Operations Jean-Pierre Lacroix said the UN and the Member States are making progress in combating the issue of sexual exploitation and abuse, including through strengthening vetting, standardising the approach to training and misconduct risk management. “But the risk of misconduct amounts to a risk to operational success. We must be proactive and understand where we have gaps and build on what is working and what demonstrates potential,” he said. “We must continue to address our challenges, such as timely investigations and communications with the Secretariat on actions taken and ensuring sanctions commensurate with the gravity of misconduct including criminal accountability where necessary,” he said. Noting that 89 out of 103 signatories to date of the Secretary-General’s Compact on Eliminating Sexual Exploitation and Abuse are troop or police-contributing countries, Lacroix called on all Member States to join the Compact and underlined the need to approach the UN efforts at protection from sexual exploitation and abuse across the United Nations system. “Misconduct is not unique to peacekeeping and requires an integrated ‘one UN’ response,” he said. Pointing out that India has invested heavily in pre-deployment training, Tirumurti highlight some of the best practices institutionalised by India, including the identification of suitable peacekeepers for UN deployment. “It is important to ensure that the peacekeepers identified for UN missions have an excellent track record of being disciplined and motivated soldiers and police personnel in their respective organisations. UN peacekeeping is showcased among our personnel as a chance to learn and contribute to India’s commitment to international peace & security,” he said. Thematic modules have been included in the training programmes of the personnel, including those that remind trainees of a zero-tolerance policy of the government towards SEA misconducts and highlighting that perpetrators will be held accountable, he said. Case studies and scenario-based exercises on various misdemeanors by UN personnel in mission areas in different settings have been incorporated into the training of peacekeepers; and necessary systems to ensure accountability at every level during the UN deployment of the peacekeepers, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-adopts-zero-tolerance-policy-for-serious-misconduct-of-peacekeepers-says-tirumurti-1003102.html
30-06-2021||National||India ranks among top 10 in ITU's Global Cybersecurity Index||India has made it to the top 10 in Global Cybersecurity Index (GCI) 2020 by ITU, moving up 37 places to rank as the tenth best country in the world on key cybersafety parameters. The affirmation by the UN body of India's efforts on cybersecurity, comes just ahead of the sixth anniversary of Digital India on July 1. India is emerging as a global IT superpower, asserting its digital sovereignty with firm measures to safeguard data privacy and online rights of citizens. As per the ranking, India has moved up by 37 places to rank as the tenth best country in the world in the Global Cybersecurity Index (GCI) 2020 launched by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) on June 29, 2021. The US topped the chart, followed by the UK and Saudi Arabia tied on the second position, while Estonia was ranked third in the index. India has also secured the fourth position in the Asia Pacific region, underlining its commitment to cybersecurity. GCI assessment is done on the basis of performance on five parameters of cybersecurity including legal measures, technical measures, organisational measures, capacity development, and cooperation. The performance is then aggregated into an overall score. For each of the five aspects, all the countries' performance and commitment were assessed through a question-based online survey, which further allowed for the collection of the supporting evidence. Through in-depth consultations with a group of experts, the questions were then weighted and assessed, to arrive at the overall scores. The GCI results for India show substantial overall improvement and strengthening under all parameters of the cybersecurity domain. India scored a total of 97.5 points from a possible maximum of 100 points, to make it to the tenth position worldwide in the GCI 2020. India has worked relentlessly on all the five pillars over the last few years, resulting in significant improvement in its ranking in Global Cyber Security Index.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-ranks-among-top-10-in-itus-global-cybersecurity-index-1003107.html
30-06-2021||National||Scuffle breaks out between BJP workers and farmers at Ghazipur||BJP workers and farm law protesters clashed in Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border on Wednesday. The ruckus took place when the BJP workers were carrying out a procession on a flyway where the farm law protesters, chiefly supporters of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, have been camping since November 2020, according to eye-witnesses. As the two sides came near each other on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway around 12 pm, a scuffle broke out and they fought with sticks which led to some injuries, they said. Videos and pictures surfaced on social media, purportedly showing some damaged vehicles which were part of a cavalcade of a BJP politician, Amit Valmiki, for whose welcome the procession was being held. Farmer leaders, however, alleged that the episode was another “conspiracy by the government” to quell the protest against the three contentious farm laws and give it a bad name. Samyukta Kisan Morcha spokesperson Jagtar Singh Bajwa claimed that the farmers at the Ghazipur border informed the district administration and government officials to remove the party workers as they were creating a ruckus in the name of a welcome rally. "They misbehaved with farmers and themselves damaged their vehicles as part of a conspiracy. This conspiracy of the government is not going to succeed because such tactics to end the farmers' protest have been used in the past too," Bajwa said. "We are going to lodge a complaint with the police over today's (Wednesday's) incident, and if no action is taken, we shall plan our future strategy accordingly," he added. "We condemn the ruckus created by the BJP workers," Bajwa said, adding that such tactics won't work as the farmers' movement has been going on peacefully for the last seven months and will continue to do so in the future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scuffle-breaks-out-between-bjp-workers-and-farmers-at-ghazipur-1003121.html
30-06-2021||National||VP Venkaiah Naidu visits India's first 3D-printed house at IIT Madras||More than two months after it was inaugurated, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday visited India's first 3D printed house built at an area of about 600 square feet at the campus of the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M). Constructed by Tvasta, a deep tech start-up founded by IIT-M alumni, the 'Concrete 3D Printing' technology is expected to serve as a major boost to affordable construction in India as it significantly reduces, cost, time and utilizes eco-friendly materials. Naidu, who is here on a 4-day trip, visited the single-storey house at the IIT-M campus. The house was formally inaugurated by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on April 27.  Tvasta’s ‘Concrete 3D Printing’ is an automated manufacturing method for constructing three-dimensional real-life structures (at all realizable scales). The technique uses a concrete 3D Printer that accepts a computerised three-dimensional design file from the user and fabricates a 3D structure in a layer-by-layer manner by extruding a specialised type of concrete specifically designed for the purpose, the company said.  After the visit, Naidu said education should go beyond classroom programmes and inculcate a holistic approach to problem-solving among students. “If there is one thing to learn from the pandemic for educational institutions, it is to encourage students to be proactive, think critically and adapt quickly to the fast-changing world. Going forward, IITs must identify various focus areas for technological intervention in our country, keeping in view the national priorities and local relevance,” he said.  A successful industry-institute partnership can play a huge role in making new technologies like 3D printing scalable and bring them into wider public use, he added. Building a house through this technology takes just five days against the conventional method of four to six months. The house was developed in collaboration with Habitat for Humanity’s Terwilliger Centre for Innovation in Shelter. The 3D printed house has a functional space comprising of a single bedroom, hall, and kitchen, with the entire ensemble being designed, developed, and realized by Tvasta’s indigenous ‘Concrete 3D Printing’ technology. Tvasta’s primary market would be the Indian subcontinent with the focus on providing construction-related 3D Printing services and solutions for such Government welfare programs. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vp-venkaiah-naidu-visits-indias-first-3d-printed-house-at-iit-madras-1003138.html
30-06-2021||National||Supreme Court allows ICAI to conduct CA examinations with option to opt out||The Supreme Court on Wednesday told the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India to give candidates an option to opt out from appearing in CA examinations if they themselves or family members suffered from Covid-19 in recent past. A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar clarified that the candidate need not produce RT-PCR report if medical certificate issued by a registered Medical Practitioner is presented alongwith the request for opting-out. “A candidate who has suffered Covid-19 personally or any of his family members, so certified by a registered medical practitioner, as a result of which he is unable to appear for exam, or disabled from preparing for the exam, is entitled to exercise the option of opting out. It will not be considered as an attempt. Such candidate will be permitted to appear for the next examination for both old and new syllabus,” the bench said. With regard to candidates affected by lockdown during the relevant period of exam, the apex court said as per ICAI scheme, such candidate will be allowed to opt-out and will not be treated as an attempt and such candidate will be allowed to appear in the next examination.  “It is also clarified if any candidate who is attempting exam gets Covid-19 during exam, he will be allowed to opt out and it will not be treated as an attempt. They can give the exam in the next year. He may be permitted to appear in backup exams as per the rules,” the bench said. “We direct that candidate should be allowed to opt out and it will not be treated us an attempt. Such candidate can appear in backup when situation is conducive,” it said. The ICAI has scheduled the CA examinations in physical mode from July 5 at centres across the country. The top court allowed the ICAI to go ahead with the examinations in strict adherence to the standard operating procedure, notified by the competent authority, including the Disaster Management Authority. It disapproved a suggestion by the Institute that if the change of examination centre was within the city, it will not be open to the candidate to opt-out. "Instead, we direct that the Institute shall permit such candidate to opt-out in case, of last-minute change of examination centre," the bench said. With PTI inputs Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-allows-icai-to-conduct-ca-examinations-with-option-to-opt-out-1003153.html
30-06-2021||National||Delhi Police sends notice to Twitter over child pornography content on platform||The Delhi Police has sent a notice to micro-blogging site Twitter seeking details about steps taken by it against circulation of child pornographic content on its platform, officials said on Wednesday. A senior police officer said the notice was sent to Twitter on Tuesday. He said the police have sought to know the steps taken by Twitter officials concerned against child sexual abuse content on their platform and sought details of the accounts circulating such material. The Delhi Police had registered an FIR against Twitter for allegedly allowing access to child pornography on its platform following a complaint by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR). The case was registered under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the IT Act, police said. This comes days after the NCPCR, the country's apex child rights body, asked Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) Anyesh Roy to explain why no action had been taken against Twitter as per its letter to the Delhi Police dated May 29. In its letter, the NCPCR had asked the Delhi Police to book Twitter on the basis of the findings of its recent inquiry in which it had found that child sexual abuse material (CSAM) was easily available on the platform. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-sends-notice-to-twitter-over-child-pornography-content-on-platform-1003162.html
30-06-2021||National||Covid death underreporting: Shortfall in reporting fatalities not new phenomenon in India, say SBI economists||Amid the debate over underreporting of Covid fatalities, economists at SBI on Wednesday said that shortfall in reporting deaths is not a new phenomenon in India. One of the prime reasons for the underreporting is because many of the demises happen without any medical attention and hence, ramping up the health infrastructure is the key to manage the jigsaw, they said. The SBI report comes amidst a debate over underreporting of Covid deaths in the country especially after happenings like bodies floating in the Ganga river or just thrown from bridges, with some estimates suggesting the actual fatalities can be as high as 10 times the reported number. Over 81 per cent of the births were 'institutional' in 2019 as against 56 per cent in 2009, while 34.5 per cent of the deaths did not receive any medical attention which leads to the probability of getting them registered being very less. "It also goes on to show that it is quite possible that no diagnosis was undertaken and disease and death underreporting is not a new phenomena in India. This is important in the context of recent debate on measuring the Covid deaths in India through the civil registration system," it said. "Only better medical attention can lead to even better disease profiling and saving of lives in India. Ramping up public health infrastructure and increasing number of public health care professionals is the key to such jigsaw," they recommended. "It seems obvious" that the impact of the Covid-19 devastation “must be worse” in lower-income countries like India, the note said. Dwelling on the issue of birth and death registrations, the note said that the government had made it mandatory to register both through an Act in 1969. It said Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand had a death registration rate of below 75 per cent as per 2019 data from Civil Registration System. A total of 11 states have achieved 100 per cent birth registration, while 15 states achieved 100 per cent death registration in 2019, it said. Meanwhile, the note also warned of potential imbalances in the demographics, pointing out that in 2019, one-third of the total births were registered in only UP and Bihar while a third of the deaths were in UP, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. "The uneven trend in birth and death in some of the states does not augur well for their demographic profile in the coming years," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-death-underreporting-shortfall-in-reporting-fatalities-not-new-phenomenon-in-india-say-sbi-economists-1003175.html
30-06-2021||National||GST milestone in India's economic landscape: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that the GST has been a milestone in the economic landscape of India as it has decreased the number of taxes, compliance burden and overall tax weight on the common man.  With the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime completing four years, Modi added that it has also significantly increased transparency, compliance and overall collection.   A nationwide GST, which subsumed 17 local levies like excise duty, service tax and VAT, was rolled out on July 1, 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gst-milestone-in-indias-economic-landscape-pm-modi-1003195.html
30-06-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-Up: Second wave leaves behind harrowing tales, puts spotlight on underreporting of deaths||At 9:45 pm, alarms blared across the Intensive Care Unit of Jaipur Golden Hospital. Over two dozen patients on ventilators couldn’t breathe. Some flailed their arms and legs. Others cried for help, choking sounds coming from their throats as if they were being strangled. Mechanics sprinted to the maintenance room to see what was wrong. Nurses grabbed small plastic pumps to fill the lungs of critically-ill patients by hand. It wasn’t enough. Jaipur Golden, a respected hospital in Delhi, had run out of medical oxygen. Over the next seven hours, 21 Covid-19 patients died. As the number of Covid-19 cases is declining steadily, hospitals are breathing, states are easing lockdown and the government is racing to vaccinate the targetted 95 crore people by December-end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-second-wave-leaves-behind-harrowing-tales-puts-spotlight-on-underreporting-of-deaths-1003201.html
30-06-2021||National||Two militants killed, another surrenders in Kulgam in J-K||Two militants were killed by security forces while another surrendered after an encounter broke out in Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, officials said.  The gunbattle between the militants and security forces started in Chimmer village during a cordon and search operation launched by the law enforcement agencies in the area, the officials said.  Two ultras have been killed while one has laid down his arms, the officials said, adding further details were awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-militants-killed-another-surrenders-in-kulgam-in-j-k-1003204.html
30-06-2021||National||Why filmmakers are against Cinematograph Bill 2021||Soon after the Centre released the draft Cinematograph (Amendment) Bill 2021, which proposes to penalise film piracy and empower the central government to order recertification of an already certified film following receipt of complaints, it received a lot of criticism from many actors and filmmakers. Let us understand why filmmakers are opposing the amendments included in Cinematograph (Amendment) Bill 2021: What are the significant changes proposed? > The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting wants to add a provision to the Act giving revisionary powers to the Centre. If Section 5B(1): principles for guidance in certifying films, is violated then the Centre can use its power to reverse the decision of the Central Board of Film Certification. > The draft comes shortly after the Film Certificate Appellate Tribunal was abolished. It was the last place for filmmakers to appeal if they were dissatisfied with the certificate granted to their film. "Since the provisions of Section 5B(1) are derived from Article 19(2) of the Constitution and are non-negotiable, it is also proposed in the Draft Bill to add a proviso to sub-section (1) of section 6 to the effect that on receipt of any references by the Central Government in respect of a film certified for public exhibition, on account of violation of Section 5B(1) of the Act, the Central Government may, if it considers it necessary so to do, direct the Chairman of the Board to re-examine the film,” it said. > The draft also proposes to give certificates to films for perpetuity, which is currently set for 10 years. > The ministry said the provisions relating to certification of films under 'unrestricted public exhibition' category are proposed to be amended so as to further sub-divide the existing UA category into age-based categories. > The ministry also wants to add a provision to penalise film piracy. The draft bill proposes to insert section 6AA which prohibits unauthorised recording. According to Section 6AA, “Notwithstanding any law for the time being in force, no person shall, without the written authorisation of the author, be permitted to use any audiovisual recording device in a place to knowingly make or transmit or attempt to make or transmit or abet the making or transmission of a copy of a film or a part thereof." How does it plan to categorise films? As per the proposed law, the films will be categoried as follows: > Category ‘U’: This is for unrestricted public exhibition. > Category ‘U/A’: This requires parental guidance for children under 12. ‘U/A’ is further divided into three categories as per the age of children -- U/A 7+, U/A 13+ and U/A 16+. > Category ‘A’: This is for adult films. What is the penalty proposed for film piracy? While there are no piracy policies in the Cinematograph Act, 1952, in the amendments the government proposes to include Section 6AA to prohibit unauthorised recording. If the law is violated, the punishment will be “imprisonment not be less than three months". This may be extended to three years and with a fine "which shall not be less than Rs 3 lakh but which may extend to 5 per cent of the audited gross production cost or with both”. Why are filmmakers opposing the proposed amendments? Filmmakers believe that the proposed amendments will make them powerless at the hands of the state and more vulnerable to threats, vandalism and intimidation of mob censors. Actor-turned-politician Kamal Haasan took it to Twitter to criticise the Cinematograph (Amendment) Bill 2021 on Tuesday. In his tweet, he wrote, “Cinema, media and the literati cannot afford to be the three iconic monkeys of India. Seeing, hearing and speaking of impending evil is the only medication against attempts to injure and debilitate democracy.” He urged his fans to raise their voice against the amendments. Cinema, media and the literati cannot afford to be the three iconic monkeys of India. Seeing, hearing and speaking of impending evil is the only medication against attempts to injure and debilitate democracy. (1/2) Calling it “another blow to film fraternity”, over 1,400 filmmakers have signed an open letter to the Information and Broadcast Ministry. Anurag Kashyap, Hansal Mehta, Vetri Maaran, Nandita Das, Shabana Azmi, Farhan Akhtar, Zoya Akhtar, and Dibakar Banerjee have also protested the proposed amendments.  In another blow to the film fraternity, Ministry of I & B has proposed new amendments to the Cinematograph Act under which the Central Government would have the power to revoke or recall certification of films that have already been cleared by the Censor Board.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-filmmakers-are-against-cinematograph-bill-2021-1003207.html
30-06-2021||National||Cabinet approves Rs 19,041 crore viability gap funding for BharatNet in 16 states||The Centre on Wednesday gave its nod to the public private partnership mode for the rollout of the BharatNet project for broadband services in villages in 16 states with viability gap funding of Rs 19,041 crore. The decision was taken during a Union Cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. IT and Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the total expense will be Rs 29,430 crore to cover around 3.6 lakh villages in the 16 states. The Centre will only spend the viability gap fund of Rs 19,041 crore. The states covered under the revised scheme are Karnataka, Kerala, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh.  So far a total of 1.56 lakh out of the 2.5 lakh village panchayats have been connected with broadband. "The revised strategy also includes creation, upgradation, operation, maintenance and utilisation of BharatNet by the concessionaire who will be selected by a competitive international bidding process," the government said in a statement.  The Cabinet also accorded in-principle approval for extending BharatNet to cover all inhabited villages in the remaining states and UTs.  Department of Telecommunication will separately work out the modalities for these (remaining) states/UTs, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-rs-19041-crore-viability-gap-funding-for-bharatnet-in-16-states-1003215.html
30-06-2021||National||Cabinet approves extension of ABRY deadline till March 2022||The Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Wednesday gave approval for extending the last date for registration of beneficiaries for availing the benefit under Aatmanirbhar Bharat Rojgar Yojana (ABRY) for another nine months to March 31, 2022. Consequent upon this extension, it is expected that 71.8 lakh jobs will be generated in the formal sector as against the earlier projection of 58.5 lakh, an official statement said. The scheme's estimated expenditure, including the expenditure for the proposed extended period of registration up to March 31, 2020, will be Rs 22,098 crore. This scheme is being implemented through the Employees' Provident Fund Organization (EPFO) to reduce the financial burden of the employers of various sectors and to encourage them to hire more workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-extension-of-abry-deadline-till-march-2022-1003242.html
30-06-2021||National||CCEA approves Rs 3.03-lakh crore scheme for power discoms||Aimed at providing uninterrupted electricity to consumers, the Centre on Wednesday approved a five-year-long reform-based result-linked power distribution scheme worth Rs 3.03 lakh crore. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday approved the Reform-Based Result-Linked Power Distribution Scheme which was announced in the Budget earlier this year. Briefing after the CCEA meet, Power and New & Renewable Energy Minister R K Singh said that the Cabinet has approved the new scheme worth Rs 3.03 lakh crore, including Rs 97,000 crore central outlay." Funds will be given to electricity distribution companies to improve their operational efficiencies and financial sustainability. The revamped reforms-based result-linked power distribution scheme will provide financial assistance to discoms for infrastructure creation, upgradation of system, capacity building and process improvement. The scheme has a major focus on improving electricity supply for the farmers and for providing daytime electricity to them through solarization of agricultural feeders. For availing this scheme, the states will have to meet criteria like the publication of audited financial reports, upfront liquidation of state government's dues/subsidy to discoms and non-creation of additional regulatory assets. The scheme proposes the installation of 25 crore smart meters, 10,000 feeders, four lakh kilometres of low-tension overhead lines planned under the ongoing works under central government schemes. The central schemes Integrated Power Development Scheme, Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana, and Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana (Saubhagya) will be merged. Total allocation will be Rs 3,03,058 crore, including a central government share of Rs 97,631 crore. The assistance will be based on meeting pre-qualifying criteria as well as upon achievement of basic minimum benchmarks by discoms, evaluated on the basis of an agreed evaluation framework tied to financial improvements. Implementation of the scheme would be based on the action plan worked out for each state rather than a “one-size-fits-all” approach. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ccea-approves-rs-303-lakh-crore-scheme-for-power-discoms-1003245.html
30-06-2021||National||Modi government continues to aid crony capitalists: Congress rakes up Patanjali-Ruchi Soya deal||The Congress on Wednesday alleged that the Narendra Modi government continues to aid "crony capitalist friends", claiming that there is more to it than what meets eye in the takeover of a debt-ridden company Ruchi Soya that defaulted on loans by Yoga guru Ramdev's Patanjali. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera alleged during a press conference that a fresh quid-pro-quo relation has now been unearthed in the case of Patanjali taking over Ruchi Soya. There was no immediate response from Patanjali or others. He alleged that SBI was "pressurised" to forward loans to Patanjali for investing in Ruchi Soya.  Khera claimed that Ruchi Soya had taken Rs 12,146 crore worth of loans from various banks and the SBI had been the largest lender at Rs 1,816 crore. He alleged that SBI could settle only Rs 883 crore (or 43.6 per cent of the total loan) while foregoing Rs 993 crore.  Khera also claimed that Adani Wilmar was also keen to take over Ruchi Soya but after the initial bidding process, it opted out leaving Patanjali as the lone potential bidder, which took over Ruchi Soya for Rs 4,350 crore. The Congress spokesperson then claimed that Patanjali decided to take loans worth Rs 3,250 crore for the deal and the bulk of it was taken from SBI, which had "already suffered exponential loss" at the hand of the same company. "What is significant to note here is that not only did SBI write off hundreds of crores from the accounts of Ruchi Soya Industries, it went one step further and loaned money amounting to Rs 1,200 crore to Patanjali to fund the purchase of Ruchi Soya Industries," he alleged. "The prime minister and the government cannot continue to support these capitalists and 'businessmen babas' at the expense of the exchequer and the common man," he claimed. "Which banking principle allows a bank that had to write off loans of a corporate to fund the buying of the same corporate by issuing more loans? Under whose advice or insistence did SBI continue to fund a firm that was destined to fail from the start?" he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-government-continues-to-aid-crony-capitalists-congress-rakes-up-patanjali-ruchi-soya-deal-1003246.html
30-06-2021||National||India believes there is urgent need for major reforms in WHO: Health Minister Harsh Vardhan||India believes there is an urgent need for carrying out "major reforms" in the World Health Organization to ensure a timely, focused and effective response to potential future pandemics, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Wednesday. "Therefore, it is desirable that we should continue to exchange our experiences, learnings, best practices as well as innovations to strengthen our public health systems," he was quoted as saying in the statement. He said India is working extensively to increase core capacities to manage the present situation and ensure long-term interventions for mitigating any such future crisis. The minister added, "India - like many other countries - believes that there is an urgent need for carrying out major reforms in the World Health Organisation so that we can ensure timely, focused and effective responses for potential future pandemics." He expressed hope that the work of the Independent Panel for Pandemic Preparedness and Response, the Independent Oversight and Advisory Committee as well as the International Health Regulations Review Committees under the WHO Health Emergencies Program will be crucial in steering a direction to achieve the much-needed multilateral cooperation in the field of global health, the statement said. He also underlined the need to prioritisation of investment in public health. "We need to conquer the adversary with collaborations and by supplementing each other's capacities, by pooling our resources and through enhanced technical support," he stated. Vardhan observed the coronavirus pandemic has dealt a profound blow to the SCO member states on the health and economic fronts. He also said that India believes that besides bilateral discussions on the issue, a multilateral approach which would create an institutional framework for mobility of health workers is the need of the hour. "For example, India is currently collaborating with Japan and discussing with the United Kingdom and other countries from the EU regarding a nursing service exchange programme," he was quoted as saying. The need for collectively addressing methods to mitigate the global health risk and emerging threats using the 'One Health' approach was stressed upon, the statement said. Vardhan stated, "India has started the 'Institute for One Health of International Standard' which may be leveraged to have a One Health International Hub in India which will address existing or potential risks which originate through the interface of animal-human systems." He also informed the attendees how India has utilised digital technologies extensively for inventory management and a timely distribution of Covid vaccines. India had also launched the 'Vaccine Maitri' to provide vaccines to partner countries, he said, and emphasised how the Indian traditional system of medicine has contributed substantially in boosting the immunity of the general population during Covid-19. "Under the able leadership of our Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India had proposed the setting up of an Expert Working Group on Traditional Medicine under the existing institutional framework of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. A Draft to this effect was also circulated last year. I take this opportunity to propose that we should hold a meeting soon to discuss and finalize the modalities of the Expert Working Group," he said. "This should be done on a war footing so that we may set up the expert group much ahead of the meeting next year," he was quoted as saying in the statement. He concluded his speech by underlining the centuries-old historic linkages between the SCO nations connected by geography and enriched by links of culture, cuisine and commerce. "I call upon all of you today to remind each other of this bedrock of our modern-day relationship. It is for the sake of this ages-old friendship that we all must stand together and work for each other's betterment and for the betterment of the SCO region. Only shared responsibilities and shared idealism will help us achieve these shared goals," he said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-believes-there-is-urgent-need-for-major-reforms-in-who-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-1003248.html
30-06-2021||National||PTR strikes at Jaggi Vasudev again, calls him 'multi-dimensional charlatan'||Choosing a six-year-old tweet of Jaggi Vasudev on “Hindu is a geographical identity”, Tamil Nadu Finance Minister P T R Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on Wednesday kept up his attack on the spiritual leader by calling him a “multi-dimensional charlatan.” “Africa = Continent. India = Country, Republic (assuming “this land” implied India). Hindu = Religion, Faith. Elephant = Vertebrate, Mammal. Earthworm = Terrestrial Invertebrate Charlatan = a person falsely claiming to have a special knowledge or skill. Multi-DIMENSION-al Charlatan,” Thiaga Rajan wrote on his verified Twitter page. Africa = ContinentIndia = Country, Republic (assuming “this land” implied India)Hindu = Religion, Faith Elephant = Vertebrate, MammalEarthworm = Terrestrial Invertebrate Charlatan = a person falsely claiming to have a special knowledge or skill His tweet was in “reply” to a post made by Jaggi Vasudev on June 23, 2015, that read, “Hindu is a geographical identity. If elephants in Africa is African, earthworms in this land is Hindu.” Thiaga Rajan’s attack on Jaggi Vasudev comes a week after he told Deccan Herald in an interview that he did not regret calling him a “publicity hound” and a “charlatan.” “I have not changed my views at all. He (Jaggi Vasudev) is a man who uses God and religion to make a living, to earn money. I still stay that, and I am not taking my words back,” the Finance Minister had said last week when asked whether he regretted attacking the spiritual leader. “My clarification was necessitated because a crescendo was building up that some immediate action was on the anvil. I merely said it was not my role to prosecute because none of the violations relates to the departments I look after,” he had added. Thiaga Rajan had been opposed to #FreeTNTemples campaign launched by Jaggi Vasudev and called him a “publicity hound” for demanding that temples in the state be freed from government control. His interview to an English newspaper stirred a controversy, but the former banker stood his ground and reiterated that Jaggi Vasudev is a violator of the law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ptr-strikes-at-jaggi-vasudev-again-calls-him-multi-dimensional-charlatan-1003269.html
30-06-2021||National||Big Tech gears up for fight with Modi's India||By Saritha Rai and Vlad Savov India is growing increasingly assertive in its efforts to control online communications, challenging Twitter and Facebook’s practices and threatening to set a precedent that could extend far beyond its borders. The largest US internet firms are fighting new Intermediary rules issued by Narendra Modi’s government in February that they say curtail privacy and free speech. Officials have demanded Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. take down hundreds of posts this year, divulge sensitive user information and submit to a regulatory regime that includes potential jail terms for executives if companies don’t comply. While the administration’s push to exert more control over user data and online discourse reflect efforts globally to come to grips with tech giants and their enormous influence, the stakes in India are particularly high for internet firms because -- shut out of China -- it’s the only billion-people market up for grabs. Unlike authoritarian regimes such as Beijing, critics fear actions taken by the world’s largest democracy could offer a template for other governments to encroach on personal privacy in the name of domestic security. “India has introduced draconian changes to its rules,” the Electronic Frontier Foundation wrote in April. They “create new possibilities for government surveillance of citizens. These rules threaten the idea of a free and open internet built on a bedrock of international human rights standards.” “Twitter is in a no-win situation here,” said Mike Masnick, founder of tech policy blog Techdirt. “Giving in to excessive government demands not only suppresses important speech, but opens the company up to even further pressure to silence critics of the government in India and elsewhere.” Representatives for the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITY) that oversees regulation did not respond to several calls and emails seeking comment. WhatsApp and Twitter representatives declined to comment beyond past statements that they will aim to comply with government regulations. India has said it welcomes criticism and dissent and its new rules are aimed at safeguarding public order and preventing harmful content such as child pornography and abuse videos. The country in recent years has grappled with an explosion of fake news across social media, much of it targeted at a largely first-time internet audience unaccustomed to sifting through online falsehoods. It came into conflict with Facebook in 2018 when the government asked WhatsApp to curb the spread of messages in connection with two dozen lynchings. Facebook’s response then was to restrict the forwarding of messages and label them as “forwarded.” WhatsApp has more than 530 million users in India, Alphabet Inc.’s YouTube has about 450 million and Facebook has over 410 million users, making it the biggest market for all three. Twitter, a comparative minnow with 17.5 million users, counts India among its fastest-growing territories. But that limited reach makes it vulnerable in a nation that showed itself willing to outlaw popular foreign services a year ago when it banned TikTok -- which had signed up 200 million users in the country -- WeChat and hundreds more China-made apps after a violent clash on the disputed border between the two countries. As in the US, however, Twitter wields influence disproportionate to its size. It’s vital to political discussion in India and Modi himself is an avid user and enjoys a following of over 69 million, showing its international reach. While ministers have tweeted belligerently about Twitter, none have yet openly voiced the threat of banning it. Even while clashing with China, India may still draw inspiration from its neighbour’s experience, where the void left by foreign social platforms blocked for opposing stringent censorship created room for homegrown alternatives to develop. In fact, Modi’s colleagues have been actively touting Koo, a local micro-blogging rival. “I have to imagine that Modi is looking at China and thinking they can have economic prosperity while also exercising a lot of authoritarian control over speech and communications,” said Katie Harbath, a former Facebook public policy director who worked with the country’s officials between the fall of 2013, ahead of Modi’s first election as prime minister, until earlier this year. “So the big question is what direction will India go?” US and EU lawmakers should be paying closer attention to the South Asian country, Harbath said. Like Masnick, she sees few good options for private companies to oppose laws handed down from above, and it would be up to the international community to steer India back towards a more liberal path. The US has embraced India in recent years as a counterweight to China, boosting defense cooperation as part of the four-nation Quad group that also includes fellow democracies Japan and Australia. For its part, Modi’s administration has sought to attract firms seeking to diversify supply chains away from China -- giving it an incentive to maintain good relations with the Biden administration and the American business community at large. Relations with American social platforms were much warmer and more collaborative in the early years of the Modi government. Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg hosted Modi for a town hall event at the company’s headquarters in 2015. The two men embraced and smiled for the cameras. But, Harbath said, whenever the administration’s popularity has slipped since then -- after moves such as the sudden currency demonetisation in 2016 -- it has grown more aggressive in trying to steer the public narrative. Most recently, Modi’s government has come under fire on Twitter from critics who say it bungled efforts to fight Covid-19. In response, it has sought to block recent criticism on Twitter, where the anger and disappointment in India’s leader are manifest. “Silicon Valley’s social media platforms have a huge base in India and the confrontation is over who controls these users,” said Delhi-based Tarun Pathak, research director at Counterpoint. “In the next three to five years, some 300 million new users equalling the population of the US will get online in India, shifting the balance of power eastward for these companies.” “US tech companies want to operate in India, make big money in India but want to be governed by US laws,” said Prasad at the India Global Forum virtual event on Wednesday. “You have to be accountable to the Constitution and the laws of India.” Twitter was recently cited alongside journalists and Opposition party leaders by police in Uttar Pradesh for hosting a video that provoked communal discord, according to local reports. Delhi police also said they were investigating another complaint against Twitter India chief Manish Maheshwari related to that video, which purported to show Hindus assaulting a Muslim man. The company has since removed the offending clip, offering no comment beyond its statement about complying with local laws. The Uttar Pradesh government has petitioned the Supreme Court to revoke a lower court’s protection of Maheshwari from arrest. Without pressure on India to dial back its online powers -- which the Washington Post’s editorial board called for this month -- companies like Twitter will have to carefully weigh their decisions so as not to be ousted from a vast market while still upholding the principles they espouse, Harbath said. It’s a delicate dance that’s becoming more common around the world. Countries as far afield as Australia, Poland and Nigeria are cracking down on social platforms, alleging they have excessive power to determine what is acceptable speech and are meddling with domestic affairs. Nigeria barred Twitter this month and Germany’s hate speech rules will require platforms to speedily take down illegal content or face penalties. “It’s complicated. A decision taken by these companies in India will not be for India alone,” said Bengaluru-based Prateek Waghre, a research analyst at the Takshashila Institution who studies the governance of digital platforms. “What they do here will serve as a template for the rest of the world.” Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/big-tech-gears-up-for-fight-with-modis-india-1003272.html
30-06-2021||National||Another arrested from Punjab in Red Fort violence case||Evading arrest for five months, a 26-year-old man who allegedly hoisted a religious flag at the Red Fort during the violence on Republic Day has been nabbed from Punjab by the Crime Branch of Delhi Police, officials said on Wednesday. The accused Buta Singh was carrying a reward of Rs 50,000, they said and claimed that his family and neighbours tried to stop a police team from arresting him when it reached his native village. Police said Singh was present at the Red Fort during the violence that occurred at a tractor rally against the Centre's new agri laws and had claimed to have hoisted the religious flag at the Fort. The arrest came days after another accused in the Red Fort violence case, Gurjot Singh, who was carrying a reward of Rs one lakh, was held near Gurudwara Shri Toot Sahib in Amritsar by the Special Cell. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) Monika Bhardwaj said, “We received specific information about Buta Singh and a team was sent to Punjab which managed to trace him. Subsequently, a raid was conducted at his village in Talwandi Sobha Singh.” “But our raiding team had to face strong resistance from his family and neighbours who tried to get Singh out of police custody. They tried to block roads with their tractors but with the help of local police, our team finally managed to come out from the village along with accused Singh,” she said. Singh was seen in a video along with his associates at Red Fort in which they claimed they have hoisted the religious flag at the main flag hoisting area, the officer said. During interrogation, he disclosed that he was radicalised by seeing Facebook posts of various groups. He used to frequently visit Singhu Border and was highly motivated by speeches made by the leaders there, she said. According to police, as per their plan, Singh with his five-six associates and other unknown armed miscreants entered Red Fort and created mayhem there. "His act of hoisting the flag had motivated already violent protesters to cause more mayhem at Red Fort by indulging in all sorts of violence against personnel on duty including policemen deployed for Republic Day security duty there and damaging the historical monument of Red Fort," the senior police officer said. Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre's new agri laws had clashed with the police during the tractor parade on January 26. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled on Independence Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/another-arrested-from-punjab-in-red-fort-violence-case-1003275.html
30-06-2021||National||Issues like responsibility and accountability of Big Tech must be debated: Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday called for a debate on responsibility and accountability of the Big Tech companies which enjoy huge power and influence as "non-state players", saying these issues cannot be brushed under the carpet on the pretext of "freedom of speech". Jaishankar's comments came in the midst of growing tensions between Indian authorities and the US social media giant Twitter on a range of issues including the new IT rules. In an interactive session with former British prime minister Tony Blair at the India Global Forum, he said that a vigorous debate on Big Technology firms is going on in India like in various parts of the world, adding nobody denies that they are "forces of progress". "But, in a democratic society, we have to ask ourselves, Big Tech is there; it is in my life, very visibly in my life. You have a big presence, (but) where is the responsibility which comes with it," Jaishankar said. "They have huge power, where is the accountability. This is again not an issue limited to India. They harvest our data as they do across the world. So you have, in a sense, the opposite of the American Revolution, which is to have representation and no taxation," he said. He was asked about the power of technology and issues relating to it. "These are very serious questions that need debating. I think they cannot be brushed under the carpet, saying you should not question them because then you are attacking freedom of speech. I think that's a cop-out. Obviously, it serves their interests. So it's a very, very legitimate debate." he said. The external affairs minister said that there are various aspects to these issues, including political and the influence commanded by the technology giants. "I think these are issues; because today what Big Tech has done -- one part is looking at it as a governance issue, as a political issue as a democratic issue I would say," he said. "The other is to look at the influence they command. International relations have been devised on the basis of State-based players. What happens when you have non-State players who in some ways are bigger than many States," Jaishankar said. The US digital giant has been at loggerheads with the government over the new social media rules. The government has confronted Twitter over deliberate defiance and failure to comply with the country's new IT rules, despite repeated reminders. The microblogging platform has lost its legal shield as an intermediary in India, becoming liable for users posting any unlawful content.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/issues-like-responsibility-and-accountability-of-big-tech-must-be-debated-jaishankar-1003277.html
30-06-2021||National||Is this why Ramya quit as social media head of Congress?||Kannada actor-turned-politician Ramya's sudden departure as head of Congress’ social media department after the party’s 2019 Lok Sabha elections loss has remained a mystery. Ramya-Divya Spandana’s exit from politics was blamed on rivalries within the party, but the former Lok Sabha member from Mandya has revealed one “disastrous mistake” she had committed while leading the party’s social media strategies. The incident dates back to August 2018, when Rahul Gandhi, the then Congress president, was on a visit to Germany with a group of former party MPs and photos of his tour of Bundestag museum in Berlin caused acute embarrassment to him. “Speaking of mistakes at work, I’d like to share with you a disastrous mistake I made…,” Ramya posted on her Instagram account recalling how she had clicked pictures of Rahul walking through the Bundestag and posted on the Congress social media handles. “It went viral instantly – for all the wrong reasons. In no time the media picked it up. The trolls had ammunition – as usual, laughing and mocking him. He got trolled viciously for a mistake I had committed,” she said. Ramya recalled that everyone in the party gave her "grief”, except for the “man caught in the storm”. “Even we couldn’t resist retweeting this,” the BJP had said on its Twitter handle sharing photographs of Rahul staring blankly at nothing in museum. Ramya said she had offered to resign after the incident, but Rahul had turned down the offer and only asked her to be careful next time. “I was in tears. I had basically thrown him to the wolves. I really should have been fired. He was and still is such a good human being for letting it go,” she said. Ramya had turned around the otherwise staid social media presence of the Congress with her biting criticism of the Modi government since she assumed charge in May 2017. During her two-year tenure, she also left behind a trail of controversies that put the party on the defensive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/is-this-why-ramya-quit-as-social-media-head-of-congress-1003294.html
30-06-2021||National||Twitter should be cognisant of Indian laws as well: Ravi Shankar Prasad||If Twitter invoked a US copyright act to block a user's account, the company should also be cognisant of the laws in India where it is operating and earning money, IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Wednesday. "If you are going to invoke the digital copyright act of America then you have to also be cognisant of the copyright rules of India," the Minister said while addressing India Global Forum. "You cannot say my whole stand will be regulated by an ex-parte assessment of the US law. For a happy blending of the role of Big Tech and democracy, a solution has to be found," Prasad said. Twitter last week was embroiled a row after it blocked Ravi Shankar Prasad's personal account account for an hour on a complaint made four years ago under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of the US. He said social media companies are free to do business in India but they have to be accountable to the Indian Constitution and laws. "If democracy has to survive misinformation, fake news, colluded material...all these are challenges. I am not in favour of censoring but democracies have to find a common ground as far as these issues are concerned so that these big tech companies do their business, earn good money, good profit but become accountable. This can only happen if you follow law of the land," Prasad said. Industry executives say India's tussle with Twitter, coupled with discontent over increasing regulatory scrutiny of other US digital giants such as Facebook's WhatsApp and Amazon, has soured the business environment in a growth market. WhatsApp has 53 crore users while Facebook has 41 crore in India - their top market by users globally, while Twitter has 18 million users. As acrimony grows with Indian authorities, Twitter faces at least five police cases in different states. Its non-compliance with new rules raised suggestions that Twitter may no longer enjoy legal protection in India over content posted by users. On Wednesday, an Indian state challenged in the Supreme Court a bar on police action against Twitter's country head, Manish Maheshwari, after a lower court protected him against arrest over an accusation that the platform had been used to spread hate. Police in Uttar Pradesh, ruled by Modi's party, issued a summons this month to Maheshwari over a video that they said had incited "hate and enmity" between Hindu and Muslim communities. Twitter and police in Uttar Pradesh declined to comment. Maheshwari did not respond. When Maheshwari approached the lower court, he argued that the investigation concerned content on the Twitter platform, which is run by Twitter Inc, a company "incorporated under the laws of the United States of America," according to a court filing seen by Reuters but not made public. Twitter's Indian unit had no role in "operation and management of the said platform", the filing added. The Uttar Pradesh case concerns the spread of a video in which some apparently Hindu men beat an elderly man, believed to be a Muslim, and cut his beard. Other cases arose from complaints that some politically sensitive regions were depicted as outside India in a map on Twitter's careers website, or that child pornography was visible on its platform. Twitter has not commented on the map cases. On Tuesday, it said it had a policy of zero tolerance for sexual exploitation of children. With Reuters inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-should-be-cognisant-of-indian-laws-as-well-ravi-shankar-prasad-1003303.html
30-06-2021||National||Xiaomi to increase prices of phones, smart TVs by 3-6%||Xiaomi on Wednesday said it will increase prices of its smartphones and smart TVs by about 3-6 per cent from July 1 in India as the Chinese tech major faces pressures like shortage of components and higher shipping charges. A Xiaomi India spokesperson said since the last year, there have been shortages across the supply chain. "Due to massive demand-supply mismatch, the majority of components used in smartphones, Smart TV and other electronics gadgets (chipsets, display panels, display driver, back panels, battery etc) have seen constant upward movement in their prices," the spokesperson added. This, coupled with an unprecedented increase in shipping charges has had an effect on almost all the technology players, including Xiaomi. "While we have tried to absorb the increasing costs, some of our products have witnessed a price hike. We also foresee an inevitable increase of 3-6 per cent in prices of our smart TVs from July 1 onwards," the spokesperson noted. Prices of smartphones are expected to go up by a similar percentage. Other players in the LED televisions space are also estimated to have hiked prices by 3-4 per cent this month as the cost of panels have gone up in the global market, besides an increase in logistics expenses. In April too, prices had been hiked due to a rise in operating cost on account of increased ocean freight charges, and domestic transportation costs. TV is one of the largest segments under the entire domain of appliance and consumer electronics. It accounts for a volume of almost 17 million with an estimated sale value of almost Rs 25,000 crore. According to a joint report by the industry body, CEAMA and Frost & Sullivan, the TV market is expected to grow to 284 lakh units in 2024-25 from 175 lakh units in 2018-19. Open-cell panel and the chips of the TV are predominantly imported from China besides some other markets such as Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam and only the last mile assembly is done in India, as per the report. In February this year, Xiaomi had announced its partnership with contract manufacturers BYD, DBG, and Radiant to strengthen its 'Make in India' efforts. The company had tied up with BYD and DBG for smartphones, while the partnership with Radiant was aimed at augmenting Xiaomi's capacity of smart TVs in India. At that time, Xiaomi had five campuses in India, where its partners Foxconn and Flex assemble phones in Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. It also works with Dixon for making its TVs in India. Xiaomi India Managing Director Manu Jain had said the company has sold 3 million 'Made in India' TVs, and that demand for TVs is going up significantly. He had added that the company is committed to investing in India for the long-term and manufacture not only smartphones and TVs, but also components.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/xiaomi-to-increase-prices-of-phones-smart-tvs-by-3-6-1003305.html
30-06-2021||National||Extremely vital for judiciary to withstand external pressure from social media, says CJI||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Wednesday said judiciary cannot be controlled, directly or indirectly, by the legislature or the executive, and judges should not be swayed by the emotional pitch of public opinion either, getting amplified through social media platforms. He maintained that though judges cannot stay in "ivory castles", media trials and social media trends cannot be a guiding factor in deciding cases. "For the judiciary to apply checks on governmental power and action, it has to have complete freedom. The judiciary cannot be controlled, directly or indirectly, by the legislature or the executive, or else the Rule of Law would become illusory," he said. Speaking at the 17th Justice P D Desai memorial lecture on 'Rule of Law', Justice Ramana said it is extremely vital to function independently and withstand all external aids and pressures for the judiciary. "While there is a lot discussion about the pressure from the executive, it is also imperative to start a discourse as to how social media trends can affect the institutions," he said. He stressed judges have to be mindful of the fact that the noise, amplified through social media is not necessarily reflective of what is right and what majority believes in. "The new media tools that have enormous amplifying ability are incapable of distinguishing between right and wrong, good and bad and the real and fake," he said. He, however, clarified that he did not mean judges and the judiciary need to completely disassociate from what is going on as Judges cannot stay in “ivory castles” and decide questions which pertain to social issues. The ultimate responsibility of a judge is, after all, to uphold the Constitution and the laws with values of reason, reasonableness and protection of human dignity, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/extremely-vital-for-judiciary-to-withstand-external-pressure-from-social-media-says-cji-1003311.html
30-06-2021||National||SC notice to Centre on plea to give ex-gratia for victims of side effects of Covid-19||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Union government on a plea to provide compensation of Rs four lakh to the family members of the Covid-19 patients, who succumbed to black fungus, or yellow fungus. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, M R Shah and Vineet Saran sought a reply from the Centre on a PIL filed by lawyer, Reepak Kansal. Kansal, in his plea, asked the court to direct the Centre and states to provide ex-gratia monetary compensation to family members of the deceased who have succumbed to side effects or post Covid-19 complications i.e., black fungus, white fungus and yellow fungus etc, in view of Section 12 of the Disaster Management Act (DMA), 2005. The top court, separately in a judgement, told the Union government to prepare guidelines within six weeks to provide ex-gratia assistance to Covid-19 victims' families as the pandemic was declared as a disaster under the law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-to-give-ex-gratia-for-victims-of-side-effects-of-covid-19-1003317.html
30-06-2021||National||Kerala government chips in to address concerns of Kitex Garments||With much embarrassment caused to the state government from the announcement of Kerala-based garment manufacturer Kitex Garments that it would backtrack from a Rs 3,500-crore investment in the state, Kerala Industries Minister P Rajeev gave his assurance that he would look into the grievances. Rajeev also urged that investors should try to redress concerns by taking up the matters with the state government instead of making statements that defame the state. Kitex Garments chairman and managing director Sabu M Jacob on Tuesday said that frequent raids were being carried out by different government agencies at its units at Kizhakkambalam in the suburbs of Kochi over the last few weeks. He alleged that it was to settle political revenge as he was heading the Twenty20 forum that contested in the elections. He said that owing to the anti-industry conditions he was backtracking from the Rs 3,500-crore project proposals, which included setting up apparel parks and industrial parks. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-government-chips-in-to-address-concerns-of-kitex-garments-1003322.html
30-06-2021||National||India subtly warns of retaliation if EU nations do not recognise Covaxin, Covishield for 'Green Pass'||India has subtly warned of retaliatory action if its citizens inoculated with Covaxin or Covishield are placed in quarantine or subjected to other travel restrictions while visiting any European Union nations. New Delhi has asked the European Union’s member nations to individually exempt its citizens inoculated with Covaxin or Covishield from travel restrictions even though the two anti-Covid-19 vaccines are not among the ones approved by the bloc for its “Green Pass” programme coming into effect on Thursday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government also promised that if any EU nation recognised vaccination certificates issued on its Co-WIN portal, it would also reciprocate the gesture and would exempt the citizens of the concerned nation from mandatory quarantine on arrival in India, in case they were inoculated with any anti-Covid-19 jabs approved by the health authorities of the respective nation or the 27-member-bloc and carried the “Green Pass”, sources said. New Delhi subtly conveyed to the EU nations that if any one of them failed to grant exemptions from travel restrictions to any visiting Indian vaccinated with Covaxin or Covishield, citizens of that nation would have to undergo quarantine on arrival in India, even if they were inoculated with jabs approved by EMA or the health authorities of the respective country. The “Green Pass” – formally known as the EU Digital Covid Certificate – will be recognised by the members of the bloc from Thursday. It is proof in digital format or on paper that a person has been vaccinated against the Covid-19, tested negative for SARS-CoV-2 infection or recovered from infection. The certificate will be issued to the citizens of any EU nation if they were inoculated with vaccines authorised by the European Medicines Agency (EMA). Any person having the certificate will be exempted from travel restrictions within the EU. The individual EU member states, however, can also accept extend the same benefit to people who were administered vaccines authorised by respective national health authorities or by the World Health Organization (WHO). The EMA did not approve any of the two ‘Made-in-India’ vaccines – Covishield or Covaxin. The Serum Institute of India (SII) recently applied for authorisation from the EMA for its Covishield, which was developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University. It, however, approved Vaxzervria, another version of the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University. Adar Poonawala, the CEO of the SII, said that the company was confident to get EMA approval for the Covishield within a month. The WHO and the health authorities of the United Kingdom and Ireland, however, already granted approval to the Covishield. The Covaxin has not yet been approved by the WHO or any other foreign nation. Apart from Vaxzervria, the EMA so far approved only three other vaccines for the EU Green Pass programme – Comirnaty of Pfizer/BioNTech, mRNA-1273 (Spikevax in the US) of Moderna, and Janssen of Johnson & Johnson. A source in New Delhi said that the Government of India had conveyed to the EU member states that the authenticity of the vaccination certificates issued on the Co-WIN could be confirmed on the portal itself. “We have also conveyed to EU member states that India will institute a reciprocal policy for recognition of the EU Digital Covid Certificate,” said the source. “Upon notification of Covishield and Covaxin for inclusion in the EU Digital Covid Certificate and recognition of Indian Co-WIN vaccination certificates, Indian health authorities would reciprocally exempt the concerned EU Member State for exemption from mandatory quarantine all those persons carrying EU Digital Covid Certificate.” Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-subtly-warns-of-retaliation-if-eu-nations-do-not-recognise-covaxin-covishield-for-green-pass-1003329.html
30-06-2021||National||Over 33.54 cr Covid vaccine doses administered in India||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has gone past 33.54 crore, including more than 25.14 lakh jabs given on Wednesday, the health ministry said. A total of 13,43,231 beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group received the first dose and 87,735 were given the second dose of the vaccine on Wednesday. Cumulatively, 9,14,62,206 people in the age group have received the first dose, while 21,77,618 have been administered the second dose since the start of the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive, the ministry said in a statement. A total of 33,54,69,340 vaccine doses have been administered across the country, including 25,14,153 on Wednesday, according to a provisional report compiled at 7 pm. Eight states -- Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra -- have administered the first dose of the vaccine to more than 50 lakh beneficiaries each in the 18-44 age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have administered the first dose of the vaccine to more than 10 lakh beneficiaries each in the 18-44 the age group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-3354-cr-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-1003331.html
30-06-2021||National||US nudges India to support its proposal for global minimum tax rate||Even as India has reservations about the proposal mooted by the United States for a global minimum corporate tax rate, President Joe Biden’s administration has nudged Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government to support the move. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman received a call from US Treasury Secretary, Janet Yellen, who sought New Delhi’s support to the proposal for a global minimum corporate tax rate. The US move is aimed at stopping multinational companies from registering in countries with low tax rates in order to avoid paying taxes in higher rates in the countries where they are actually running the business. Yellen told Sitharaman that the US and India had a shared interest in implementing a robust global minimum tax. She also “stressed” the “importance of partnership” between the two nations in the G20 and OECD (Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) to seize “a once-in-a-generation opportunity” to remake the international tax system to help the global economy thrive, according to a statement released by the Treasury Department of the US Government. The Biden Administration is working on an infrastructure investment plan to revive the US economy from the Covid-19 mess and wants to fund the program by increasing the corporate tax rates. It is also keen to plug loopholes that the US companies could use to evade higher tax at home by registering in a low-tax nation and offshoring profits and hence has been arguing for a global minimum corporate tax to “stop the race to bottom”. The Modi Government, however, is opposed to the US proposal. New Delhi over the past few weeks conveyed to the Biden administration that it was not keen to accede to a global minimum corporate tax rate as it would infringe on its sovereign rights to decide on its own taxation system. India is also keen to keep its tax regime favourable for businesses in order to draw investment to bring the Covid-19-hit economy back on track. The Modi Government in fact slashed the corporate tax rate even before the shutdowns and travel restrictions imposed to contain the Covid-19 pandemic hit the economy. It brought down the tax rates from 30 per cent to 22 per cent for existing domestic manufacturing companies and from 25 per cent to 15 per cent for the new ones. The US already got the G7 nations nod last month on the global minimum tax rate of 15 per cent. The Biden Administration is now keen to get wider support for it – from the G20 and the OECD. Yellen and Sitharaman will attend the meeting of G20 Finance Ministers on July 9 and 10, when the issue will be discussed again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-nudges-india-to-support-its-proposal-for-global-minimum-tax-rate-1003333.html
30-06-2021||National||No wrongdoing whatsoever, Bharat Biotech says on Brazil-Covaxin row||With its contract to supply 20 million Covaxin doses to Brazil suspended over charges of irregularities, vaccine maker Bharat Biotech implored that it has committed nothing wrong and was only following the "widely accepted vaccine procurement process." The Hyderabad-based firm stated that it did not receive any advance payments nor has supplied any vaccines to Brazil yet. “We wish to dispel any notion or implication of any wrongdoing whatsoever,” Bharat Biotech said in a statement on Wednesday following the shelving of its contract with Brazil. The largest Latin American nation, one of the worst affected in the world, had approved Emergency Use Authorization for the Bharat Biotech manufactured Covid-19 vaccine on 4 June. Vaccine purchase talks between Brazil's MoH and Bharat Biotech were initiated in November last year, after Covaxin's Phase-3 trials were initiated in India. Covaxin pricing for Brazil was pegged at $15 per dose, as per the company's $ 15-20 per dose pricing policy for supplies to the governments outside India. “As of Tuesday, Bharat Biotech has not received any advance payments nor supplied any vaccines to Brazil,” the company said. Citing the “widely accepted procurement process for Covid-19 and other vaccines,” Bharat Biotech said that after the EUA is given, “the vaccine company proceeds to raise a Pro Forma Invoice to the MoH, towards the vaccine supply.” And once the MOH pays the amount in advance, the company proceeds to supply the agreed quantities and within the agreed timelines. “Since the first meetings with MOH Brazil during November 2020 until 29 June 2021, a step by step approach has been followed towards contracts, and regulatory approvals. We have followed a similar approach in several countries worldwide, where Covaxin is being supplied successfully,” the firm said. Precisa Medicamentos is Bharat Biotech’s partner in Brazil, providing guidance and support with regulatory submissions, licensure, distribution, insurance, etc. Bharat Biotech said it has adopted a similar partnership model in all countries where its vaccines are supplied, as it does not have its own offices in those places. Bharat Biotech and Precisa Medicamentos are conducting Covaxin's phase III clinical trial on 5,000 people in Brazil. The trials approved recently by ANVISA, Brazil's health regulatory agency would be conducted by the Albert Einstein Institute. Covaxin, developed in collaboration with ICMR, has so far received Emergency Use Authorizations in 16 countries including Brazil, India, Philippines, Iran, Mexico and the EUA process is on in 50 countries, Bharat Biotech said adding that it is in discussions with the WHO to obtain Emergency Use Listing for its Covid-19 vaccine. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-wrongdoing-whatsoever-bharat-biotech-says-on-brazil-covaxin-row-1003335.html
30-06-2021||National||PM Modi holds five-hour-long meet with ministers over Covid-19 ahead of reshuffle||Ahead of an imminent Cabinet reshuffle, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday had a five-hour-long meeting with his Council of Ministers, the second in three months, which focused at length on the Covid-19 pandemic, the first major challenge before Narendra Modi-led NDA government in the last seven years. Amid a growing chorus about apprehensions of a third wave of the pandemic, which is widely projected to affect the younger population more than others, Modi is learnt to have impressed upon his ministerial colleagues to pace up the vaccination drive and reinforce Covid norms even as the second wave is ebbing so that a fresh wave can possibly be prevented. Member (Health) of NITI Aayog V K Paul made a presentation on the coronavirus pandemic during the meeting. The last meeting of the Union Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister was held on April 30, amid the rising second wave of Covid 19. The second wave of Covid exposed the acute challenges before the health infrastructure in the nation which got bad press for Modi both at domestic and international fronts.  The government is keen to counter the criticism and the damage due to it soon more so as nearly half a dozen states including Uttar Pradesh, which has 80 Lok Sabha seats, go to state polls next year. Significantly, Modi, during the meeting, also asked the ministers to ensure that the projects for which they have laid the foundations are completed and inaugurated by them. A third wave could do the ruling BJP in and hence the entire government apparatus is being geared up to meet the challenge while the Opposition Congress has been breathing fire on the Centre. Congress has already latched on to the Supreme Court order asking the government to grant compensation to the families of Covid-19 victims saying it is a "vindication" of its stance and has "exposed" the Centre's plan to abdicate its responsibility. Alleging that Modi has once again "failed" the nation by not standing with the families of Covid victims, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala asked him to immediately announce a "Covid Compensation Fund" with a relief of Rs 10 lakh to the families of the victims of Covid-19". Modi on the other hand took to Twitter to flag how the loan guarantee scheme approved for Covid-affected sectors will provide additional financial support to key projects in various sectors, especially in healthcare and medical infrastructure. The decision enables funding to the tune of Rs 50,000 crore to provide financial guarantee cover for brownfield expansion and greenfield projects related to health and medical infrastructure. In the Council meeting, which could be a precursor to a comprehensive Cabinet reshuffle this month, Modi asked ministers to work hard and try to prevent a third wave by spreading awareness among people about vaccination and the importance of following Covid protocols. Modi asked the ministers to aggressively counter vaccine hesitancy as well as the Opposition's campaign against the government on vaccination and overall Covid strategy. The focus on rural areas was also discussed in the meeting. The meeting comes days after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a relief package. Government is keen that the message that the Centre is reaching out to all vulnerable sections during the pandemic is reached out to them in an effective manner as politics will kick up over pandemic in the coming months in the run-up to the polls. The upcoming Cabinet reshuffle with link performance of the ministers on various counts including their role during the pandemic. There are nearly twenty vacancies in the Council of ministers and the Prime Minister may like to augment his team and reach out to various sections before the state polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-holds-five-hour-long-meet-with-ministers-over-covid-19-ahead-of-reshuffle-1003360.html
30-06-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | People want help, politicians deliver empty promises||The government’s fresh package of stimulus and relief measures intended to revive the economy and to alleviate distress is, once again, too little, too late, misdirected, and unlikely to make an impact. Even the little that has been promised may not reach the people who really need support. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced on Monday a package of eight relief measures that offered job benefits and loan guarantees for Covid-affected sectors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-people-want-help-politicians-deliver-empty-promises-1003042.html
30-06-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi says 'no meeting' scheduled with Navjot Singh Sidhu||A day after Punjab MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu's office claimed he has been called to Delhi for a meeting with Rahul Gandhi, the former Congress president said there is no such meeting. "There is no meeting. I don't know what fuss you are making...," Gandhi told reporters while leaving his Tughlaq Lane residence. He was asked if he was meeting Sidhu today, as claimed by the former Punjab minister's office. Sources said there was no meeting fixed between Gandhi and Sidhu as of now. However, the sources point out that Sidhu may meet Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra soon. The two siblings are trying to bring all Congress leaders including Sidhu on a common platform and present a united Congress ahead of elections. Rahul Gandhi has been meeting leaders from Punjab over the past few days amid the ongoing infighting in Punjab Congress and ahead of an impending revamp of the party and the state cabinet. The Congress leadership is all set for a revamp of the state unit in Punjab ahead of next year's assembly elections. Rahul Gandhi has met a number of ministers, MLAs and MPs including Brahm Mohindra, Vijay Inder Singla, Balbir Singh Sidhu and Rajya Sabha member Shamsher Singh Dullo and MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha. He has already met state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar and Rajya Sabha member and former Punjab Congress chief Partap Singh Bajwa. Sidhu, who had resigned from the Punjab Cabinet after he was divested of the local bodies portfolio in 2019, has been at loggerheads with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. He has attacked the chief minister over the alleged delay in justice in the 2015 incidents of sacrilege and subsequent police firing. Singh had slammed Sidhu for continuously attacking him over the sacrilege issue and termed the former's outbursts "total indiscipline". Early this month, Sidhu appeared before a three-member panel set up by the Congress to resolve the infighting within the party's state unit. On June 22, Singh appeared before the panel, headed by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, in Delhi. However, he returned to Chandigarh without an audience with party president Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi. AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former MP J P Aggarwal are members of the panel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-says-no-meeting-scheduled-with-navjot-singh-sidhu-1003056.html
30-06-2021||National Politics||Can't imagine any opposition front without Congress: Tejashwi Yadav||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav recently said that he “can't imagine any (opposition) front without Congress” for the 2024 general election against Bharatiya Janata Party. Asserting that it is time to start preparations for forming an alliance, the RJD leader said that Congress has to be the base of the alliance to defeat the ruling party.  “We can't imagine any front without Congress. As for leadership, that is something we have to sit and decide on together,” Yadav said, and hinting at Congress to compromise he added, “Perhaps sacrifices need to be made for the sake of the country, for the greater good.” When asked about who would lead the opposition front, Tejashwi said, "We can only know when everyone sits together. It is the people who choose their leader. We have to see who enjoys more support..." Recently, other Congress allies like Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) Sharad Pawar also made similar comments. Echoing the view, Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut had said, “Today it may be weakened, but it is still the main opposition party of the country. We have to take them along.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cant-imagine-any-opposition-front-without-congress-tejashwi-yadav-1003120.html
30-06-2021||National Politics||'Tax extortion': Rahul Gandhi slams Centre over fuel price hike||With the hashtag "#TaxExtortion", the former Congress president tweeted, "long-inconvenient queues for public transport aren't just due to Covid restrictions. See the rates of petrol-diesel in your city to find out the real reason." Long-inconvenient queues for public transport aren’t just due to Covid restrictions. His remarks came against the backdrop of the national capital witnessing long queues outside Delhi Metro stations. Raising the pitch on the issue, Congress has been accusing the Modi government of collecting crores through excise duty and taxes on petrol and diesel that has resulted in fuel prices hovering around Rs 100 per litre in several places and are above the Rs 100 mark in a few cities. Earlier this week, CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted, "30th petrol price hike in 54 days. Criminal. Following BJPs severe setback in assembly elections Modi govt mercilessly assaults people’s livelihoods. Petrol costlier Rs 7.71/litre and diesel Rs 7.92. Withdraw excise duties on petroleum products." Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tax-extortion-rahul-gandhi-slams-centre-over-fuel-price-hike-1003143.html
30-06-2021||National Politics||Seers divided on corruption allegations against Ram Temple Trust||Seers in Ayodhya appear to be sharply divided on allegations of corruption in land purchases against the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Khestra Trust, which is overseeing the construction of the Ram Temple. While a section of the seers, mostly those owing allegiance to the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) has extended support to the Trust, another section of seers has demanded a thorough probe into the charges. Scores of seers led by Mahant Dharm Das on Tuesday recited 'Hanuman Chalisa' (religious hymns praising Lord Hanuman) on the bank of the sacred Saryu river in Ayodhya and later also 'submitted' a memorandum to Lord Hanuman seeking a probe into the allegations of corruption by a top central agency. ''The people have donated money for Ram Temple construction...the centre should take cognisance of the allegations and order a probe,'' Dharm Das said in Ayodhya. Another seer Mahant Dileep Das also lent support to the demand for an investigation into the allegations. President of a saffron outfit Rashtriya Hindu Raksha Sena Swami Pramod, Anand Giri, however, sought to rubbish the charges and termed those levelling the allegations as ''anti-Hindu gang members''. Aam Admi Party (AAP) leader and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh and Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Tej Narayan Pandey had claimed that the price of the Trust had purchased a piece of land worth Rs two crore for Rs 18.5 crore. They accused Trust secretary Champat Rai of indulging in corrupt practices and demanded a CBI probe into the matter. Rai, however, rejected the allegations and said that the land was purchased below the market value. ''It's a political conspiracy to malign the Trust....we have a record of everything,'' he had said. The Trust has been on a land-buying spree ever since it was entrusted with the task of constructing the Ram Temple. The central government had allotted 70 acres of land for the Temple. The Trust later decided to expand the area of the Temple and it had purchased several temples adjacent to the Ram Janambhoomi. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/seers-divided-on-corruption-allegations-against-ram-temple-trust-1003178.html
30-06-2021||National Politics||Congress no longer relevant for people: Sisodia on Punjab polls||Ahead of the assembly elections in Punjab next year, senior Aam Aadmi Party leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday claimed that the Congress, which is in power in the state, is no longer relevant for people. Responding to a question on the Congress's position in Punjab, he said the party does not enjoy the trust of the people anywhere in the country. "The Congress does not have the trust of people anywhere in the country and there are reasons behind it, including the party's leadership. Wherever the Congress had an opportunity to work, they just spent time fighting among themselves," Sisodia said. "So the Congress is no longer relevant for people," he added. Punjab assembly elections are going to be held in February or March next year. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-no-longer-relevant-for-people-sisodia-on-punjab-polls-1003205.html
30-06-2021||National Politics||Coming to politics as AIADMK under EPS-OPS lost power, says Sasikala||However, Sasikala said, Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam lost the elections and hence she was determined to make a comeback and take over the party. Striking a conciliatory note, Sasikala also said she will play the role of a mother in uniting the party by bringing together “warring brothers” as “all are one family.” In her latest telephonic conversations, the former AIADMK leader reached out to three former MLAs – all disqualified in 2017 for siding with her nephew T T V Dhinakaran – and now with AMMK, which is beset with desertions. She also spoke to three other party cadres from different regions of the state making it clear that she would undertake a state-wide tour to meet cadres once the Covid-19 lockdown was lifted in Tamil Nadu. “I announced that I am stepping aside from politics because they (EPS-OPS) felt they could form the government again without me. But now we have lost Amma’s government…. I will come for sure. I will start meeting cadres soon,” she told a cadre from Chidambaram in Cuddalore district. Speaking to Dr K Kathirkamu, a former MLA from Periyakulam (SC) constituency, Sasikala said she had rejected a proposal mooted by then-Speaker P Dhanapal to disqualify 11 MLAs, including OPS, after they rebelled against her. It was after OPS’ rebellion against her, Sasikala got EPS elected as the leader of the AIADMK Legislature Party. “I got the call while on my way to Bengaluru (to surrender before authorities at Parappana Agrahara prison) but I told them not to disqualify anyone as they are also part of AIADMK. I told them I can set things right in three months and OPS has problems only with me. But I was shocked when 18 MLAs were disqualified for (supporting TTV),” she said. After Sasikala went to jail, OPS and EPS patched up, removed Dhinakaran from the AIADMK and disqualified 18 MLAs for putting their weight behind the rebel leader. “I never gave into pressure, nor did I rush into decisions. I always made mature decisions. We have now lost our government. I know what the cadres want, and I will come soon,” she said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coming-to-politics-as-aiadmk-under-eps-ops-lost-power-says-sasikala-1003274.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||Take Rs 50,000, hit accused with shoe: UP panchayat tells girl to settle alleged rape case||A panchayat in Uttar Pradesh's Maharajganj district has asked a minor girl who was allegedly raped by a boy from her village to settle the matter with him by taking Rs 50,000 from him and hitting him five times with a shoe. Not satisfied with the panchayat's decision, the girl's family lodged a police complaint, officials said. The mother of the girl, a resident of Kothibhar police station area, complained to the village panchayat on June 23 about the alleged rape of her daughter. The panchayat asked the girl to settle the matter with the boy accused of raping her by taking Rs 50,000 from him and slapping him five times with a shoe in front of the village council, the police officials said. On June 25, the girl's family lodged a complaint at Kothibhari police as they were not satisfied with the panchayat's decision, they said. After news about the panchayat's decision went viral on social media, Maharajganj Superintendent of Police Pradeep Gupta on Tuesday directed officials to get the girl's medical examination done and record her statement. "If rape is reported in the medical test, a case will be registered under the relevant provisions of law and further action will be taken," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/take-rs-50000-hit-accused-with-shoe-up-panchayat-tells-girl-to-settle-alleged-rape-case-1003062.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||Frame guidelines to pay ex-gratia to kin of Covid-19 victims, SC tells Centre||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said the Prime Minister-headed National Disaster Management Authority failed in its statutory duty to pay ex-gratia to families of those who died of Covid-19. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan ane M R Shah held that the National Disaster Management Authority is statutorily mandated to provide minimum standards of relief, which must include ex-gratia assistance to Covid-19 victims, as the pandemic was notified as a disaster on March 14, 2020. "By not recommending any ex-gratia assistance, the NDMA has failed to perform its statutory duty cast under Section 12 of the Disaster Management Act," Justice Shah wrote in a 66-page judgement on behalf of the bench. The top court gave six weeks' time to the Centre to prepare guidelines to pay the ex-gratia to Covid-19 victims and issuance of death certificates.  The Union government said no such ex-gratia can be paid in view of the unprecedented nature of the pandemic and efforts being made to provide relief to the people by augmenting health infrastructure and other packages.   Referring to Section 12 of the Act, which dealt with relief to disaster victims, the court said the word used over there is "shall" and is a mandatory one. The Centre contended the word "shall" should be construed as "may" since the legislature might not have visualised such a pandemic. The court, however, said such an interpretation would defeat the purpose of the provision.  With regard to a plea by PIL petitioners Gaurav Kumar Bansal and Reepak Kansal for payment of Rs 4 lakh, the bench said it is not proper to direct payment of a particular amount to be paid to victims of other disasters due to the peculiar nature of the Covid-19 pandemic and its ongoing impact. "No state or country has unlimited resource," the court said, adding ex-gratia assistance would also have financial implications and the government would be free to take decisions in its own "wisdom".  The court also said "simplified" guidelines should also be prepared with regards to the issuance of death certificates, which must specifically mention if the person has died of Covid-19 or complications due to it, with a provision for getting the document corrected. It also suggested the Union government to consider extending insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh announced under the PM Garib Kalyan Package to those working at premortem and came into direct contact with dead bodies of Covid-19 patients. Various state governments like Bihar paid ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh Rs 1 lakh and Delhi Rs 50,000 to kin of Covid-19 victims from the Chief Minister's Relief Fund or any other fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/frame-guidelines-to-pay-ex-gratia-to-kin-of-covid-19-victims-sc-tells-centre-1003087.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||Navjot Singh Sidhu meets Priyanka, Rahul amid rift in Punjab Congress||Dissident Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday met former party chief Rahul Gandhi and General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to discuss his role in the revamp in the party's state unit ahead of assembly polls. At loggerheads with Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, Sidhu has been lobbying for a "respectable" position either in the state Cabinet or party. After the meeting with Priyanka, Sidhu tweeted a picture with Priyanka and said, "had a long meeting with @priyankagandhi-ji." On Tuesday, Sidhu had said that he would be meeting Rahul but the latter denied saying that there was nothing on his schedule. However in the evening, Sidhu drove to Rahul Gandhi's residence for a meeting. Sidhu, who has been a Deputy Chief Minister under Amarinder, has been at loggerheads with the Punjab Chief Minister from the beginning. He had resigned from the Punjab Cabinet after he was divested of the local bodies portfolio in 2019 The former cricketer, who joined Congress after a stint in BJP where he was MP, is not inclined to work under Singh and wants to be at least party chief before Assembly polls. Sources said the party's central leadership is working on a formula to present a united face ahead of Assembly polls early next year. Rahul has been meeting party leaders from Punjab for their views on the political situation and steps needed to strengthen the party ahead of the 2022 assembly polls. Sidhu has raised a rebellion over the "delay" in justice in the 2015 incidents of sacrilege and subsequent police firing while Singh found fault with Sidhu for continuously attacking him and described his actions as "total indiscipline". Congress had set up a three-member committee headed by senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge to resolve the infighting. Both Sidhu and Singh had appeared before the committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/navjot-singh-sidhu-meets-priyanka-rahul-amid-rift-in-punjab-congress-1003091.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Ban on international flights extended till July 31||The coronavirus-induced suspension of scheduled international passenger flights has been extended till July 31, aviation regulator DGCA said on Wednesday. "However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) added. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020, due to the coronavirus pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with selected countries since July 2020. India has formed air bubble pacts with around 24 countries including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories. The DGCA circular also said that the suspension does not affect the operation of international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-ban-on-international-flights-extended-till-july-31-1003103.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||BJP MLA calls Asaduddin Owaisi a ‘political terrorist'||BJP's Bairia MLA Surendra Singh, known for making controversial remarks, has called AIMIM supremo Asaduddin Owaisi a “political terrorist” and accused him of trying to instigate and break the society. Referring to the post-poll violence in West Bengal, the BJP MLA said President's rule may be imposed in the state. Talking to reporters on the sidelines of a programme in Bairia on Tuesday, Singh said the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) leader will have faith in India's secularism till Hindus are in majority. Owaisi is a political terrorist. It is his intention to instigate and break the society, Singh said. The BJP MLA further said West Bengal was “going the Jammu and Kashmir way” and the central government was monitoring the situation there. It is possible that President's rule may be imposed in West Bengal, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-mla-calls-asaduddin-owaisi-a-political-terrorist-1003104.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||No relief from searing heat for Delhi, maximum temperature likely to settle at 41 degrees Celsius||With the monsoon keeping away from Delhi and nearby areas, another hot day is likely to trouble residents in the national capital on Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. A heat wave is predicted during the day as the maximum temperature is likely to settle around 41 degrees Celsius, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. As the monsoon continued to play truant, Delhi on Monday recorded the first heat wave this summer season with the mercury soaring to 43 degrees Celsius, the highest so far this year. A severe heat wave seared Lodhi Road, Ridge and Pusa areas, where the mercury soared to 42.6 degrees Celsius, 43.4 degrees Celsius and 44.3 degrees Celsius, respectively, seven notches above the average temperature. Najafgarh (44.4 degrees Celsius), Pitampura (44.3 degrees Celsius) and Mungeshpur (44.3 degrees Celsius) also reeled under a severe heat wave. For the plains, a "heat wave" is declared when the maximum temperature is more than 40 degrees Celsius, and at least 4.5 notches above normal. A "severe" heat wave is declared if departure from normal temperature is more than 6.5 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD. “Usually, the capital witnesses heat waves till June 20 and cooler temperatures thereafter. The increase in the maximum temperature this time can be attributed to the delay in the arrival of the monsoon,” Srivastava said. There has been no rainfall in the last three days and warm westerly winds are blowing across a major part of northwest India, which has not been covered by the monsoon yet, he said. After arriving two days late in Kerala, the monsoon had raced across the country, covering eastern, central and adjoining northwest India seven to 10 days earlier than normal. The meteorological office had earlier predicted that the wind system may reach Delhi by June 15, which would have been 12 days early. However, westerly winds have been blocking its advance into Delhi, parts of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana. Normally, monsoon reaches Delhi by June 27 and covers the entire country by July 8. Last year, the wind system had reached Delhi on June 25 and covered the entire country by June 29. The wind system is not likely to cover the remaining part of northwest India, including Delhi, Haryana, parts of west Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and west Rajasthan in the next six to seven days, the IMD said. The last time the monsoon arrived so late in Delhi was on July 7 in 2012||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-relief-from-searing-heat-for-delhi-maximum-temperature-likely-to-settle-at-41-degrees-celsius-1003110.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||Bring on record original video, statement made on allopathy: SC to Baba Ramdev||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked Yoga guru Baba Ramdev to file his original video and the transcript of the statement made on allopathy, which led to filing of multiple FIRs against him. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, representing Ramdev, contended before a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana that everyone has freedom of speech. His client has nothing against doctors, and he is entitled to have his views on allopathy. Rohatgi submitted that the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has unleashed a barrage of cases, civil and criminal, against his client via its different chapters in the country. Rohatgi submitted that FIRs have filed in different parts of the country against his client, and urged the court to club these FIRs, and have a single case in Delhi. He added that his client had launched Coronil for Covid-19 last year, and all the doctors went against him. Rohatgi said there was a private event where he read out a WhatsApp sent to him and he had already clarified that he has nothing against doctors.   The bench asked Rohatgi, “What is the original thing that you spoke?” He responded, “I will file original video and transcript." The court fixed the matter for further hearing on Monday.   In the plea, Ramdev sought transfer of FIRs lodged against by the India Medical Association (IMA) in Patna and Raipur to Delhi. He has been booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to aa infection of disease dangerous to life), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of the IPC and other provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005.   The voluntary body of doctors accused him of spreading false information in connection with allopathic treatment for Covid-19 patients. On May 23, Ramdev had withdrawn his statements on allopathic medicine after receiving a strongly-worded letter from Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, who termed his remarks as "inappropriate".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bring-on-record-original-video-statement-made-on-allopathy-sc-to-baba-ramdev-1003114.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||DDMA shuts Delhi's Laxmi Nagar market following violation of Covid-19 protocols||One of Delhi's most crowded markets -- Laxmi Nagar main market in East Delhi --and some nearby market places were closed by authorities following violation of Covid-19 protocols, officials said on Wednesday. The order issued on Tuesday came after an assessment by the district authorities that there was a huge crowd in the main market and adjoining smaller markets on Sunday and the market association could not ensure that the protocols were followed. Sonika Singh, Chairperson of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (East district), said the market association and shopkeepers in main bazaar, Laxmi Nagar were "unable to ensure Covid-19 protocols (compliance) on last Sunday (June 27) due to large footfall". The areas that will remain closed till July 5 include the Laxmi Nagar Main Market from Vikas Marg to Lovely Public School, Kisan Kunj, and its surrounding markets like Mangal Bazaar, Vijay Chowk, Subhash Chowk, Jagatram Park and Guru Ramdas Nagar. Only those shops dealing in essential goods and services will be allowed in these markets. There are a number of electronic shops, textile showrooms and eateries in these markets. "The guidelines/directions of Covid protocol are being contravened in the Main Bazar, Laxmi Nagar which may cause super spreading of the corona virus. The Market Welfare Association of Main Bazaar, Laxmi Nagar has failed to ensure the strict compliance of guidelines of Covid-19," the order said. "To curtail the spreading of the virus in the larger interest of the public, it was necessary to take an immediate and stringent action," it said. According to a textile shop owner Prakash Singh, people were not following rules. "Now, shopkeepers will suffer loss. We were hoping that we could stand on our feet now. Last year, we suffered a lot and this year will be no different," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ddma-shuts-delhis-laxmi-nagar-market-following-violation-of-covid-19-protocols-1003116.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||4 killed in LPG cylinder blast in Delhi's Shahdara||Four people including a woman died following a cylinder blast at a house in Farsh Bazaar area of Shahdara on Wednesday, Delhi Fire Service (DFS) officials said. A call about the blast was received at around 12.15 am on Tuesday night after which nine fire tenders were rushed to the spot, they said. A portion of the roof of the house collapsed due to the explosion, according to officials. "A fire broke out in a house due to leakage in the LPG gas cylinder resulting in death of four people due to smoke inhalation while another person sustained 25 per cent burn injuries and was shifted to Hedgewar hospital through CATS," DFS Director Atul Garg said. Munni Devi (45), Naresh (22), Omprakash (20), and Suman (18) died in the incident while Lal Chand (29) sustained burn injuries, officials said. An enquiry has been initiated in the matter, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-killed-in-lpg-cylinder-blast-in-delhis-shahdara-1003123.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC pulls up NGO for moving court at 11th hour for direction to CBSE schools on Class 10 marks||The Delhi High Court Wednesday pulled up an NGO for "publicity stunt" in approaching court at the 11th hour seeking direction to the CBSE-affiliated schools here to publish on their websites the rationale document of assessment criteria for class 10 students before finalising results for greater transparency. The high court said the NGO should not behave like a commercial litigant and it has to be at a higher pedestal. “You think you will come at the 11th hour and get everything stayed. It is publicity stunt. It is in a very very bad taste. It is very very unfair what you are doing to us. Don’t behave like a private litigant. You do espouse petitions on public interest, you can’t behave like an ordinary. You have to espouse much higher cause,” said a vacation bench of Justices Manmohan and Navin Chawla, constituted to hear the matter. It cannot be allowed to indulge in bench hunting, the court said. After some arguments, the counsel for the NGO, 'Justice for All', said he wished to withdraw the application. The court allowed him to withdraw the application and granted liberty to file a plea seeking early hearing of the main petition, listed for hearing in August, before the roster bench. The application for the interim relief was filed in a pending petition in which the petitioner NGO, Justice For All, has sought to modify Central Board of Secondary Education's (CBSE) policy for tabulation of marks of class 10 board exams 2021 based on internal assessment conducted by the schools. Advocate Khagesh B Jha, representing the NGO, said he had not filed the application for the interim relief with the main petition since the cause has arisen now as after issuance of notice on the petition by the court on June 2, a fresh FAQs have been published by the CBSE on June 9. He said the last date to upload the marks and internal assessment of class 10 students by schools at CBSE website is June 30. The application, through advocate Shikha Sharma Bagga, sought an interim order to direct all the schools affiliated by the board to publish the rationale document for devised criteria for the assessment of students of class 10 on their respective websites, before calculating the result and uploading the same on the CBSE portal, to bring transparency. It said the students should be able access the document and raise grievances with the CBSE well in time along with the sagacious grievance redressal mechanism by the board for the students. The application said that after issuance of notice by the court on June 2, a fresh FAQs have been published by the CBSE on June 9, and it became clear that there is no modification in their alleged arbitrary policy of moderation of marks yet, which is in violation of Article 21 (right to life) of the Constitution. “The present policy is absolutely discriminatory, unfair, illogical and would result in huge manipulation of marks by the schools, based on the performance of the senior batch of students of that particular school,” it said. The high court had on June 2 sought response of the Centre, Delhi government and CBSE on the NGO’s petition claiming that the policy of the board for calculating marks of class 10 students based on the internal assessment by schools was unconstitutional and required to be modified. In its petition, the NGO has said: "The policy of moderating the average marks assessed by the school, based on the historical performance of the previous average result of the school, in terms of the best overall performance of the school would be injustice to the students as the performance of school is not relatable in any manner with the performance of the student." It has also said moderating the marks in consonance with the overall average score of the district, national and state average "was absolutely unreasonable, illogical and punitive for the students of a school which would appear in the board exams for the first time", with no previous data of performance. The NGO has alleged that it can also lead to the manipulation of marks and exploitation, extortion of the students and parents. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-pulls-up-ngo-for-moving-court-at-11th-hour-for-direction-to-cbse-schools-on-class-10-marks-1003128.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||After PM Modi's nudge, delimitation commission to visit Jammu and Kashmir from July 6-9||The commission constituted for delimitation of assembly and parliamentary constituencies of Jammu and Kashmir has decided to visit the Union Territory from July 6 to 9 – signalling its intent to speed up its work, as recently suggested by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The commission will interact with leaders of political parties and public representatives as well as officials of the Union Territory administration, including the Deputy Commissioners and the District Election Officers in order to seek inputs required to carry forward the process of delimitation. The National Conference had boycotted the first meeting of the Delimitation Commission in February. Ahead of its visit to J&K, the panel has now sought cooperation from all stakeholders in the delimitation process and urged all to provide valuable suggestions so that its task could be completed timely. The Delimitation Commission, headed by former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Desai, had a meeting in New Delhi on Wednesday. Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra, who is an ex-officio member of the commission, also attended the meeting. The panel decided to visit J&K to “gather first-hand information”. The panel had already had a series of meetings and studied data and maps of the 20 districts of the Union Territory of J&K related to the Census 2011. The Prime Minister on June 24 had a meeting with the leaders of the political parties of J&K – the first such interaction after his government on August 5 2019 moved to strip the erstwhile state of its special status and reorganized it into two Union Territories. He assured the J&K leaders that the elections would be held in the Union Territory soon after completion of the delimitation exercise. He stated that it was the priority of his government to strengthen grass-root democracy in J&K. He also tweeted that the delimitation process should move “at a quick pace” so that polls could happen in J&K. The Union Government had on March 6, 2020 constituted the commission to redraw the boundaries of the parliamentary and the assembly constituencies in the newly constituted Union Territory in accordance with the provision of the J&K Reorganization Act 2019. The Act provides for raising the number of seats in the Legislative Assembly of Union territory of J&K from 107 to 114, with 24 seats to be reserved for India's territory in J&K currently under illegal occupation of Pakistan. The panel had invited its five associate members – Farooq Abdullah, Mohammad Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi of the National Conference and Jugal Kishore Sharma and Jitendra Singh of the Bharatiya Janata Party – to attend a meeting on February 18. But only Singh, who is also a Union Minister, and Sharma had taken part in the meeting. Abdullah, Lone and Masoodi had sent a letter to Desai, pointing out that the delimitation process should not be carried forward as the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganization Act 2019 itself had been under scrutiny of the Supreme Court. The term of the Delimitation Commission was extended by another year in March 2021 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The panel has so far received a number of representations from civil societies and members of the public from the Union Territory on various aspects concerning delimitation. The Commission has already taken note of all such suggestions and directed that these may be deliberated further in the context of ground realities concerning delimitation, according to a press-release issued after the meeting on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-pm-modis-nudge-delimitation-commission-to-visit-jammu-and-kashmir-from-july-6-9-1003134.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh will witness democratic revolution in 2022, says Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday asserted that there were will be a democratic revolution in Uttar Pradesh in 2022 against the current "disruptive" and "negative" politics. Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh are scheduled in 2022. In a tweet in Hindi, Yadav said, "United against today's disruptive, conservative, negative politics, new politics of exploited, neglected, oppressed, humiliated, dalit, oppressed, deprived, poor, farmers, workers, women and youth is taking birth". "In 2022, there will be no election in UP, there will be a democratic revolution," the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said. आज की विघटनकारी-रूढ़िवादी नकारात्मक राजनीति सत्ता के विरुद्ध एकजुट शोषित, उपेक्षित, उत्पीड़ित, अपमानित दलित, दमित, वंचित, ग़रीब, किसान, मज़दूर, महिला व युवाओं की ‘नयी राजनीति’ जन्म ले रही है। The SP chief has exuded confidence that his party would win 350 seats out of the total 403 seats in the assembly, claiming people are against the BJP government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-will-witness-democratic-revolution-in-2022-says-akhilesh-yadav-1003152.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||Drones in Jammu attack 'state-supported', says top Army officer: Report||The technology involved in drones used for attacks on Air force base at Jammu airport on Sunday is "state-supported" and also indicate role of Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Taiba, a top army General said on Wednesday.  On Sunday, two explosive-laden drones crashed into the IAF station at Jammu airport, damaging a part of the building and causing minor injuries to two personnel. General Pandey said the Army is looking to stay ahead of such attacks and take steps to address all threats to national security. "The capability or capacity exists to modify drones, which are locally available as well... with a certain level of guidance from state actors, they can be modified to carry out these attacks," the General said. Central security agencies have estimated that over 300 drones and unidentified flying objects were seen on the volatile Pakistan border since the 2019 abrogation of Article 370 of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/drones-in-jammu-attack-state-supported-says-top-army-officer-report-1003154.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||J&K witnesses sharp decline in Covid-19 cases, deaths in June||Official Covid-19 data shows that in June, J&K reported 416 fatalities and 24,833 cases, a sharp decline from 1,624 deaths and 1,12,857 cases in May. In terms of percentage, the month saw nearly 75% drop in deaths and 78% decline in cases in comparison to May. While on average over 52 deaths were recorded daily in May, it came down to under 15 in June. Similarly, from 3,640 daily average positive cases in May, the numbers came down to 856 in June. From June 1 to June 15 the UT recorded 18,261 Covid-19 positive cases and 298 deaths. In the next 14-days of June, 6,572 positive cases and 111 deaths were reported which further shows that the deadly second wave of the pandemic is on decline in the UT. On June 1, the UT had recorded 1,867 positive cases and 32 deaths which came down to 308 cases and six deaths on June 29. The total active cases in J&K dropped to 4,805 on June 29 from 35,095 on May 31. The active cases account for 1.52% of the overall 3,15,298 cases while as many as 4,316 people have succumbed to the virus since the beginning of the pandemic in March last year. However, amid plummeting Covid-19 cases in the UT, health experts have warned against any complacency which could lead to early arrival of third Covid wave. “Covid has not gone, and in no way can we afford to lower our guard. Any sense of false victory among the people can invite the third wave of Covid early,” Dr Rafi Jan, head of Pulmonary Diseases and Internal Medicine department of tertiary care SKIMS hospital, believes. The government has already eased restrictions and allowed the resumption of businesses with only educational institutions remaining closed. “In the last couple of weeks people throng to picnic spots where there is no adherence to Covid guidelines. Lavish weddings are back where hundreds of people gather together. There is a need to inoculate a sense of responsibility for our collective good,” Dr Jan said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-witnesses-sharp-decline-in-covid-19-cases-deaths-in-june-1003169.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh STF arrests Mukhtar Ansari’s ambulance driver from Lucknow||The Special Task Force (STF) of Uttar Pradesh Police has arrested the driver of the ambulance which was used to ferry gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari from a Punjab jail to a Mohali court recently, officials said on Wednesday. Salim, a resident of Ghazipur, was arrested from Lucknow on Tuesday while another accused involved in the ambulance case, Shoaib Mujahid, who hails from Mau district, was apprehended from Barabanki on Wednesday, Superintendent of Police Yamuna Prasad said. The Barabanki and Ghazipur Police had declared cash rewards of Rs 25,000 and Rs 20,000 respectively on the duo, police said. On March 31, Ansari was produced before the court in Punjab in an extortion case. The documents of the Uttar Pradesh registration number ambulance used to transport the gangster-turned-politician were found to be fake. During investigation, police found that Alka Rai, the operator of Shyam Sanjeevani Hospital in Mau, and some of her associates had registered the ambulance in the year 2013 on the basis of fake documents and a case was registered at Nagar Kotwali of Barabanki, in which Ansari was made an accused of conspiracy and forgery. Six accused, including Rai, Sheshnath Rai, Rajnath and Anand Yadav, have been arrested in the case so far, they said. During interrogation, Salim told the STF that he was associated with Ansari's gang for the last several years. He is facing several cases in Ghazipur district and action has been taken against him under the Gangsters Act, police said. Salim also told police that three others -- Surendra, Ramesh and Firoz – would ferry Ansari in the ambulance during his imprisonment in Ropar Jail in Punjab and even before that||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-stf-arrests-mukhtar-ansari-s-ambulance-driver-from-lucknow-1003172.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||J&K cancels residential accommodation of move employees in Srinagar, Jammu||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Wednesday cancelled residential accommodations of 'darbar move' employees in Jammu and Srinagar, days after Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha announced an end to the age-old practice. The officials have been asked to vacate their quarters in the twin capital cities within three weeks. The L-G had on June 20 announced that the Jammu and Kashmir administration has completely transitioned to e-office, thereby ending the practice of the biannual 'darbar move'. “Now both the Jammu and Srinagar secretariats can function normally for 12 months. This will save the government Rs 200 crore per year, which will be used for the welfare of the deprived sections,” he had said. Now an order issued by Commissioner Secretary, Estates Department, M Raju said sanction had been accorded to the cancellation of allotment of residential accommodation of officers and officials in Srinagar and Jammu. Employees from Jammu had been allotted residential accommodation in Srinagar and those from Srinagar in Jammu. The order said the officers and officials would vacate their government-allotted residential accommodation in the twin capital cities within 21 days. As part of the 'darbar move', the Raj Bhavan, the civil secretariat – seat of the Jammu and Kashmir government – along with many other offices used to shift between Jammu and Srinagar twice a year. The practice, under which the administration used to function in Jammu during the six months of winter and in Srinagar during the summer, was started by Maharaja Gulab Singh in 1872.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-cancels-residential-accommodation-of-move-employees-in-srinagar-jammu-1003173.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||Hundreds of women turn up for recruitment in J&K police||Hundreds of young Kashmiri women were seen lined up for recruitment for two women battalions in Jammu and Kashmir Police (JKP) during the last three days on the outskirts of Srinagar city. Undeterred by threats of militants, 934 women candidates appeared in the physical tests of the recruitment rally on Monday and Tuesday. While 487 candidates appeared on the first day, 447 more appeared in the physical test on Tuesday.  The tests will continue on Wednesday as well. A police spokesperson said the recruitment for the post of constables in two women battalions for the candidates of Kashmir province under Transparent Recruitment Process is underway at CRPF RTC Ground Humhama on the city outskirts. He said to streamline the process, three lady officers have also been associated as co-opted members with the police recruitment board of the two women battalions for conducting the tests. J&K police said the tests were being held following all Covid-19 safety protocol. “The Physical Endurance Test and Physical Standard Test(PET/PST) of candidates of Kashmir Province for 2 Women BNs of J&K Police under way at  RTC Ground #Humhama.Huge number of women candidates participating in tests. Tests are being conducted after observing all Covid protocols (sic),” J&K police said in a tweet. One of the candidates who had to appear in the physical test said as there were no avenues of employment in Kashmir, joining the police was the best option for her. “We have to find the means of livelihood for ourselves and our families. Police force is the best option as not only you can earn your livelihood with dignity, but also serve the community,” the candidate, who identified herself as Saima, told DH. Her views were echoed by another aspiring police woman. “Since childhood I had a dream to join the police so that I can serve my community. Women are as important as men in any job and the police force needs more participation from females,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hundreds-of-women-turn-up-for-recruitment-in-jk-police-1003174.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||Storage, sale and use of drones banned in J&K's Rajouri||Amid heightened security across Jammu and Kashmir after the recent bombing of IAF station by armed drones here, authorities in border district Rajouri on Wednesday ordered a ban on the storage, sale or possession and use and transport of the flying machines. An order issued by District Magistrate, Rajouri, Rajesh Kumar Shavan also directed those having drones or like objects in their possession to deposit the same with local police station. However, the government agencies using drones for mapping, surveys and surveillance would get the local police station in-charge and executive magistrate informed, Shavan said in his order. In what was the first instance of Pakistan-based terrorists deploying drones to strike vital installations, two bombs were dropped at the IAF station Jammu in the early hours of Sunday, causing minor injuries to two personnel. The explosions took place around 1.40 am within six minutes of each other. The first blast ripped off the roof of a single-storey building at the technical area of the airport manned by the IAF in the Satwari area on the outskirts of Jammu. The second one was on the ground. As per the order, Shavan imposed the ban/restrictions on the storage, sale, possession, use and transport of any drone or small flying objects/flying toys in the district in exercise of powers vested under section 144 of CrPC. “However, those having already the drone cameras/flying objects or toys or like objects in their possession shall get the same deposited with the local Police Station against proper receipt,” the order said. Defending his decision, the district magistrate said it has been observed that anti-national elements are using drones and flying objects to cause damage, injury and risk to the human lives in certain parts of the Union Territory. “Whereas, it has also been noticed that for the last 10-15 years, the domestic use of small drone cameras has also increased in the society for capturing photos and videos in the social and culture gatherings and particularly the youth are more fascinated to have use of drone like toys and electronic gadgets. “Whereas in the current situation to avoid any confusion and to secure the aerial space near the vital installations and highly populated areas, it is rationale and expedient to discontinue the use of any drone/small flying toys/objects in all social and cultural gatherings to eliminate any risk of injury to the life and property,” the order said. Shavan said since it was not possible to serve prior notice, it is, as such, being issued ex-parte. “Any violation of this order shall attract punitive action as warranted under relevant law. The Senior Superintendent of Police, Rajouri shall ensure implementation of this order in letter and spirit,” the order read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/storage-sale-and-use-of-drones-banned-in-jks-rajouri-1003180.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi traces 2,000 kids who lost one or both parents due to Covid-19, enrols them in govt scheme||The Delhi government has traced over 2,000 children who have either lost one or both parents due to Covid-19 and is enrolling them in the scheme notified for their welfare and well-being. The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) used a helpline it launched in April this year to undertake well-being surveys and identification of children who have lost their parents due to Covid-19, using data provided by the Health Department. According to DCPCR data, it has identified 67 children who lost both their parents to the pandemic, while 651 lost their mothers. There were 1,311 minors who lost their father due to Covid-19. DCPCR chairperson Anurag Kundu said the details of these children have been shared with the Department of Women and Child Development to enrol eligible beneficiaries in the scheme notified by the Delhi government for children who have lost their parents due to the pandemic. Kundu said, overall, in the last three months, the DCPCR helpline (9311551393 ) has enabled the Commission to reach out to more and more children and their families and made the Commission more accessible and brought it closer to the children and their families. In last three months, the helpline has received nearly 4,500 complaints, of which 2,200 were SOS complaints. According to DCPCR data, 85% of the SOS complaints were responded within 24 hours and 15% within 72 hours. The SOS complaints consisted of children and families in urgent need for essential supplies such as ration, medical emergencies, cases of abandoned children and Covid-19 testing related requirements among others, Kundu said. Going by the current trend, he said the DCPCR expects to receive nearly 20,000 complaints in the ongoing year, which would be nearly 1,300% of the average of the past three years and is 2.5 times the complaints it received in 12 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-traces-2000-kids-who-lost-one-or-both-parents-due-to-covid-19-enrols-them-in-govt-scheme-1003186.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi government schools will conduct physical PTMs from July 19-31: Manish Sisodia||Delhi government schools will conduct physical Parent Teacher Meetings (PTMs) for all classes from July 19 to 31 to discuss the progress of students amid the new normal, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia announced on Wednesday. Sisodia, who is also the Education Minister of Delhi, said special PTMs will be conducted for students of class 6 who have joined the government schools this year from municipal schools. "The schools have been closed in Delhi since March last year. They were briefly opened for senior classes earlier this year but again had to be closed due to the Covid situation and there is no possibility of reopening schools anytime soon right now. However, the online classes are going on as per the schedule of the session,” Sisodia said during an online press conference. "We have decided to call parents to physically attend the PTMs being conducted from July 19 to 31 where they will be updated about the students’ progress, their needs and challenges and how they can learn better amid the new normal.” “The meetings will be conducted following all Covid protocols and will be held over a period of two weeks to avoid crowd on a particular day," he said. Sisodia said there will be special focus on class 6 students whose PTMs will be conducted jointly by teachers of Delhi government schools and MCD schools. Every year, nearly 1.7 lakh students from municipal schools join those run by the Delhi government in class 6. "I have emphasised earlier too that there is a need to increase collaboration between municipal and Delhi government teachers for smooth transition of students in Class 6 from MCD schools to those run by the city government," he said. "In order to facilitate this, special PTMs will be conducted for them jointly by Delhi government school teachers and those from MCD schools," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-schools-will-conduct-physical-ptms-from-july-19-31-manish-sisodia-1003189.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||SC bids farewell to Justice Ashok Bhushan||"Judges are only known by their judgements…Judgements are the only true criteria for testing the mettle of a Judge," Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Wednesday quoted Justice Ashok Bhushan while bidding farewell to him. Justice Bhushan is to retire on July 4. A virtual farewell ceremony, however, was held on Wednesday as he has to attend functions related to the last rites of his mother who passed away recently at Prayagraj.  In his speech, CJI Ramana described Justice Bhushan, who hailed from the Allahabad High Court, as a "great human being" whose judgement stood testimony to his "welfarist and humanist approach".  "His concern for the welfare of every section of the society is reflected in his opinions and writings," the CJI said. Attorney General K K Venugopal, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, SC Bar Association president Vikas Singh and other members of the Bar, along with SC judges, were present during the virtual ceremony. Justice Bhushan was a part of the Constitution bench which delivered the judgement in the Ayodhya dispute and the Aadhaar case. He recently presided over the bench dealing with the migrant workers' problems during the Covid-19 pandemic. Justice Bhushan was born on July 5, 1956 in Jaunpur district.  He graduated in Arts in 1975 and obtained his law degree from Allahabad University in 1979. He enrolled as an advocate in Uttar Pradesh on April 6, 1979. After more than 20 years of successful practice, he was elevated as a permanent judge of the Allahabad High Court on April 24, 2001. After a stint as the Chief Justice of the Kerala High Court, he was elevated as a judge of the Supreme Court on May 13, 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-bids-farewell-to-justice-ashok-bhushan-1003214.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||Take strong measures, bring down Covid-19 positivity rate: Health Ministry to 15 states||The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has written to at least 15 states, asking them to take strong measures to bring down Covid-19 test positivity rate in 84 districts which have recorded more than 10% positivity rate in the past week. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote separate letters to Chief Secretaries of these states, asking them to ensure strict implementation of interventions to control transmission of Covid-19 and bring down the positivity rate in these districts. Elements of the District Action Plan should be "comprehensively and strictly implemented" in these districts that have reported over 10% positivity rate between June 21 and 27, Bhushan wrote. The District Action Plan includes mapping of cases, reviewing ward and block-wise indicators, focusing on effective surveillance and quick hospitalisation or isolation of positive cases, round the clock Emergency Operations Centre and Incident Command Control and strict compliance of SOPs in containment zones. The letters were written to Rajasthan, Kerala, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Puducherry, Manipur, Assam, Sikkim, Tripura, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh. All eight states from the Northeast have at least one district which has more than 10% positivity rate. Among the states, Arunachal has the highest number of districts (17) with more than 10% positivity rate, followed by Rajasthan (11), Meghalaya (9), Kerala and Andhra Pradesh (eight each). Manipur has six such districts while Nagaland has five, Assam, Odisha and Tripura (four each), Sikkim (3), Mizoram (2) and West Bengal, Puducherry and Himachal Pradesh have one each district. On Tuesday, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued an order asking states to adopt a "carefully calibrated" approach as they ease restrictions following a decline in Covid-19 cases. According to the Health Ministry, 111 districts across the country were reporting more than 100 cases daily as on June 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/take-strong-measures-bring-down-covid-19-positivity-rate-health-ministry-to-15-states-1003217.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||Remove all 'pornographic and obscene' content in a week: NCW to Twitter||A "deeply perturbed" National Commission for Women (NCW) on Wednesday asked Twitter to remove "all pornographic and obscene" content from its platform within a week while instructing Delhi Police to investigate and take appropriate legal action. Delhi Police on Wednesday also sought details of accounts circulating child sexual abuse content on the platform from Twitter, which said it has "zero-tolerance policy for Child Sexual Exploitation (CSE)" and it would continue to invest in "proactive detection and removal of content that violates Twitter rules and work with law enforcement and NGO partners in India to tackle the issue". Taking suo motu cognisance of several profiles on Twitter sharing pornographic content, officials said, NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma wrote to Twitter India Managing Director Manish Maheshwari to immediately remove "all such" content from the micro-blogging site within a week. The NCW wrote to the Delhi Police Commissioner to "investigate and take appropriate legal action in the matter". It has also shared with Twitter details of seven profiles sharing pornographic content on its platform, saying it is "deeply perturbed" about the existence of such handles on Twitter. The micro-blogging site has been given 10 days to submit an action taken report. Sources said the NCW had last week asked Twitter to take necessary action after receiving a complaint about pornographic content on its platform. "However, no action was reportedly taken by the platform," it said. In a statement, the NCW said, the Commission is "disturbed with the fact that despite knowing the availability of such banned content which not only violates Indian laws but also Twitter's own policy, no action has been taken till date towards removing them". There are two cases in Uttar Pradesh while Madhya Pradesh and Delhi have filed FIRs against it. One each FIR has been registered in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh on charges of hosting a distorted map of India on its website while UP Police has also registered a case in connection with a video of an elderly man being attacked. The fourth case is the one on child pornography on Twitter. In its response on Wednesday, a Twitter spokesperson said it has a "zero-tolerance policy for Child Sexual Exploitation (CSE). We will continue to invest in proactive detection and removal of content that violates Twitter rules and work with law enforcement and NGO partners in India to tackle the issue." Twitter has said it has a zero-tolerance policy for child sexual exploitation and has incorporated special tools to detect and remove content linked to child pornography and the accounts linked to it. On the registration of case by Delhi Police on NCPCR complaint, it has said, "viewing, sharing, or linking to child sexual exploitation (CSE) material, regardless of the intent, contributes to the re-victimization of the depicted children and is prohibited on our service." Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/remove-all-pornographic-and-obscene-content-in-a-week-ncw-to-twitter-1003219.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||Congress demands arrest of RSS leader in graft case||Rajasthan Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra on Wednesday sought the arrest of senior RSS leader Nimbaram in the graft case involving the alleged demand for Rs 20 crore "commission" from a firm engaged in door-to-door garbage collection here. The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) had on Tuesday arrested suspended Jaipur Greater Municipal Corporation Mayor and BJP leader Somya Gurjar’s husband Rajaram Gurjar and a representative of BVG company on corruption charge in the case. The case was lodged after a video clip surfaced on social media, in which Rajaram Gurjar and the company representative are allegedly seen engaged in conversation related to the Rs 20 crore "commission" from the firm for getting its payment released from the municipal body. RSS regional pracharak Nimbaram is also seen sitting with them in the video. Demanding Nimbaram's arrest, Dotasra said the BJP and the RSS have been “fully exposed”. “They call themselves honest, nationalists and disciplined but under the guise of nationalism and in the name of religion, they are involved in rampant corruption, which has been exposed,” Dotasra told reporters here. He said the RSS leader is visible in the video clip on the basis of which the ACB registered a case against Rajaram Gurjar, Nimbaram and two representatives of BVG company. Referring to the alleged corruption in the purchase of land for the Ram temple in Ayodhya, he said RSS functionaries have been exposed all over the country and called for their social boycott. “Stern action should be taken against such people and they be arrested,” said Dotasra, who is also the state Education Minister. The ACB had registered the graft case on June 10 after the video clip was sent for an FSL examination to two laboratories, who confirmed that these were not doctored.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-demands-arrest-of-rss-leader-in-graft-case-1003220.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||Atishi says she has been served I-T notice over 2020 affidavit, slams BJP for 'hollow threats'||Aam Aadmi Party MLA Atishi Wednesday said she has been served an Income Tax Department notice over her 2020 election affidavit declaration, and attacked the BJP and the Central government for "such hollow threats". Her party also came out in her defence, terming the notice "ridiculous" and saying it exposes the "sexist and chauvinist" face of the BJP. Atishi claimed the notice was sent to scare her, but "we have come from difficult fields to change politics of this country and we will not get intimidated by these hollow threats of the BJP". "I want to tell the Modi government -- we are not afraid of your threats! The Modi government has used every agency to harass AAP leaders but could not sustain a single case against the AAP. The income tax notice was sent to scare, intimidate us," she told a press conference. "I don't have anything to hide. Wherever the Income Tax Department calls me, I will go with all the details of my bank accounts. I want to challenge the BJP if they are ready to make their bank accounts and property details public," she said. AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj, who also addressed the media, said the notice was served based on Atishi’s election affidavit from 2020 in which she had declared Rs 59 lakh worth moveable assets in the form of FD and mutual funds, which she said were earned before 2012. "This shows the sexist and chauvinist face of BJP. the AAP thinks this move is shameful and we strongly condemn it," he said. Quoting Bharadwaj, the party tweeted, "MODI GOVT SENDS INCOME TAX NOTICE TO @AtishiAAP! Notice is based on her own declaration from 2020 election affidavit. She had declared 60 lakh worth FD+Mutual Fund. This is ridiculous. She's one of the most educated professional in politics."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/atishi-says-she-has-been-served-i-t-notice-over-2020-affidavit-slams-bjp-for-hollow-threats-1003233.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||Delhi records 94 new Covid-19 cases, six more deaths||The national capital on Wednesday reported 94 fresh coronavirus cases at a positivity rate of 0.12 per cent and six more fatalities, according to a health department bulletin. The recoveries outnumbered fresh Covid cases yet again, with 240 patients recovering in the last 24 hours, it said. Delhi had recorded 101 fresh Covid-19 cases at a positivity rate of 0.15 per cent and four more deaths on Tuesday. With the fresh cases, Delhi's Covid-19 case count increased to 14,34,188 on Wednesday. The death toll from the pandemic stands at 24,977, the bulletin said. The case fatality rate is 1.74 per cent. On Monday, the city had recorded 59 cases, the lowest single-day rise this year, and two deaths. On Sunday, Delhi had reported 89 cases and four deaths while the positivity rate stood at 0.12 per cent. The infection rate, which had risen to 36 per cent in the last week of April, has fallen below 0.20 per cent now. Daily cases and deaths in the city began spiralling upwards from April 19 onwards. According to official data, over 28,000 cases and 277 deaths were recorded on April 20 and 448 deaths on May 3. The Wednesday's bulletin said a total of 79,935 tests, including 56,899 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests, were conducted in the last 24 hours, while the rest were rapid antigen tests. The number of active cases in the city decreased to 1,379 from 1,531 on Tuesday. A total of 14,07,832 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi, it said. The number of patients under home isolation dropped to 329 from 456 on Tuesday while the number of containment zones fell to 1,599 from 1,643 the previous day, the bulletin said. In the last 24 hours, 2,03,158 people were vaccinated. This includes 37,369 people who were administered the second dose, thereby making them fully vaccinated. A total of 77,53,986 people have been vaccinated in the national capital till now, including 17,81,369 who have received both the jabs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-94-new-covid-19-cases-six-more-deaths-1003261.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||No case of Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 in Delhi so far: Health min Satyendar Jain||He said a genome sequencing lab to detect the variants of coronavirus will become operational at Lok Nayak Hospital within a week. Another such lab is being created at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, he said. "There are several variants of coronavirus, but there are only two ways to protect yourself against it -- get vaccinated and use masks. There is no separate communication from the Centre to make special preparations for the Delta Plus variant. Also, Delhi has not reported any such cases so far," Jain told reporters here. He said the Delhi government is in the process of increasing hospital beds to accommodate 37,000 cases a day in case of a third wave. The Delhi government has already installed 32 Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants with a total capacity of 29.77 metric tonnes (MT). Three liquid medical oxygen storage tanks with a cumulative capacity of 171 MT have also been installed. Jain also said the coronavirus situation is under control in Delhi, but appealed to people to continue observing Covid appropriate behaviour. "The number of cases had reduced significantly in January and February too, and people let their guards down. The experience of the last one-and-a-half-year shows one has to remain vigilant all the time," he added. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-case-of-delta-plus-variant-of-covid-19-in-delhi-so-far-health-min-satyendar-jain-1003280.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||Tejashwi, Tej Pratap take Sputnik shots, face NDA taunts over choosing 'foreign' brand||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, who had been facing flak from the ruling NDA in Bihar for his reluctance to get vaccinated against Covid-19, on Wednesday took the jab along with elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav. Both the sons of RJD national president Lalu Prasad took their Sputnik shots at the Medanta hospital here. "We took the Sputnik vaccine, A vaccine is a vaccine. What difference does it make whether it is Indian or foreign", Yadav told reporters afterwards. Minutes after the two took the shots, former minister and JD(U) MLC Neeraj Kumar issued a sarcastic video statement. "They are born in a rich family, to a father with tainted background who is a convict in a case of economic offence. No wonder they find Sputnik, developed in Russia, and not indigenous Covishield or Covaxin, to their taste", the JD(U) leader remarked, making an oblique reference to Lalu Prasads involvement in the fodder scam. Prasads bte noire Sushil Kumar Modi, a senior BJP leader and former deputy chief minister, came out with a flurry of tweets saying the sons of Lalu Prasad took the jabs "belatedly" and they should now convince their father, and mother Rabri Devi, to get vaccinated. "If Lalu Prasad is already vaccinated, the information should be made public. It would send across a positive message among the public. Also, Tejashwi, the leader of the opposition and Tej Pratap, an ex-minister for health, would have done better to have chosen a government hospital for taking the jabs", Modi said. तेजप्रताप स्वास्थ्य मंत्री रह चुके हैं। उन्हें उन निजी अस्पतालों की ब्रांडिंग से बचना चाहिए था, जो गरीबों की पहुँच से बाहर हैं। प्रधानमंत्री और मुख्यमंत्री सहित कई अतिविशिष्ट व्यक्ति सरकारी संस्थानों में कोरोना के टीके ले चुके हैं। He pointed out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and many other dignitaries have taken the shots at public health facilities and the brother duo "should avoid lending their heft to branding of private hospitals which are beyond the reach of the poor". Incidentally, on the previous day when asked about the delay in getting vaccinated, Tejashwi Yadav had shot back "what is the hurry. I fall in the 18-44 years age group. This is the last category".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tejashwi-tej-pratap-take-sputnik-shots-face-nda-taunts-over-choosing-foreign-brand-1003338.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan govt misusing agencies, alleges Raje||Former Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhara Raje on Wednesday accused the state government of misusing its agencies and accused CM Ashok Gehlot of the bid to defame the RSS and the BJP. Raje's statement has come on a day the Congress demanded the arrest of senior RSS leader Nimbaram in a graft case involving the alleged demand for Rs 20 crore "commission" from a firm engaged in door-to-door garbage collection here. The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) had on Tuesday arrested suspended Jaipur Greater Municipal Corporation Mayor and BJP leader Somya Gurjar's husband Rajaram Gurjar and a representative of BVG company on corruption charges in the case. The case was registered on the basis of a video clip that surfaced on social media, in which Rajaram Gurjar and the company representative are allegedly seen engaged in a conversation related to the Rs 20 crore "commission" from the firm for getting its payment released from the municipal body. RSS regional pracharak Nimbaram is also seen sitting with them in the video. “Government agencies are being misused to hide its failures and divert people's attention from issues of public interest," Raje said in a statement. She further said, "Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot is misusing power. Gehlot has only one agenda…to defame the BJP and the Sangh."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-govt-misusing-agencies-alleges-raje-1003361.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||NSA slapped on Samajwadi Party worker booked in Ghaziabad assault case||The stringent National Security Act (NSA) was slapped against a Samajwadi Party worker in Uttar Pradesh's Ghaziabad who was arrested over an "objectionable" social media post about an assault on an elderly Muslim man, officials said Wednesday. Ummaid Pehelwan Idrisi was arrested from Delhi on June 19 by the Ghaziabad Police after an FIR was lodged against him at the Loni Border police station in connection with the case. "The accused has been booked under the NSA," Superintendent of Police (Ghaziabad Rural) Iraj Raja told PTI. According to officials, the stringent law has been invoked against Idrisi as he had "put out objectionable content on social media with an intention to create communal disharmony". Under the stringent NSA, an accused can be detained in jail for a period of one year, subject to review by a high court every three months. The FIR, filed on the complaint of a local policeman, alleged that Idrisi had "unnecessarily" shot the video in which Abdul Samad Saifi claimed an attack by some young men, and that his beard was chopped off and he was forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. The FIR alleged Idrisi made the video with an intention to "create social disharmony" and shared it through his Facebook account. Idrisi was booked under IPC sections 153A (promoting enmity between groups on ground of religion, class etc), 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious belief), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 505 (public mischief). A separate FIR was lodged against him on June 17 in the adjoining Bulandshahr district, the native place of Saifi, that charged him and around 100 others with violation of the COVID-19 norms by holding a public gathering in connection with the attack on Saifi on June 16, the officials said. The police maintain that Saifi was attacked on June 5 over personal enmity and the episode was given a communal colour by some people. So far, around a dozen accused in the assault case have been arrested, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nsa-slapped-on-samajwadi-party-worker-booked-in-ghaziabad-assault-case-1003365.html
30-06-2021||North and Central||AAP workers allegedly attacked in Gujarat; Kejriwal urges CM to register FIR||The convoy of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders Isudan Gandvi and Mahesh Savani, who joined the party recently, was allegedly attacked in Junagadh district on Wednesday during an outreach campaign called "Jan Samvand Yatra." The AAP has alleged that the attackers were members of the BJP. AAP's national convenor and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal while criticising the attack tweeted that he spoke to Gujarat counterpart Vijay Rupani and urged the latter to register an FIR. Spoke to Vijay Rupani ji. AAP's state media in-charge Tuli Banerjee said, "Ten AAP workers were badly injured in the attack carried out by nearly 70 BJP workers at Visavadar in Junagadh district." In the attack, six cars that were part of the convoy were also damaged by the attackers. Banerjee said, "Today was the third attack on AAP workers. The first attack happened in Somnath on party's state president Gopal Italia."  She said that AAP workers from various districts are gathering outside the police station to register FIR as the local police weren't responding to their demand. Despite repeated attempts, Junagadh SP Vasamsetty Ravi Teja didn't respond to calls and messages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-workers-allegedly-attacked-in-gujarat-kejriwal-urges-cm-to-register-fir-1003371.html
30-06-2021||Oasis||A change in perspective can help||We are all dealing with the implications of climate change. An unexpected relentless freeze that lasted for about a week completely froze the sweet lime tree in our backyard. Not only did the fruits die a premature death but the leaves also curled into a dark brown shade and fell into the cold frost-hardened ground. The tree stood bare for several months and soon became a despondent sight. Wanting to quickly fix the situation, we began wondering if cutting it down would be an equitable option. Our neighbour told us to wait; he said that the frost does not reach the deep roots. He philosophised that even though most of us only see the branches and fruits, it is the roots of trees that rest in infinity. If we left the tree as it is, the seasons would need to turn twice but in all probability, the second spring would uncover new hopes and retrieve the broken threads of life. New leaves he said will make the tree alive, if only we give the roots enough time to regain their strength to build a life again. We needed to distance ourselves from the situation and nature would find an answer on its own.  Time and distance can be reasonably good teachers. They provide a certain kind of perspective that is deprived to us when we are too close to a problem or too personally involved. It is hard for us then to find a solution or see light in despairing situations. We all know how it feels to be stuck in traffic, but from a vantage point; when a plane is in the air, taking off or landing, even the irksome traffic, the red and golden lights zig-zagging into darkness turn into a visually appealing sight. Nothing really changes except perhaps the perspective that comes from looking at things from a new viewpoint.  Great and experienced minds will always provide us with an objective standpoint. But when they cannot be immediately found, we need to look up, look at the sun, moon and the stars. Look at the perfectly balanced universe, look at something larger than ourselves and from that distant angle look down at our problems. I’m positive they will appear tiny or they might even disappear altogether.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/a-change-in-perspective-can-help-1003007.html
30-06-2021||Opinion||25 years ago: June 30, 1996||Hemavathi water for Tumkur, Tiptur BANGALORE, June 29 Major Irrigation Minister K N Nage Gowda today said that drinking water would start flowing from the Hemavathi canal from tomorrow to Tumkur and Tiptur from the Tumkur branch canal. Mr Nage Gowda told newsmen here that water would be let into the Bugudanahalli tank for Tumkur and Eechanur tank for Tiptur from the Hemavathi-Tumkur branch canal. With the supply of water to these towns, Prime Minister Deve Gowda had fulfilled his promise to the people that drinking water supply to these towns would start before July 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/25-years-ago-june-30-1996-1003006.html
30-06-2021||Opinion||Walmart, Amazon haven’t learned their place in India||By Andy Mukherjee The list of what e-commerce platforms aren’t allowed to do in India has been growing for some time, but the latest prohibition on flash sales has simply gone too far. If the rules get implemented, the entire business model of Amazon.com Inc. and Walmart Inc. could come unstuck before their investments in a market of 1.4 billion people can grow to a rewarding size.  While a lofty public purpose can always be tacked on as an afterthought to the most draconian of regulations, in this case the fig leaf is thinner than usual. It’s hard to see how “significantly reduced prices, high discounts or any other such promotions or attractive offers” for a period of time “limit customer choice, increase prices and prevent a level playing field.”  The real driving spirit behind the consumer affairs ministry’s new draft guidelines, currently open for public comment, may lie elsewhere. In the garb of checking manipulative behavior by online marketplaces, India is effectively muzzling the two leading US players. It’s also tilting the balance in favor of offline commerce, and away from digital startups that are India’s best bet for rebuilding the pandemic-ravaged economy. Amazon and Walmart are dominant, but in a tiny corner. Overall e-commerce is only 4 per cent of India’s $800 billion retail market. Yet they’re supposedly exerting such a baleful influence on the natural flow of goods that they must be reined in by, in effect, instructing Amazon not to sell its Made in India Fire TV Sticks — a media streaming device — on its local e-commerce website. Ditto for Walmart. Its physical wholesale operation in the country may not be able to hawk a shirt on Flipkart, the online marketplace it acquired for $16 billion in 2018. And this is when the American retailer is trying hard to blend in. It plans to triple exports from India to $10 billion by 2027, and will float Flipkart in the local equity market.  The Flipkart purchase was Walmart’s most expensive, and perhaps the smoothest moment in its long and turbulent quest to establish a toehold in the country. Soon after the deal, Mukesh Ambani, India’s richest businessman, announced his own ambitious e-commerce plan for linking small independent stores with customers of his then-nascent 4G telecom service. That network now has 420 million-plus subscribers. Ambani is also India’s largest operator of physical stores.    Piyush Goyal, the commerce minister, says that arrogant American firms have blatantly flouted Indian laws. (Amazon and Walmart-Flipkart have denied the charge of abuse of market power in recent court proceedings.) The same reason is being given for the ongoing harassment of Twitter Inc. — it is apparently in breach of rules framed for information technology intermediaries. Twitter has vowed to continue its “constructive dialogue” with the Indian government and asked for time to comply. But are the rules fair, or do they exceed the remit of the consumer protection and information technology laws framed by parliament? Facebook Inc.’s WhatsApp service has gone to court after being asked to make messages on the platform traceable. The social media firm argues that the requirement will destroy its promise of end-to-end encryption and have a chilling effect on privacy and free speech.  The squeeze on US content firms is guided by political calculations: Twitter’s India offices were visited by the police after the microblogging site branded a tweet by one of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s party leaders as “manipulated media.” The lawyer Twitter nominated as its grievance officer in India — again to meet new government rules — quit in less than two weeks.  The motivation behind targeting US e-commerce players is not as obvious, though even that is ultimately a political project. Safeguarding the interest of consumers or mom-and-pop stores is how the curbs are marketed to the public, though in reality they’re about eventually putting India behind something resembling China’s Great Firewall. Local tycoons would dominate the market, and while foreign players won’t be completely shunned, they may only be able to join the party as junior partners, supplying technology and capital. Achieving this objective with a stringent foreign direct investment policy is something the Modi government tried two years ago. Both Walmart and Amazon dodged the blow. The time for more of the same medicine has passed. To avoid an open confrontation with the Biden administration, it may be more fruitful to twist existing Indian laws out of shape. For instance, it isn’t the remit of India’s consumer protection law to check if the many sellers taking online orders for phones during festive-season discount sales are thinly capitalized post boxes. A lot of them came into existence to circumvent a previous policy that e-commerce marketplaces, or their related-party sellers, can’t control more than 25 per cent of the inventory on offer. If they're still violating the spirt of that requirement, it’s not a problem of consumer protection but an anti-competition issue, and should be probed accordingly. It’s not deep-pocketed US e-commerce players that have devastated the neighborhood Indian retailer, but Covid-19. For small shopkeepers to climb out of the debt hole they’ve slipped into because of lost revenue and bloated medical bills, they need partners who will help them go digital. Arbitrary rule-making gets in the way. A startup earning a small commission on each online sale will struggle to run a marketplace that has to refund 100 per cent of a disgruntled customer’s purchase price, especially when no such straitjacket will apply to physical retailers.  But then, consumers and small shopkeepers are just convenient excuses. Behind the smokescreen of shielding their interests, India is slowly creating a protectionist economy that will benefit only a small, select group of firms. After sinking billions of dollars into India, Amazon and Walmart are still not on that shortlist. Maybe they never will be.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/walmart-amazon-haven-t-learned-their-place-in-india-1003090.html
30-06-2021||Panorama||50 years ago: June 30, 1971||PM chides party MPs for loose talk on refugee issue NEW DELHI, June 29 PRIME MINISTER Indira Gandhi today chided her party men for demanding extreme action against Pakistan to enable the refugees to go back to East Bengal. "The Government will not embark upon any adventurist policies in regard to Bangladesh," she asserted while replying to the discussion on the issue in the Congress (R) Parliamentary Party. No government could afford to take any precipitate action on such a delicate problem, Mrs Gandhi told the party. Mrs Gandhi asked what the members had themselves done to mobilise public opinion and organise relief for the unfortunate refugees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/50-years-ago-june-30-1971-1003005.html
30-06-2021||Panorama||Mahalanobis is relevant now||The Covid-19 pandemic continues to ravage the world. An important part of our arsenal in the fight against Covid is accurate data and statistics. In this context, our efforts in the battle, concerning data and surveys to estimate the damages caused by Covid, would have been much stronger had Professor Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis been alive today and in the lead. P C Mahalanobis was born on June 29, 1893— yesterday marked his 128th birth anniversary.  A self-taught statistician, Mahalanobis went on to establish the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI) and the Indian statistical system. His initial training in physics might have helped him develop an uncanny knack for conducting perfect surveys— The students at ISI would expand his initials as ‘Professor of Counting and Measurement’. Mahalanobis devised an instrument called ‘Coordinatograph’ for crop survey. In the 1930s, he assembled an instrument called ‘Photographic Profiloscope’, which, by statistical analysis, was observed to “be used with confidence as an instrument of precision for comparative studies in anthropometry.” To measure the error in the estimation of survey data, he introduced built-in cross-checks such as Inter Penetrating Network of Subsamples (IPNS) in the survey design. This is now considered as the curtain-raiser for the extremely powerful and useful resampling procedures like ‘Bootstrap’ in statistics. American statistician William Deming had said: “The main feature of IPNS is simplicity in the calculation of the standard error of an estimate.” Mahalanobis, ostensibly inspired by Kautilya’s Arthashastra, had also engaged independent supervisory staff in field operations by the NSS to collect data. How accurate were his surveys? Take for example the jute survey conducted in Bengal about eight decades ago. Mahalanobis conducted a sample survey and got an estimate of 7,540 bales (1 bale = 400 lbs) which was remarkably close to the Customs and trade figure (7,562 bales)— the government enumeration estimated 6,304 bales. While the enumeration cost the government Rs 82 lakh, Mahalanobis conducted the survey at Rs 8 lakh with one-fiftieth of the manpower and got a near-perfect estimate. He also conducted a large-scale sample survey of Bengal’s famine-ravaged villages during 1944-45 to assess the extent of the famine’s severity. It was found that the economic condition of nearly 40 lakh people had deteriorated during the disaster. At this crucial time, when the country is reeling under a pandemic, we need trustworthy surveys to estimate the extent of the damage caused by the pandemic and the findings could be extremely helpful for appropriate economic and social planning. Ever since the pandemic broke out, there have been many predictions— most based on standard epidemiological models such as SIR or SEIR or their simple variants along with the available Covid-data— about the trajectories of the number of infected and deaths. Data scientists, statisticians, computer experts and epidemiologists had also predicted the dates of onset of different waves when they would reach their peak and had prescribed the number lockdown-days needed to brace these waves. But, they all failed— It’s a new disease, ever-evolving in nature and there are many unknown factors.  No one knows the dynamics of surveys better than Mahalanobis and I believe that had he been alive, he could have provided more accurate predictions, helpful serosurveys and devised an effective strategy for vaccination and the distribution of vaccines. Five decades after his death, there are many who still believe that none other than Mahalanobis could have been effective in leading surveys and framing data-based policy decisions for human welfare and national development. (The writer is a professor of statistics at the Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/mahalanobis-is-relevant-now-1003010.html
30-06-2021||Panorama||Oxygen crisis: The night a Delhi hospital gasped for breath||By Jeffrey Gettleman, Emily Schmall, Suhasini Raj and Hari Kumar, At 9:45 pm, alarms blared across the Intensive Care Unit of Jaipur Golden Hospital. Over two dozen patients on ventilators couldn’t breathe. Some flailed their arms and legs. Others cried for help, choking sounds coming from their throats as if they were being strangled. Mechanics sprinted to the maintenance room to see what was wrong. Nurses grabbed small plastic pumps to fill the lungs of critically ill patients by hand. It wasn’t enough. Jaipur Golden, a respected hospital in Delhi, had run out of medical oxygen. Over the next seven hours, 21 Covid-19 patients died. “Nobody can forget that night,” said Shaista Nigar, the hospital’s nursing superintendent. “It was a total breakdown.” Across India, amid a devastating second wave of Covid-19, hospitals ran out of beds and critical supplies, contributing to the deaths of untold thousands of people and worsening an already tragic outbreak. By one count, oxygen shortages alone have killed at least 600 people over the past two months. India’s leaders knew the country was vulnerable. Yet Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government and local officials alike failed to prepare for the second wave, according to interviews and a review of government documents by The New York Times. India is a major producer of compressed oxygen. But the Indian government moved too late to distribute supplies. State governments feuded over oxygen and seized tankers, creating bottlenecks and delays. Delhi city officials didn’t build systems to produce or store oxygen and struggled to allocate dwindling supplies. When tight supplies and government missteps led oxygen to run out at Jaipur Golden, some families said the hospital offered no warning. Without a comprehensive coronavirus plan, Modi’s government has left much of the burden to states, cities, hospitals and even individuals. The oxygen crisis tragically revealed the limits of a do-it-yourself approach. That approach will be tested again. Though infections have dropped, a vaccine shortage puts India at risk of a third wave. Without adequate preparations, the second wave’s tragedies could return. “With an effective surge plan,” said Robert Matiru, a director at Unitaid, a health initiative affiliated with the World Health Organisation, “this could have been averted.” A Crisis Brews Anuradha Bansal had a 102-degree fever when she checked into Jaipur Golden on April 13. A veteran schoolteacher, Bansal had tested positive for Covid-19, along with her husband, Atul, and their two daughters. Jaipur Golden had a good reputation. Its motto was “We Care … With Care.” But Anuradha Bansal was shocked by the crowds filling Jaipur Golden and other hospitals in Delhi. Sick people packed the reception area, some leaning against the walls. In her Covid-19 ward, she said, extra beds had been squeezed in. Her husband, Atul, a lawyer, was lying on his back in the ICU down the hall, a plastic oxygen mask strapped to his face. He had been healthy for his 54 years, a strong swimmer who could hold his breath for minutes and ate a wholesome diet of beans, whole grain flour and yoghurt. Across northern India, medical oxygen was running short as Covid-19 caseloads soared. In one month, Delhi’s daily count had jumped to 13,468 from 419. Delhi’s 650 hospitals and nursing homes were so deluged that they were shutting their gates, leaving people to die at the curb or in their cars. Though the tragic experiences of other places, like Egypt, showed what happens when oxygen runs out, India was still unprepared. It produces about 7,100 metric tons of liquid oxygen a day, mostly for industrial use. At the pandemic’s peak, India’s demand soared to 9,500 metric tons a day. Worse, the oxygen was in the wrong place. Most was produced near steel plants in eastern India, hundreds of miles from hot spots like Delhi. In November, a parliamentary committee urged leaders “to ensure that the oxygen inventory is in place.” A plan was unveiled to eventually build more than 160 plants that pull oxygen from the atmosphere for hospital use. Hospitals expanded their oxygen storage capacity by one-third, according to government figures. As the second wave surged, it was clear that the efforts weren’t enough. Only about one-fifth of the oxygen plants had been built. The extra storage represented only a quarter of India’s emergency needs. Oxygen supplies were still concentrated in specific regions. On April 15, the Modi government essentially nationalised India’s medical oxygen and dictated each state’s allotment. Air force planes would airlift empty cryogenic tanker trucks to places like the Tata Steel plant in Odisha state, where they would be filled with liquid oxygen, put on special train cars and moved more than 1,000 miles to Delhi. Still, much of the burden remained with the states. In an April 17 meeting, Dr Harsh Vardhan, the health minister, urged 11 state health chiefs to “plan in advance” and increase medical infrastructure, including oxygenated beds, “to deal with any further surge in cases.” Delhi officials warned that the central government wasn’t giving them enough. The Modi government allocated about 350 metric tons of oxygen a day to the capital. Delhi needed twice that and, in court proceedings, accused the government of basing the city’s allocation on pre-pandemic needs. The central government cited desperate needs in other places. In the meantime, the crowds of sick people at the gates of Jaipur Golden and other hospitals were growing. Scrambling for Supplies By April 20, Jaipur Golden was overstretched and undersupplied. “My father was seething from inside,” said Rohit Gupta, a sales manager in Delhi whose father, Satish Kumar Gupta, had been admitted to the ICU in early April. The younger Gupta said his father soiled the bed because nobody helped him go to the bathroom. Gupta said his father cried out, “Take me away from here.” The hospital declined to comment. As the national government doled out limited amounts of oxygen, officials in Delhi grew increasingly worried. Its hospitals had built only one small oxygen-generating plant because there had previously been little need, said Manish Sisodia, Delhi’s deputy chief minister. And Delhi could store only about one day’s worth of its pandemic needs at its hospitals and in a city-owned tank. “The neighbourhood supply has long been adequate,” Sisodia said. “The problem only came when the plants that were regularly supplying Delhi were asked to apportion some to other states.” He appealed to the central government on Twitter, saying major hospitals had only enough for a few hours. As supplies dwindled, Delhi’s oxygen was increasingly being confiscated by other states. A Delhi court ordered the central government to stop other states from interfering with oxygen shipments. Just to make sure, Delhi began sending police escorts with the oxygen tankers. On April 21, Sisodia called V K Bidhuri, a manager in Delhi’s oxygen distribution office. “Sir,” Bidhuri asked him, “will we be able to save the people tonight?” Breakdown On April 23, the central government sent Delhi 308 metric tons of oxygen, less than half of its need. At Jaipur Golden, all 250 beds were full. Outside the emergency room, patients slumped in wheelchairs waited to be admitted. Seema Awasthi, a school principal from north Delhi, was propped up on her ICU bed, a ventilator feeding her lungs. At 8:45 am, she sent a text to her family: “I have to be fine soon. Trying to be strong.” That same morning, Modi huddled with the chief ministers of India’s 10 hardest-hit states. “We fear a big tragedy may happen due to the oxygen shortage and we will never be able to forgive ourselves,” Delhi’s chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, told him on the video call. Delhi had taken over the city’s oxygen distribution the day before, directing tankers according to need. Spreadsheets showed the supplies each hospital had left. In desperate moments, officials could dispatch two city-owned trucks with stopgap supplies, answering anguished Twitter messages, texts or calls from a doctor or a patient’s relative. Though the system would eventually be computerized, Bidhuri, the oxygen distribution official, initially used a wire-bound notebook. Jaipur Golden typically received its daily oxygen shipment by 5 pm, said Dr D K Baluja, its medical director. This time, though, the truck didn’t appear. At Inox, an oxygen supply company, nobody picked up the phone. Contacted by The Times, Inox said it distributed oxygen “per government of Delhi’s instructions.” Delhi officials said they would supply records for April 23 but then did not. At 7 pm, Baluja called Delhi’s oxygen command center. Officials said they had none. Jaipur Golden was nearly out. But employees and families said they had not been told. Some family members said they would have sought canisters on Delhi’s streets had they known. Around 7 pm, Bansal was summoned to the ICU Her husband, Atul, had suffered a heart attack. The oxygen levels on his ventilator were fluctuating. He was writhing in his bed, gasping for air. “I couldn’t bear to watch,” she said. She left. At 9:45 pm, ventilator alarms rang across the ICU. The oxygen was gone. Baluja later said that Jaipur Golden had a backup system of 50 oxygen cylinders. That ran out, too, he said. Two tankers arrived close to midnight: a large one from Inox, seven hours late, and a smaller one from the Delhi government. For 21 patients it was too late.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/oxygen-crisis-the-night-a-delhi-hospital-gasped-for-breath-1003017.html
30-06-2021||Panorama||Draft e-commerce rules: One size cannot fit all||The recent draft amendments to the Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020, put out by the Department of Consumer Affairs attempt to be egalitarian but will misfire to a large extent. This Is because of two key failings in the rules— a ‘one size fits all’ approach to e-commerce companies and a regulatory overlap with the functioning of the Competition Commission of India. The foremost issue with the draft amendments is their applicability. The fact that the proposed amendments will significantly increase compliance costs, as well as the potential liability of e-commerce platforms, is not as surprising as is the fact that they have been made applicable in equal measure to all e-commerce companies. The ‘one size fits all’ approach is surprising because the view that digital companies of a certain size need specialised targeted regulation has gained global acceptance now. For example, the Digital Services Act Package proposed by the EU in February 2020 targets platforms that are designated as ‘gatekeepers’. Designation as a gatekeeper is based on well-defined criteria and reviewed periodically. Similarly, in the UK, the new regime for digital businesses will be applicable to companies with ‘Strategic Market Status’. A similar approach is being adopted by Germany. In the US, the Federal Trade Commission, the US antitrust regulator, has been extremely vocal about Big Tech and the need for nuanced regulation to ensure a level playing field, especially under the new chairperson Lina Khan. Even within India, the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, serve as a useful example of distinction in scale of regulation based on size. The Intermediary Guidelines distinguish between social media companies by designating certain companies as a ‘significant social media intermediary’, based on the number of registered users, and imposing certain obligations only on such social media companies. The proposed amendments, such as those on mandatory registration for all e-commerce companies, will certainly increase the compliance burden, including costs and possibly red tape for setting up new e-commerce ventures. So will the requirement to mandatorily appoint a Chief Compliance Officer, Nodal Contact Person, and Resident Grievance Officer. More importantly, the increased liability regime — making the Chief Compliance Officer personally liable, introducing fall-back liability of the platform where a seller fails to deliver the goods or services — are extremely onerous. Larger e-commerce companies may have deep pockets, scale and the wherewithal to subsume such liability but smaller start-ups will be driven away if their existence becomes so onerous. Therefore, a calibrated approach is the need of the hour. One of the stated objectives of the proposed amendment is to “encourage free and fair competition in the market”. This objective will certainly suffer if new innovative ventures which could emerge as potential competitors are subjected to such harsh compliance and liability regimes at a nascent stage. Another significant problem with the draft amendments is the overlap with the mandate of the Competition Commission of India. For example, Rule 5(17) states that no e-commerce entity which holds a dominant position in any market shall be allowed to abuse its position. This is the exact mandate of the Competition Commission of India under Section 4 of the Competition Act. In fact, the explanation to Rule 5(17) goes on to state that “abuse of dominance” will have the same meaning under the rules as under Section 4 of the Competition Act. Such an obvious overlap of jurisdiction amongst authorities provides an opportunity for forum-shopping. Once again, bigger companies which have the money and manpower to devote to multiple legal proceedings will get an advantage as they can delay conclusion of legal proceedings and enforcement of orders endlessly. Lack of nuance and expertise in decision-making and alternatively wastage of public resources due to duplicity are larger issues resulting from the flagrant overlap of mandate.   Since the time the draft amendments were put out for public comments, several other issues such as lack of clarity on permissible flash sales, confusion regarding the applicability of Rules 5 and 6, complete ban on platforms selling goods from related party sellers, have been highlighted by various stakeholders. However, these issues can be rectified given that this is only a draft of the rules for public comments. The bigger issue here is the ‘one size fits all’ approach. Introducing nuanced regulation based on size is a broader policy call and one that must not be ignored. Once at an ideological level there is consensus on adopting a calibrated approach to regulating platforms, attributes for such calibration can be devised based on factors such as the number of active users, extent of reliance of consumers and business users on the service provided by the platform, market capitalisation of the platform or its parent company, and so on. While undertaking this exercise, another broad policy call that needs to be put to rest once and for all is whether we want to entrust regulation of platforms to a single regulator or divide this responsibility amongst existing regulators. Each of the options has its pros and cons. For example, a new specialised regulator may have better expertise but may be highly susceptible to regulatory capture by Big Tech given how niche and rapidly evolving the sector is. Moreover, this will entail considerable additional expenditure by the public exchequer. Relying on existing regulators will require thoughtful and clear demarcation of mandates to avoid forum-shopping and conflicting decisions. This option will also require aggressive capacity-building efforts on the part of the government. And all of this must happen very quickly. (The writer is Senior Resident Fellow and Team Lead, Competition Law, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/draft-e-commerce-rules-one-size-cannot-fit-all-1003020.html
30-06-2021||Right in the Middle||Dusty battle||One morning, as is usual, I was sitting on the balcony with the day’s newspaper, scanning the headline stories along with a cup of tea. “It is already an hour past since I gave you your first cup of tea, haven’t you finished your newspaper yet?” my wife shot the question at me. “What’s the matter?” I asked. “You have read the newspaper enough, now digest this news also...” She started: “I have been seeing for past so many years, you wake up with the newspaper, newspaper after the breakfast, newspaper after the lunch and again newspaper before bed. Your reading of the newspaper does not seem to end. I am fed up with you” For a moment, I was taken aback. She then curtly said, “today onwards, I shall do my work, you shall do yours.” I am already retired from service, so no work for me. I smiled to myself and said “ok”.  “I haven’t completed yet, listen, Corona is everywhere, maybe it is at our doorstep only, so our maid is not coming. I have asked her not to come. That is why, from today, cleaning, mopping and all chores are your task” she said. From here on my relationship with the dust and the cleaning chores started. Months have passed and my relationship is not hunky-dory anymore.  One day, my mind got into a dialogue with the dust: “See Dusty, you never troubled our maid, why me?” “No Anna, the maid used to call me with love and affection. I would go if I wished, otherwise I would just slip behind the table or the bed. She would also tickle me a little and pat me to sleep there” Dusty said. “Initially, I too called you with love. I put you out because you were so adamant,” I reasoned. “I too should have a home. If everybody threw me out where should I go?” I was humbled by Dusty’s argument. As I put down the broomstick with a ‘Namaskara’ and sat down with a sigh, my grandson came on the phone to tell me that they have got a “Rumbi” and I should go there to see it. Rusty, Razor, Ruby— fancy names of pretty pet dogs. The next morning, I reached my daughter’s house asking for “Rumbi,” the pet dog. She burst into laughter and brought a round box and placed it before me. As it started moving, my grandson came running and said: “it cleans the dust”. I was lost in thought as my eyes went behind the machine and my mind kept asking me, “when are we getting this to our home?”.  I kept smiling, sensing a victory over Dusty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/dusty-battle-1003009.html
30-06-2021||Second Edit||Kerala dowry deaths a worrying sign||A slew of deaths of young women in Kerala in the last few days have again put the focus on the continuing practice of dowry and its terrible impact on the lives of people, families and society. In a span of one week, a young woman was found dead, another died of burn injuries, and a third was found hanging, and all of them had a history of harassment by their husbands or in-laws. There are reports of other incidents also, and for every death, there may be many other women suffering harassment and torture, living in separation or trying to get a divorce. In all these cases, the price is paid by women for the greed of their husbands or their families, and the greed thrives on an entrenched practice that is even considered legitimate by large sections of society. Though cases are registered, many of them are not followed up and the culprits often escape. While efficient investigation and prosecution of such cases is necessary, that would only ensure that the accused are punished. But it is more important to bring about a change in social and individual attitudes, and education and awareness campaigns are needed for that. Most importantly, economic relations and the role of women in society need to change. The Kerala government has decided to revise textbooks and remove words and phrases that are disparaging of women. The narratives, stories and the language that are in common use and are taught in schools are laden with and represent the values and attitudes of a patriarchal society. They project a picture of women created by that society and that influences the attitudes and conduct of both children and adults. It is not just textbooks that need to be sanitised to inculcate in people the ideas of gender equality and respect for women. Wrong images of and ideas about women are projected in the media, advertisements, film dialogues and other forums. It is necessary to ensure that wrong and negative images of women are not created in these forums through words and images. The chairperson of the Kerala Women’s Commission had to resign after she made an insensitive remark to a woman who complained to her in a television programme about harassment by her husband in the wake of the recent spate of dowry deaths. Even those who are at the helm of institutions that are expected to protect the rights of women have to unlearn old values and practices and learn new ones. All this is relevant for the entire country, not just Kerala, because women everywhere are victims of the dowry system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/kerala-dowry-deaths-a-worrying-sign-1003015.html
30-06-2021||South||Anil Kant new Kerala police chief||Anil Kant was on Wednesday appointed as the new state police chief of Kerala as Loknath Behera retired from service. A 1988-batch IPS officer, Kant is a native of Delhi. He is said to be the first state police chief from a Dalit community in Kerala. Though 1987-batch officer Sudesh Kumar was the senior-most among the three cleared by the UPSC's committee for considering to the Kerala police chief post, it seems that the involvement of Kumar's daughter in assaulting a police personnel made him unfit for the post for the left-front government. Kumar's daughter allegedly assaulted a police driver in 2018 following a verbal duel over delay in bringing vehicle to collect the IPS officer's wife and daughter after a morning walk in Thiruvananthapuram. A police case in this regard was still pending and police associations had reportedly conveyed resentment over considering Kumar to the police chief post. Kumar is now serving as Kerala Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau director. It was widely speculated that B Sandhya, who was among the three cleared by the UPSC, may be considered as police chief and she would become the first woman IPS officer to head the state police. She is the second woman IPS officer in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/anil-kant-new-kerala-police-chief-1003145.html
30-06-2021||South||Hyundai rolls out ‘10 millionth’ car from Chennai factory||Hyundai Motor India Limited, one of the largest manufacturers of cars in the country, on Wednesday rolled out the ’10 millionth’ car from its sprawling factory in Sriperumbudur, 50 km from Chennai. Chief Minister M K Stalin received the vehicle inside the factory and signed on its bonnet. Hyundai’s latest SUV ‘Alcazar’ became the 10 millionth car to roll out of the factory, which began production in 1998. In 2020, the company had rolled out its 3 millionth car for export from the factory. Receiving the car along with S S Kim, Managing Director and CEO, HMIL, Stalin posed for pictures and wrote “Vaazhthukkal (Greetings)” on the bonnet and affixed his signature. In his speech, Stalin recalled efforts taken by his father and late Chief Minister M Karunanidhi during his two tenures – 1996 to 2001, and 2011 to 2011 – in bringing various factories to Chennai and its suburbs. “The government headed by me will continue the efforts to seek more investments and bring new industries to the state,” he said, and praised Hyundai for putting Sriperumbudur on the global map. Hyundai began construction on its factory in 1996 and launched production two years later. “This historic milestone of the 10 millionth car roll-out is a testimony of Hyundai’s commitment towards the Make in India initiative. Furthermore, it also showcases our vision of boosting the socio-economic development in the state of Tamil Nadu and making the country more self-reliant,” Kim said. During the event, the CM also launched construction of a child care centre and community hall with a capacity to accommodate 1,500 people at Katrambakkam village, and extended support to a self-gelp group for setting up a mobile catering service at Vallakottai near Sriperumbudur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyundai-rolls-out-10-millionth-car-from-chennai-factory-1003226.html
30-06-2021||South||Puducherry govt extends Covid lockdown till July 15||The Puducherry government announced on Wednesday that the lockdown which was to end on the midnight of June 30 has been extended till midnight of July 15 to contain the spread of Covid. An order issued by Ashok Kumar Secretary (Relief and Rehabilitation), who is the member-secretary of the State executive committee, announced the extension. The curfew would be in force without any change from 10 PM to 5 AM the next day. The order prohibited opening of cinemas, theatres and multiplexes. It was also stated that social, political and entertainment-related gatherings would remain prohibited. However, commercial and business establishments and shops can function from 9 AM to 9 PM every day without air-conditioners. Vegetable and fruit shops are permitted to do business from 5 AM to 9 PM. Tea shops and juice stalls can also do business up to 9 PM. Restaurants and bars within the hotels and guest houses and other standalone eateries are permitted to operate with 50 per cent capacity up to 9 PM. Retail outlets of liquor and arrack are allowed to remain open from 9 AM to 9 PM. The Excise Department, in co-ordination with the police, should ensure enforcement of crowd regulation at liquor outlets, the order said. The Excise Department shall also expeditiously issue instructions for doorstep delivery of liquor within the Union Territory of Puducherry only in line with the provisions of the Excise Act and rules framed thereunder to reduce footfalls at the liquor shops. Goods transport is permitted. The order said private, government passenger transport services (buses, autos, and taxies) can operate up to 9 PM. Beach road, parks and gardens shall be open for those taking strolls from 5 AM to 9 PM as against from 5 AM to 9 AM earlier. All religious places and places of worship would be open only up to 5 PM, the order said. The order stated that there should be not more than 100 people at wedding-related gatherings. Similarly, there should be not more than 20 mourners at funerals and other last rites. Petrol bunks, ATM centres, telecommunication, water supply, electricity department, sanitation, private security services, dairy and milk supply, milk booths, medical labs, medical and allied activities are permitted. Sports activities are permitted without spectators. Film, television serial-shooting are allowed with maximum of 100 people. Gyms and yoga institutes are permitted to open up to 50 per cent of the capacity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-govt-extends-covid-lockdown-till-july-15-1003238.html
30-06-2021||South||Relief to Kerala kids who relied on treetop for internet connectivity||In a big relief to a group of children in a remote village of Kerala's Idukki district, a private service provider has established high-speed internet connectivity in the locality.  Earlier, the children in the region struggled to find stable internet for Covid-induced online classes and even went out of their way to find 'innovative' methods to find the internet.  Two sisters in the locality, Treesa and Ansiya, came out with the idea of keeping their mobile phones in a basket tied to a treetop using rope and pull the rope so that the mobile phones reach higher to get network for downloading study materials.  The plight of the students came to light last year but the mobile phone service providers including the BSNL refused to provide connectivity citing the high cost involved in laying cable in the uneven terrain. Now, Kerala Vision, an initiative of independent Cable TV Operators in the state, has provided Fibre to the Home (FTTH) service to the region offering high-speed internet connectivity. P K Varghese, the father of Treesa and Ansiya, told DH that now the children could now easily access internet inside their home. Kerala Vision charged the basic installation charges, modem's cost and plan tariff. The people of the region hope that in due course more service providers would establish highspeed internet connectivity in the region. A Department of Telecommunication official, who came across DH report on the plight of the children, also ensured that the region was now getting internet connectivity. Many tribal areas in forest regions of Kerala were also still facing difficulties in getting internet access for online education. The Kerala government is in talks with service providers exploring options of providing internet connectivity. Getting the approval of forest department for setting up towers as well as the cost and viability factors are the major hurdles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/relief-to-kerala-kids-who-relied-on-treetop-for-internet-connectivity-1003243.html
30-06-2021||South||Sasikala no longer with AIADMK, her interactions will not affect party: Palaniswami||Seeking to play down expelled general secretary V K Sasikala's purported interaction with party workers, AIADMK co-coordinator K Palaniswami on Wednesday said her telephonic conversations will not impact the 1.5 crore cadre based organisation a wee bit. Making it clear she is no longer with the AIADMK since her expulsion in 2017, the former chief minister said there has been an "overreaction" to her speaking to a few party members. "She is not with the AIADMK and has no contact with the party. Not just 10, let her interact with 1,000 persons, the 1.5 crore cadre strong AIADMK will not be affected," he told reporters in Omalur here when asked about the leak of audio tapes of Sasikala's conversation with some AIADMK functionaries recently. She had also censured the AIADMK leadership's decision to expel the members who spoke to her. "Its all the making of the media," Palaniwsami said and added when there were several issues like vaccine shortage concerning the people, the media chose to make this a big issue. Charging the ruling DMK with causing a Covid vaccine shortage in the state, Palaniswami said people would not have returned home dejected had the government either issued tokens for inoculation or announced a specific number to cover the target population on a given day. "Instead, it launched a vaccination drive without taking into account the quantity of doses or the population. So, people thronged the vaccination centres in thousands leading to the shortage of the shots," he said. There were several serious issues such as the rising cost of construction material, fuel prices and NEET, afflicting the people. "The DMK made about 505 assurances in the run up to the assembly election including reducing the prices of petrol and diesel by Rs five and Rs four, respectively per litre, but have not implemented any of them. It came to power on false promises," the former chief minister alleged. Palaniswami demanded that the state government clear the confusion in the minds of students and parents on whether the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) will be conducted or not. "The constitution of the A K Rajan committee to study the impact of NEET on government students is an eyewash as everyone knows that Tamil Nadu is forced to conduct the test due to the Supreme Court order," he said. The DMK had made a false promise on cancelling the exam only to capture power. But after coming to power, it had formed a committee, he added. He also took a dig at electricity minister V Senthil Balaji for claiming that Tamil Nadu faced frequent power outages due to squirrels running on power lines, saying "squirrels can climb one line but not throughout the state."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikala-no-longer-with-aiadmk-her-interactions-will-not-affect-party-palaniswami-1003256.html
30-06-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh unveils new IT policy for 2021-24||The Andhra Pradesh government on Wednesday came out with the new 'AP Information Technology Policy 2021-24' that is expected to generate more than 55,000 jobs over the next three years. For this purpose, a robust and holistic business environment would be created and the IT, Electronics and Communications Department would be transformed into a revenue centre to achieve self-sustenance. The state cabinet, chaired by Chief Minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy, approved the new policy, which is also expected to create 1.65 lakh indirect employment, thereby ensuring a holistic ecosystem development. The policy would be in force till March 31, 2024. The state would earn a revenue of Rs 783 crore over 10 years in the form of various taxes, while the direct employment alone is expected to infuse over Rs 2,200 crore every year, leading to the overall growth of the economy through multiplier effect, according to the policy note. It said the new IT Policy links incentive disbursement to realisation of committed direct employment ensuring transparent and effective utilisation of public funds. In a shift from the previous IT policy, the new one offers end-to-end support for startups like plug and play office space, access to investors, mentors, talent pool, funds through venture capitals, private equity firms and other commonly shared services on a variable chargeable basis, the note said. The government would establish incubation centers and conduct hackathons and workshops for startups, it added. The government would establish an IT Emerging Technologies Research University in Visakhapatnam to develop the state as the leading contributor to the national talent pool in IT and cutting-edge emerging technologies. The university would focus on applied research in use of emerging technologies in areas of interest to the state. Digital libraries and workplaces are proposed to be set up at the grama panchayat-level with access to high-speed Internet, six workstations and essential software. They would also have video conferencing, printing and scanning and access to free-of-cost knowledge databases to provide an enabling ecosystem for 'work from anywhere' concept, the policy note said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-unveils-new-it-policy-for-2021-24-1003282.html
30-06-2021||South||Kerala CPI(M) on defensive over nexus with gold smugglers; threat to Congress leader||The alleged nexus of CPI(M)-DYFI local leaders and supporters in Kerala with gold smuggling accused is assuming fresh dimensions with a Congress senior leader receiving a threatening letter. The opposition Congress and BJP are targeting the CPI(M) leadership, especially Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, over the issue by recollecting the allegations. Congress president in Kerala K Sudhakaran alleged that the CPI(M) and DYFI cadres were getting involved in gold smuggling acts as senior leaders like Vijayan were their role models - a reference to the allegations over links with the gold smuggling racket involving UAE consulate officials. BJP leaders alleged that the masterminds of the gold smuggling were at the Chief Minister's Office. Reacting to the developments, Vijayan said that CPI(M) was a party with lakhs of supporters, and if it involved anyone with criminal links, they would not get any protection. CPI(M) state secretary in-charge A Vijayaraghavan said a section of media was trying to link all unlawful acts in the society with the CPI(M). Meanwhile, Congress senior leader and former Home Minister Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan received an anonymous letter on Wednesday, threatening to kill him and his family. Radhakrishan said that the letter posted from Kozhikode district could be the handiwork of two convicts in the murder of CPI(M) dissident leader T P Chandrasekharan in 2012. The accused in the Chandrasekharan murder case were held while Radhakrishnan was the Home Minister. Two of them were now alleged to be involved in the North Kerala-based gold smuggling rackets. They were allegedly using mobile phones from prison cells, owing to the CPI(M)'s political backing. The Customs already arrested former DYFI activist Arjun Ayyanki in connection with a recent bid to smuggle 2.3 kilograms of gold through the Kozhikode International Airport on June 21. He was found to be having links with a CPI(M)-DYFI local leader of Kannur, C Sajesh, as Ayyanki was found to be using a car registered in Sajesh's name. Hence Sajesh was also quizzed by the Customs. A key accused in the smuggling, Soofiyan of Koduvally in Kozhikode, surrendered on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cpim-on-defensive-over-nexus-with-gold-smugglers-threat-to-congress-leader-1003291.html
30-06-2021||South||Madras HC casts doubts on 'right to refuse Covid vaccine' given present circumstances||Can a citizen refuse to take vaccine as a matter of right? "It is doubtful whether the right to refuse to take the vaccine can be exercised in such circumstances," the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said. "Vaccinating oneself may not only be to protect oneself but also in the larger interest of public health." "When such larger interest of public health comes into play and it is possible that a person who has not taken the vaccine may not reveal any symptoms but still be a silent carrier, it is doubtful whether the right to refuse to take the vaccine can be exercised in such circumstances," the bench explained. The explanation followed a submission from the State that there is an element of reluctance in some quarters to take the covid vaccine. The bench said that the State should try and persuade them with awareness campaigns and scientific data to indicate the efficacy of the vaccines and the indispensable nature thereof in dealing with the present pandemic. Though the June 29 status report indicates appropriate measures having been taken or planned to be taken at rehabilitation homes, mental care centres and the like, as prayed for by advocate Karpagam, the petitioner, the bench felt that there does not appear to be a plan in place for persons with disabilities, who are homebound and do not have the ability or resources to travel, particularly in the semi-urban and rural areas. It, however, hoped all persons with disabilities, irrespective of status and resources, are taken care of by the State in due course. The matter stands adjourned till July 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-casts-doubts-on-right-to-refuse-covid-vaccine-given-present-circumstances-1003315.html
30-06-2021||South||Kochi Metro Rail service to resume from July 1||The Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) on Wednesday announced resumption of services from July 1 with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocol. In a tweet, the KMRL said the service would resume from 8 AM to 8 PM after 53 days. The trains were not operated due to the Covid-19-induced lockdown. KMRL officials said steps, including cleaning and sanitation of the metro premises, would be taken to prevent the spread of the virus. Other safety measures such as thermal scanning of passengers would be taken to check their temperatures before entering the station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kochi-metro-rail-service-to-resume-from-july-1-1003347.html
30-06-2021||State||Karnataka planning perks for women to co-own properties||The state government is planning to incentivise women to co-own lands and properties with their husbands or male family members. Such co-ownership involving women will be given priority under various government schemes. This is part of a bigger effort to improve Karnataka’s ranking on gender equality, one of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) in which the state is lagging behind. The move will also help women gain financial security, authorities said. According to a source in the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO), the government is planning to make a provision to insist that there be joint ownership or a joint khata of a property, involving the wife. “We can’t make this mandatory,” the source said. However, the government will give incentives for it. “For example, in the case of joint ownership in agriculture, the government will prioritise them while giving subsidies,” the source said, adding that similar benefits will be given to them in other sectors as well. Although Karnataka has improved its overall ranking (from 4th to 3rd) in the SDG Index 2020-21 and is a “front runner” in majority of the goals, it lags behind in gender equality, hunger, industry, innovation and infrastructure, climate action and quality education. Order soon “In a patriarchal setup, properties are usually registered in the husband’s name and in adverse circumstances, women find themselves abandoned by husband or children. Having a joint khata will help women gain security,” Karnataka State Policy and Planning Commission vice-chairperson BJ Puttaswamy told DH. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa responded positively to this recommendation of the commission, he said, adding that an order will be issued soon. The commission has also asked the government to ensure adequate job opportunities for women in both government and private sectors. On Tuesday, Yediyurappa held discussions with Niti Aayog officials on achieving SDG 2030. During the meeting, the officials urged the state government to focus on nutrition of pregnant women, children, gender equality, housing and education. “Discussions were held in detail with them to bring Karnataka to the number one position in the SDG index,” Yediyurappa said in a statement. In the SDG India 2020-21 report, Karnataka has ranked third (with a score of 72), along with Andhra Pradesh and Goa. In 2019, the state stood fourth in the national index.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-planning-perks-for-women-to-co-own-properties-1003038.html
30-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Leadership change issue in Karnataka a closed chapter, says B S Yediyurappa's son||Karnataka BJP vice president, B Y Vijayendra on Wednesday said the campaign by a section of party leaders seeking replacement of his father and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa from his post is now a closed chapter. Addressing reporters, he said, "Absolutely. No one is talking about it anymore." Vijayendra was responding to a query whether the issue of leadership change in the state is a closed chapter. He said the national general secretary and Karnataka in charge Arun Singh has clearly stated that Yediyurappa is running good administration and the BJP government will complete its term under his leadership. "There is no need to raise this issue (of leadership change) time and again when national leaders, state BJP president and even the Chief Minister have said that he (Yediyurappa) would continue in his position for the next two years," Vijayendra said. When asked why some BJP leaders are going to Delhi "every now and then", he said there was no restriction on anyone and giving a political colour to their visit was not good because these leaders go there for their personal works. Earlier this month, Arun Singh was in Bengaluru for three days and held a series of meetings with the ministers, MLAs, party leaders and the BJP state core committee members in the backdrop of some leaders demanding that Yediyurappa be replaced. On the "infighting" in the Karnataka Congress, Vijayendra said, "It is ridiculous that there is a fight going on in Congress about who should be the next chief minister from the party". Instead of focusing on working for people who are suffering due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Congress leaders are indulging in "infighting", he said. He was referring to recent statements of some Congress MLAs who either backed former CM Siddaramaiah or state party chief D K Shivakumar on who should lead the State if the party came to power in the next general assembly election in 2023.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/leadership-change-issue-in-karnataka-a-closed-chapter-says-b-s-yediyurappas-son-1003133.html
30-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress high command to sort out Karnataka youth wing mess||The row over the post of the Karnataka Pradesh Youth Congress Committee (KPYCC) president has become murkier with the party high command deciding to step in, which might result in Raksha Ramaiah, the incumbent, being replaced.  Raksha became the KPYCC president in February in a controversial election in which his rival Mohammed Haris Nalapad came first, but was disqualified at the last minute. The two were at loggerheads following the result.  A late Tuesday night truce meeting involving Raksha, Nalapad, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar and Indian Youth Congress (IYC) president B V Srinivas discussed a power-sharing pact: Raksha will hold the president’s post for 18 months and Nalapad for the remaining 18 months. The KPYCC president's post has a three-year term.  Multiple sources told DH that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi was upset with this ‘compromise’ formula. “Rahul is the one who introduced the concept of internal elections. This ‘compromise’ formula defeats the system. He is upset and doesn’t want Raksha or Nalapad in the fray,” a source said.  Ramaiah is the son of former minister McR Seetharam. In the February polls, he secured 57,271 votes. Nalapad bagged 64,203 votes but was disqualified owing to the infamous 2018 assault case. The result created controversy within the party. According to party sources, Raksha has Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah’s backing, whereas Nalapad is supported by Shivakumar. “It was discussed that both of us will hold the position for 18 months each, but nothing was finalised,” Raksha told DH. “Now, the matter has gone beyond the KPCC or the IYC. We are awaiting confirmation from the high command. They will depute someone from Delhi on July 4 to take a call,” he said.  According to a source close to Shivakumar, the high command might choose to appoint “a third person” as the state Youth Congress president. “What angered the high command, especially Rahul, is that this turned into an ego issue,” the source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-high-command-to-sort-out-karnataka-youth-wing-mess-1003156.html
30-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Minor reshuffle of IAS officers in Karnataka||The Karnataka government has effected a minor reshuffle by transferring seven IAS officers to new posts in the state. According to a government order, Dr Ajay Nagabhushan M N has been appointed as the Secretary to Government, Urban Development Department in Bengaluru replacing Tushar Giri Nath. Shikha C, Managing Director of the Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) has been transferred and posted until further orders as Commissioner for Commercial Taxes, Bengaluru. Salma K Fahim has been posted with immediate effect as Additional Secretary to Government, Infrastructure Development Department. Kanaga Valli M, Managing Director, Karnataka Silk Industries Corporation (KSIC), Bengaluru has been transferred with immediate effect and posted as Controller of Examinations of Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) in Bengaluru. Raghunandan Murthy, Chief Executive Officer, Zilla Panchayat, Koppal district has been transferred and posted as Additional Commissioner for Commercial Taxes (Enforcement) in Bengaluru. Archana M S has been posted with immediate effect as Member of Karnataka Appellate Tribunal, Bengaluru relieving Venkatesh T from concurrent charge. Ramya S has been posted as Executive Director of Karnataka Examination Authority, Bengaluru relieving Venkat Raja from concurrent charge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/minor-reshuffle-of-ias-officers-in-karnataka-1003179.html
30-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||B S Yediyurappa meets Karnataka Governor, vows to bring BJP back to power in 2023||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday made an unscheduled visit to Raj Bhavan and met Vajubhai R Vala, after which he said he would work towards bringing the BJP back to power with 130 seats in the next election. “Two years from now, the BJP should return to power with 130+ seats. That’s the challenge in front of me and I will start working on this from now, I assure party workers and citizens,” Yediyurappa told reporters outside Raj Bhavan, referring to the 2023 assembly polls. Yediyurappa said his visit to Raj Bhavan was to enquire about Vala’s health. “He underwent laser surgery on one eye. He’s going to get another eye operation. I came to enquire about this health. The question of discussing politics with the Governor doesn’t arise,” he said. “We discussed various issues and the Governor also listened calmly. We discussed development matters and I told him about the work we’re doing. He also gave some suggestions. We need to make an honest effort in the next two years,” he said, adding that he would resume his fortnightly visits to districts next week. Yediyurappa’s meeting with Vala came at a time when speculation is still alive on his replacement, with some BJP leaders having complained against the goings-on in the administration. There is also talk of a Cabinet reshuffle. Yediyurappa did not comment when asked about the speculation on leadership change. He also chose not to comment on BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi’s visit to New Delhi and his claim that some within the party had conspired against him. Ramesh had to resign as the water resources minister in March following a sex scandal. “As you know, I’ve not been reacting to anything,” he said. “I’ve been silently watching everything.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/b-s-yediyurappa-meets-karnataka-governor-vows-to-bring-bjp-back-to-power-in-2023-1003276.html
30-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 3,382 fresh Covid-19 cases, 111 deaths; positivity rate drops to 1.97%||For the last seven days, Karnataka's Covid-19 numbers have been averaging in the mid-3,000 level and Wednesday was no exception with 3,382 new cases being made public by the government.  The largest chunk of cases was found in Bengaluru Urban which reported 813 cases (comprising 24% of the statewide total). The next highest numbers were reported from Mysuru district (367 cases), Dakshina Kannada (339), Hassan district (265) and Kodagu (209). The new numbers, coupled with 12,763 discharges statewide, leave the state's active caseload to 76,505 cases, which is the lowest figure in 79 days when the active caseload stood at 75,985 on April 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-3382-fresh-covid-19-cases-111-deaths-positivity-rate-drops-to-197-1003310.html
30-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Never tried to unseat B S Yediyurappa: C P Yogeeshwar||Karnataka Tourism Minister C P Yogeeshwar on Wednesday said he never tried to unseat Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and asked the media not to portray him as a villain. Yogeeshwar dismissed allegations in some quarters that he was among the BJP leaders who had demanded the replacement of Yediyurappa. "Yediyurappa is our Chief Minister. Why do you want to make us a villain? We are not trying to unseat Yediyurappa," Yogeeshwar told reporters here. The Minister further said, "We have internal problems and I have been going there (Delhi) to narrate my woes..." Regarding his meeting with MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, an alleged detractor of Yediyurappa, he said both are friends. "I must meet him (Yatnal) when I go to his constituency. What's wrong with that?" Yogeeshwar countered. On when he expects the "results of the exam", he said the seniors in the party have to decide. On June 25, he had said "I don't want to speak about politics, I have expressed my pain inside four walls. We have written the exam, let's wait for the results, what's the urgency?" By writing the exam, he apparently meant that he had conveyed his grievances to the BJP national general secretary and Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh who was in Bengaluru for three days a fortnight ago to take stock of the situation following rumblings in the ruling party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/never-tried-to-unseat-b-s-yediyurappa-c-p-yogeeshwar-1003312.html
30-06-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Written exam and no interview to recruit principals and assistant professors: Ashwath Narayan||The appointment process to fill vacancies of assistant professors and principals in higher education institutions will be based on a written exam and there will be no interviews, Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said on Wednesday. In a statement, Narayan said the direct recruitment process to fill vacancies of 1,242 assistant professors and 310 Principals in higher education institutions will begin shortly. "These appointments will be made through a written examination and there will be no interview or viva voce. Principals are being appointed for the first time after 2009 and assistant professors are appointed after 2017," Narayan said. According to the DCM, the notification process for the recruitment will begin in the next 20 days and the entire process will be completed in a span of six months. The written exam for Assistant professors will be for 500 marks comprising objective-type questions -- 100 for Kannada, 100 for English, 50 for general knowledge and 250 for optional subjects. For principal posts, the exam will be also based on objective-type questions for 100 marks, he explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/written-exam-and-no-interview-to-recruit-principals-and-assistant-professors-ashwath-narayan-1003336.html
30-06-2021||West||Famous conservationist Varad Giri gets genus named after him||India’s leading herpetologist and conservationist Dr Varad Giri now has a genus named after him. Genus is a principal taxonomic category that ranks above species and below family, and is denoted by a capitalised Latin name. 'Varadia amboliensis', a new genus and species has been described, referring to 'Varad Giri' and 'Amboli' in the coastal Sindhudurg district of the Konkan belt of Maharashtra. Reacting to the honour, Giri said, “Genus is named in honour of my minuscule contribution to Indian herpetology and supporting young researchers in whatever way I can. Thank you all for considering me worth this recognition.” Earlier, a snake species had been named after him — “Dendrepahis girii”, popularly known as Giri’s bronzeback tree snake. Giri currently works as a senior scientist with the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS). Bhosale also presented a paper 'Varadia, a new helicarionoidean semi-slug genus from India’s Western Ghats (Stylommatophora: Helicarionoidea)' in the European Journal of Taxonomy. Bhosale said, “A new genus and new species of semi-slug as Varadia amboliensis gen. et sp. nov. from Hiranyakeshi Temple in Amboli, Maharashtra, India. Genus is named in honor of the herpetologist Dr Varad Giri, who has made a major contribution to the modern study and conservation of the Indian herpetofauna. Species is named after the type locality, Amboli, in the Sindhudurg District of southern Maharashtra, India.” Further describing the species, Bhosale said, “Varadia amboliensis has unique morphological as well as reproductive characteristics. You can easily differentiate it from the species of Macrochlamys genus by having glossy grey to greyish colour, broad polishing shell lobes which cover most of the shell surface, and different reproductive systems. This species is primarily ground living encountered at night in leaf litter, rocks, the base of the tree and also observed on compound walls close to the forest edge.” This species is endemic to the northern and central Western Ghats, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It is recorded from five localities and is omnivorous in the diet. It has been observed feeding on leaf litter, banana peel, dead cricket, and earthworm. On the basis of reproductive characteristics, this snail is included in the Macrochlamydinae (Ariophantidae).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/famous-conservationist-varad-giri-gets-genus-named-after-him-1003096.html
30-06-2021||West||Maharashtra’s longest, widest road tunnel sees light of day||In a major achievement, Maharashtra's biggest and widest road-tunnel built on the Mumbai-Nagpur super communication highway has opened. The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) and Afcons Infrastructure Ltd, a part of the Shapoorji Pallonji Group, confirmed the development. The mammoth task was completed on May 29, but has only been made public now. The tunnel opened in the presence of Radheshyam Mopalwar, Vice Chairman and Managing Director, MSRDC. The tunnel is 7.78 km long, in two tubes with a total width of 35 metres — 17.50 metres in each tube —  located between Igatpuri (Nashik district) and Vashala (Thane district), in a thickly forested hilly terrain. The Hindu Hrudayasamrat Balasaheb Thackeray Maharashtra Samruddhi Mahamarg or the Mumbai-Nagpur super communication highway is one of the most ambitious infrastructure projects. “We were able to achieve the breakthrough three months ahead of schedule. Despite the second wave of the pandemic, the entire team showed tremendous courage, stamina and caution to stick to their task and achieve the daylighting. This was possible because of active cooperation, support, and guidance from our client, locals and a highly energised execution team,” said Sekhar Das, the leader and project manager of a highly-motivated Package-14 team. “To successfully accomplish the breakthrough on time, we executed the heading portion and consistently managed more than 200 meters of excavation for nine consecutive months. Our highest was 258.4 metres of heading excavation in a month. We executed 3.3 km from a single tube by providing ventilation through a vertical shaft of 70m. That is an achievement,” Das said. “We’re aware of the pressures and we’re not letting the intensity go. The team is highly motivated and there is a desire to accomplish. This project is not only vast but also challenging because of the region, the wildlife in and around the area, and the prestige of constructing the state’s longest and widest road tunnels (7.75 km long and 17.5m wide),” he added. The boring of the tunnel for such a huge area is being done for the first time in Afcons. “Constructing a 35 m wide long shade tunnel is a first in the organisation. Gantry concreting of the highest perimeter is also a first. Consecutive achievement of more than 200m excavation per month through single face is also a noteworthy achievement,” Das added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-s-longest-widest-road-tunnel-sees-light-of-day-1003111.html
30-06-2021||West||Over 700 Mumbai policemen likely to be transferred to other districts||At least 727 policemen of various ranks from sub-inspector to senior inspector, who have completed eight years of service in Mumbai, are likely to be shifted to other districts, an official said on Wednesday. However, all these personnel will not be shifted out of Mumbai at the same time, he said. The Mumbai police on Monday issued a notice with a list of such personnel, including 89 senior police inspectors, 253 inspectors, 375 assistant police inspectors and 10 sub-inspectors, he said. In the notice, Joint Commissioner of Police (Administration) Rajkumar Vhatkar instructed the listed officers, posted in various units of the city police force, to submit three places of their choice for the new posting. The list will be sent to the Director General of Police's (DGP) office. "Not all officers will be shifted in one go, as there can be some extra-ordinary considerations, like medical grounds or an officer nearing retirement," the official said. In such cases, the officer concerned can be exempted from transfer after a review by the establishment board, he said. The Mumbai police recently transferred 85 officers to other units, including 65 officers from the crime branch, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-700-mumbai-policemen-likely-to-be-transferred-to-other-districts-1003117.html
30-06-2021||West||Mumbai's Film City set to be modernised under PPP mode||Amid fierce competition from other states, the Maharashtra government has set the ball rolling for the modernisation of Mumbai’s famed Film City. The Maharashtra Film, Stage and Cultural Development Corporation Ltd (MFSCDC), which runs the Film City has invited Expression of Interest (EOI) for the development of the 22-acre land in its possession. The development of Dadasaheb Phalke Chitranagari or the Film City – which is located in Goregaon suburbs - would be undertaken on public-private partnership (PPP) mode. The upgradation of Film City has been high on the agenda of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who holds the finance portfolio. The EOI is for the development of core infrastructure – studio floors, outdoor locations, post-production facilities and related ancillary infrastructure. The Uttar Pradesh government is planning a Film City which would be near the proposed Jewar International Airport and would be the biggest in Asia. Besides, other states are also offering unique locations for the shooting of films and entertainment content. Spread across 521 acres, the Film City has practically every possible terrain that one can ask for. It has hills, lakes, bridges, long and winding roads and a green expanse. Located between the Western Express Highway and Vihar Lake, it is in the vicinity of the Sanjay Gandhi National Park, which happens to be the only national park of the world – to be located within the metropolitan limits. The Film City has nearly 40 different outdoor locations, 16 well-equipped sound-proof studios and 80 air-conditioned makeup rooms. Recording studios equipped with state-of-the-art dubbing and mixing facilities and editing suites for 16/35 mm films are also available. On a day, there are 30 to 35 scheduled shootings and approximately 1,200 films are made here every year. Over 70 per cent of Indian motion pictures, TV serials and commercials are produced in Mumbai and the Film City accounts for 30 to 40 per cent of them. There are several permanent locations such as a temple, church, court, police station, jail, chawl, ATM centre, car parking facility, shopping arcade, log hut, cottage, tribal village and multipurpose building exterior suitable for college, hospital and hostel entrance. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-film-city-set-to-be-modernised-under-ppp-mode-1003125.html
30-06-2021||West||Stop political rallies being held amid Covid-19 pandemic, Bombay HC tells Maharashtra Govt||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday said the Maharashtra government must stop any political rally, which flouted Covid-19 protocols, from being carried out in the state amid the ongoing pandemic. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni asked how such rallies, including one held earlier this month over the name of an upcoming airport in neighbouring Navi Mumbai, were allowed when the state government had prohibited large gatherings to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The bench said if the state is unable to prevent such incidents in future, the court will have to step in and prohibit any such political rally. "You (Maharashtra government) will have to activate your machinery to stop any political rallies defying Covid-19 protocols," the HC told state Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni. "If you can't handle it, let it be done by the court. We will not allow this to happen. We are shutting down courts, we are not being able to work at full strength (to comply with protocols and restrictions imposed by the state in view of the pandemic) and yet, these political leaders are organising rallies?" the HC said. Last week, thousands of people staged a protest in CBD Belapur area demanding that the under-construction Navi Mumbai international airport be named after late D B Patil, a local leader. They asked for nixing of the decision to name the airport after late Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray. Referring to the protest rally, the high court said the airport is not even ready yet, but people are already organising rallies over its potential name just for political benefits. "We thought there will be a maximum of 5,000 people. It turned out there were 25,000 people (in the rally). Can it not wait till Covid-19 is over?" the HC asked. The court further asked if holding political rallies for gaining "mileage" was more important than preventing the spread of the coronavirus infection. "There are rallies in the state for Maratha reservation. The issue is pending before the Supreme Court. Why can't politicians go to the electorate and say the issue is pending before court?" the HC sought to know. What is the state government going to do to prevent such rallies in future, the court asked. The HC raised the questions while hearing a bunch of public interest litigations (PILs) on managing resources for preventing and treating Covid-19 and the state's preparedness for a possible third wave of the pandemic. It will continue hearing the PILs next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/stop-political-rallies-being-held-amid-covid-19-pandemic-bombay-hc-tells-maharashtra-govt-1003131.html
30-06-2021||West||Maharashtra to start home vaccination for bedridden people on trial basis: Govt to HC||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday told the Bombay High Court that it would soon start home vaccination against Covid-19 for people who are immobile or bedridden on an experimental basis, and would not wait for an approval from the Centre. State Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni told a division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni that home vaccination on a trial and experimental basis would be introduced in Pune district first. "We will not refer the proposal to start home vaccination to the Centre for approval. We (state government) will take our own decision. We will explore this possibility (home vaccination) on a trial basis in Pune district," Kumbhakoni said. The state government on Tuesday filed an affidavit in the HC, saying there would be conditions imposed, like taking a written consent from the beneficiary's family and a certificate from the family doctor taking responsibility in case of any adverse reaction to the vaccine. The HC on Wednesday said the condition asking for a certificate from a doctor was “impractical”. "We hope and trust that you (government) won't insist on a doctor to certify. How can a doctor take responsibility? Do not put such an impractical condition," Chief Justice Datta said. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by two advocates - Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari- seeking a direction to the Centre and the state government to introduce door-to-door vaccination for senior citizens above the age of 75, specially-abled people and those who are bed-ridden and hence, unable to move out of their homes. On Tuesday, the government in its affidavit said it would have to first take approval from the Union government before starting home vaccinations against Covid-19. This prompted the court to question why the approval was required when other states like Kerala, Jharkhand and Bihar have already started door-to-door vaccination. The high court on Wednesday pointed out some media reports of nurses and doctors travelling to people's homes in a hilly region of Tripura to administer the vaccine. The court posted the matter for further hearing on Thursday in the judges' chamber. “We will hear the matter tomorrow in chambers in the presence of the chairman of the State Covid-19 Task Force,” the bench said. The HC also said the state government can go ahead with its home vaccination drive on an experimental basis and need not wait for orders from the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-to-start-home-vaccination-for-bedridden-people-on-trial-basis-govt-to-hc-1003166.html
30-06-2021||West||Maharashtra Governor asks CM to extend Monsoon Session, elect Speaker after meeting BJP leaders||In what could spark off political tensions in Maharashtra, Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has shot off a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to take a call on the demands raised by Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on election to the vacant post of Legislative Assembly Speaker and increasing the duration of monsoon session. However, the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi reminded Koshyari of the letter that it had submitted last year recommending 12 names for membership of the Legislative Council from the Governor’s quota - which the Raj Bhavan is yet to clear.  Last week, the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government decided to curtail the monsoon session and decided on a two-day business schedule on 5-6 July in the wake of the Covid-19 situation and the impending third wave. In a one-page letter, the Governor highlighted three issues raised by Fadnavis – increasing the duration of  monsoon session, holding Legislative Assembly Speaker's election, and postponement of local body elections due to the pending OBC quota issue.  The post of Speaker is vacant since the resignation of Nana Patole, who had taken over as the Maharashtra Congress President. Deputy Speaker Narhari Zirwal of NCP is holding the fort. Ahead of the budget session, the Governor had directed that elections to the post of Speaker be held, however, it could not be done. Meanwhile, state Revenue Minister and senior Congressman Balasaheb Thorat said the elections to the Speaker's post are scheduled for 6 July.  “This is being considered,” he said. NCP spokesperson and Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said final decision will be taken once Covid-19 test reports of all the MLAs is received. "We will hold the election to the Speaker's post but the Governor should also take a decision on nominating 12 members as MLCs from his quota. The 12 legislators can contribute to the development and welfare of the people of Maharashtra," Malik said. It may be mentioned, on 6 November, 2020, a ministerial delegation comprising Parliamentary Affairs minister Anil Parab of Shiv Sena,  Malik of NCP and Medical Education and Cultural Affairs Minister Amit Deshmukh called on Koshyari at the Raj Bhavan and submitted the 12 names. The Governor nominates 12 MLCs for tenure of six years – based on the recommendations of the state Cabinet. According to Article171(5) of the Constitution: “(5) The members to be nominated by the Governor under sub clause (e) of clause (3) shall consist of persons having special knowledge or practical experience in respect of such matters as the following, namely: literature, science, art, co operative movement and social service.”  However, no time frame is mentioned. As far as the Speaker's election is concerned, the MVA does not foresee any problems. The simple majority mark in the house is 145 and the MVA constituents have more than 150 MLAs - Shiv Sena (56), NCP (53) and Congress (43) besides support of Independents and smaller parties. The BJP has 106 MLAs and has support of 10 to 12 others Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-governor-asks-cm-to-extend-monsoon-session-elect-speaker-after-meeting-bjp-leaders-1003191.html
30-06-2021||West||Chaos at vaccination centres in Ahmedabad due to crowding amid short supply||Chaotic scenes were witnessed at several Covid-19 inoculation centres in Ahmedabad on Wednesday as people turned up in large numbers to take the jabs amid short supply of vaccines in the Gujarat city. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) struggled to meet its target of vaccinating one lakh people per day due to less number of vaccines supplied to it, officials said. At many vaccination centres in Ahmedabad, especially in the city's eastern parts, people queued up since early morning to avail tokens for vaccination which were being distributed in limited numbers. Many centres even put up boards saying Covishield vaccine was not available. A beneficiary at Bodakdev urban health centre here said, "I came early in the morning so that I could get a token for the vaccine. They gave tokens to only 100 people. I came for the second day today and was fortunate to get the token." Long queues were also seen at other vaccination centres in localities like Khokhra, Amraiwari, Vastral, with people turning up since early morning to get vaccinated. The AMC on June 20 said it had set a target of vaccinating one lakh people per day, after the state government launched the facility of spot registration. However, from June 21 to 29, it failed to even cross the 50,000-mark, officials said. As per the vaccination data shared by the AMC, on June 21, 38,311 people were vaccinated in the city. The vaccination figures for the next eight days were 39,541, 41,887, 41,390, 33,355, 27,509, 20,158, 22,506, and 25,289. AMC's medical officer Bhavin Solanki said, "We are getting less supply of vaccines, but we are vaccinating people depending upon the supply, that varies every day. Like yesterday, we received 35,000 doses. Some days we receive 20,000 doses, or even 13,000 doses." A similar situation was witnessed at some centres in Rajkot. People complained of irregularities and lack of a proper system for vaccination due to which they were unable to get inoculated. In Sabarkantha, several centres put up boards saying no vaccination will be carried out until they receive supply of vaccines. The Gujarat government on Tuesday said 40 per cent of the eligible population in the state has already received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. The Covid-19 vaccination drive was rolled out in Gujarat along with other states on January 16 this year. From May 1, Gujarat launched the drive to vaccinate people in the age group of 18-44 years in phases before expanding it across the state. On Tuesday, Gujarat reported 93 new Covid-19 cases, the second straight day of under-100 daily count, taking the coronavirus tally to 8,23,433, while 326 patients recovered from the infection, as per the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/chaos-at-vaccination-centres-in-ahmedabad-due-to-crowding-amid-short-supply-1003231.html
30-06-2021||West||Gujarat man held for allegedly funding religious conversion racket in Uttar Pradesh||In a joint operation, the Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Wednesday arrested a resident of Vadodara in connection with the racket said to be involved in large-scale religious conversion. ATS officials said that the Vadodara resident Salauddin Shaikh allegedly funded the racket through hawala channel. "We assisted the UP ATS in the arrest of Salauddin Sheikh from Vadodara in connection with the religious conversion racket busted in UP. Shaikh, about 55 years old, is suspected to have funded people involved in the racket," said Superintendent of Police, Gujarat ATS, Imtiyaz Shaikh. He added that the suspect was taken to Ahmedabad court for taking transit remand to be taken to UP for investigation. According to police sources, Shaikh is a trustee of at least two registered NGOs, which have FCRA licences to receive foreign donations. He is alleged to have sent Rs 10 lakh through hawala channels to Mohammed Umar Gautam, a resident of UP, who is said to be the key accused in the case. Gujarat ATS officials said that "Sheikh is involved in at least three transactions." In the past week, the UP ATS has arrested over five persons including Gautam for allegedly running the racket which is alleged to have converted hundreds of people to Islam in the past one and a half years. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-man-held-for-allegedly-funding-religious-conversion-racket-in-uttar-pradesh-1003278.html
30-06-2021||West||BJP demands probe against Ajit Pawar, Anil Parab||Mounting pressure on the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra, the BJP on Wednesday wrote to the Centre demanding a CBI probe against Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab in the wake of allegations of corruption levelled by dismissed cop Sachin Waze. While Pawar is nephew of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar – the chief architect of the MVA government, Parab, a senior Shiv Sena leader, is a close confidante of Thackeray. State BJP President Chandrakant Patil has written a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah demanding a probe. “…the present memorandum is not initiated or coming out of political agenda but if the disclosure of Sachin Waze is not dealt with according to law, the law-abiding citizens will seriously lose faith in the legal system by itself,” he said. It may be recalled, former Mumbai Police Commissioner and now Commandant General of Home Guards, Param Bir Singh wrote to Thackeray about the then Home Minister Anil Deshmukh fixing Rs 100 crore per month collection target for Waze. After the arrest of Waze by the NIA, he had claimed that Pawar Junior and his contact person Darshan Ghodawat and Parab too had asked him to collect money.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-demands-probe-against-ajit-pawar-anil-parab-1003314.html
30-06-2021||West||Gujarat govt begins compensating residents to redevelop Gandhi-founded Sabarmati Ashram||The work of redeveloping Mahatma Gandhi-founded Sabarmati Ashram into a "world-class memorial" has taken off, with the state government starting to disburse compensation to the residents whose ancestors settled at the Ashram on Gandhi's call. In order to speed up the work of rehabilitation of the residents, the authorities have set up a "coordination committee" that has members including Ahmedabad collector and three residents of Ashram, among others. "The committee has been formed to coordinate with various stakeholders including rehabilitation of the residents. So far, we have compensated Rs 40 lakh each to 19 residents," Ahmedabad collector Sandeep Sagle told DH. There are over 200 families, a majority of them from Scheduled Caste community, whose forefathers settled at the ashram from 1917 onwards on Gandhi's call. The state government has earmarked Rs 1,200 crore for the project called, "Gandhi Ashram Memorial and Precinct Development Project" that plans to bring the Ashram into its "original shape" as Gandhi established. The state government, based on suggestions from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is redeveloping the ashram that aims to integrate over 35 acres of its campus, housing 63 heritage properties established during Gandhi's lifetime. The plan is to bring together all original structures into one campus. At present, the campus is scattered into several parts which are managed by different trusts. After independence, the Ashram was divided into five major trusts- Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust (SAPMT), Sabarmati Ashram Gaushala Trust, Harijan Ashram Trust, Harijan Sevak Sangh and Khadi Gramodyog Prayog Samiti. SAPMT manages Sabarmati Ashram, which is popular among tourists and houses Hriday Kunj where Gandhi lived during his stay. The state government has roped in architect Bimal Patel as the master planner for the development. "We are helping the government in coordination and other work required for rehabilitation. We just want that every deserving family should be properly compensated. The government has fixed Rs 60 lakh per family as compensation to those who want to leave and housing facilities to those who don't want money," said Hemant Chauhan, a resident of the ashram and a member of the coordination committee. The other members are retired IAS officer I K Patel, Additional Commissioner of Police, sector-2, Gautam Parmar, among others. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-begins-compensating-residents-to-redevelop-gandhi-founded-sabarmati-ashram-1003345.html
30-06-2021||West||Maharashtra reports 9,771 new Covid cases, 141 deaths||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 9,771 new cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 60,61,404, while the death toll rose to 1,21,945 after 141 patients succumbed to the infection, according to a health department official. The state reported about 1,700 more cases, but 90 less fatalities as compared to Tuesday, when the new infections stood at 8,085 and the deaths at 231. The official said as many as 10,353 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, pushing the number of recovered cases to 58,19,901. The state now has 1,16,364 active Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra's Covid-19 recovery rate is 96.02 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.01 per cent, he said. According to the official, out of 4,16,37,950 Covid-19 tests conducted so far, 60,61,404 have tested positive for coronavirus, reflecting a case positivity rate of 14.56 per cent. Currently, 6,17,926 people are in home quarantine and 4,173 in institutional quarantine, he said. According to the official, Mumbai reported 706 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 7,22,222, while the death toll increased to 15,451 with the addition of 25 fresh fatalities. He said 536 people tested positive in Pune municipal limits, which took the tally to 4,94,342, while the the death toll remained unchanged at 8165 as no fresh fatality wasreported in the city in the last 24 hours. According to the official, Nagpur, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad and Amravati municipal corporation areas reported 22, 269, 63, nine and 20 new Covid-19 cases, respectively. Coronavirus figures in Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases 60,61,404; new cases-9,771; total deaths 1,21,945; recoveries 58,19,901; active cases 1,16,364 total tests 4,16,37,950.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-9771-new-covid-cases-141-deaths-1003348.html
