01-12-2020||---||4 cops held on corruption charges; 3 at large in Amritsar||Amritsar, November 30The Vigilance Bureau (VB) has nabbed four cops on charges of corruption while three of their accomplices are still absconding.Officials of the VB and Punjab Police were tightlipped over the incident even as sources in the VB revealed that they were nabbed following the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. All the accused belonged to the Chatiwind police station falling under the Amritsar rural police here.The sources said the victim, who had accused the policemen of harassing and taking money from him, produced a video before the high court. Taking serious cognizance of it, it directed the VB to take appropriate action and submit a report to it in this regard.After holding a preliminary probe, the VB booked seven cops posted with the Chatiwind police station under different sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and arrested four of them.Three others were yet to be arrested, said a VB official, adding that the complainant (in the case) was also facing several criminal cases. A report would be submitted to the high court in the regard, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-cops-held-on-corruption-charges-3-at-large-in-amritsar-178280
01-12-2020||Amritsar||Head Constable held as Rs 20 lakh goes missing from malkhana||The rural police on Monday arrested a Moharrir Head Constable (HC) posted with the Jandiala police station after Rs 20 lakh kept in the malkhana as case property went missing. He was identified as Kishan Chand, a resident of Batala.The caseSuspect HC Kishan Chand said two days ago, he along with his assistant Harpreet Singh checked the malkhana and found the locks of the sealed box, in which Rs 20 lakh was kept, broken and the cash missing. Hence, he changed these.As SHO Harchand Singh was on leave, SI Charan Singh along with his staff checked the entire malkhana complex and found the broken locks and an iron rod which was used to break the locks. He said all these things were seized and senior cops informed. As it is the responsibility of the Moharrir Head Constable of the police, a case has been registered against Kishan Chand and he has been suspended.He was immediately placed under suspension and a case under Section 409 of the IPC (criminal breach of trust by public servant) and Section 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered against him.Sub-Inspector Charan Singh, who is also Additional SHO, said on Saturday Kishan Chand informed him about the missing of the cash which was confiscated by the police around two months ago. The police had informed the Income Tax Department regarding the seizure which was deposited in the malkhana of the Jandiala police station.Kishan Chand said he had found the locks damaged four days ago and therefore changed it. He said two days ago, he along with his assistant Harpreet Singh checked the malkhana and found the locks of the sealed box, in which Rs 20 lakh was kept, broken and the cash missing.As SHO Harchand Singh was on leave, Sub-Inspector Charan Singh along with his staff thoroughly checked the entire malkhana complex and found the broken locks and an iron rod which was used to break the locks. He said all these things were seized and senior police officials were informed about it.As it is the responsibility of the Moharrir Head Constable of the police, a case has been registered against Kishan Chand and he has been suspended. Investigation is under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/head-constable-held-as-rs-20-lakh-goes-missing-from-malkhana-178283
01-12-2020||Amritsar||Ambitious rail link moving at a snail’s pace||The ambitious project of providing shorter-rail connectivity between Amritsar and Ferozepur has been progressing at a snail’s pace. The project would drastically reduce the distance between the northern and western India as well.The state government had been waiting for a nod from the four-member experts group, constituted for sanctioning the project.The group comprises two persons who would be displaced due to the project and would look into the rehabilitation of their counterparts.Earlier, social sciences department of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) had conducted the Social Impact Assessment (SIA) of the project.The study found that around 230 households would be affected while 140 hectares would be required to lay nearly 25-km railway line.The people expressed fear of waterlogging, which according to the SIA, could be addressed by constructing enough water exit points.The track would pass through 12 villages, including Kot Buddha, Safa Singh Wala, Kale Ke Uttar, Talwandi Sobha Singh, Talwandi Nastada Singh, Manak Ke Jand, Maan and Bangna Rai in Tarn Taran while Mallan Wala, Dullah Singh Wala, Quttubuddin Wala and Kale Ke Hithar in Ferozepur.As per the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, no land can be acquired unless public purpose is served.Prof Rajesh Kumar from social sciences department of GNDU said, “The project will herald social and economic transformation of around 2.5 lakh people, besides providing another line of transportation to defence forces along the International Border.”Tarn Taran Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said, “Once the experts group give there nod, the district administrations of Ferozepur and Tarn Taran will proceed to undertake the next work.”Following which the assessment of the land’s value would be carried out before announcing the award for land acquisition.After the proposed land would be acquired and handed over to the Indian Railways, then the latter would proceed to lay the tracks and construct two overbridges.A key railway overbridge (ROB) of around one-and-a-half kilometres would be constructed over Sutlej, starting from Kot Buddha village. This ROB would reduce the distance between Jammu and Mumbai by 267 km, Amritsar and Mumbai by 240 km and Ferozepur and Amritsar from 118 km to 86 km.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ambitious-rail-link-moving-at-a-snails-pace-178285
01-12-2020||Amritsar||Please don’t mind the gap!||The ongoing has forced people to take ample precautions to ensure distancing and shopkeepers such as pharmacists have come up with a system to not allow customers inside the shops.At many shops, mostly pharmacies, the owners have put up curtains to create a partition between them and the customers to avoid any risks to their health. While in Rambagh area, hardware stores and others have simply used ropes to demarcate the space.The customers thus wait outside the shop as their orders are received and goods provided ultimately, from a distance. The system has mostly been adopted by shopkeepers who earlier witnessed huge rush at the counters as people jostled with each other to get ahead.This method induced by the pandemic seems to be working quite well for the shopkeepers. “The space inside the shops, which usually is small, earlier remained crowded and the salesmen had difficulty moving around. Now, that problem has been solved and shops also look more organised,” said an owner of a shop in Rambagh.In many stores which do not require the entry of customers, the shopkeepers have put on makeshift arrangements like placing a table at the entrance to block entry.“The restricted entry helps as we do not have to worry about the sanitsation process. A customer coming inside would possibly touch the counter or other items. And if he is infected, it might result in spreading the disease,” said a pharmacist.However, some people did express that standing outside a shop is at times annoying. “At times it feels that the shopkeeper is a dominant partner in the transaction as he is not allowing you inside and you are waiting outside his gate for him to notice you,” said Harvinder Singh, adding that precautions these days are necessary and he hopes that the situation turns normal soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/please-dont-mind-the-gap-178286
01-12-2020||Amritsar||Spurt in cases, deaths seen in November’s second fortnight in Amritsar||With the Covid-19 infection count reaching the 13,117 mark, the district reported 1,223 new infections and 45 deaths during the month of November. The count of infections is 34 per cent less than the cases (1,831) reported in the month of October.Even the number of casualties has gone down by nearly 48 per cent with the district reporting 45 deaths in November in comparison to 86 during the previous month. Though the overall figures are relieving, the district has witnessed an increase in the number of cases and casualties during the second fortnight of the month of November.51 test +ve for covid-19 in districtThe district health authorities reported 51 new infections on Monday. The new cases include 33 influenza-like cases and 18 contacts of positive patients. The district did not report any death on Monday.With a total count of 13,117 cases, the district has also reported 501 deaths due to the disease so far. Meanwhile, with the recovery of 15 patients, the recovery count has also increased to 11,993. At present, the district has a total of 683 active cases.The increase in the number of casualties is even worrisome. Of the total 45 deaths reported in November, a total of 23 were reported in the last week of November. While the health authorities and district administration had predicted a second wave of infections during the winter months, the increase in cases during the latter part of November indicates that the situation has already started turning bad.With educational institutions, businesses and market places already opening up and people lowering their guard after months of exhaustive precautions, the chances of further increase cannot be ruled out, said a health official. He said as marriage season in Punjab falls in the winter months, mass gatherings would be a routine.Though the government has already announced night curfew in the state from December 1, this cannot be relied upon as an effective tool to check infections, as businesses except for hospitality industry close down early in winter months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/spurt-in-cases-deaths-seen-in-novembers-second-fortnight-in-amritsar-178288
01-12-2020||Amritsar||Gangster held in Mani Dhawan murder case||The police have arrested notorious gangster Shubham for murdering rival gangster Gorilla’s brother Mani Dhawan recently. Shubham confessed that he had got Mani murdered by his accomplices.Confirming this development, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said a hunt had been launched against the two assailants who were on the run. They would be arrested soon, he claimed.Shubham was brought on production warrant from Faridkot jail and later arrested for the murder after he confessed to have committed the crime.“Shubham was remanded in three-day police custody. He had confessed that he had got Mani murdered due to rivalry as Gorilla accompanied Simran for murdering his father,” revealed the DCP.Mani was gunned down by two armed assailants on 88-feet road on Majitha Road on Friday. The victim was basking in the sun near his shop. It is being suspected that Shubham’s accomplices shot him dead.Their (Shubham and Simran’s) rivalry started in 2015. Shubham shot dead Simran’s father in 2016. He used to run a dhaba on Majitha Road. To avenge his father’s death, Simran shot dead Shubham’s father, a former cop, in 2018. Similarly, Shubham, along with his accomplice Saraj Mintoo, killed a Hindu leader Vipin Sharma on Batala Road, who allegedly gave shelter to Simran.Shubham has over 24 criminal cases, including murder, attempt to murder, robberies and under the Arms Act, registered against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangster-held-in-mani-dhawan-murder-case-178289
01-12-2020||Amritsar||551st Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev celebrated||A sea of devotees thronged the Golden Temple to pay obeisance on the occasion of 551st Parkash Purb of the founder of the Sikhism, Guru Nanak Dev, which was celebrated with traditional fervour and gaiety on Monday. Sangat also took a dip in holy sarovar.They listened to the Gurbani and had darshan of ‘Jalaun’ (show of splendor) at the sanctum sanctorum, Akal Takht and Gurdwara Baba Atal Rai.On this occasion, bhog of the Akhand Path was performed at Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall and Ragi Jatha rendered the Gurbani kirtan.At night, entire Golden Temple complex was illuminated with beautiful lighting and a firecracker display was also carried out.3 women officers took charge of celebrationsThree women officers, who occupy key posts in the district administration, had on Monday taken the charge of the conduct of 551st Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak at the holy town of Sultanpur Lodhi.Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal, SSP Kanwardeep Kaur and SDM Sultanpur Lodhi Charumita along with a team of officers had done all the planning of security, traffic, crowd management, drinking water facilities, washroom and other basic amenities for more than 4 lakh devotees during the event.For the last 10 days, they were in the field constantly monitoring the arrangements in the pandemic days. Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal, a 2011-batch IAS officer, said, “This time, we are facing an unprecedented health crisis in the form of Covid. There was an uphill challenge to ensure strict adherence to protocols during the massive congregation here.”She said 50,000 masks were distributed during the event and 50 hand-wash kiosks and sanitisation points were set up to prevent the spread. Besides, testing was also carried out vigorously.SSP Kanwardeep Kaur, a 2013-batch IPS officer, who recently joined Kapurthala, said that more than 2,000 cops were deployed to keep round the clock vigil. Also, CCTV cameras were installed as special checking teams were also formed. She said that for the traffic management, six parking lots were set up on all the roads leading to Sultanpur Lodhi for devotees.SDM Charumita, a 2013-batch PCS officer, who was a key member of the team constituted for the events, said ensuring cleanliness was one of the biggest task amid heavy footfall and task was managed with the help of more than 550 safai sewaks from adjoining Municipal Councils like Adampur, Bhogpur, Shahkot, Nakodar, Tanda, Dasuya, Nadala and others. She said that 20 swimmers were also deployed around holy Bein to avert any mishap.Meanwhile, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday laid foundation stones of six projects to be completed at a cost of nearly Rs40.75 crore. Listing some other projects that had been announced and completed at Sultanpur Lodhi, the CM said the beautification of the holy Bein was done at a cost of Rs10.8 crore, while Guru Nanak Dev Centre for Invention, Innovation, Incubation & Training had been set up at a cost of Rs319 crore. “The Bebe Nanki College (girls) had been established in the area in this period and the widening and construction of six roads had been completed at Rs30.7 crore, along with upgradation of the railway station to facilitate followers and other travelers,” he added.For easy movement towards gurdwara Ber Sahib, three high-level bridges have been constructed on Bein at a cost of Rs9.30 crore, in addition to two overbridges at Rs1.4 crore and two pontoon bridges at Rs2 crore. The rest house had also been raised at a cost of Rs2.4 crore, while Rs6 crore was spent on upgradation of the bus stand, apart from setting up of 66 KV sub-station at a cost of Rs11 crore.He asked MLA Navtej Singh Cheema to submit a proposal regarding new development projects, if needed, in the region. Cheema urged the Chief Minister to grant funds for strengthening of basic amenities and infrastructure development in colonies adjoining the rail coach factory, where more than 25,000 people were residing.Farmers’ issues raisedThe Chief Minister stressed on disseminating the ideology and message of ‘Sarbat Da Bhala’ as envisioned by Guru Nanak Dev. Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president, Sunil Jakhar, and Khadoor Sahib MP, Jasbir Dimpa, took the opportunity to eulogise a strong stand of the CM on farmers’ issues.Head of Namdhari Sect Satguru Uday Singh said Punjabis had always been at forefront for the welfare of all sections of the society, which they had proven even during the pandemic crisis by extending all possible help to the needy, besides continuing langar to feed hapless people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/551st-parkash-purb-of-guru-nanak-dev-celebrated-178292
01-12-2020||Amritsar||Beopar Mandal extends support to farmers’ stir||Extending support to farmers’ stir against the three farm laws, the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPMB) alleged that corporatisation of farming sector would end numerous businesses, including commission agents and fertiliser sellers.Piara Lal Seth, chief, Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, said expulsion of small farmers from agriculture would mean a number of traders and shopkeepers would also lose earnings. He said in case the concept of contract farming was introduced, corporate firms were unlikely to buy tools and fertilisers from small shops. They would certainly directly procure from manufacturers, ehs aid. He feared that there would be an unprecedented job loss. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/beopar-mandal-extends-support-to-farmers-stir-178294
01-12-2020||Amritsar||Hotel assn asked to prepare detailed plan for stimulus||The Tourism Department has asked the Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant Association (AHARA) to prepare a detailed plan to receive relief package.The AHARA had shot off a communique to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for issuing a relief package for the tourism sector, which had been going through financial crisis due to the lockdown imposed in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak.APS Chatha, chief, Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant Association, said their problems did not end even after relaxations. He said majority of tourists arrive through trains and trains remained halted in the state for almost two months. Thus, guides and taxi operators had been sitting idle since March, he said.The AHARA’s letter, seeking special economic package to bail out the hospitality sector from financial crunch elicits positive response from the government.Before the imposition of the lockdown, local tourism industry had suffered from low room occupancy in February following the scare of the pandemic.Even after relaxations, sector did not recover as people were wary of travelling thus leading to closure of numerous hotels and job loss.The AHARA demanded minimum one-year moratorium on all working capital, principal, interests, loans and overdrafts, besides soft loan at a concessional rate for up to two years.It would enable hotels to collect the GST and SGST and use the same as working capital for the next one year.Waiver on fixed charges on electricity bills, statutory licence fee relating to the industry for the period of one year, automatic extension of all licences for a period of six months and allowing banks to restructure loans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hotel-assn-asked-to-prepare-detailed-plan-for-stimulus-178296
01-12-2020||Amritsar||Reaching Durgiana Temple an uphill task||The stretch between the Hathi Gate and railway station has been crying for attention. Numerous religious and public places fall on this stretch, including Durgiana Temple, Gol Bagh and railway station.Swapan Kumar, a shopkeeper, said, “From the last six months, the stretch is in tatters. Vehicle using this stretch leave a trail of dust storm. ” He said, “Our sales have dipped sharply as the road has been further dug up for beautification. Commuters have started avoiding this stretch, thus affecting our earnings.”The potholed stretch offers a bumpy ride and often leads to breakdown of vehicles.Mohit Ohri, a resident, said, “The authorities concerned should repair the stretch at the earliest. At some spots, rainwater accumulates during monsoon.” He said, “A large number of children visit amusement park and skating rink daily at Gol Bagh. Besides people from far-flung areas visit an asharam to practise yoga. As a result, vehicular movement is extremely high on this stretch.”Harish Taneja, secretary, Durgiana Temple, said a major portion of the road had been dug up as a part of the beautification project around the temple. He said they had asked the Amritsar Improvement Trust to complete the project at the earliest.Dinesh Bassi, chairman, Amritsar Improvement Trust, said, “The civil work is currently underway. New road will be constructed once the civil work gets completed.”He said lamp posts had and red-sandstone pavements were installed on the stretch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/reaching-durgiana-temple-an-uphill-task-178301
01-12-2020||Tarn Taran||1 arrested for mining sand||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-arrested-for-mining-sand-178302
01-12-2020||Amritsar||Row erupts as top cop attends Congress leader Mithu Madaan’s function||Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill courted a controversy after he attended a programme to distribute blankets to poor and destitute organised by controversial Congress leader Saurabh, alias Mithu Madaan, here on Saturday. Madaan is considered as a close aide of former Punjab Cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu.Madaan was one of the prime suspects in the Dasehra train tragedy near Jaura Phatak that claimed over 50 lives in October 2018. He along with six others were named in the FIR registered by the Government Railway police on the charges of causing death by negligence (Section 304-A, IPC). The GRP had submitted a challan in the court without their arrest. He is currently out on bail.He was also indicted in the magisterial probe conducted by the then Divisional Commissioner B Purusartha. The government had announced the magisterial probe to fix the responsibility of the tragedy.Both the magisterial probe and GRP SIT had also held Railways, MC and police responsible for the tragedy.Mithu Madaan, son of woman Congress councillor Vijay Madaan, had organised the programme to distribute blankets to the poor outside the Pingalwara area on Saturday. Gill was the chief guest at the event.Madaan said the programme was organised for the poor and destitute on the roadside as the winter has set in. “My team is visiting different areas on alternate days. Till now we have distributed around 300 blankets and we have a target of distributing around 2,000 blankets,” he told.The Police Commissioner said as it was a noble cause, therefore he participated in the programme. He said he was going to the Golden Temple for paying obeisance when he got a call about distribution of blankets to the poor.He said during the pandemic the Punjab Police had distributed ration and other essentials to the needy with the help of many people and NGOs. “Why no controversy erupted at that time?” he asked. He said the idea was to motivate people to do serve society. He said participating in the programme does not mean that a clean chit has been given to any suspect. — TNSMadaan prime suspectMadaan was one of the prime suspects in the Dasehra train tragedy that claimed over 50 lives in October 2018‘It was a noble cause’Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said as it was a noble cause, therefore, he participated in the programme||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/row-erupts-as-top-cop-attends-congress-leader-mithu-madaans-function-178259
