04-12-2020||Tarn Taran||Man, wife killed in road mishap||Man found dead near majitha canalAmritsar: A man, identified as Veeru (25), was found dead under mysterious circumstances near Majitha canal here on Wednesday. The family members suspect that he was murdered by unidentified persons. He went missing on December 1 and a complaint was lodged with the police. On Wednesday, his body was found from bushes near the canal where rodents were feasting on his body, said the police. Kapil Kaushal, SHO, Majitha police station, said following the allegations of family members, a postmortem would be conducted on the body by a medical board tomorrow. TNSSeminar on sad’s centenaryAmritsar: SAD (D) has announced to celebrate the 100th foundation day of the Shiromani Akali Dal in Amritsar. Party spokesperson Nidhadak Singh Brar said a seminar on the history of Akali Dal was scheduled to be held on December 13. “The seminar will be held on the premises of Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School, Majitha Road bypass. The theme of the seminar would be presenting the past, present and future of Akali Dal. The programme would be attended by party head Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa,” he said. TNSDocs perform rare surgeryAmritsar: A team of surgeons at a hospital here performed a life saving, complicated and complex surgery on a 80-year-old female patient. Sharing the outcome of the surgery, the team from Fortis Escorts Hospital said that transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) surgery was successful. This is the technique of choice for the very elderly or those with severe co-morbidities that make surgery high-risk, said Dr Arun Chopra, adding that the patient was suffering from severe calcific stenosis and heart failure, a weak heart pump and old stroke. A new valve has been developed now that can be delivered to the affected region using a needle-based access in the groin, he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-wife-killed-in-road-mishap-179810
04-12-2020||---||All arrangements in place to tackle second wave of Covid: Soni||Amritsar, December 3Medical Education and Research Minister Om Prakash Soni chaired a meet at Government Medical College on Thursday to review the efforts being made to contain the spread of the Covid-19 before the second wave hits.The meeting was attended by Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, Commissioner of Police Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill and senior officials of health and civil administration.Soni claimed all arrangements were in place and asked the Civil Surgeon to increase the capacity of Covid-19 tests and ensure that around 3,000 tests were done daily.Soni said 20,000 masks would be distributed to the general public with the help of the police to prevent the spread of the virus. He directed senior doctors to visit the Covid wards to check health of patients so that mortality rate could be reduced.The minister said 26,500 tests were being conducted daily in the state. He said Punjab was conducting more tests in comparison to other states. Soni added that work on cancer institute being set up in the city was 70 per cent complete and remaining work would be completed within six months.He said initially, three medical colleges in state had 1,100 beds and 226 ICU beds, which has now increased to 1,494 beds and 399 ICU beds.Talking about dengue, Soni said so far 584 dengue tests had been conducted in the district, out of which 364 persons were found positive and one suspected death had been reported. He said the Health Department had also carried out continuous fogging to control dengue and 450 challans had been issued so far.Three succumb, 63 new +ve cases||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/all-arrangements-in-place-to-tackle-second-wave-of-covid-soni-179809
04-12-2020||---||2 women inmates create ruckus in jail||Amritsar, December 3Two foreign women jail inmates were booked for allegedly scuffling with the jail staff and other prisoners on Wednesday. The police have registered a case against the duo following a written complaint by the jail authorities. Those booked have been identified as Veeran Umrao of Nigeria and Flora of Tanzania.Davinder Kaur, in-charge, Woman Ward (Central Jail), said in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, a videoconferencing facility was set up in the jail complex. She said after attending the call, Umrao tried to take away the tablet from warden Raman Kumar.She said as the warden raised an alarm, other staff members, including Rajwinder Kaur, Gagandeep Kaur, Manpreet Kaur and Baljit Kaur, rushed to the spot. Umrao entered into a verbal duel with the staff and used foul language against Raman.She said Flora also interrupted the staff from discharging their duties. She went in barrack number 2 and started quarrelling with another woman prisoner and ransacked the barrack.The Islamabad police have registered a case against the duo in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-women-inmates-create-ruckus-in-jail-179808
04-12-2020||PK Jaiswar||Notices pasted outside gun houses in Tarn Taran||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 3The Tarn Taran police have found discrepancies in the record of four gun houses after busting a fake arms licence racket around 10 days ago. While two of the gun houses were cooperating, the police on Thursday pasted notices outside the two gun houses which were not cooperating with the police in investigation.On record, the police have found around 15 fake armed licences and suspect that the number can well be over 200.Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman Nimbale said as the gun houses were not cooperating with the police, they pasted notices outside the gun houses asking them to appear before the police for investigation in the case. They had fled after locking their houses and gun houses.The two prime suspects in the racket, Karwinder Singh and Manjinder Singh, alias Mani, were yet to be arrested and raids were on to nab them, said the police. Karwinder was president of the Deputy Commissioner’s Office Employees’ Union.Karwinder was booked by Punjab Police under a similar offence six years ago. He was reportedly acquitted in that case. Mani works in a photocopy shop in the DC office.A fresh case under the Arms Act had been registered by the city police on specific input that he, in connivance with Mani, a resident of Pandori Gola village, had prepared over 200 fake arms licences on the basis of fake documents in the past few years. A preliminary probe by the local police claimed that the accused, Cheema and Mani, used to take from Rs 30,000 to Rs 50,000 for making an arms licence.Cheema was booked by the police around six years ago under a similar offence. Then deputy commissioner Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal had marked a probe to then Additional Deputy Commissioner Bakhtawar Singh who had found gross irregularities in the functioning of the Arms Branch of the Deputy Commissioner’s Office. It was found that the arms licence branch had issued a fake arms licence to Jaspal Singh of Bhikhiwind. The clerk dealing with the work had taken Rs 30,000 for issuing the licence.After the issue was highlighted, a ‘fire’ incident was reported in the Arms Branch in which official records were burnt. An inquiry was also conducted to ascertain the reason behind the fire incident. Karwinder Singh Cheema, an employee of the DC office, was also working in the Arms Branch at that time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/notices-pasted-outside-gun-houses-in-tarn-taran-179807
04-12-2020||---||Those who have labelled farmers ‘Khalistanis’ should apologise: Senior BJP leader Laxmi Kanta Chawla||Amritsar, December 3Senior BJP leader and former health minister of Punjab, Laxmi Kanta Chawla has asked those who had labelled the protesting farmers as ‘Khalistanis’ to apologise to the farmers of the state.“Whosoever has said that they (farmers) are ‘Khalistanis’ or some of them are ‘Khalistanis’, should seek an apology from them and the country,” Chawla said.In a video released by her, she said, “There are a few politicians and others who have used this (Khalistani) word. Do not forget, many among them (farmers) might have served in the armed forces and children of many others are currently guarding the country.” She said the farmers not only produced food but also guard the borders of the country.Praising the farmers and their leaders for holding the peaceful protest, Chawla also has a message for the politicians of the country. “Even if a small protest is held, many public and private properties are burnt and people are harassed. The farmers have been protesting for over the past two months and have caused no damage to any public property. The politicians must learn from the farmers,” she said.Chawla also requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah to address the problems of the farmers at the earliest so that they did not have to protest on the roads. She also praised the Union Home Minister for reaching out to farmers.Chawla said the government was like parents for the public and parents should not be too adamant. She said the government should sit with the farmers, listen to them and fulfill their justified demands. The government should be serious in its approach otherwise why farmers would gather to hold protests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/those-who-have-labelled-farmers-khalistanis-should-apologise-senior-bjp-leader-laxmi-kanta-chawla-179806
04-12-2020||Neha Saini||Protest music sweeps Punjab as singers lend voice to farmers’ stir||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 3The ongoing farmers’ protest against the contentious farm laws has once again validated the effectiveness of protest music as many Punjabi singers, including Diljit Dosanjh, Gurdas Mann and others, have lent their support to the protests.Many others, including mainstream Punjabi singers like Himmat Sandhu, Jass Bajwa, R Nait, Kanwar Grewal, have already released songs that lent support to the farmers’ stir. Protest music is running parallel to the farmers’ agitation.City-based singer-composer Gurshabad has released a song “Delhi De Bhulekhe” (Kirti Di Vaar) to show solidarity with the farmers. The four-minute song talks about the several historical victories of Sikh warriors against political oppression.“I had gone to Delhi where the farmers have been protesting for days now. Inspired by their determination and resilience, I wrote the song in just four hours on my way back home. Music has always been a great catalyst in getting the voices of dissent heard. I wanted to make use of my music to stand up for a cause that I too believe in,” shared the young singer.Gurshabad said more Punjabi youngsters would connect with the movement against the farm laws through music. “Even during the struggle for Independence, songs of political defiance like ‘Pagri Sambhal Jatta’ became protest anthems to connect the young blood,” he said.With mentions of the conquest of Red Fort by Sikh warriors and their stand against political oppression, Gurshabad’s song, he says, finds relevance amid the farmers’ protest. “In the history of the Sikh community, we know that Akal Purakh di Fauj has always stood against any political injustice and oppression. The farmers’ protests are not about any agenda or vested interests, but the state has to understand that they cannot ignore their voices and opinion.”Sharing meals with farmers and witnessing the protests during his visit, Gurshabad said, “Even at the protest site, one can see how sewa is being performed. The farmers are serving langar to everyone and are very organized with their chores while protesting as well. They are protesting aggressively but not in a violent manner. Their aggression is in their determination to fight for their rights.”Meanwhile, the Council of Diploma Engineers’ Association, Amritsar, has also lent their support to the farmers’ agitation. “We support the farmers’ protests and instead of coming down on their dissenting farmers, the Centre should solve the matter through dialogue. The recent attempt to ransack the peaceful protests through force is condemnable,” said Ashwani Kumar, zone convener, Diploma Engineers’ Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protest-music-sweeps-punjab-as-singers-lend-voice-to-farmers-stir-179805
