10-12-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Lives being lost, blame it on bad roads, fog during winter months||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 9A large number of commuters die in road accidents every year during the foggy season but the administration fails to take measures to prevent such mishaps in the city. As per a study by traffic experts at Guru Nanak Dev University, as many as 43 deaths were reported and 67 persons were injured during the last four years on the roads of district. These casualties were also reported during the three months from November to January owing to low visibility due to fog.Gopala Dhawan, Road Safety Engineer, said, “The roads lack basic infrastructure for safe commuting in fog. We have prepared an advisory note to prevent the accidents during foggy season. We will submit it to the Deputy Commissioner tomorrow.”Navdeep Asija, road safety adviser of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, prepared an advisory with 14 comprehensive suggestions and requested the Deputy Commissioners to make suitable statutory provision to ensure safety during fog.The advisory suggests cleaning of unwanted vegetation growth alongside the roads.Roadside fixed hazards, traffic lights and road furniture should be installed. This includes retro-reflective tapes on tree, trunks and electric/telephone poles falling within the clear. Sharp-edged railing should be replaced with flat top. Vehicles used for emergency services are generally not equipped with fog indicators and at the time of evacuation, there is a great possibility that these emergency vehicles may also meet with accidents. Safe school buses and unmanned railway crossings should be taken care of. Ensure road safety at construction zones especially highways. Unauthorised parking of vehicles, rallies and mass gathering should be prohibited. Accidental black spots on roads should be identified.Ironically, most of the roads in the city and peripheral areas lack street lights. Though street lights have been installed on main roads, many of them are lying defunct. Reflectors on road dividers are missing. Due to low visibility, vehicles often ram into podiums. Several roads in the city have been dug up for the repair work. Concrete blocks and barriers have been laid to divert the traffic.Stray cattle are too posing a threat. The cattle can be seen sitting or roaming on the roads. The Municipal Corporation failed to remove the cattle from the roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lives-being-lost-blame-it-on-bad-roads-fog-during-winter-months-182194
10-12-2020||Neeraj Bagga||HSR plates on 6L vehicles by December 31||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 9The Regional Transport Authority (RTA) has a daunting task of getting high-security registration (HSR) plates installed on about 6 lakh vehicles before December 31.The installation of newly unveiled HSR plates is aimed at preventing vehicle-borne crimes. These plates allow a uniform and standardised display of vehicle registration number and come with chromium-based hologram to protect these against counterfeiting.In January 2016, the state government had cancelled the contract of three firms engaged in the preparation of HSR plates following a controversy. Those who got the HSR plates installed on their vehicles three years ago need not to re-install the same.Mandeep Singh, looking cautiously at the new norms concerning HSR plates, said he got HSR plates installed on all his vehicles over four years ago. In January 2016, he came to know through newspaper reports that the state government had revoked the contract of three firms engaged in the preparation of HSR plates.According to Regional Transport Officer Jyoti Bala, six centres have been opened across the district to get HSR plates installed. She, however, rued that the people’s response to the initiative was unsatisfactory.After the installation of HSR plates, ascertaining the antecedents of any vehicle owner (past or present) would be only a click away. It would help in checking the nefarious practice of re-selling vehicles on counterfeit numbers.The aim||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hsr-plates-on-6l-vehicles-by-december-31-182195
10-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Armed robbers loot Rs 70K from post office, 1 arrested||Tarn Taran, December 9Two armed miscreants looted Rs 70,590 from the Dhotian sub-post office, situated around 12 km from here, on Tuesday.The robbers were later identified as Lovepreet Singh and Buta Singh of Tur village. Lovepreet Singh was nabbed on the spot, while Buta Singh managed to escape.The police said Lovepreet and Buta entered the post office with their faces covered. Buta fired a shot in the air and asked post office employee Karandeep Singh to hand over cash to him. Karandeep complied with his directive.As the robbers were trying to flee, Lovepreet’s scarf slipped, he was recognised by an employee of the post office. He was then caught by locals, who handed him over to the police.Later, Lovepreet revealed Buta Singh’s name to the police, said Investigation Officer Jaswinder Singh. Lovepreet was produced in a court that remanded him in two-day police custody. A case under Section 392 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered.How it happenedThe police said accused Lovepreet and Buta entered the post office with their faces covered. Buta fired a shot in the air and asked post office employee Karandeep Singh to hand over cash to him. Karandeep complied with his directive. As the robbers were trying to flee, Lovepreet’s scarf slipped and he was recognised by an employee of the post office. He was then caught by locals, who handed him over to the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/armed-robbers-loot-rs-70k-from-post-office-1-arrested-182196
10-12-2020||---||Carjacker succumbs to injuries||Amritsar, December 9 A suspect of carjacking, who reportedly snatched an SUV from its owner in Ambala and had an encounter with the police at Manawala last evening, succumbed to his injuries at a local hospital on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as Inderjit Singh of Hoshiarpur. Crime Investigation Agency ASI Vinod Kumar said they had set up a checkpoint at Manawala toll plaza after three armed persons snatched a car from Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Sikander Singh from Guru Arjan Dev Nagar locality in the Putlighar area. Meanwhile, he received a call from CIA in charge Sukhwinder Singh that an unidentified person was heading toward the city after snatching an SUV from Ambala. The CIA staff at Manawala was also contacted by an ASI of the Ambala police. He told them that the miscreant was heading towards the toll plaza in the snatched Fortuner SUV. The Ambala police was also following him. Vinod Kumar said as soon as they saw the SUV, they signaled the driver to stop the vehicle. The miscreant, however, rammed the vehicle into barricades and tried to run over the policemen posted there. The police officials then opened fire in self-defence. Inderjit Singh was seriously injured after being hit by bullets. He was taken to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries. Sub-Inspector Charan Singh, who is investigating the case, denied to make any comment on the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/carjacker-succumbs-to-injuries-182197
10-12-2020||---||64 new cases, 1 death in Amritsar district||Amritsar, December 9The health authorities reported one more death due to Covid-19 in the district on Wednesday. With this, the death count due to the infection has gone up to 516 in the district.Harjinder Singh (59) of Ram Nagar colony on the Sultanwind road succumbed to the infection. With 64 new Covid-19 cases, the case count has gone up to 13,700 in the district.Among the new cases were 44 persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) and 20 contacts of Covid-19 patients. The number of persons recovering from the infection on Wednesday was 71, taking the total number of recoveries to 12,409.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/64-new-cases-1-death-in-amritsar-district-182198
10-12-2020||---||Six docs suspended for ‘fabricating’ record||Amritsar, December 9 The Health Department yesterday suspended six medical officers for allegedly fabricating treatment record of a jail inmate. Those suspended were as Dr Kiran Kumar, Dr Vishavpal Singh, Dr Sudhir, Dr Vinod Kapur, Dr Harmeet Singh and Dr Shivinder Singh. Civil Surgeon Dr RS Sethi confirmed the development. Amritsar Central Jail inmate Satpal Singh was reportedly facing trial before the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in a case of drug smuggling. A diabetic, Satpal also had some other complications. During the investigation, NIA officials checked his treatment record and found some inaccuracies. They informed to the Health Department, which initiated an inquiry into the issue. The action against the six doctors comes following the inquiry report. All of them were deployed in the jail hospital while Satpal was lodged there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-docs-suspended-for-fabricating-record-182199
10-12-2020||Neha Saini||Recognising the new age woman & her literary persona||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 9Her stories usually stray from the cliche of being damsels in distress, her perspective presenting a new narrative of women and concept of right and wrong.Punjabi writer Arvinder Kaur Dhaliwal has been writing for quite a few years now, but her first achievement and most significant one, in the literary field came recently.A professor at PG Department of Punjabi, DAV College, she has been awarded the Principal Sujan Singh Yadagari Award for her special contribution to Punjabi stories. Conferred with a trophy, shawl and cash prize, Dhaliwal was presented the award by Sahitya Kendra, Gurdaspur and Central Punjabi Writers Assembly, Punjab.Calling it her acceptance in the Punjabi literary circle, Arvinder said that she was glad that her work was recognised. “I was given the award for my contribution in Punjabi writing in 2020. I started my journey in the drama criticism genre, and translated the works of Pakistani theatre thespians Madeeha Gauhar and Shahid Nadeem. But recently, I started writing short stories, choosing to write about subjects that appeal me,” she said. Last year, her short story on life of people who work at cremation grounds titled ‘Vaiden Kaiye Kis’, based on a quote by Baba Farid, was widely acclaimed. This year, her story based on the theme of a woman wronged and her revenge, titled ‘Jebqatri’ will be out. She calls her transformation from being a drama critic to a spontaneous writer. Her husband and noted theatre thespian Kewal Dhaliwal is the fountain of inspiration for her.“My stories are not aggressively feminist but also do not have sulking women, who are okay with the idea of suppression, whether emotional or otherwise. I write about new age woman, with a new perspective that was probably not there before, leaving all the judgments and assumptions behind,” she shared.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/recognising-the-new-age-woman-her-literary-persona-182200
10-12-2020||---||‘Language skills hold scope for future’||Amritsar, December 9 GNDU introduced Mandarin and Japanese as foreign languages in the curriculum in 2019. One of the few universities in the country to offer the language, its scope was attributed to the rising popularity of the two languages to globalisation and improved economic ties of the two countries with India. With the resumption of the offline education post lockdown, the admissions in the foreign languages seems to have taken a hit. Out of the four foreign languages being offered by the university, ie, French, German Russian and Chinese, the department of foreign language is now designing short term courses for better outreach.  “With globalisation, language proficiency has become a necessary skill. While French and German held popularity among students looking for overseas education, Chinese was introduced as a language for the future. Before the pandemic, the drastic increase in trade and student-level exchange between India-China meant that the scope for learning the language increased manifold. But post pandemic, the story is different,” said Dr Debasish Chaudhari, the assistant professor of Chinese at GNDU.  The varsity has planned to introduce Chinese and Japanese in the new session but it started with six to one-year certificate and diploma courses in communicative Chinese last year in December. “We initially got a very good response as not just students but young entrepreneurs, who had business tie ups in China and wanted to add to their skill, came to us to learn the language. But post lockdown, the shift towards digital learning was not quite favourable for Chinese as it is a tough language to learn,” he said. “Mandarin has characters and not alphabets and its script is also very different from what we are familiar with. So, access of difficulty is more than other foreign languages. With more than 30,000 characters, out which many are unused, our courses offer learning of 300-3000 characters depending on the duration of course,” he informed.  In the inaugural session, 10-12 students took up the language. The current session has six students taking different level courses in Chinese though the department has 30 seats in certificate course and 30 in short term course. Despite the numbers, the faculty is hopeful that once things normalise, the student footfall will increase. University is also planning to introduce Japanese in the foreign language course.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/language-skills-hold-scope-for-future-182201
10-12-2020||---||Gang of robbers busted, 6 held||Amritsar, December 9The city police claimed to have busted a gang of robbers with the arrest of six persons. The officials claimed that the suspects were planning a robbery while staying at a local hotel. A pistol, two cars and some cash has been recovered from them.Those arrested have been identified as Lovejit Singh, alias Gori, a resident of Naag Khurd village, Navkaran Singh, alias Nav, a resident of Main Adda Pandori Warrianch, Shivam Talwar, a resident of the Diamond Avenue Majitha Road, Inderjit Singh, alias Inder, a resident of the Officer Colony Bathinda Road, Muktsar Sahib, Lovepreet Singh, alias Lavi resident of Aman Colony Near the DC Office Mukatsar Sahib and Karanvir Singh alias Karan of Abohar Road Mukatsar Sahib.While the absconding suspects have been identified as Kishan, alias Kishu Randhwa, of Jandiala Guru and Anmolak Sharma, alias Veeeru, of the Housing Board Colony Ranjit avenue.ASI Manjit Singh, got a tip off that some persons, equipped with weapons, took a room on rent at Hotel Destiny Inn near bus stand and were planning for robbery. A police team raided the hotel and all suspects were nabbed along with weapons and other belongings. Two of the suspects managed to flee from the spot, who were identified as Kishu Randhawa and Amolak Sharma.The police have recovered a 9-mm pistol along with 4 cartridges, a magazine, sharp-edged weapons, cash worth Rs 1,27,000, two cars and 11 mobile phones from them.ASI Kanwaljit Singh, investigating officer, stated that the police have registered a case under Sections 399,402 of the IPC and 25/27/ 54/59 of the Arms Act.How it happened?Some persons, equipped with weapons, took a room on rent at Hotel Destiny Inn near bus stand and were planning a robbery. A police team raided the hotel and all suspects were nabbed along with weapons and other belongings. Two of the suspects managed to flee from the spot. The police have recovered a 9-mm pistol along with 4 cartridges, a magazine, sharp-edged weapons, cash worth Rs 1,27,000, two cars and 11 mobile phones from them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gang-of-robbers-busted-6-held-182202
10-12-2020||---||Self-employment loan fair today||Amritsar, December 9The state government will organise a district-level self-employment loan fair at the BDPO office in Jandiala Guru block on December 10.Ranbir Singh Mudhal, Deputy Commissioner (Development), called upon youth to take part in the fair that would be held under the government’s flagship employment in every home scheme.Ranbir Singh Mudhal, also said eligible candidates would be provided bank loans under various schemes like Prime Minister Employment Generation Scheme, Prime Minister Mudra Yojana and Stand-Up India Scheme.He informed that officials of banks associated with these schemes would participate in the fair for loan sanction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/self-employment-loan-fair-today-182203
10-12-2020||Neeraj Bagga ---||As husk price rises, farmers fear paying more for rearing livestock||Tribune News Service Amritsar, December 9 The price of husk has gone up by Rs2 per kg in the retail market increasing the rearing cost of livestock after a large number of farmers went to take part in the protest in their vehicles to Delhi. Sumanpreet Singh, a dairy farmer, said an animal consumes about 25 kg husk daily. This means that the daily dietary cost of a livestock has increased from Rs125 to Rs175. He said appreciation of Rs50 per livestock was immense. He has five animals, which means the cost for him has increased by Rs250 in daily diet.  On the other hand, there is no scope of rate appreciation of milk at this junction, as consumers were already complaining of less income due to lockdown and Covid-19 restrictions. HS Sandhu, general manager, Milk Plant at Verka, said prolonged agitation by farmers would adversely impact dairy farming. Rise in the cost of husk will definitely increase their input cost.  Charanjit Singh Batra, a leading fresh vegetable merchant, said: “There was no effect on the supply of fresh farm vegetables to the wholesale market at present. However, there are plenty of chances of supply to be hit in case the agitation stretches longer.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/as-husk-price-rises-farmers-fear-paying-more-for-rearing-livestock-182204
10-12-2020||---||Sanitary pads distributed to women at dharna site in New Delhi||Amritsar, December 9The women’s wing of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has come up with an idea of providing the women protesters with essential items, including sanitary pads at the dharna site in New Delhi.In a statement, AAP’s rural wing leader Seema Sodhi claimed that till now the party had distributed 3,000 sanitary pads among women protesters and it would continue to provide them with their daily needs as long as the ongoing agrarian strife continued.Besides Sodhi, the party’s team of volunteers, including Aamardeep Kaur, Monika, Sukhwinder Kaur, Sukhwinder Kaur Gehlot and Jaspal Kaur also visited the dharna site.AAP in Delhi has put in place a team of female doctors and health workers to monitor the supply chain of sanitary pads and other essential items of daily use for women protesters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sanitary-pads-distributed-to-women-at-dharna-site-in-new-delhi-182205
10-12-2020|| ||Man attacks metro bus driver||Amritsar, December 9 The Verka police arrested a car driver for allegedly attacking a metro bus driver here on Tuesday. The accused has been identified as Jaspal Singh of New Azad Nagar, Verka.Baljinder Singh, driver of the bus, said when his vehicle reached near Verka Railway Station, Jaspal parked his Swift car in front of his bus in the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) lane. When he asked Jaspal to move his car, he started abusing and attacked with a rod. He also broke windshield of the bus with rod. Two other BRTS drivers— Sukhdev Singh and Satinder Singh— came to his rescue. Both received injuries in the attack by the accused. The police have registered a case against Jaspal Singh under Sections 341,323, 427,506,355,148 and149 of the IPC. Later on he was released on bail, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-attacks-metro-bus-driver-182206
10-12-2020||The district police officials||Now, a wellness centre for cops||No takers for repair of this damaged toiletThe Municipal Council, under the 'Swachh Bharat Mission', with the grants released by the Union Government one-and-half years back constructed a toilet at the Chabal-Amritsar bypass for the convenience of the public. The toilet was yet to be made functional when some other when a truck damaged it completely by hitting it. The Municipal Council has lodged a report to the city police station in Tarn Taran which has failed to locate the accused till date. The incident occurred at the beginning of the lockdown, when the police used to remain present at the nakas round-the-clock. Baljinder Singh Sanitary Inspector of the Municipal Council, Tarn Taran, said he would discuss the issue with the AME (Assistant Municipal Engineer) to reconstruct it soon.A Decade-long wait for residentsThe residents of Plasaur, Jarmastpur, Jeobala and other villages for whom the bridge on the Kasur Nullaha was constructed at the outskirts of the Plasuar village have been waiting for the repair of the parapet railing for than the past 20 years, but the authorities have failed to elicit any response. The bridge was constructed on the demand of the residents about 33 years back. The bridge is the lifeline of residents of Plasaur as their agricultural land lies across the nullah and it is only via bridge that they used to go to the other side. Now, the government has opened a Government Elementary School across the bridge. The parapet railing erected on the bridge has not only broken at many points but is also unsafe for the vehicle carrying school kids. Gurbhej Singh, former sarpanch said he had requested the officials of the Punjab Mandi Board to repair the railing but to no avail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-a-wellness-centre-for-cops-182207
10-12-2020||Our Correspondent ||Couple crushed to death||Tarn Taran, December 9A couple riding a motorcycle was crushed to death by an over-speeding truck on the Tarn Taran-Goindwal Sahib road, near Naurangabad village, on Wednesday. The deceased have been identified as Mukhtiar Singh (62) and his wife Charanjit Kaur (59), residents of Dulchipur village. Mukhtiar Singh was an ex-serviceman. They were going back to their village on their bike after taking medicine under Ex-serviceman Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS). A loaded truck hit their bike from behind near Naurangabad village, crushing them to death. The local Sadar police said a case under Section 304-A and 279 of the IPC was registered against the truck driver, who fled from the spot. The truck was taken in the police custody.CAPTION: Mukhtiar Singh and his wife Charanjit Kaur. File photos||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/couple-crushed-to-death-182208
