15-12-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill---||Sparing customers the dread of virus||Tribune News Service Amritsar, December 14 Amid the ongoing pandemic, the disposable paper plates have replaced steel utensils at many street food vends in the city. The idea is to make customers believe that the paper plates or cups are untouched and virus-free.  Though the dread of Covid has forced many to avoid eating outside, those who are finding it difficult to resist the temptation are looking for safe options.  A street food vendor Kewal said, “People feel that steel plates at a vend could have been contaminated by the customers who had eaten in them before. So, the paper and thermocol ones are the best option these days.” He personally chooses paper plates over thermocol platters.  The city known for its gastronomy has a well-developed food culture wherein hundreds of street food ‘rehris’ come up every evening and thousands throng to satiate their desires. While many prefer to eat at the carts, others get the dishes served in their cars.  The vendors stated that the contagion has made people more conscious about their health and hygiene. Sensing the new-found consciousness for hygiene, the food vendors are making every effort to make their customers comfortable.  “The people feel safe while eating from the disposable plates instead of steel utensils as they feel that these could not have been used by someone else before them,” said Sanjeet, a tikki stall owner. He elaborated that fear of catching the virus has already decreased the number of customers and likes of him are doing their bit to save businesses.  Another vendor who sells ‘kadi-chawal’ in Katra Bagghian area, said, “I had been using steel utensils earlier but recently have shifted to disposable plates. We still have the old steel plates but most people ask for throwaway plates.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sparing-customers-the-dread-of-virus-184292
15-12-2020||---||Massive protest against contentious farm laws||Amritsar, December 14A massive protest in support of the ongoing agitation against the contentious farm laws was held outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office here on Monday. The protest was supported by many organisations and government employees of different departments.Different organisations of the Health Department such as the Sanitary Inspectors’ Association, Medical Laboratory Technicians’ Association, Clerical Association, Punjab State Pharmacy Officers’ Association and ANM Union observed a one-day mass hunger strike in support of the farmers.Employees of the Agriculture, Horticulture, Soil Conservation and Animal Husbandry Departments also organised a protest in support of the farmers. Sukhbir Singh Sandhu of the Agricultural Technocrats’ Action Committee of the agriculture and allied departments demanded that the farmers’ demands should be accepted without any further delay.Meanwhile, the protest held outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office (under the banner of 31 farmer associations) witnessed participation from different sections of society. Though a large number of farmers are already in Delhi, the involvement of people belonging to other sections of society boosted the morale of farmers’ leaders.Rattan Singh Randhawa, a farmer leader, said, “The farmers’ protest against farm laws is receiving a tremendous support from different sections of society. We are thankful to all the people for their support.” He said the response to the farmers’ agitation was tremendous.The farmers’ leaders said the present dispensation at the Centre was not only working for the benefit of the corporate sector but was also trying to destroy the peace and communal harmony of people. They said the agitating farmers would not accept anything less than repealing of the three laws and a constitutional guarantee of the MSP.They said agriculture was the backbone of the economy. The agitation was also addressed by Balwinder Dudala, Harjit Singh, Amarjit Asal, Gurnam Singh Daud, Jagtar Singh Karampura and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/massive-protest-against-contentious-farm-laws-184293
15-12-2020||Our Correspondent---||Labourers, employees come out in farmers’ support||Tarn Taran, December 14 Representatives of different sections of society expressing their solidarity with the agitating farmers on Monday came out on roads and condemned the Union Government for not repealing the farm laws. A large number of workers of different political parties, farmers, labourers, employees, patwaris, kanungos and daily wage workers organised a demonstration in front of the District Administrative Complex (DAC) in favour of the agitating farmers. Congress party workers sat on a hunger strike in front of the local MC building.  Meanwhile, a delegation of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner. The protest was attended by workers of the CPI, the RMPI, workers of different farmer organisations, teachers, patwaris, kanungos, Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers, Anganwari Employees, etc. Mangat Ram Pasla, national secretary of the RMPI, Harbhajan Singh, state leader of the CPI, Daljit Singh Dialpur, Arsal Singh Sandhu, Sarabjit Singh Sandhu of the Patwar Union were among others who addressed the gathering.  Sandeep Agnihotri, a senior leader of the Congress, led the party workers who sat on a hunger strike in support of the agitating farmers. Ritik Arora, district president of the NSUI, Aman Sood, Sawinder Singh Mallhi, Sonu Dode and other leaders condemned the Narendra Modi-led Central Government for its dictatorial attitude. A delegation of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, led by Satnam Singh Manochahal submitted a memorandum to the DC demanding the scrapping of the farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/labourers-employees-come-out-in-farmers-support-184294
15-12-2020||Amritsar||Action imminent against drug peddlers on bail||The Tarn Taran police have asked its officials to keep a tab on drug peddlers who have come out of jail on bail and initiate action under Section 110 of the CrPC if they continue with their nefarious activities.  According to the police, there were as many as 113 drug peddlers listed in the police records and of them, around 50 were out on bail.  SSP, Tarn Taran, Dhruman Nimbale said he had directed all Deputy Superintendents of Police, Station House Officers, CIA staff and Narcotic Cell to keep a close watch on the activities on these smugglers. He said he had also asked them to initiate action under Section 110 of the CrPC against those who had more than two cases of drug peddling against them.  He said the step has been taken to ensure that they do not restart with their nefarious activities after coming out of jails on bail.  Under Section 110 of the CrPC, the police through magistrate can ask habitual offenders to execute a surety bond as security for good behaviour.  Nimbale said in the past four months, the police have managed to attach the properties worth Rs19 crore allegedly amassed by drug peddlers through illegal means of drug smuggling. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/action-imminent-against-drug-peddlers-on-bail-184295
15-12-2020||---||Arrival of local stock brings down vegetable prices||Amritsar, December 14 With the arrival of fresh local stock, the prices of vegetables have come down at the wholesale market of Vallah here. Locally grown high quality pea, french beans and cauliflower are being sold across North India. Cauliflower is being supplied even to Srinagar and Uttar Pradesh. Pea and french beans are being sold across Rajasthan and Delhi. Charanjit Singh Batra, a leading fresh vegetable merchant and senior functionary of the Vegetable Merchant Union, said there was no impact of the ongoing farmers’ stir on the falling prices of fresh vegetables in the district. He said the falling of vegetable prices in the market after the arrival of surplus stock during the full bloom season happened every year. Cauliflower was being sold at Rs 10 in the retail market while its wholesale price was Rs5. Pea was sold at Rs15 and Rs16 per kg in the wholesale market today and it is being sold for around Rs25-Rs30 per kg in retail. Beans were sold at Rs10 per kg in wholesale and turnip and raddish between Rs7 and Rs8. Earlier, pea was selling at Rs40, cauliflower at Rs20, beans at Rs40 and raddish at Rs20, all per kg in the retail market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/arrival-of-local-stock-brings-down-vegetable-prices-184296
15-12-2020||Neha Saini---||GNDU preserves Punjabi novelist's literary legacy, inks pact with trust||Tribune News Service Amritsar, December 14 Guru Nanak Dev University on Monday signed an MoU with the Nanak Singh Memorial Trust to establish the Nanak Singh Centre on the premises of Bhai Gurdas library. The members of the trust include family members of the late legendary Punjabi novelist, including his sons Kulwant and Kulbir Singh Suri and his grandson Navdeep Singh Suri.  The centre will be a dedicated space to the literary legacy of Nanak Singh, with the trust providing an assembled collection associated with the life and works of Nanak Singh. The collection will include audio-visual material, photographs, manuscripts, dissertations, a full set of available books by Nanak Singh, rare editions of certain books, awards and personal items used by Nanak Singh during his lifetime and other relevant material. The Trust will provide this collection to the University at its own cost.  Speaking about his grandfather’s legacy, Navdeep Suri, who is a former diplomat and had translated Nanak Singh’s acclaimed work “Khooni Vaisakhi” in English, said, “It is very important for us as a family, as Punjabis or anyone who has interest in Punjabi culture, heritage and literature to take this step towards preserving and sharing his literary legacy. We had a small ambition when we got together as family that literary works of my grandfather must be preserved and shared with all. In my experiences abroad, there have been many Punjabis who told me that they learnt Punjabi so that they could read his novels. So, through this centre we will try to build a connection around his memorabilia.”  “His novels had strong themes that are relevant even today. To encourage that kind of dialogue, a Nanak Singh memorial lecture will also be conducted by university based on the theme connected with his writings. Apart from this, we will also be announcing an annual award for Best Punjabi novel with cash prize of Rs 25,000 to encourage Punjabi writers as Punjabi novel writing is becoming a dying art,” shared Suri.  The family is also keen on restoring the Nanak Singh’s house at Preet Nagar that gets keen visitors even today. “It will make suitable arrangements to protect, conserve and display the collection and make it accessible to faculty, students and members of the general public,” said Dr Jaspal Singh Sandhu, VC, GNDU.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-preserves-punjabi-novelists-literary-legacy-inks-pact-with-trust-184298
15-12-2020|| ---||Now, traders demand aid, threaten to go farmers’ way||Amritsar, December 14 The trading community, under the banner of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, has warned of stir on the lines of the farmers’ agitation in case the government did not give them aid to come out of the depressing economic situation which emerged out of Covid-19 and the lockdown. This was announced in a meeting of the PPBM’s working committee in which members of state’s 18 districts took part that was held here last night.  On the line of income tax relaxation for the corporate companies, the PPBM sought similar measure for the partnership and proprietor companies.  It sought an end to discrimination in the income tax slab between the corporate sector, MSME and traders should be removed. The financial stimulus reduced the income tax slab rate from 30 per cent to 22 per cent for the corporate companies. However, the same was denied to the companies under the MSME. Eight per cent reduction will help the sector and traders, who had suffered a lot due to the pandemic, to overcome financial crunch. During a meeting, they sought more relaxations to fight Covid-19 and its lockdown effects. They warned that if the government did not pay heed to their demands, they would be compelled to kick off an agitation. PPBM president Piara Lal Seth said the pandemic, along with the lockdown, brought down the country’s growth which was reflected in 23.9 per cent fall in the GDP during the quarter of the current financial year. Uncertain scenario and snapping of the supply chain affected the industrial production and trade. Consequently, unemployment is at its highest level in the country. The government did not put in any effort to bring down the rising inflation. For instance, despite the price of crude oil kept falling in the international market, its benefits were not allowed to percolate to the masses by increasing the tax slabs, he remarked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-traders-demand-aid-threaten-to-go-farmers-way-184299
15-12-2020||Amritsar||IIM Amritsar takes a leap forward in investment banking course||The Indian Institute of Management, Amritsar, has become the sixth IIM to have joined the CFA Institute University Affiliation Programme. Through participation in this programme, IIM Amritsar, is eligible to receive three student scholarships for the Charted Financial Analyst (CFA) programme each year. CFA Institute is the global association of investment professionals that sets the standard for professional excellence and administers the industry gold standard CFA charter. The end goal is to create an environment where investors’ interests come first, markets function at their best, and economies grow. CFA Institute has more than 1,76,000 members in 166 countries and territories, including 164,000 CFA charter holders. The CFA programme sets a standard for developing the skills, standards, competence, and integrity of financial analysts, portfolio managers, investment advisers, and other investment professionals worldwide. It is widely considered the investment profession’s most rigorous credentialing programme. Administered in English, the CFA curriculum and examinations are identical worldwide.  Less than one in five candidates who begin the programme successfully complete it and go on to earn the coveted CFA charter, the “gold standard” for investment professionals. With the entry into the CFA Institute University Affiliation Programme, IIM Amritsar curriculum would be closely tied to professional practice. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/iim-amritsar-takes-a-leap-forward-in-investment-banking-course-184300
15-12-2020||---||New norms, digitisation to make life easy for pupils||Amritsar, December 14 As the Centre caps school bag weight and recommends less homework for school students in the New Education Policy 2020 (NEP 2020), the educators and parents think that the time is suitable to implement the new norms in education to move towards digital format.  With onus now on reducing homework and weight of school bags and asking schools to provide lockers and monitor the weight of the bag, the change in this regard, agree most schools, has already been made.  “The school weight cap was a recommendation that was proposed two years back as well. So, we implemented changes that include providing cupboards to keep books and introducing one notebook for five subjects to reduce burden on students. We even reduced homework assignments for primary and middle classes and already digitalisation of learning through the pandemic has enabled students to learn without having to bear the extra burden of books. Now, with softwares like Edunet, learning would mostly be technology-driven rather than adding to the weight of books,” said Upasana Mehra, principal, the Senior Study II.  Several other private schools that have shifted learning to online mode, say that classroom teaching, whenever schools reopen for all, will definitely require fewer books in bag. Introduction of smartboards, lockers for students have mostly been adopted in private schools. “Everyone, from teachers to students and parents are now digitally trained for teaching. With new learning enabled softwares and applications in place, I think that this is the perfect time to implement these recommendations under NEP 2020,” said Sushmita Sharma, a teacher from city.  Parents too agree. “Now online teaching has put students at ease. I think this change will now continue even after schools reopen for junior classes. So, school bags would definitely get lighter,” shared Shivani Bhalla, mother of two.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/new-norms-digitisation-to-make-life-easy-for-pupils-184301
15-12-2020||PK Jaiswar||Gangster fled to Oz, now runs drug  racket: IO||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 14In a major embarrassment for the Punjab Police, a notorious criminal, Jaskaran Singh, wanted in many criminal cases, including a gang war in Goindwal Sahib (Tarn Taran) that left four persons dead in August 2018, has managed to slip out of the country and is now running a high-profile drug racket from foreign shores.This came to light during the interrogation of Jaskaran’s cousin Lovepreet Singh, a resident of Lohar village, who was nabbed by the counterintelligence wing of thePunjab Police from Tarn Taran with 1kg ICE (crystal methamphetamine) valued at Rs 15 crore in the international market.This is perhaps for the first time that ICE has been confiscated in the region. An expensive party drug, it is consumed by high-profile consumers in metro cities. The investigations carried out so far revealed that the contraband was routed via Sialkot in Pakistan to Jammu and Kashmir.Inderdeep Singh, investigating officer (IO), said Lovepreet was arrested on Friday late evening. He was currently in the police remand. He had brought the ICE from an unknown person in Samba, Jammu and Kashmir. It was to be delivered at Delhi.“During interrogation, the accused had confessed to making three rounds to Jammu for bringing consignment of ICE Jaskaran’s directions. Though he has not got any money till now, Jaskaran had promised Lovepreet Rs 50,000 per round for smuggling drugs,” he said.Questions are being raised as to how Jaskaran managed to slip away from the country even as he had several criminal cases against his name. According to the police, he is currently in Australia and allegedly running a high-profile drug racket from there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangster-fled-to-oz-now-runs-drug-racket-io-184425
15-12-2020||Our CorrespondentAbohar||Bull claims biker’s life||Rajinder Kumar (27) of Gidderanwali village died on Sunday after a stray bull suddenly came in front of his bike and collided with it while he driving on the Diwankhera link road. Rajinder was on his way to home.The body was handed over to the family after postmortem on Sunday. Nar Sewa Narayan Sewa Samiti activists said despite repeated meetings organised by the administration, there had been no progress in resolving the stray bull menace.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bull-claims-bikers-life-184429
15-12-2020||Amritsar||SAD turns 100, looks to regain ground in Assembly elections||Amid farm protests, the SAD leadership headed by Sukhbir Singh Badal commemorated the centenary of the party’s foundation day by performing ‘ardas’ dedicated to ‘sarbat da bhala’ (welfare of all) and ‘success of farmers’ cause’ at Gurdwara Gurbaksh Singh at the Golden Temple complex today.Badals damaged Akali Dal: SAD (Amritsar)Chandigarh: The SAD (Amritsar) on Monday extended support to the farmers’ protest in Delhi and demanded an inquiry by a sitting judge into the missing 328 ‘saroops’. Party national general secretary Kushalpal Singh Mann said the SAD, led by the Badal family, had no right to celebrate 100 years of the Akali Dal as it had caused much damage to the soul and spirit of the party. It also criticised the Badals for supporting the farm laws initially. TNSGiving a push for federal structure in the country, Sukhbir declared that the SAD intended to work in tandem with the like-minded regional and national parties in this direction.Pointing out the alarming crisis following the ‘anti-farm laws’, he said the BJP-led Centre had not followed a federal approach through consultation and consensus and the agrarian crisis was the outcome of ill-advised and dictatorial tendencies. “The genuine federal structure was an ultimate and durable quotient against the social, political and economic crisis and the SAD will coordinate with like-minded parties to ensure establishment of a welfare state, a vision handed down to us by our Gurus,” he said.Releasing the mission statement of theSAD, Sukhbir emphasisedthe commitment toPanthic ideals and values as the top priority.In its centenary year, the SAD finds itself in disarray, desperately trying to regain a foothold in its home turf of Punjab following a series of sacrilege, flip-flops over exonerating the Dera Sirsa chief and lately, misappropriation of 328 ‘saroops’ from the possession of the SGPC.The SAD was founded on December 14, 1920, by the Sikhs. The party was at the forefront of securing federal rights for the states and standing up for the minorities. Considering itself as the principal representative of Sikh Panth, the aim was to free gurdwaras from ‘mahants’ and establish supremacy of the SGPC. That goal was achieved which led to the constitution of the Sikh Gurdwara Act, 1925.In 1966, the present Punjab was formed. The party came to power in the new Punjab in March 1967. It allied with the Bharatiya Jana Sangh, BJP’s predecessor, for the first time during the Punjab Assembly elections in 1969. It formed a coalition with the BJP again in 1997 during the state elections. At the Centre, however, the SAD joined the BJP-led coalition in 1998.With the BJP at the Centre, tension and pressure brewed up with SAD’s stand on the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act, National Register of Citizens and National Population Register. Recently, the SAD walked out of the alliance over the three farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-turns-100-looks-to-regain-ground-in-assembly-elections-184430
