17-12-2020||Amritsar||Road infra not friendly for those driving in fog||As residents woke up to a dense fog in the morning on Wednesday, they were yet again face to face with an old problem of lack of proper signage and white markings alongside the roads.The signage and white markings on the roadside and in the middle help drivers stay on the course.As compared to city areas, the problem due to the absence of proper signs and white markings is more acute on link roads connecting villages with the city. With the visibility stretching to just a few metres, vehicles were seen moving at slow pace especially on roads with ongoing construction works.The two-wheeler drivers also complained that unlevelled manhole covers on city roads were a threat to the safety of commuters.“On a foggy day, it is difficult to spot the unlevelled manholes till it is too late. Roads need to be maintained properly, so that accidents can be avoided,” said Harnam Singh, a resident.Residents complained that the condition of roads was more worrisome in outer areas with narrow stretches devoid of white markings. They said warning signs help in alerting drivers of sharp turns or bridges. While the infrastructure is poor, one can spot a number of callous drivers whose vehicles are not even fit to commute in foggy conditions.Vehicles with defunct front and tail lights, turn signals and fog lights are not only a threat to occupants, but to the occupants of other vehicles on roads. “Proper front and tail lights help other drivers spot your vehicles. People should also avoid loud music and sometimes you could become aware of a vehicle coming your way from its sound,” said Joginder Singh, a retired Roadways driver. He said one has be very cautious of stray animals, especially cows, on outer roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/road-infra-not-friendly-for-those-driving-in-fog-185460
17-12-2020||Amritsar||MC witnesses shortfall of Rs 7 cr in recovery of property tax||The Municipal Corporation (MC) has witnessed a shortfall of Rs7 crore in the recovery of property tax during the current fiscal. Senior officials of the MC have issued instructions to the employees of the property tax wing to pull up their socks to enhance the recovery and meet the targets.Rs 13 crore have been collected so farThe property tax employees with low recovery are being questioned for their performance.According to the information, the property tax wing witnessed a shortfall of Rs7 crore in 2020-21 as compared to 2019-20.During 2019-20, the MC had collected Rs19.64 crore till November, but this year, the department has collected only Rs12. 51 crore. However, the outbreak of Covid-19 was the major reason behind low recovery, but even after reopening of market, the recovery of property tax could not be revived.The MC officials conducted a meeting in this regard to review the shortfall. The north zone has witnessed low recovery as compared to other areas of the city. MC Commissioner Komal Mittal has issued instructions to the property wing staff to achieve the target till December 31.Now, the MC is collecting tax for the current year without any penalty and interest. A penalty of 10 per cent will also have to be paid after December 31.Apart from this, the MC has to collect crores of rupees as property tax from defaulters from 2013 to March 2020. The state government had offered to deposit property tax till October 31 without interest and penalty under one-time settlement policy. Residents didn’t evince interest in the government’s offer and gave a lukewarm response. Now, the MC charges 138 per cent interest and penalty on the pending tax.The property tax wing officials have started issuing notices to tax defaulters. “We will make every effort to enhance the recovery of property tax and achieve recovery targets,” said Pardeep Rajput, nodal officer, property tax wing.This year, the MC had set a target of Rs34 crore for property tax till the end of fiscal year (March 31), but has collected around Rs13 crore so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-witnesses-shortfall-of-rs-7-cr-in-recovery-of-property-tax-185461
17-12-2020||Amritsar||Five die, 44 positive in Amritsar||With five deaths due to Covid-19 on Wednesday, the toll in the district reached 533. The deceased have been identified as Kashmir Kaur (43) from Daoke village, Ramesh Rani (85) of Krishna Nagar, Narinder Kaur (55) of Tej Nagar on Sultanwind Road, Kulwinder Kaur (75) of Inderjit Colony and Swarn Kaur (64) of Gurnam Nagar.The district health authorities have also reported 44 new positive cases with which the total count has increased to 14,069. The new cases include 29 influenza-like illness cases and 15 contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with the recovery of 57 patients, the total recovery count has increased to 12,815. The district at present has a total of 721 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-die-44-positive-in-amritsar-185462
17-12-2020||Amritsar||Kiosks removed from Islamabad||In a joint action, Municipal Corporation and Amritsar Improvement Trust demolished several kiosks at 22 No. Phatak in the Islamabad area here on Wednesday.The kiosks were constructed on roadsides, where AIT was going to start the construction of a proposed railway overbridge. The MC officials claimed that they had issued notices to the vendors in March to vacate the land, but they were reluctant.MC Estate Officer Sushant Bhatia said: “The AIT is going to start the construction of a railway overbridge. They have written to vacate the land. Almost 10 kiosks have been removed. One person assured to vacate the kiosk on his own as his goods were lying inside.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kiosks-removed-from-islamabad-185463
17-12-2020||Amritsar||Hoteliers scale down New Year celebrations||Those waiting to welcome 2021 in high spirits have to stay indoors as the state government recently extended night curfew (10 pm to 5 am) till January 1, 2021, besides a limit on social gatherings has been reduced to 100 for indoor events and 250 for outdoor events.The decision has not gone down well with hotel and club owners in the city, who were already reeling under the impact of the lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.Hoteliers decided not to organise specific events and only provide scaled-down celebrations for only in-house guests.Akshina, manager, Hyatt Regency, said, “In current situation, we can only hope that people will get bookings done for staycation. Organising an event is not feasible on the New Year eve. Moreover, cap on number of guests allowed will have to be kept in mind.”With hospitality sector witnessing 50 per cent decrease due to the pandemic, most hotels and clubs would only provide early dinner to guests on the New Year’s eve.Sukhdev Singh, manager, Service Club, said, “All the bookings for New Year celebrations have been cancelled. We will be offering dinner service till 9.30 pm for our club members. Usually, celebrities used to perform on the New Year’s eve, but in given scenario, its not possible.”Heritage Club, too, would be organising evening celebrations from 5 pm to 9 pm.Domestic destinations favourite among localsMany residents in the city are choosing popular domestic tourist destinations to ring in the New Year. While Goa remains the top pick, nearest hill stations, including Dharamshala and Dalhousie are on the list of locals. Vinod Gupta, a travel agent, said, “As people are avoiding to travel abroad due to the pandemic, domestic tourist destinations where there are no night restrictions are being preferred for the New Year celebrations.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hoteliers-scale-down-new-year-celebrations-185464
17-12-2020||THE pandemic-induced economic difficulties proved a blessing in disguise for the Education Department as students' intake surged like never before. In a conversation with Neeraj Bagga||‘Teachers’ skills being brushed up, infrastructure under close scrutiny’||Despite record rise in admissions to government schools, attendance remained low. What is the probable reason?First of all, there is no staff problem. With the consent of parents offline classes commenced but their response was lukewarm. Parents didn't want to send their wards to schools at the eleventh hour owing to the contagious disease. Sending their kids for work to supplement dwindling family income was another problem. Yet, the response of secondary students was encouraging.What about senior secondary students?Their response is encouraging as their attendance grew from about 10 per cent in the beginning to nearly 50 per cent at present. The department took unique initiative of releasing incentives to those schools which were successful in motivating students to join classes and increased their attendance to 80 per cent.Are government schools infrastructure-wise ready to accommodate more admissions?Absolutely, as far as the land is concerned most of the government schools have spacious buildings, which many reputed private schools cannot match. But, we are adding more classrooms and repairing the old ones, if the need arises. Over 80 rooms will be added this financial year. The schools have been asked to promptly submit details of required repair works at their establishments. Besides, value of digitisation has been realised well as it saved the education from falling apart during the pandemic. It would be maintained in some way or other.How did the teachers cope with the long working hours?Teachers did a commendable job. Despite their working hours doubling they didn't object to it and many resorted to social service through education. For instance, the business hours were normally six and a half hours daily before the pandemic. Post-pandemic these were raised to 11 hours to 14 hours. There are about 6,000 teachers for the secondary and 3,100 for primary students.What steps are being taken to make government schools as first choice among parents?The online classes for existing students hade exams will be conducted as per the guidelines.What will be your concern once the classroom teaching begins?After recording nearly 13 per cent rise in admissions in comparison to the last year, special efforts are being put in to enhance the classroom teaching. This year 1,11,068 students were admitted this year in comparison to 98,692 students during the last academic session. 'English booster' classes are introduced every week in which a different staff is called for an open debate in the language. For instance, 30 heads of schools were there during the class last week and English and social studies teachers will gather next week. Similarly, buddy groups comprising a teacher and some students have been introduced to enable the latter to enhance their communication skills.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-skills-being-brushed-up-infrastructure-under-close-scrutiny-185465
17-12-2020||Amritsar||Health Department expedites efforts to reach out to people||The district Health Department on Wednesday inaugurated the month-long campaign aimed at raising awareness about the causes, prevention and treatment of Covid-19.Civil Surgeon Dr Rabinder Singh Sethi flagged off a mobile van equipped with multimedia devices as part of the campaign. The campaign is crucial as the government is anticipating a second wave of infection during the winter months.Dr Sethi said the van would visit different areas each day and create awareness about the disease and its treatment facilities available at the hospitals. He said the awareness would help in fighting misinformation and myths being circulated in relation to the viral disease.The department plans to promote the use of masks, proper hand-washing techniques, social distancing, corona symptoms, prevention methods and precautions with the help of audio-visual mediums.Dr Sethi said they were also using posters and pamphlets to encourage people to get their tests conducted in case they experience any symptom associated with the disease.District immunisation officer Dr Sukhpal Singh, district health officer Dr Inder Mohan Gupta, district family welfare officer Dr Jaspreet Sharma, assistant civil surgeon Dr Amarjit Singh, district epidemiologist Dr Madan Mohan and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/health-department-expedites-efforts-to-reach-out-to-people-185466
17-12-2020||Amritsar||Retired GNDU teachers seek leave encashment benefits||The Non-Government College Retired Teachers’ Organisation requested Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to give them the benefit of cashing their unpaid earned holidays at the time of retirement. Members cited encashment of earned leave by the Haryana government.Anil Chugh, conveyor, Non-Government College Retired Teachers’ Organisation, said most professors lost their holidays in the work related to examination, for which they received little remuneration.He said, “To compensate for the lost holidays, University Grants Commission issued instructions to all the universities from time to time that they must provide earned leave in their respective calendars. Haryana has implemented the instructions since 1987.”“The Punjab Government had sent a notification in this regard in 1990 to all the state universities, however, Guru Nanak Dev University kept on avoiding this issue till 2014, only giving benefits to employees, who retired after January 2012 or later. Apparently, it is grossly unjust and unconstitutional with retired and incarcerated staffers from Januar 1, 1990 to December 31, 2011,” he said.The universities do not have any kind of autonomy on pay scale, allowances and conditions of service, among others. Its mandatory to follow the instructions of the the UGC and the state governments, he said.Chugh said Punjab was the only state in the country where huge disparities were found in the conditions of service of the non-government recognised colleges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/retired-gndu-teachers-seek-leave-encashment-benefits-185467
17-12-2020||Amritsar||BJP leaders meet press amid heavy police deployment||In a damage control exercise, a posse of police was deputed around the BJP’s Harbans Lal Khanna Samarak office in Amritsar, where senior leader and Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik, BJP district head Suresh Mahajan and senior leader Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina, held a press conference to highlight the nuances of newly enacted farm laws.All entry and exit points of the BJP office were barricaded amid heavy deployment of police. Otherwise a busy stretch, the road that leads to Durgiana Temple with shops on roadside wore a deserted look, as the cops deputed on both sides of the road prevented any assembly of common people till the BJP leaders were done with their programme.Durgiana Temple police chowki in charge Rajwinder Singh said the police arrangement was done keeping in view the assembly of BJP leaders at the office. In the backdrop, the agitation against farm laws has now snowballed into a mass movement. Apart from holding a massive protest at New Delhi’s Singhu, Tikri and Kundli borders by various farm unions, the BJP leaders’ houses, too, were gheraoed by farmers. Continuous dharnas were also being staged outside the houses of BJP leaders, including former Punjab BJP chief Shwait Malik in Amritsar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjp-leaders-meet-press-amid-heavy-police-deployment-185468
17-12-2020||The political parties have started preparations for the 2022 Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections. Khadoor Sahib is the lone out of the four constituencies in Tarn Taran district from where many new faces are making all efforts to represent their political parties. The constituency at present is represented by Ramanjit Singh Sikki of Congress. Being a rural area||Reaching out to people at grassroots level||Residents see red over faulty traffic lightsBaljit Singh SP (Traffic), a month back, on the directions of SSP Dhruman H Nimbale held a meeting with the officials of the PWD, Engineer of the road safety and other concerned and discussed the town related problems. Non-functional traffic lights installed at the major crossings in the town, road encroachment, signs to be marked on the roads were among the issues raised in the meeting to make the accident free traffic. The officials stressed for making the traffic lights functional, marking of signs such as yellow lines on road, zebra lines, no parking zones, delineator, removing of the encroachments from the roads and to make traffic systemically. The police have tried to make one-way traffic on the main road passing through the town. The Municipal Council has done nothing to remove the encroachment and marking the road signs. The traffic lights are totally non-functional for the past more than four years. Rajnish Arora SDM, Tarn Taran, has never called a meeting of the residents to redress their problems being the administrator of the Municipal Council.NSUI to dispatch students to DelhiHrithik Arora, district president of the NSUI, said a group of students was leaving for Delhi to take part in the farmers’ protests to distribute literature regarding the non-violent Gandhian way of the agitation. While organising a meeting of students in Tarn Taran, he said the Modi-led Centre might have to face its violent tactics. The student leader said the Union Government was adopting all suppressive methods to derail farmers’ agitation but they would not relent.(Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/reaching-out-to-people-at-grassroots-level-185469
17-12-2020||Amritsar||Edu Secy lauds village panchayat’s gesture||Education Secretary Krishan Kumar visited Government High School, Abdal, on Wednesday, to laud the gesture of village panchayat that has donated 5,250 sq ft land to the school for constructing classrooms. Appreciating the dedicated efforts of the school headmistress, Deepika, Dean and staff, Krishan Kumar, said the active and encouraging community participation had virtually been lending a new dimension to the ‘School Sikhiya Muhim’ (Quality Improvement Drive), currently underway in Punjab.He met and interacted with village sarpanch Ram Singh, former sarpanch, Kunnan Singh and other prominent personalities of the village for unanimously donating panchayat land for the extension and augmentation of infrastructural facilities for the students. The village panchayat also agreed to donate the community hall adjacent to the school building for school use.“The community hall,” which is presently in a dilapidated state, would be repaired and renovated by the Education Department for using it for conducting seminars, examinations, meetings and other co-curricular activities. The Education Department would honour the village panchayat for the contribution for ensuring better future for the coming generations,” said Krishan Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/edu-secy-lauds-village-panchayats-gesture-185470
17-12-2020||Amritsar||‘Illegal liquor trade thrived in Cong regime in state’||The state unit of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Punjab, has alleged that illegal distilleries are being run in the state under the watch of the Excise and Police Department.In a joint statement issued from Amritsar today, joint secretary Ashok Talwar, Kisan Wing vice- president Kuldeep Dhaliwal, district in charge (Urban) Parminder Sethi and district in-charge (rural) Naresh Pathak, said the role of the Congress MLAs from Ghanour and Rajpura constituencies, had proved that the illegal trade of liquor smuggling was thriving in the state in collusion with the Excise and the Police Department.The AAP leaders said allegations levelled by the Congress MLAs against their own party had amply proved that 123 lives were lost in the Majha area due to consumption of spurious liquor, which could be attributed to the lackadaisical attitude of the CM. They alleged that it was only because of him that the liquor mafia was calling the shots in the state, adding that none of the culprits had been convicted as yet.They said the CM had betrayed the people of Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illegal-liquor-trade-thrived-in-cong-regime-in-state-185471
17-12-2020||Tarn Taran||1 injured in firing||Palwinder Singh (37) of Thatha village was injured in a firing incident at his village on Tuesday. He was admitted to the Community Health Centre, Sarhali, in a serious condition.The police said Palwinder Singh was on his way back to home, when Hari Singh, his brother Harshadeep Singh and two other unidentified persons fired at him. The bullet hit his foot.The police said the accused have been booked under Sections 307, 341, 34 IPC, 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act by Sarhali police. The accused fled from the spot after committing the crime. Old enmity was said to be the reason behind the crime. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-injured-in-firing-185480
17-12-2020||Amritsar||Self-employment, placement camp on December18||A self-employment and placement camp, under the Punjab Government’s Door to Door Employment and Business Mission, will be held by the District Employment and Business Enterprising Bureau on December 18. Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Ranbir Singh Moodhal said that loans would be provided under Employment Generation Scheme, Pradhan Mantri Mudhra Yojana and Stand Up India Scheme to qualified applicants, who will be facilitated for these loans on-the-spot. All government / private banks and self-employment departments of Amritsar district would participate in the camp.He said a special placement drive would also be carried out in which leading private companies like SBI Life Insurance, Max Life Insurance, Octopus, Ajail Herbal, Pukhraj and NN would interview candidates on the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/self-employment-placement-camp-on-december18-185504
17-12-2020||Amritsar||22-yr-old Man found dead||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/22-yr-old-man-found-dead-185511
