25-12-2020||Actress Kirti Kulhari was recently in Chandigarh on a break. During her time off||Seeking blessings: Actress Kirti Kulhari visits the Golden Temple||Posting photos taken at the Golden Temple, she wrote on Instagram: “May Waheguru forgive everyone and bless everyone. Ending my 2020 with this prayer for everyone and gratitude for everything. It was time...#goldentemple #amritsar #punjab. Wishing all of you a beautiful 2021.”Actress Yami Gautam left a red heart emoji in the comments section. Her fans have also wished her well.On the work front, her show Criminal Justice: Behind Closed Doors is streaming now. She plays Anu Chandra in the series for which she went for a zero make-up look. Kirti has Four More Shots Please Season 3 and the Hindi remake of The Girl On The Train coming up. —IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seeking-blessings-actress-kirti-kulhari-visits-the-golden-temple-189199
25-12-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||SGPC served legal notice||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 24A Batala resident has sent a legal notice to the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) demanding old gates of Darshani Deodi at the Golden Temple donated by Maharaja Ranjit Singh in 1800 AD to be reinstalled.The old gates were removed in July 2010 on the pretext of repair and the move had snowballed into a major controversy. The SGPC had then issued a statement that the gates would be reinstalled within a year.Surinder Singh Kalsi, who has sent the legal notice, said, “The SGPC has failed to instal the old gates even after 12 years. These gates should be installed within a month. Else, I will pursue the matter in a competent court.”At the time of their removal, numerous Sikh bodies had opined that the gates were removed at the behest of Bharatiya Janata Party. A theory doing the rounds stated that the gates were looted from Somnath Temple by Afghans. It’s being presumed that the Sikhs took these under control from Afghans and offered to return these to Somnath Temple, which refused to accept them. However, the SGPC termed it as a mere rumour.Legal counsel of Kalsi, advocate HS Mangat said, “The failure of the SGPC to reinstall the gates after a long gap has hurt the sentiments of the Sikh community.”He said the SGPC had been collecting donations from devotees on the pretext of repairing the gates.Talking to The Tribune, Mangat said, “The SGPC is expected to preserve historical items and buildings as these have a direct connection with community.”He said in view of the sentiments of masses, the gates should be reinstalled at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-served-legal-notice-189164
25-12-2020||Amritsar||Man shot dead over minor issue||Angrej Singh (37), was shot dead following a minor dispute in Varpal village falling under the jurisdiction of the Chatiwind police on Wednesday.  The accused have been identified as Sajjan Singh and his son, Jaskaran, both residents of Varpal village. According to the police, Angrej had gone for striking a compromise between the accused and his brother-in-law (Manpreet Singh) when the incident took place. Mandeep Kaur, sister of the deceased, stated to the police that Sajjan thrashed Manpreet (her husband), who had repaired the former’s air-conditioner two years ago.  She said, on Wednesday, Manpreet had gone to repair a geyser at the house of a local resident who happened to be brother of the accused. She said the accused used foul language and thrashed her husband. She said Manpreet informed the panchayat member and a time was fixed for Wednesday evening for two groups to reach at sarpanch’s house to sort out their differences.  She alleged that in the evening, Sajjan and his son didn’t  turn up. She said when she along with Angrej went to their house to call them, Sajjan came out with a rifle and shot at them. A bullet pierced through Anrej’s eye. Manmeetpal Singh, SHO, Chatiwind police station, said the accused have been arrested.  He said they have confiscated the licensed weapon used in the crime. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-shot-dead-over-minor-issue-189165
25-12-2020||Amritsar||Excise Dept raids 2 tobacco dealers||Sleuths of the Excise and Taxation Department raided the premises of two tobacco dealers here on Wednesday. They took their records into custody for further investigations. There were complaints of evasion of tax by the two firms located in Cheel Mandi and Majith Mandi here.  Rajwinder Kaur, DTC, Excise and Taxation, said that there were certain complaints that the two companies were evading taxes. Therefore excise and taxation teams raided the godown and offices of two firms and took the records into custody. She said the records were being examined for further necessary action. The raid started at around 12 noon and continued for around six hours during which they examined the entire records. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/excise-dept-raids-2-tobacco-dealers-189166
25-12-2020||Tarn Taran||‘Ghulle Shah’ joins AAP||Renowned Punjabi comedian Surinder Farishta, better known as Ghulle Shah, was among many others, who joined the AAP at a function organised here on Thursday to commence the oath-taking ceremony of the newly appointed office-bearers in Majha region. Harpal Singh Cheema, Leader of the Opposition said, “While the Centre wants to destroy farmers and agriculture, Capt Amarinder Singh, is looting Punjab at the hands of all kinds of mafias.” He said: “The sole objective of the Aam Aadmi Party is to mobilise Punjab, its youth and all sections, to make it a colourful state again, where there is prosperity, where farmers do not have to commit suicides and where youth are given employment.”Tributes were paid to martyrs of farmers’ movement, who laid their lives in the battle for their survival. Cheema said to strengthen the party, 22 state office-bearers, 168 district-level office-bearers, 468 block-level office-bearers and 4,500 circle-level office-bearers have been appointed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ghulle-shah-joins-aap-189167
25-12-2020||---||Celebrations axed for Xmas||Amritsar, December 24Terming this year’s Christmas a ‘Covid-19 Christmas’, bishop Pradeep Kumar Sumantaroy, who heads diocese, North India-Amritsar, shared the new norms for celebrating the festival. Cutting down not just on festivities this year, the churches will also observe few rules regarding social distancing, while changing the course of traditional prayer service.“This year, as we all know, the pandemic has overshadowed a lot of things. We have been asking our church members to observe maximum safety and follow all guidelines while celebrating Christmas. General instructions like wearing of masks and gloves while visiting church have been already given to priests as well as members of the church. One of the important changes this year would be that the church will be reaching out to the sick and needy, even senior citizens with priests performing blessings and prayer service will be visiting their homes instead of calling them to church. This would be done to ensure all-round safety,” he said. Sumantaroy also urged people to not gather in large numbers for prayers in church.Reaching out to those who have lost their jobs post-lockdown, Sumantaroy said, “A lot of labourers and people in private sector have lost their jobs, loved ones to the pandemic. The church has made an appeal to people, who are blessed with resources to share some with the lesser privileged,” he added.Most churches in city have cut down the Christmas Eve service timings to hold early evening prayers rather than midnight masses. Despite the district administration relaxing night curfew on the eve of Christmas, churches maintained health guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/celebrations-axed-for-xmas-189168
25-12-2020||Amritsar||Gang of thieves busted in district||The Chheharta police have arrested six persons who were allegedly involved in stealing oil from transformers in the city. Those arrested have been identified as Karanbir Singh of Nimla Colony, Happy Sharma of Kale Road, Deepu, Jagjit Singh of Het Ram Colony, Kishan Chand of Harkrishan Nagar and Paramjit Singh of Chatiwind village. Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill said several cases were filed for stealing transformer oil in Chheharta. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gang-of-thieves-busted-in-district-189169
25-12-2020||...the sacrifices made by doughty soldiers of the Indian Armed Forces||In memory of...||Standing opposite to the Shaheed Bhagat Singh bus terminal, Jalandhar, the ‘Punjab State War Memorial’ is a delight for eyes. Spanning nearly 1.4 acres, the memorial is a window into the history of wars fought by the bravehearts of the Indian Armed Forces. Names of nearly 150 martyred soldiers along with their awards have been chiseled on a 50-ft central obelisk. Constructed at a cost of Rs13 lakh, the memorial was inaugurated and dedicated to people of Punjab by Darbara Singh, then CM of Punjab, on April 4, 1981. The task for the construction was entrusted upon the Improvement Trust, Jalandhar, and its design was conceived by an eminent Amritsar-based architect Amarjit Singh.The central column was reportedly manufactured with white marble, red sandstone on hexagonal platforms, and interestingly, the soil has been collected from all villages of the district. On sides of these hexagonal raised platforms, the names of gallantry award winners since 1947 have been engraved on a black granite stone. The monument stands independently as a symbol of sacrifice and pride.The project of the memorial was conceived not only as a monument to commemorate our martyrs but also to facilitate intellectual pursuit. It is maintained by District Sainik Welfare Board. Deputy director Sainik Welfare, Colonel (retd) Dalwinder Singh, said: “It was functional since 1989 and every year ‘Armed Forces Flag Day’ was observed on December 7 to pay homage to the martyrs.”Hall of fameIt was inaugurated by then Governor of Punjab, Virendra Yadav, on the occasion of the silver jubilee of Indo-Pak War 1965, on October 12, 1990. Built in the memory of all those who laid down their lives in various operations since August 15, 1947, ‘hall of fame’ remembers the martyrs and displays them on wooden walls. Charting battle history from the bygone era, various momentos, guns and artilleries can be seen here. The details of war casualties in alphabetical order was obtained and authenticated from the records available at the historical section of the Army HQ.War librarySmall yet weighty, it is the most significant area of the Punjab State War Memorial. Apart from housing illustrations of several soldiers who sacrificed their lives in various wars and anti-militancy operations, the library has over hundreds of books. A sneak-peak into the major wars, the shelved books will take you back to the time when the Indian Armed Forces were originated, Sikh army and road to freedom, formation of political parties and so on. The delight of vegetarian cooking, flames of chinar, pilllars of modern India converted Kashmir are some of the most valuable books there.Kargil galleryIt was inaugurated by GOC-IN-C Western Command and ex-Risaldar Harbir Singh on December 7, 2003. It has a large frame consisting portraits of 27 battle casualties of Kargil and other recent operations. Besides, a separate wooden frame has been dedicated to Major GS Badalia of second Mahar, who sacrificed his life in the ‘Operation Orchid’. Worn out Rajashtani sandstone, where the names of war-decorated soldiers killed in action were inscribed, was replaced by black granite stone slabs during 1990.Amar jawan jyotiPlaced at the central monument, it’s the area where tributes are paid to the martyrs by lighting lamps and candles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/in-memory-of-189178
25-12-2020||Tarn Taran||Man shoots self in Valtoha village||Two fall prey to virus in districtAmritsar: With two more deaths on Thursday in the district due to the Covid-19, the death toll has reached 544. The deceased have been identified as Tripta (80), a resident of Ranjit Avenue, and Santosh Kumar (58), a resident of New Amritsar. The health authorities reported 29 new positive cases with which the total count has increased to 14,321. The new cases include 17 influenza like illness cases and 12 contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with recovery of 29 patients, the recovery count has increased to 13,240. At present, the district has a total of 537 active cases. TNS500 litres of ‘lahan’ seizedTarn Taran: The Sadar police on Thursday conducted a raid in Jeobala village and seized more than 500 litres of lahan and a working still with an electronic induction from two persons arrested in this connection. The SHO said the accused had been identified as Amreek Singh and his brother Malook Singh, while Satnam Singh and his son Sarwan Singh, relatives of the arrested accused, fled the spot. SHO Prabhjit Singh said the accused were distilling liquor at their farmhouse . A case under Sections 61,1 and 14 of the Excise Act has been filed. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-shoots-self-in-valtoha-village-189179
