28-12-2020||Aakash Talwar||Aakash Talwar heads to Amritsar||Aakash says, “It’s the best season and I love it because it is so quiet. The dark and quiet nights and the sunlight during the days make me enjoy the weather. The whole family spends time together while sitting in the sun.”Aakash adds, “The winter is best in Amritsar, it gives a different vibe to the place. Since this year has not been too good for all of us due to the pandemic, so I would like to enjoy the most in the last month, by waving a goodbye to this year and welcoming the new year with positivity and hopes in Amritsar.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aakash-talwar-heads-to-amritsar-190476
28-12-2020||---||Protesting farmers beat thalis||Amritsar, December 27Farmers across the district on Sunday beat thalis during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann Ki Baat programme to protest against the three agriculture laws passed recently by the Central Government. They also raised slogans against the PM.Protest events were also organised in several villages of the border belt where people collectively beat utensils to express their anguish.A farmer leader, Rattan Singh Randhawa of Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, said, “The people are agitated as even after a month of protest in Delhi amid chill, the government is still indifferent.” He said the government must repeal the laws in view of the sentiments of the large section of the society. The Prime Minister should also listen to the public’s ‘mann ki baat’, he added.Another farmer leader, Dilbag Singh, while leading a protest in the city, said, “If the Prime Minister is not ready to listen to our mann ki baat, we would not listen to his. The idea of the protest is to show him that we do not care about his talks unless he listens to us.”Mangal Singh Rampura, a leader from the Kisan Sangharsh Committee, said, “The three laws are against the interest of the farming community. We will not allow the government to sell out farming to corporate houses.”He said farmers in large numbers were going to join the Delhi protest and they would not relent until the laws are repealed.Tarn Taran: Farmers and workers of many organisations on the call given by the Joint Farmers’ Morcha banged utensils and drums to protest against PM Modi’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’ here on Sunday.Activists of the Khalra Mission Organisation (KMO), Manukhi Adhikar Insaf Sangharsh Committee and other Sikh organisations organised a protest by beating drums as PM addressed his ‘Mann Ki Baat’. Jagdeep Singh Randhawa, Baba Darshan Singh and other representatives of Sikh organisations said the time had come for minority communities to be united against the divisive policies of the Central govenment. Workers of the Zamhoori Kisan Sabha, Dehati Mazdoor Sabha and Janvadi Isti Sabha beat utensils to lodge their protest against the autocratic functioning of the Central government which was in no mood to resolve the farmer agitation in the country. Baldev Singh Pandori and other leaders of the different organisations too addressed on the occasion and called the oppressed sections of the society to be united against the Modi government. The leaders also demanded withdrawal of the farm laws.Farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Commiittee, Punjab, gathered in Chabal, Manochahal Kalan, Mannan, Dalake and Plasauar, organised protests by beating thalis during his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protesting-farmers-beat-thalis-190316
28-12-2020||---||Light showers, morning fog add to chill||Amritsar, December 27 The absence of sunlight throughout the day and intermittent showers in the evening caused a sudden drop in the daytime temperature on Sunday. Heavy fog was witnessed in the urban and rural areas until noon when it started drizzling.  With weather forecasts predicting frost in the coming days, the daytime temperature, especially during early morning hours, is expected to fall further. The fog and showers affected the life in general as markets and roads were nearly empty.  With the visibility extending only to a few metres, the commuters too faced a trouble on roads as drivers had to drive slowly and cautiously. The fog cover in the rural areas was dense in comparison to city areas. The movement of vehicles in rural areas remained negligible throughout the day.  “Despite it being a public holiday, people preferred to stay at home and did not visit markets. It was a slow day for business,” said Harsimran Singh, a cloth seller. The hosiery sellers are, however, claiming that sales are good this season due to intense cold. The shopkeepers also stated that the demand for room heaters and geysers has registered an increase in the last one week.  “We have not seen the sunlight for the last two days. It is intense cold outside and except for bringing fodder for animals all other works have been postponed,” said a farmer Major Singh from Chabal. He added that vegetable crops would be adversely hit with the frost in the coming days and the production would fall.  While the chill in the air has increased, the agriculture experts stated that the showers are good for crops especially wheat as it would decrease the need for applying irrigation and help in tillering. They stated that farmers should apply a light irrigation to fodder crops during the early morning hours to decrease the effect of frost on them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/light-showers-morning-fog-add-to-chill-190317
28-12-2020||---||Deduct tax at source, demand traders||Amritsar, December 27 Highly inconvenienced at the cumbersome GST format, the general house of the Amritsar Distributors Association (ADA) has called upon the Union government to deduct tax at source like at manufacturing and importing points. It will keep the traders out of the loop and will end the fear of tax theft.  Members of the ADA arrived at this decision after discussing various problems being faced in business transactions with the legal experts during its annual general meeting held here on Sunday. Anil Kapoor, president of the ADA, said, the traders were victimised due to the insistence of the government to implement GST. Three years after its introduction over 1,000 amendments took place which deflected it from its objective of unification and simplification of trade laws in the country. Promises like availability of goods, especially eatables on cheaper rates remain a distant dream. Traders are more concerned in collecting bills and filing returns, instead of focusing on their business.  Simple rule of government deducting tax from the public has become a major concern for traders. The general house of the ADA stated that deducting tax at source will forever end the fear of the government that the tax was not being paid properly. It stated that the registered traders were more concerned for tax compliance, instead of selling merchandise.  It asked its members to avoid accepting distributorship of those companies which focusses on e-commerce and do not cooperate with them. It added that the volume of trade was going down from distributors and was moving up in favour of e-commerce companies.  It flayed the introduction of the FSSAI law over the FMCG traders. It demanded one time registration of the FMCG traders from the government and the ending of annual renewal policy. Addressing the distributors, Aman Prashar, legal expert, elaborated those legal ways for the traders in case the companies do not clear their pending dues.  Amarpreet Singh and Dinesh Ahuja, general secretary and secretary of the ADA, respectively, read out the annual report of the ADA. RS Tarjan, president of the ADA Ludhiana, also took part in the proceedings of the general house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/deduct-tax-at-source-demand-traders-190318
28-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||Couldn’t wait for tractors, so cousins decide to reach Singhu border by Activa||Tribune News ServiceSinghu, December 27Tejinder Singh stands beneath an Airtel umbrella at the Singhu border to get his SIM ported out. A while later, his cousin Manpreet, all drenched in sweat as he was helping out at a langar nearby, also joins him. Jalandhar cousins Tejinder Singh and Manpreet Singh drove 348 km from Jalandhar to Singhu border on their Activa to join farmers’ protests.Hailing from Kandola village at Nurmahal, a spur of the moment plan led the duo to undertake a day-long journey to Singhu to express solidarity to farm protests.While tractor-trailers have been leaving for Singhu from their village, the duo said they made an instinctive decision to head out to the protest site as they wanted to join farmers in their struggle.Tejinder said: “We felt an emotional connect with protests. We are from farming families and hearing the elderly men slug it out in the winter chill on the Delhi border stirred us from within. We wanted to put in our bit in the movement. Although tractor-trailers have been going out from our village, we didn’t want to wait that long. So, we picked our Activa and headed for Singhu.”While Tejinder heads to an Airtel stall to get his number ported out, Manpreet, too, joins him. Tejinder adds: “We are with farmers. It is hard for them already, they are doing this to secure the future of coming generations. Since there are many Airtel stalls here, I decided to get my number ported out too!”While the duo headed to Delhi with little belongings, they camped with farmers and did sewa on langars at the border. Manpreet said: “We have fields back home. Our families are into farming. We know how high the stakes are. We feel it is important for young people like us to do our bit and be a part of protests. We are glad we made the decision to come here. It is a happy occasion for us. The energy of the elderly farmers and the congregation of men here is infectious.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/couldnt-wait-for-tractors-so-cousins-decide-to-reach-singhu-border-by-activa-190319
28-12-2020||---||Mayor stages dharna at Jantar Mantar||Amritsar, December 27Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu along with Ludhiana Mayor Balkar Singh Sidhu and Jalandhar Mayor Jagdish Raja staged a dharna, being organised by the Congress MPs of Punjab against the agriculture laws passed by the Union Government for the last two days, at Jantar Mantar in Delhi.Mayor Karamjit Singh, who was present on the second day of the dharna, said the Congress had always stood by the farmers. “Under the leadership of Capt Amarinder Singh the state government had rejected these laws for the benefit of the farmers. Congress MPs, MLAs, mayors of all cities and Congress workers have been protesting against the agriculture laws passed by the Union government”.Rintu said that for the first time in the history of India, people from all walks of life are united with the entire farming community but the Central government is not paying attention to them.He said around 70 per cent of the people of India were engaged in agriculture. With this, farmers from different parts of the country have come together on one platform and come to Delhi to protest against the agriculture laws passed by the Central government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mayor-stages-dharna-at-jantar-mantar-190320
28-12-2020||Amritsar||22 more test positive in Amritsar district||Office-bearers of Citizen CouncilTarn Taran: Sukhwant Singh Dhami was elected president and Harinder Singh Plasauar as the general secretary of the local Citizen Council, an NGO, at the annual election of the organisation held here on Sunday. Other office-bearers elected are Harwinder Singh (vice-president), Vipin Dhingra (treasurer), Dr Nirmaljit Singh Varpal (organising secretary), Jaideep Bhargav (joint secretary), Charanjit Ashu (press secretary), Gurdial Singh (auditor) and Mohinder Singh Prince and Balraj Sigh Chawla (patrons). The NGO was organising mass marriages and other social activities for the past 30 years. ocZomato delivery boy robbedAmritsar: A delivery boy with Zomato was looted by unknown armed persons near Ram Talai area on Saturday evening. The victim, Dinesh Kumar, said he was returning after delivering food in Partap Nagar area. He said he was returning on a motorcycle when two bike-borne men stopped him and snatched his wallet containing Rs 4,000 and other documents. The police have registered a case under Section 379-B (2) of the IPC. TNSSoni inaugurates street flooringAmritsar: Development works in the Tunda Talab area of Ward No. 60 would be completed within two months. This was stated by Om Parkash Soni, Education and Research Minister, while inaugurating the concrete flooring of streets on Sunday. He said that several development works had been completed at a cost of Rs2 crore recently. Soni said three tubewells had been installed and there was no shortage of drinking water in the area. The work of installing street LED lights had been completed. He said a park at Tunda Talab would also be revamped. OCSnatchers held, 2 mobiles seizedAmritsar: The Verka police have nabbed two snatchers, who had allegedly snatched a mobile from Verka resident 20 days ago. They were identified as Kuljit Singh, alias Tony, and Sukhwinder Singh, alias Baba, both residents of Jethuwal village. The police seized two expensive mobile phones from their possession. Nishan Singh, SHO, Verka police, said the duo had snatched a mobile phone from Vinod Kumar of Verka on December 7. He said that the accused were produced in the court and brought on police remand. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/22-more-test-positive-in-amritsar-district-190322
28-12-2020||---||Panic as gunshots fired at Fatahpur||Amritsar, December 27Panic gripped Fatahpur when unknown persons fired into air outside a residence here on Friday night. The police have recovered two live bullets and as many shells from the spot. Though a case has been registered, cops are cluless about the accused.Complainant Joginder Kaur said unknown persons were shouting the name of her son Gurwinder Singh Ginny even as he feigned ignorance about the suspects and the reason behind the incident.She lives with her elder son Nishan Singh. Gurwinder lives in Mohali with his family. Her grandson Sukhmanpreet Singh and his two friends Harmanpreet Singh and Gursewak Singh also live with her.According to the complainant, her daughter Kuljit Kaur and other relatives had come to meet her on Friday. At around 10.30 pm, they came out to see them off. Gursewak went with the relatives. Later, unknown persons came outside and started shouting, using foul language. She said they were shouting the name of Ginny and threatening of dire consequences.She said the accused fired into air, creating a panic. They fled when people gathered. She said Gurwinder feigned ignorance about the accused and the motive behind the incident.The police are investigating the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/panic-as-gunshots-fired-at-fatahpur-190323
28-12-2020||Open House||To tackle menace, fixing responsibility need of the hour||Only awareness won’t help, we need actionFoggy winter season has become a big safety concern for travellers. Poor visibility results in terrible road mishaps. Stray cattle have added to the menace of riders. Even during clear weather, stray cattle lead to traffic jams and mishaps. During fog, poor visibility makes the situation worse with stray animals roaming along the roadside. Our Indian principles prevent cow slaughter, therefore, farmers desert unproductive cows, which in turn is increasing the stray cattle population in cities especially highways. Municipalities need to keep a regular check on the population of stray animals with their periodic sterilisation drive. Government funds need to be allocated for the development of cow shelters for the maintenance of these animals. We worship cows in India, adoption of such animals needs to be promoted. Only awareness is not the solution to the problem, productive efforts to counter the problem are need of the hour.Gulshakh KaurResidents, authorities need to be proactivePeople should follow traffic rules and encourage their relatives and friends to follow these as well. During fog, they must use the hazard lights along with keeping the speed slow of the vehicle to avoid accidents. The authorities on the other hand must fill potholes on roads as soon as possible. Some traffic lights such as those near the main gate of new Amritsar are dysfunctional which must be fixed. CCTV cameras must be installed covering every road of the city, so that strict enforcement of rules is ensured.Jatinderpal SinghNeed to Learn from Scandinavian nationsHerds of cattle, particularly cows and bulls, roam freely on the thoroughfares and interior roads of the city causing untold misery and hindrance to traffic. The problem has assumed alarming proportions as stray cattle add to traffic woes on the already congested roads. Many people riding two-wheelers have been fatally injured and many have lost their precious lives because of accidents involving cattle. Due to low visibility, stray cattle frequently lead to road accidents jeopardising public safety resulting in a myriad of casualties. According to a rough estimate, more than 3,000 head of stray cattle have been roaming in and around the city. Therefore, the authorities concerned should impound stray cattle, a menace on several roads and a grave threat to motorists, to put them in shelters which must be set up for this purpose along the highways, where they can be herded and lodged. The owners who let their cattle out at night should be identified and penalised heavily. Better lighting system can help minimise the problem as most serious accidents involving cattle take place at night. Police patrol parties should be deputed to monitor roads so as to drive away stray cattle. Gaushalas with adequate space should be set up. Dairies should be relocated on the outskirts of the city. Undoubtedly the MC has constraints in impounding all stray cattle because of the absence of proper cow shelters and paucity of manpower to maintain the animals. But this should not be used as a ruse to evade responsibility and accountability. The so-called gau-rakshaks should come forward to help the authorities in minimising the danger posed by the waif cattle roaming leisurely on city roads. The neighbouring towns/ cities have a tendency to leave their stray cattle on the outskirts of the city. This tendency should be curbed. People who worship cows and call them ‘gau mata’ should adopt stray cows to alleviate their lot and help minimise fatal accidents. Cows abound in Scandinavian countries. Clues should be taken from them as how to deal with surplus cows.Tarsem S BumrahTag animals, tie radium bands at cattle fairsStray cattle roam freely on roads and highways thereby hindering travellers after being abandoned by owners when the former stop producing milk. To minimise accidents due to collision between stray cattle and vehicle drivers during the winter season due to fog, highways should be fenced at various places to prevent the entry of stray animals. Tying radium bands or reflectors on horns and necks of stray cattle that will make it easier for vehicle drivers to spot the cattle from a distance and prevent accidents. Gram panchayats should formulate ways to keep away stray cattle and impose fines on the owners who default. The organisers of animal fairs shall tag the cattle participating in fairs to prevent farmers from dumping their cattle. The government should fix responsibility of farmers and dairy owners who abandon infertile cows on roads, which is the main reason behind the rise in the population of stray cattle and fatal accidents, especially in the winter season.Saanya AggarwalCivic body should catch stray cattleAccidents increase manifold due to stray cattle in winter season. Cattle often roam on roads and commuters fail to notice them due to dense fog. Studies have shown that India has the highest number of road accidents globally. The Municipal Corporation does not pay heed to this issue. It is imperative that the administration should catch and take stray cattle to gaushalas or forests.Saahil HansRemove barricades from roadsidesI commute daily from Jalandhar to Beas. The Punjab Police have installed barricades for inspection of vehicles on the national highway at various places. However, these barricades do not have luminous markings and during dense fog they are not visible at all. If there is no check post being manned in the wee hours, cops should remove barricades and stack them at a distant place. Drivers of some private buses drive on the opposite direction. These buses are the biggest scare. Such such drivers should be dealt with sternly. During winter season, especially when there is dense fog, there is no sight of traffic police. Fear of a challan by cops would ensure some discipline on the roads. Moreover, as the national highway is being recarpeted, equipment is stacked on the roadside. The unmarked recarpeted patches make lane driving a difficult task.Col VK Sharma (retd)Spend cow cess for boosting infraFog generally adds to the woes of commuters, but stray animals lead to numerous road accidents, many of them resulting in loss of precious lives. A survey shows that approximately 10,000 accidents take place in the state due to stray animals, which claimed lives of 1,200 persons. Around 4,000 animals also lose die every year in such accidents. In the list of stray animals, cow tops the list. We do find many cow lovers, but in reality they do little to provide them shelter and fodder. Amritsar has two gaushalas — Lohgarh Gate and Ghee Mandi Gate — which are doing marvellous job in this regard. But due to financial crunch, their managements are unable to run them satisfactorily. To find a permanent solution to this problem, the state government imposed a cow cess with effect from 2016 to make 500 new gaushalas and to provide liberal grants to existing gaushalas. To date, more than Rs 540 crores have been collected under this head in the state, but not a single penny has been spent so far.Harsh N Joha QUESTIONWhat steps should be taken by the Health Department for administering Covid vaccine smoothly?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (December 31).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/to-tackle-menace-fixing-responsibility-need-of-the-hour-190327
28-12-2020||PK Jaiswar||3-kg heroin seized at Indo-Pak border||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 27With zero visibility on the Indo-Pak border in Attari, there has been a spurt in the attempts of pushing in drugs and arms by anti-national elements supported by Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) from across the border.The Border Security Force (BSF) on Sunday confiscated around 3 kg of heroin from the Attari border.The BSF said the alert jawans thwarted nefarious designs of cross border smugglers of sneaking in drugs in the area of the 71 Battalion of BSF. The jawans seized 3 packets containing just over 3-kg heroin.Jawans also recovered around 12-ft long plastic pipe near Burj border outpost falling under Bhindi Saida police station on Saturday. The pipe bearing a marking of made in Pakistan was found on the Indian side of the border.A case has been registered against unknown smugglers in this connection.Immediately, a search operation was carried out by the BSF and the Punjab Police. Sniffer dog was also pressed into service for zeroing in on the suspects.The police located footprints in the fields and a pair of gloves from the spot. Therefore, forensic teams were also called on the spot.“There is high probability that the contraband was sneaked into this side of the border by cross border smugglers. Further investigations are underway,” said Attari Deputy Superintendent of Police Gurpartap Singh Sahota.Earlier, the BSF had seized two such PVC pipes from the electrified barbed fence at Daoke and Rajatal area on December 14. The police had registered two separate FIRs in this connection and had taken several people into the custody for investigations. As no recovery was made, cases were still under investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-kg-heroin-seized-at-indo-pak-border-190328
28-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||Meet the women feeding protesting farmers at Singhu border||Tribune News ServiceSinghu, December 27For the past over 11 days, several women are following a 7.30 am to 11 pm schedule. They cook, laugh and share stories at the Singhu border.Cooking langar for hundreds of people, a group of women from Chabbewal village busy themselves with a gruelling 16-17 hours’ schedule to feed the sangat at the Singhu border. The women said they came here to express solidarity with the farmers. Themselves from farming background, they said this was their way of pooling in for the struggle.Simranjit Kaur from Chabbewal says: “We came here about a fortnight ago. While a jatha from Hoshiarpur had originally come in, we have been joined by many more people now. More women keep chipping in, offering their services. Now, it’s not just us. Everyone is keen on helping and doing their bit for farmers. We ourselves are from farming families. This is our way of expressing solidarity with farmers.”With many people to cook for, these women are busy working throughout the day.Manjinder Kaur says: “We get up at 7 am and keep working throughout the day. We take breaks to rest or sleep, but since long hours of prep are needed for the langar, we are mostly cooking throughout the day. Hours go by in cooking, talking and we don’t even come to know how time flies.”Manjit Kaur from Chandigarh joined these women for the langar sewa soon after their arrival. While Manjit’s husband is an ASI, her entire family has come to Singhu border to express solidarity with farmers.Manjit sits with her daughter Sneh Lata Kaur and both mother and daughter prepare chapatis for the sangat.Manjit says: “My son is in Brampton, he couldn’t come. But the rest of us are here. My husband took special leave to come here. He also cooks in between and sometimes sweeps the langar spot. My daughter is also keen on helping. Every day, we cook the langar together. She pursues graduation. Our kids joined us as they were keen on helping farmers. They are all fighting for us. This is the least we can do to help them out in the movement.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/meet-the-women-feeding-protesting-farmers-at-singhu-border-190331
