07-09-2021||New Delhi||Nitish, Badal, Deve Gowda, Chautala among several leaders to share stage on Sept 25 in Jind||Pitching for a third front, INLD’s Om Prakash Chautala will bring together SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, Bihar Chief Minister and JD(U) leader Nitish Kumar, former prime minister HD Deve Gowda and SAD supremo Parkash Singh Badal on one stage on September 25, the birth anniversary of former deputy prime minister Devi Lal.NCP leader Sharad Pawar, TMC president and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah and RLD leader Jayant Chowdhury have also been invited for a “huge” political rally on the occasion in Haryana’s Jind and their confirmation is awaited, INLD leader Abhay Chautala told PTI.He said Mulayam Singh Yadav, Nitish Kumar, JD(S) leader Deve Gowda and Badal have confirmed that they will attend the ‘Samman Samaroh’ to mark the birth anniversary of Devi Lal.“Many like-minded leaders from non-BJP and non-Congress parties will come together on one stage and will raise issues that are close to the people, especially farmers’ issues,” Abhay Chautala said.He said the people are looking for an alternative to the BJP and the Congress. By bringing all these leaders “our aim is to form the third front for the overall welfare of the country and the people,” Chautala said.INLD spokesperson Rakesh Sihag said Om Prakash Chautala has “personally met” Deve Gowda and Mulayam Singh Yadav and invited them for the rally.“It will be a huge rally and people from various states will attend it,” he said.Om Prakash Chautala, 86, after his release from Delhi’s Tihar Jail on July 2, had announced that he will contact opposition leaders across the country to forge a “Third Front” at the national level.The former chief minister of Haryana had been serving a 10-year sentence in a recruitment scam.The INLD patriarch had said that before September 25, which is the birth anniversary of his father Chaudhary Devi Lal, he will try to meet opposition leaders and urge them to come on one platform.JD(U) leaders Nitish Kumar and KC Tyagi had met Chautala at his residence in Gurugram last month and had termed it a courtesy call.The parties invited by INLD include those that are either in alliance with the Congress or the BJP. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nitish-badal-deve-gowda-chautala-among-several-leaders-to-share-stage-on-sept-25-in-jind-307971
07-09-2021||  Chandigarh||Haryana child rights commission takes suo motu congnisance of corporal punishment allegations in Fatehabad school||Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (HSCPCR) took suo motu congnisance of a case involving the allegations of corporal punishment in a government school in Fatehabad on Tuesday.   Chairperson HSCPCR Jyoti Bainda has given Fatehabad Superintendent of Police five days for a report of investigation or action taken. “At least 40 students were allegedly beaten up with a stick by teachers of a government school in Tohana area of Fatehabad. It has also come to the notice that a complaint in this regard has also been moved before the police authorities,” she said.  The incident, the commission said, occurred on September 6.  Complainants in the case said that when a student of Class 11 whistled and no one owned up, a teacher began to beat up the students with a stick.  Some students had to be hospitalised after the assault, the commission said. Two Dalit students were also subjected to casteist slurs, the commission said.Parents then approached the police to report the incident.Police should ensure “proper procedure is followed in the entire course of medical examination as well as the investigation of the offence”, the commission told the SP. Fatehabad SP Rajesh Kumar said that police registered a case after they received a complaint.Inspector Surender Kumar, Station House Office of Tohana City Police Station, said three teachers had been booked under the Juvenile Justice Act and Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes Prevention of Atrocities Act.“Investigation is under progress.” he said, refusing to give any more details.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-child-rights-commission-takes-suo-motu-congnisance-of-corporal-punishment-allegations-in-fatehabad-school-307965
07-09-2021||---||AJL case: HC order continuation of stay on trial court proceedings||Chandigarh, September 7Just about two months after the trial court proceedings against Haryana’s former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Associated Journal Limited (AJL) was stayed in a case regarding allotment of a plot in Panchkula to the AJL, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday ordered the continuation of the interim orders.The direction came after the Bench, hearing the matter in physical mode, was told that senior advocate Kapil Sibal appearing for the petitioners was unable to attend the court “owing to his age”.A request was also made to post the matter for virtual hearing. The petitioners were represented by senior advocate RS Cheema, Arshdeep Cheema with Sumanjit Kaur and Tarannum Cheema, along with counsel Pradeep Poonia.Opposing the prayer, senor advocate Sumeet Goel on the CBI’s behalf submitted an interim order was operating in the petitioners’ favour since July 1. Justice GS Sandhawalia asserted it was not disputed that the proceedings on an earlier occasion were heard virtually. It was the first day when the matters were put up for physical hearing following demand by the Bar. In such circumstances, the request for accommodation came forth as the senior counsel was based in Delhi. As such, it was not possible for him to appear on account of sudden change in the hearing from virtual to physical mode.The Bench added otherwise also the court was of the opinion that the stay order was only passed on July 1 and the contentions of the counsel for the petitioners, running into more than 16 pages, were noticed by a coordinate Bench. If the order was vacated, it would render the main petition infructuous since it was challenging the framing of the charge.“In such circumstances, the proceedings are deferred for September 20. It is further made clear that since the Roster has yet not been finalized for the said date, if this Court is sitting by way of physical mode, the matter would be taken up on September 21… Interim order to continue,” the Bench added.Hooda had moved the High Court challenging Panchkula CBU Special Judge’s order, vide which charges were framed against him and other accused. Among other things, Hooda had sought directions for setting aside the impugned order dated April 16 passed by the Special Judge in FIR registered on April 5, 2017, for cheating and criminal conspiracy under Sections 120-B and 420 of Indian Penal Code, besides of Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ajl-case-hc-order-continuation-of-stay-on-trial-court-proceedings-307890
07-09-2021||Ravinder Saini||Rohtak slum dwellers a harried lot as streets get waterlogged||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 6Residents of Valmiki basti in Samchana village here allege harassment at the hands of the administration authorities for not draining the rainwater accumulated in the streets even after a fortnight.Residents say a foul smell has spread across the basti, posing a serious threat to villagers’ health, but the authorities are least concerned.Puneet, a resident of the basti, said the rainwater was stagnant outside over a dozen houses, forcing residents to wade through it. “There is no proper drainage in the village and this leads to accumulation of rainwater. We have approached the authorities several times to get the issue resolved but to no avail,” he added.Fateh, another resident of the basti, said waterlogged streets had become a breeding ground for mosquitoes that this would lead to outbreak of vector-borne diseases if the water was not drained soon.Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO) Sumit Kumar did not respond to phone calls and messages. Sampla SDM Shweta Suhag said they had been facing an issue of funds to install pumps in the village to drain accumulated water.The BDPO, however, had been asked to resolve the grievances soon, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-slum-dwellers-a-harried-lot-as-streets-get-waterlogged-307772
07-09-2021||---||Man kills mother over land dispute||Sonepat, September 6A 28-year-old man has been booked for allegedly murdering his mother in Babbail village over a land dispute.The deceased has been identified as 70-year-old Rukman Devi of Babbail village.In his complaint to the Sector 13/17 police, Kirsan, son of the deceased woman, said they had 3 acres of land, which was divided equally among three brothers. His elder brother Khail Singh died two years ago. Kirsan’s younger brother Kavinder, alias Chhota, was, however, unhappy with the decision as he demanded his share to sell it. “But our mother refused to give the land to him due to which he used to quarrel with her. My wife and I went to meet my sister on Sunday. Meanwhile, Kavinder came to meet our mother and started quarrelling with her again,” Kirsan alleged.Kavinder allegedly pushed his mother, strangulated her to death and fled the spot, he alleged. After getting information, Kirsan reached home and took his mother to the hospital, where the doctors declared her dead.Ram Niwas, SHO, Sector 13/17 police station, said a case had been registered against Kavinder under Section 302 of the IPC. The body of the deceased had been handed over to the family after the autopsy on Monday, he added.“The accused has not been arrested so far. The probe into the matter is underway,” the SHO added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-kills-mother-over-land-dispute-307773
07-09-2021||gurugram||Toddler gets trapped in drain outside home, dies||A one-and-a-half-year-old girl died after being trapped in a drain outside her maternal grandparents’ home in Budheda village.The deceased was identified as Mayra of Jhatikara in Delhi. She came to Budheda along with her mother a few days ago.On Saturday morning, she went missing under suspicious circumstances and the police were called in. Villagers and police teams searched for her till late evening and found her stuck in the drain under the ramp of the house. She was rushed to a hospital but the doctors declared her brought dead.“We have handed over body to the kin after the autopsy,” said ACP Rajiv Yadav. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/toddler-gets-trapped-in-drain-outside-home-dies-307774
07-09-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||At 101, weekly cases lowest in state since Apr 26 last year||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 6In the week ending on September 5, the state recorded 101 Covid cases, lowest since April 20-26 last year.As per the Health Department report, the state recorded 101 cases between August 30 and September 5.Before it, the state had recorded lower cases i.e. 46 only during April 20 to 26, 2020. During August 23 to 29 this year, there were 109 cases while the week preceding it (August 16 to 22), the state had recorded 139 new infections.The maximum fresh cases in the week ending September 5 were reported from Gurugram at 33, followed by 11 from Faridabad and 10 from Palwal. No case was reported throughout the entire week from six districts, including Hisar, Sonepat, Bhiwani, Mahendragarh, Charkhi Dadri and Nuh.As of September 5, the active cases came down to 287 with none in Nuh, one each in Fatehabad and Sonepat, and two each in Charkhi Dadri, Palwal, and Jhajjar.Moreover, the number of Covid deaths in the last few weeks has been almost stagnant. In the week from August 30-September 5, nine people succumbed to the virus, while the preceding week had recorded seven deaths. The weeks ending on August 15 and August 22 reported nine deaths each. So far, 9,683 persons have succumbed to Covid in the state till September 5. The overall positivity rate of the state is 6.53 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/at-101-weekly-cases-lowest-in-state-since-apr-26-last-year-307775
07-09-2021||---||Man complains of food, wife hits him with rod||Hisar, September 6The police have booked a woman for breaking the head of her husband with a rod when he refused to eat the meal prepared by her, calling it tasteless.In his complaint, Dinesh Kumar (40) said his wife Bindiya prepared tasteless food and even added sugar to the vegetable. He refused to eat the food and asked his wife not to add sugar, which led to an argument between them, he alleged.Bindiya then picked up a rod-like utensil and hit him in the head, injuring him, he alleged. Dinesh said his wife was mentally unstable and often quarrelled with him on various issues.On Dinesh’s complaint, a case under Sections 323 and 506 of the IPC has been registered against Bindiya.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-complains-of-food-wife-hits-him-with-rod-307776
07-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Fake sports firm dupes 20 aspiring cricketers||Gurugram, September 6An alleged fake sports management company, busted by the city police, has duped over 20 aspiring cricketers, including a Mumbai-based aspiring cricketer, of Rs 30 lakh by promising them entry into the KKR team in the forthcoming IPL.The interrogation of two directors brought to fore a bigger scam, where they used the BCCI’s name to dupe aspiring cricketers. Three directors have been nabbed by the Gurugram police for allegedly duping a local cricketer of Rs 10 lakh by promising him entry into the Himachal state team. The accused won the trust of their victims by claiming to be BCCI-approved and showed them some fraud papers from BCCI to befool them. The police have seized all these documents along with mobiles, laptops, Rs 4 lakh and is in touch with the Mumbai police.“We suspect this to be a nationwide racket and may have more complaints and victims joining in. They have confessed 20 such youths, but we are to trace any more victims or complaints. There were fraudulently using BCCI name and have a complaint of fraud in Mumbai. We are getting in touch with Mumbai police and BCCI authorities for investigation, “said inspector Bijender Kumar, head of EOW-2 and investigating officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-sports-firm-dupes-20-aspiring-cricketers-307777
07-09-2021||---||SC refuses to hear plea on opening of Singhu blockade||New Delhi, September 6Even as farmers protesting against the three farm laws continue to block the Singhu border for months, the Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a petition by some residents of Sonepat, seeking the opening of the roads connecting Delhi and Haryana.A Bench, led by Justice DY Chandrachud, asked the petitioners to approach the Punjab and Haryana High Court, saying HCs were more aware of the local situation.“Suppose, tomorrow there is a border dispute between Karnataka and Kerala or some other states. There will be no end to this. This court shall not be the first recourse. HCs are there to deal with local problems. We have a robust system in place,” it told petitioners’ counsel.Interestingly, another Bench of the top court is hearing a petition filed by a woman resident of Noida who alleged that due to the blockade of roads by the agitating farmers travelling between Noida and Delhi, it was taking two hours instead of the usual 20 minutes. On August 23, a Bench, led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, had asked the Centre and governments of UP and Haryana to find a solution to the blockade of roads connecting Delhi with NCR towns by farmers’ protest.The invitation to interfere was “very tempting”, but there were HCs, which could deal with such local issues, maintaining a balance between freedom to protest and the freedom to access basic amenities, the top court said on Monday, forcing the petitioners to withdraw the plea.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-refuses-to-hear-plea-on-opening-of-singhu-blockade-307779
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Continue stay on trial court proceedings: HC||Just about two months after the trial court proceedings against former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Associated Journal Limited (AJL) were stayed in a case regarding the allotment of a plot in Panchkula to the AJL, the HC today ordered the continuation of the interim orders.The direction came after the Bench, hearing the matter in physical mode, was told that senior advocate Kapil Sibal appearing for the petitioners was unable to attend the court “owing to his age”. A request was also made to post the matter for virtual hearing. The petitioners were represented by senior advocate RS Cheema, with Sumanjit Kaur and Tarannum Cheema, along with counsel Pradeep Poonia.Opposing the prayer, senior advocate Sumeet Goel on the CBI’s behalf submitted an interim order was operating in the petitioners’ favour since July 1.“The proceedings are deferred for September 20. It is further made clear that since the Roster has yet not been finalised for the said date, if this court is sitting by way of physical mode, the matter would be taken up on September 21… Interim order to continue,” the Bench added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/continue-stay-on-trial-court-proceedings-hc-307780
07-09-2021||---||Karnal protest today: Those disturbing law & order to face strict action, warn cops||Chandigarh, September 6In view of the farm unions’ call to gherao the Karnal mini-secretariat on September 7, the police have warned of strict action against those trying to disturb law and order.Also read: Internet shutdown in five Haryana districts ahead of farmers’ protestKarnal court restrains farmers from blocking Delhi-Ambala NHSC refuses to hear plea on opening of Singhu blockadeADGP (Law and Order) Navdeep Singh Virk said the primary objective of the security arrangements was to maintain peace and order, prevent any kind of violence, facilitate the functioning of traffic and transport system and to safeguard the public property across the state in general and Karnal in particular.Avoid National Highway-44 todayThe Ambala-Delhi NH-44 may see traffic disruptions in Karnal district. Therefore, the public is advised to avoid taking the highway through Karnal. — Navdeep Singh Virk, ADGP (law and order)The Karnal Range IG and all district SPs have been directed to take precautionary measures in Karnal and adjoining districts. Measures would be taken to avoid untoward incidents, the ADGP added.Virk said DGP PK Agrawal reviewed the police preparedness for the farmers’ protest in a meeting held with the Karnal Range IG and SPs on September 4.The National Highway-44 (Ambala-Delhi) may see some traffic disruptions in Karnal. “Residents are advised to avoid travel through Karnal via the NH-44 or use alternative routes to go to their destination on Tuesday. They are being informed about these arrangements in advance so that they can plan their journey accordingly, to avoid any inconvenience,” Virk added.With the elaborate arrangements in place as per the directions of the state government, he also appealed to the farmers to maintain law and order and raise their issues peacefully.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-protest-today-those-disturbing-law-order-to-face-strict-action-warn-cops-307781
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Policy notified for fixing market rate of govt land||The state government today notified a policy for fixing market rate of land belonging to departments, boards, corporations, PRIs and ULBs. Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management, said: “In the absence of clear guidelines, government departments experience difficulty in transferring their unutilised land of minor nature, including abandoned paths, to private bodies. The objective of the policy is to remove the obstacles.”  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/policy-notified-for-fixing-market-rate-of-govt-land-307782
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||IAS, HCS officers get addl charge||The state government has given IAS officer Rajiv Rattan the additional charge of nodal officer, Centralised Public Grievance Redress and Monitoring System portal.  He has been working as the Director, Science and Technology; Special Secretary, Science and Technology Department; and Commissioner, Food and Drugs Administration.  HCS officer Mukund, Deputy Secretary, Administrative Reforms Department, has got the additional charge of the Deputy Secretary, General Administration Department. Sharandeep Kaur Brar, Director, Skill Development and Industrial Training and Employment; Special Secretary, Skill Development and Industrial Training and Employment; and Director, Citizen Resources Information Department, has been appointed as the CEO, Haryana Kaushal Rozgar Nigam Limited, Panchkula. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ias-hcs-officers-get-addl-charge-307783
07-09-2021||---||Karnal court restrains farmers from blocking Delhi-Ambala NH||Karnal, September 6Taking up a civil suit, Civil Judge Senior Division Harish Goel today restrained farmer leaders from disrupting public order and blocking the Delhi-Ambala NH during their protest here on September 7.It also directed the Karnal DC and the SP to take all measures to ensure law and order if anyone tried to create inconvenience to the public.The civil suit was filed by Karnal resident Randeep, who apprehended that farmer leaders may obstruct traffic on the NH-44, state highways and railway tracks, and disrupt the functioning in government offices.The court restricted farmer leaders, including Gurnam Singh Charuni, Ajay Rana, Rattan Singh Mann, Kehar Singh Arya, Gurmukh Singh and Rampal Chahal, from blocking the National Highway-44 or any other road.Besides, it restrained the leaders from resorting to violence during the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-court-restrains-farmers-from-blocking-delhi-ambala-nh-307784
07-09-2021||New Delhi||SC seeks timeline from Faridabad MC for settling Khori oustees||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Faridabad Municipal Corporation to indicate the timeline required for rehabilitating eligible people, who were residing in Khori village where unauthorised structures, which came under the Aravalli forest area, were removed.The top court, while observing that it will hold “somebody responsible” for the situation which led to the mushrooming of the area into slums or rather unauthorised constructions, suggested to the counsel appearing for the civic body that the corporation might examine if, after basic scrutiny of application filed by those seeking rehabilitation, provisional allotment could be made within a week.A bench, comprising justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari, made it clear that provisional allotment could be done subject to an undertaking that if the person failed to satisfy the genuineness of documents or his claims regarding eligibility, he would vacate the premises on his own, failing which he would will be removed by the police.“If the application is received today with minimum documents which are good enough to process the file, verification of documents may take six weeks, no difficulty but provisional allotment can be made to that person so that he need not wait for eight weeks till you finally take a decision,” the bench said.The Bench said this after the corporation’s counsel said they were likely to finalise the list of eligible persons soon and then start making allotment. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-seeks-timeline-from-faridabad-mc-for-settling-khori-oustees-307785
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||DGP honours 15 ‘Dial 112’ officials||Director General of Police (DGP) PK Agrawal on Monday honoured 15 officials for being the best performers of ‘Dial 112’ project at the State Emergency Response Centre in Panchkula.   The DGP said the ambitious project had been dedicated to the citizens with the active support of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Home Minister Anil Vij.  “After the project launch, the police help is provided to the person calling the single emergency helpline in the minimum possible time, for which personnel deployed on the ERV, including the team of ‘Dial 112’, deserves appreciation,” he added. —  TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dgp-honours-15-dial-112-officials-307786
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana state mulls International Education Department||The state government is considering creating the International Education Department to help Haryanvi youth study abroad and get a job. For this, the Foreign Cooperation Department has been created.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said this while virtually inaugurating the International Haryana Education Society at Haryana Bhawan in Delhi yesterday.“My government is the first to make passports of students completing their graduation and post-graduation. Passports were given along with the degrees. So far, passports of 3,000 youths have been made,” said Khattar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-state-mulls-international-education-department-307787
07-09-2021||Karnal||Kaithal Principal honoured||JC Bose varsity prof awardedFaridabad: Dr Neelam Duhan, Associate Professor at Department of Computer Engineering, JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has been awarded the AICTE Visvesvaraya best teacher award 2021. Duhan was among the 17 faculty members in the field of engineering and technology from across the country.KU to release research grantsKurukshetra: On the occasion of Teachers’ Day, Kurukshetra University Vice Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva announced to shortly release the research grant to teachers for minor research projects. He added that research awards to the teachers had been instituted and the winners would be announced soon.Faculty development programmeKurukshetra: Kurukshetra University Vice Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva inaugurated a five-day faculty development programme organised by UIET, KUK, on sensors technology. He said development sensors were the need of the hour to make human life healthy, capable and superior.Talk on innovation in biz heldKurukshetra: Department of Commerce and Haryana Commerce and Management Association organised a webinar on Teachers’ Day. Dr Ashish Pujari, Professor of marketing, DeGroote School of Business, McMaster University, Canada, delivered a talk on ‘Innovation in business education: Harnessing creativity in students’. He also applauded the provisions under the New Education Policy.Teachers’ Day celebratedKaithal: Teachers’ Day was celebrated with great fervour and enthusiasm at RKSD College. The chief guest for the day was Kurukshetra University Vice Chancellor Dr Som Nath Sachdeva. He also inaugurated the auditorium on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-principal-honoured-307809
07-09-2021||---||Stray cattle menace continues||The Samalkha MC has failed to curb stray animal menace in the town. Scores of animals roam freely on the railway road, which is the main market road. Stray cattle can be seen in residential colonies as well. The MC should make a concrete plan to curb this menace.Jitender Beniwal, SamalkhaAnimals occupying roads a concernStray animals have become a major concern in the city but the local administration is not paying attention to end this menace. A large number of stray cattle can be seen squatting on roads. A similar situation with pigs and dogs is observed too. Instances of dog bites have also been reported from several areas. It is high time that the administration finds a solution to control the menace.Aman Garg, Ambala CityResidents face civic messWith the officials of the district administration, including the Municipal Corporation, Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority (FMDA) and Faridabad Smart City Limited (FSCL), busy in organising events for creating awareness over the issues of keeping the city clean, they seem to have forgotten the condition of the civic amenities prevailing on ground. It is high time that the officials concerned should come out on ground to assess the situation and take measures to improve the condition of basic amenities being provided to residents. Poor civic conditions pose a serious threat to the health of the residents.Avtar Krishan Gaur, FaridabadNewly built road caves inThe newly constructed road in Sector-14 has caved in after the rain on Thursday and Friday. Caving in of the road is witness to the problem that poor construction material has been used in the laying of the road. Local authorities should immediately repair broken patches in the road and take to task the officials responsible for carrying out poor quality of construction of the road.Jag Mohan, HisarWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stray-cattle-menace-continues-307810
07-09-2021||---||Bribery case: CBI nabs two Postal Department engineers in Ambala||Ambala, September 6The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested two engineers of the Postal Department in a case of bribery.As per the release issued by the CBI, a case was registered on a complaint against the Assistant Engineer (Civil), Postal Civil Sub-Division, Ambala Cantonment. The complainant, a contractor, alleged that he had completed the work of the post office, MDG Building, in Kaithal and the post office building, Gulha, Kaithal. He met the Assistant Engineer (Civil), Postal Civil Sub-Division, Ambala, in his office and requested him to release the remaining payment amounting to Rs94,000. The accused allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs10,000 in lieu of releasing the remaining payment to the complainant.The CBI laid a trap and caught the accused while demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs10,000.During further enquiry, it was also revealed that the bribe was to be shared with the Executive Engineer. Subsequently, he was also apprehended. Searches were conducted on the premises of the accused in Ambala and Delhi, which led to the recovery of incriminating documents.The accused were produced before a court in Panchkula, which remanded them to 14-day judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bribery-case-cbi-nabs-two-postal-department-engineers-in-ambala-307703
07-09-2021||Chandigarh/Karnal||Internet shutdown in five Haryana districts ahead of farmers’ protest||The Haryana Government has ordered suspension of mobile Net services in Karnal district and adjoining Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Jind and Panipat from Monday midnight till Tuesday 23:59 pm in the wake of the farmers’ protest against the August 28 police lathi-charge. An official spokesperson said the apprehension was that the Net services could be misused to spread rumours and provoke trouble.Traffic diversionsA meeting between farmers and the Karnal administration on Monday ended in a stalemate with the latter refusing to file an FIR against former Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha or award compensation to a deceased farmer’s family. “Only genuine demands will be considered. We will not allow anyone to disrupt traffic on NH-44 or gherao the Mini Secretariat,” warned District Magistrate NK Yadav.SP Ganga Ram Punia said 25 DSPs had been asked to ensure law and order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/internet-shutdown-in-five-haryana-districts-ahead-of-farmers-protest-307753
07-09-2021||Karnal/Chandigarh||Karnal lathicharge: Administration suspends internet from midnight; police step up security||Karnal's district administration announced it was suspending internet services from 12.30 am Tuesday (September 7)—hours before farmers heeded a "gherao" call against the August 28 police action. Also read: Karnal turns into fortress ahead of farmers’ protestInternet shutdown in five Haryana districts ahead of farmers’ protestSection 144 imposed in Karnal ahead of protestMuzaffarnagar 'Kisan Mahapanchayat': Will stay put at Delhi borders till demands met, say Farm leadersKarnal protest today: Those disturbing law & order to face strict action, warn copsAll forms of telecom internet services (2G/3G/4G/CDMA/GPRS), SMS services and dongle services provided on mobile networks will be suspended, District Magistrate Nishant Kumar Yadav said.Only voice calls will be allowed on mobile networks, he said after the administration held a meeting on Monday to discuss security arrangements in anticipation of a farmers’ call to gherao the mini secretariat on September 7.The district administration has already imposed Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code in Karnal banning public assemblies and police have stepped up security in the district. The district police have also announced diversions in anticipation of the protest.Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Navdeep Singh Virk said the Inspector General of Police Karnal Range and district superintendents of police in Karnal Range have been asked to be on their guard.“The main National Highway No 44 (Ambala-Delhi) may see some traffic disruptions in Karnal district. Therefore, the general public using NH 44 are advised to avoid journey through Karnal town or otherwise use alternate routes to go to their destination on September 7,” he said. “All citizens are being informed about these arrangements in advance so that they are able to plan and modify their journey accordingly, to avoid any inconvenience.”Farmers have warned they would gherao the mini secretariat at Karnal on September 7 unless the administration heeded their demands that included action against the Indian Administrative Service officer who ordered brutal police action on August 28 and the policemen involved in brutal lathicharge of protesting farmers.DiversionsThe district police, in anticipation of a large gathering and law and order problems, have issued travel advisories and diversions. Vehicles coming to Chandigarh from Delhi will be diverted through Panipat’s Pepsi Chowk via Munak to Assandh and Munak to Gagsina, via Ghoghadipur to Hansi Chowk of Karnal, via Bypass Western Yamuna Canal to Karna Lake via GT Road 44. Apart from this, light vehicles will be diverted towards Chandigarh via Madhuban, Daha, Bajida, Ghogharipur, Hansi Chowk, Bypass Yamuna Canal, Karna Lake, GT Road 44.Vehicles going from Chandigarh to Delhi will be diverted at Kurukshetra’s Pipli via Ladwa, Indri, Bayana, Neval, Kunjpura via Nangla Megha, Meerut via Amritpur Khurd, Kairavali, and Gharaunda via GT Road 44.Apart from this, light vehicles will be allowed from Ramba Cut Tarawadi via Ramba Chowk Indri Road via Sangoha, Ghid, Baragaon, Neval, Kunjpura via Nangla Megha, Meerut Road via Amrutpanur Khurd, Kairavali, and Gharaunda via GT Road-44.A spokesperson from Haryana Police clarified later in the evening that the planned route diversions on NH-44 between Delhi and Ambala have not been brought into effect yet.The diversions, if needed, will be brought into effect from 9 am on Tuesday.“Before that, traffic will be flowing normally,” the spokesperson said.Farmer union leader Gurnam Singh Charuni had warned the administration of action unless the police heeded their demands. In anticipation of the action, the administration imposed Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code in Karnal banning public assemblies.  Charuni, who’s been having differences with the rest of farmer union leaders who make up the Samyukta Kisan Morcha—a joint front of 13 farmer unions that have been spearheading protests against the three controversial agriculture laws since last year—said that all leaders of the joint front would be part of his call for action.Among demands is the FIR against Ayush Sinha, an IAS officer of the 2018 batch currently posted as the Sub Divisional Magistrate who, according to a viral video, had asked policemen to “smash heads” of a group of farmer protesters who were in the city to protest a meeting of the Bharatiya Janata Party.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar was attending that meeting.Also among farmers’ demands is Rs 25 lakh as compensation to the family and a job to the son of Sushil Kajal, a farmer from Gharunda who the protesters said had head injuries in the lathicharge and later died of a heart attack. Farmers’ bodies also demanded a compensation of Rs 2 lakh to the wounded.The farmers' protest on August 28 was part of a larger farmers' protest against three controversial laws—the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act—that Parliament passed last year. Farmers and allied services fear that the law would leave them open to exploitation by private interests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-lathicharge-administration-suspends-internet-from-midnight-police-step-up-security-307515
07-09-2021||SS Chahal||Empower, incentivise farmers to curb farm fires||IN the process of producing more foodgrains, there has been corresponding and linear increase in biomass production in the country. Much of this biomass turns up as agricultural crop residue (CR) and is left to go waste, though agricultural organic residue is not waste but wealth. Some surveys estimate a higher quantity, but according to the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, on an average, more than 500 MT (million tonnes) of CR is generated every year — from rice (122 MT), wheat (100 MT), maize (71 MT), millets (26 MT), sugarcane (141 MT), fibre crops (8 MT) and pulses (28 MT). Uttar Pradesh (60 MT), Punjab (51 MT) and Maharashtra (46 MT) are major CR-generating states. Out of 140 MT surplus CR, 92 MT (18%) is burnt, whereas the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change says that it is over 25% of the total CR which is burnt in India, most of which is in UP, Punjab, Maharashtra and Haryana. With machine harvesting, a large quantity of CR is left in the field, the clearing of which becomes a labour-intensive operation, needed to be completed within a short time frame between the harvesting of the ripened crop and the sowing of the next crop. The problem has become more severe after the promulgation of the Preservation of Subsoil Water Acts by Punjab and Haryana governments in 2009, prohibiting the transplanting of rice seedlings before June 10, squeezing the time period to about three weeks only to complete rice harvesting, managing a huge quantity of leftover straw in the field and the sowing of wheat.As estimated by The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI), about 57.7 MT of surplus CR is expected to be utilised under ex situ management options under various government policies. The Punjab Government’s policy on renewable sources of energy, formulated in 2012, was set to achieve a capacity target of 600 MW from biomass and 500 MW from cogeneration (both bagasse and non-bagasse) within 10 years. However, only seven power projects have been commissioned so far with far less use of paddy straw as well as power generation. The Haryana government’s bio-energy policy, brought out in 2018, planned to achieve a target of 150 MW biomass-based power generation within four years; it, too, is far away from achieving its target.Besides energy generation, there is a need to accelerate the implementation of other measures like in situ management, biochar making, composting, addressing limitations of assured market of the end products and reducing additional cost incurred on logistics and transportation of material to longer distances. The procedures for carrying out in situ CR management need special machinery and equipment which is normally beyond the capacity to procure as well as short of full utility for the farmers with small holdings. Despite hefty subsidies, the main concern of the farmers is investment on such machines that can be used only once during the season rather than the others required to be used round the year. Hence, the availability of this machinery and equipment through cooperatives, farmer producer companies, groups of farmers, village panchayats by subletting/renting at affordable rates, can be a game-changer to address the burning issue of CR management. The development of low-cost, affordable machinery is the need of the hour.In March 2018, the Cabinet Committee for Economic Affairs approved Rs 1,151.80 crore for the ‘promotion of agricultural mechanisation for in situ management of CR in states falling in the Indo-Gangetic Plain and Rajasthan’ to sensitise farmers with different variants of required farm machineries. However, during the same year, of the total paddy straw residue, about 17% in Haryana and 50% in Punjab was burnt, indicating low implementation of the scheme. Turbo happy seeder and harvester combine fitted with super straw management system are the primary machines for in situ management of paddy straw residue. As per studies, including one by the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences, the available machines are not sufficient to manage the existing CR within the limited intervening time between paddy harvesting and the sowing of wheat.The interventions for successful management of CR and eliminating its burning are largely disintegrated. Under such a situation, reportedly even machinery worth Rs 650 crore could not douse farm fires in Punjab in 2019, according to a news report, and 76,626 machines given to Punjab by the Centre over three years have not produced the desired results. In the small-scale Indian farming system, the resource-poor farmers individually lack capacity and means; they should be supported in establishing an organised network, associations and community organisations for establishing services to manage CR. Offering services like collecting and transferring CR from the fields to the places of its utilisation as raw material and renting the machinery and equipment by government agencies should be centric to such arrangements operating at the doorstep of the framers. There should be an enabling system for efficient and effective CR collection, aggregation and viable models for the CR supply chain for the establishments involved in CR valorisation.The new law passed by Parliament in the recent monsoon session says that the Commission on Air Quality Management “may impose and collect environmental compensation from farmers causing air pollution by stubble burning.” However, penalising CR burning is an erroneous application of the ‘polluter pays’ notion because this pollution is not the outcome of any industrial or business venture. It’s better to dispense with it, considering the complexities of the problems and compulsions of the farmers who go for it. It is important to extend a helping hand and run awareness campaigns for technical and economical empowerment of people involved in farming activities.More importantly, CR management must not be viewed as an issue under the domain of the agriculture sector only but related to other sectors as well, hence requiring integrated approaches for devising and implementing practical solutions. Considering crop residue as a commodity and a useful asset, instead of waste, will result in its successful and beneficial management. However, due to its large volume, the capacities to manage it need to be scaled up.The author is ex-VC, Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology, UdaipurSend your feedback to letters@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/empower-incentivise-farmers-to-curb-farm-fires-307378
