08-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||4.5 lakh cases pending before Punjab and Haryana HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8The Punjab and Haryana High Court has claimed that approximately 4.5 lakh cases were pending before it and not 7 lakh as reflected earlier on the National Judicial Data Grid due to software mismatch. The High Court also claimed disposal of 90,543 cases out of 1,37,101 filed since March 2020, when it went into restrictive functioning mode following Covid outbreak.High Court Registrar Vigilance-cum-PRO Vikram Aggarwal said 7 lakh figure was earlier appearing due to mismatch between software “Case Information System” and “Integrated Software for High Court”. As a result, the disposal of cases was not being reflected on the NJDG.“The requisite data synchronisation has been done. As a result of the same, the current pendency in the High Court is 4.5 lakh cases approximately. This figure is expected to further come down once the softwares are fully synchronised,” Registrar Aggarwal added.He added 4,42,693 cases out of 7,23,041 filed in the District Courts of Punjab from April 1, 2020, to July 31, 2021, were disposed of. In Haryana, 7,37,718 cases were filed and 3,93,831 disposed of. Out of 39,595 cases filed in UT District Courts, 27,767 were disposed of.He added limited physical hearing in the High Court from February 8 had to be suspended as the second wave turned severe, affecting judges, judicial officers, advocates and staff. It was forced to go back to restrictive functioning from April 19.  But all Benches kept on functioning through the virtual mode.Following “massive surge” in cases, the functioning had to be restricted further from April 28. “Once the severity of the second wave reduced, all Benches started functioning again through the virtual mode from July 28…. All efforts were being made to hear all urgent matters. On any given day, more than 2,000 cases are being listed for hearing,” he said, adding that limited physical had resumed again from September 6. “It is, therefore, evident that the High Court, as an institution, did its best under the extremely adverse circumstances and constraints to fulfill its obligations towards the citizens,” he concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-5-lakh-cases-pending-before-punjab-and-haryana-hc-308442
08-09-2021|| Yamunanagar||Man gets life term for murder in Yamunanagar||A Sessions Judge sentenced a man to life imprisonment for murder on Monday.On the complaint of Ram Lal, a resident of Jarodi village, a case was registered under the IPC on July 9, 2019.The complainant told the police that his nephew Sanjeev Kumar did not return home from work on July 8, 2019. His body was found the next day, he added.As per the police, the deceased and the victim were drinking together and had a fight. Later, Parveen killed Sanjeev with a brick. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-gets-life-term-for-murder-in-yamunanagar-308100
08-09-2021||---||Haryana Public Service Commission issues advisory for Sikh candidates||Chandigarh, September 7The Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) has issued an advisory for the Sikh candidates appearing for the preliminary examination for the Haryana Civil Services (Executive branch) and allied services to be held on September 12.Also read: Review ban on articles of faith in exam: Akal Takht to HaryanaThe Sikh candidates who intend to carry kara and kirpan should reach their examination centres an hour before the reporting time. They should allow the authorities concerned to screen their articles of faith. In case, any suspected device, electronic or otherwise, was found in the said articles of faith, they shall be restrained from carrying the same to the examination centre, an official spokesman said.In case, the Sikh candidates fail to report at the examination centre an hour before the reporting time or don’t cooperate with the screening staff on duty, they won’t be allowed to take the examination wearing the articles of faith.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-public-service-commission-issues-advisory-for-sikh-candidates-308101
08-09-2021||---||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar has written to Amit Shah for Assembly building land: Speaker Gian Chand Gupta||Chandigarh, September 7Haryana Legislative Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, today said Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah for providing 10-acre land for constructing a new legislative assembly building in Chandigarh.Gian Chand Gupta, Assembly Speaker Space needed for MLAsShah has been told that in 2026, after delimitation, the number of MLAs in the house would rise from 90 to 126. In the existing building, only 90 MLAs can be accommodated.Gupta said Khattar had also raised the issue of the “illegal occupation” of the legislative assembly building by Punjab. “We have requested for the land near the existing legislative assembly building,” he said.He added: “Shah has been told that in 2026, after delimitation, the number of MLAs in the house would rise from 90 to 126. In the existing building, only 90 MLAs could be accommodated. We also need to put the system in place as per the new requirements and technological advancements.”He claimed that dispute with Punjab over the space had also been the reason behind the demand for the new building.He said Shah had been informed that even after 55 years of the formation of the state, Haryana hadn’t got its due share in the existing legislative assembly building as Punjab had illegal occupation over a large part.“A resolution was also passed in the House in this regard and an all-party delegation had also submitted a memorandum before Punjab Governor and Chandigarh Administrator, but in vain. It is affecting the working of the secretariat of the legislative assembly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-has-written-to-amit-shah-for-assembly-building-land-speaker-gian-chand-gupta-308102
08-09-2021||---||Faridabad: No chargesheet in 60 days, police get court rebuke||Faridabad, September 7The failure of the local police to file a chargesheet within the stipulated period of 60 days in connection with a criminal case registered in February has invited the wrath of the district court.Manglesh Kumar Choubey, CJM, FaridabadCJM’S ORDERThe perusal of the file shows that the police report under Section 173(2) under the CrPC has not been filed as reported by ‘ahlmad’ concerned. While the accused is in custody for more than six and a half months, the circumstances prevented the disposal of the case in the Jail Lok Adalat held recently.Manglesh Kumar Choubey, Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM)-cum-District Legal Services Authority, Faridabad, has recommended action against the investigating officer and the SHO of the area concerned for not filing the chargesheet in connection with a case registered under Section 379 (punishment for theft) of the IPC.The undertrial, identified as Deepak, had been arrested. He is in judicial custody since February 15, 2021, but no chargesheet has been produced in the court.The matter came to the notice of the CJM during a Lok Adalat held in the district jail recently. It is revealed that the accused had been languishing in jail for more than six months.“The perusal of the file shows that the police report under Section 173(2) under the CrPC has not been filed as reported by ‘ahlmad’ concerned. While the accused is in custody for more than six and a half months, the circumstances prevented the disposal of the case in the Jail Lok Adalat held recently,” read the order by the CJM.It further stated, “Under Section 167(2), no magistrate is authorised to detain an accused for more than 60 days in a case related to any offence other than the one punishable with death, life imprisonment or a term not less than 10 years. In this case, the accused had committed an offence punishable under Section 379 only. The office shall provide legal aid counsel to the accused immediately.”The copy of the order has been sent to the Commissioner of Police (CP) for information and action against the investigating officer or the SHO concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-no-chargesheet-in-60-days-police-get-court-rebuke-308103
08-09-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||HSVP keeps RTI plea pending for 2 years, told to act in 15 days||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, September 7The failure to provide information under the RTI Act in two years has attracted action from the State Information Commission (SIC).It has asked the Estate Officer-cum-SPIO of the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) here to submit information to the applicant within 15 days or face penal action.The direction from the SIC comes in response to an appeal filed by one Kailash Sharma, a local resident, in May 2019. He had sought information regarding the implementation status of the rules and regulations governing the schools which had been functioning on the land allotted by HSVP.He had sought details of the action taken by the HSVP regarding the violations of the rules governing the allotment of land or plots to various schools in the district.The second information sought in this RTI application was regarding the status of allotment of a plot in Sector 16-A to a private hospital.The order issued by the SIC on August 31 is directed to SPIO-cum-Estate Officer, HSVP. It states that “Your report is awaited. The matter along with the request dated August 31 was brought to the notice of the commission. The Commission directs you to send compliance report of the order dated November 12, 2020, by furnishing information within 15 days to avoid penal action.”According to Sharma, he has also submitted a complaint against the Fee and Fund Regulatory Commission (FFRC) here and the District Education Office (DEO) with the SIC after the official concerned failed to provide information regarding the action taken against the private schools against whom complaints of violation of the rules regarding hike and collection of fee and other funds had been lodged.It is reported that while the RTI application in this regard was submitted in 2019, the SIC had imposed a penalty of Rs 3,000 in February this year on the SPIO of the FFRC office here.Alleging that while no information has been provided till date despite imposition of penalty by the SIC, the complainant said that he has submitted a fresh complaint of non-compliance of the order issued in February this year.Applications filed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hsvp-keeps-rti-plea-pending-for-2-years-told-to-act-in-15-days-308104
08-09-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Sewerage blocked for past five days in Hisar locality||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Sewerage blocked for past five days in Hisar localityThe sewerage blockage has caused immense inconvenience to residents of Badwali Dhani locality of Hisar town. The sewerage has been blocked for the past five days and we have informed the authorities concerned about it. Now, the entire street is filled with the sewerage water and it has even started flowing inside the houses. The foul smell has made the lives of the residents living in the locality, hell. I request Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni to immediately take note of our problem and direct the officials to clean the sewerage system. Vinod Kumar, HisarUdyog Vihar Internal roads being dug up againThe HSIIDC recently relaid all internal roads in Udyog Vihar, phase 1 to 5, by spending Rs 5 crores. Now, the Electricity Department is again digging it at many places. There is no coordination between the two agencies. This has left industrialists inconvenienced as not just workers are having problem coming to work, accidents are being reported and transport vehicles are not reaching factories. Animesh Saxena, GurugramNo bus queue shelter for commuters on Delhi-Chandigarh highwayThousands of commuters board buses from Pipli on the Delhi-Chandigarh National Highway in Kurukshetra daily but there is no bus queue shelter or any other arrangement for the commuters. They have to keep waiting for the buses in the open with their luggage and children. The administration should pay some attention towards the commuters travelling on the national highway too. Ajay Sharma, Kurukshetra||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sewerage-blocked-for-past-five-days-in-hisar-locality-308113
08-09-2021||Hisar||GJUST organises workshop in Hisar||Krishi Mela on Sept 8-9 at HAUHisar: Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University (HAU) will organise a two-day Krishi Mela for rabi crops on September 8 and 9 on the campus. Vice-Chancellor Prof BK Kamboj said the university would honour one progressive farmer from each of the districts for their contribution in advancement of farming. Dr Trilochan Mohapatra is an Indian biotechnologist, geneticist, Secretary of the Department of Agricultural Research and Education and the Director-General of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, will be the chief guest at the Krishi Mela. Water conservation will be the theme of the Krishi Mela, which is being organised on the campus after a gap of two years.Varsity Exam Results announcedHisar: Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST), Hisar has declared the results of examinations conducted by the university, recently. The controller of examination Prof Yashpal Singhla said that the result was available on the website of the university.Blood donation melaYamunanagar: Mukand Lal Public School, Sarojini Colony, Yamunanagar organised the seventh blood donation mela to commemorate the birth anniversary of Seth Jai Parkash. As many as 120 units of blood were collected at the camp. Dr Divjot Singh, PGI, Chandigarh, Dr Ramesh Kumar, manager of Mukand Institutions and Shashi Bathla, director of the school started the programme with lightning of the lamp. Dr Mamta Verma, principal said blood donation was the biggest and incomparable donation and there was no substitute for human blood.National Nutrition WeekAmbala: Delhi Public School, Ambala observed National Nutrition Week from September 1 to 7 on the theme "Feeding smart right from start." Nutrition Week is meant to raise public awareness on the importance of making healthy food choices and developing healthy eating, exercise, and lifestyle habits. Throughout the week, the students were involved in a variety of activities to raise awareness on nutritional and healthy eating habits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gjust-organises-workshop-in-hisar-308112
08-09-2021||Rohtak||Convention on new national education policy in Haryana||The Haryana Vidyalaya Adhyapak Sangh and Haryana Gyan Vigyan Samiti (HGVS) jointly organised a state-level resistance convention over the ‘New Education Policy’. The convention was presided over by Dr RS Dahiya and Prabhu Singh while over 200 delegates from different districts of the state participated in it. “NEP is not favourable for poor students as it will encourage privatisation of education. Government schools are getting shut. Under the new policy, anganwaris are to be converted into playway schools without training of the anganwadi workers,” said Pramod Gauri of the HGVS .||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/convention-on-new-national-education-policy-in-haryana-308105
08-09-2021||Gurugram||Quadruple murder in Gurugram: Survivor discharged||The three-year-old lone survivor of the quadruple murder, which tooke place in the Rajendera Park area of Gurugram on August 23, has been discharged from AIIMS and sent to her relative’s place at an undisclosed location in Delhi.The child is still in trauma and doctors have asked the police to wait for 10 more days before questioning her. The girl, Vidhi Tiwari, is an eyewitness to the murder of her parents and brother by their landlord, who had also killed his daughter-in-law.Saurabh Tiwari, Vidhi’s relative, said she was discharged from the hospital on Monday and was at her relative’s house in Delhi. “Vidhi still has pain in her throat and can’t talk much. Though she is making signs but we can’t really understand. We are concerned about her safety and have met the Gurugram police,” Tiwari added.On August 23, a landlord, Rao Rai Singh, allegedly murdered three members of his tenant’s family and his own daughter-in-law in wee hours and then surrendered to the police. The accused enraged over alleged illicit relationship between his daughter-in-law Sunita and tenant Krishan Kumar Tiwari. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/quadruple-murder-in-gurugram-survivor-discharged-308106
08-09-2021||---||Air quality a serious concern in Haryana, says GJUST study||Hisar, September 7The whole year round, a study conducted by the Environment Science Department of the Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology has revealed that the increasing air pollution in Haryana has become a serious concern and the seasonal practice of crop residue burning is adding to pollution.Particulate matter concentrations higherThe results of the study showed a considerable seasonal variation in the concentration of all pollutants in Haryana.The pollutant peaks in the post-monsoon season — October-December, followed by winters. PM10 and PM2.5 increased by around 65–112% and 131–147% in the post-monsoon season compared to monsoons, which are usually considered clean seasons in terms of air quality as atmospheric pollutants are washed out by the rain in the season, revealed the study.The satellite-based fire counts and source apportionment shows a significant influence of crop residue burning in the post-monsoon season and solid biomass burning (cow-dung cake, woods, etc.) during winters on Haryana’s air quality. The particulate matter, which is usually considered as a proxy of air pollution, have annual mean PM10 concentration in Zones-1, 2, and 3 as 156, 174, and 143 \/per cubic meter air\/ (µgm-3), whereas for PM2.5 as 71, 85, and 78µg m-3, informed Prof Narsi Ram Bishnoi, one of the leading authors of the research paper from the GJUST said.Prof Bishnoi said seasonal variation in ambient air quality for 14 parameters, i.e., particulate matter (PM), trace gases, and volatile organic compounds (VOCs), along with meteorological parameters, was studied. To understand spatial variation of pollutants, ambient air quality data of 23 continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) in 21 districts of the Haryana was studied for 2019 where districts were divided into three zones based on ecology and cropping pattern. In all districts of Haryana, the annual mean of particulate matter, i.e., PM10 and PM2.5 concentrations, was much higher than the national ambient air quality standards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/air-quality-a-serious-concern-in-haryana-says-gjust-study-308107
08-09-2021||Ravinder Saini||523 govt schools in Jhajjar get tablets||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, September 7Heads of government schools, especially primary and middle in the district, will not have to face any problem while doing various official works, which need device and internet connection. The Department of School Education has provided tablets to heads of 523 government schools in the district.Dr Sudershan Punia, Nodal Officer, Saksham ProgrammeHeads to become more responsibleWith the use of tablets, the school heads will be able to get official letters instantly. Moreover, it will make them more responsible.Sources said the tablets had been given to 289 primary, 134 senior secondary, 58 middle and 42 high schools in the district. Primary and middle schools will benefit the most from it as the schools do not have computers to perform official work online. The school heads have to use their cellphones to do so.“Teachers have to mark their and students’ attendance on AVSAR app besides updating various information pertaining to students and teachers on the management information system (MIS) and human resources management system (HRMS) portals regularly. The schools also get office orders from the headquarters on email, hence the tablets will be helpful for the school heads to a large extent in doing administrative work without any inconvenience,” said Dr Sudershan Punia, Nodal Officer, Saksham Programme.He maintained all necessary apps that were used in official work had been downloaded on the tablets. The school heads would insert their sim card in it to operate. They will not be able to download other apps on the tablets for their personal use.“With the use of tablets, the school heads will be able to get official letters instantly. Moreover, it will make them more responsible as they will not be able to delay in responding to official communications and updating the information on the MIS and the HRMS,” said Punia.Sources said head of many primary and middle schools always complained of facing inconvenience in performing official work on time due to non-availability of computers in their schools. The issue had been resolved by giving tablets to the heads, the sources added.Private, middle schools to benefit the most||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/523-govt-schools-in-jhajjar-get-tablets-308085
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Third Covid sero survey launched in Haryana||Health Minister Anil Vij today launched the third round of Covid sero survey in the state.He said the first round of the survey was conducted in August 2020 in which the prevalence of infection was found to be 8% while it was 14.8% in the second round in October 2020.He said about 2,200 medical staff had been deputed to conduct the survey and the report would be submitted within two weeks. Vij said said children above 6 years would also be covered in the survey and it would also be conducted in rural and urban areas. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/third-covid-sero-survey-launched-in-haryana-308108
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||14 HCS officers transferred in Haryana||The Haryana Government on Tueday issued the transfer and posting orders of 14 HCS officers.Mohit Kumar, Joint Director (Adminstration), Food and Drugs Administration, has been appointed as Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO), Nilokheri.Shivjeet Bhaiti, Deputy Secretary, Urban Local Bodies, has been appointed as BDPO, Thanesar.Nisha, City Magistrate, Yamunanagar, has been appointed as BDPO, Rewari.Amit Kumar-II, Joint Director (Adminstration), Town and Country Planning Department, has been appointed as BDPO, Sadhaura. Parvesh Kadiyan, Deputy Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management Department, has been appointed as BDPO, Ganaur.Ajay Singh, Joint Transport Commissioner, is the new BDPO of Kaithal. Rajesh Kumar Soni, Joint Director (Adminstration), Health, has been appointed as BDPO, Meham.Dwiza, Joint Chief Executive Officer, Ayushman Bharat-Haryana Health Protection Authority, Panchkula, has been appointed as BDPO, Faridabad. Suresh, Joint Director (Adminstration), Art and Cultural Affairs Department, has been appointed as BDPO, Jind.Gaurav Chauhan, Joint State Project Director, Haryana School Shiksha Pariyojna Parishad, has been appointed as BDPO, Fatehabad. Naseeb Kumar, Joint Director (Adminstration), Medical Education and Research Department, has been appointed as BDPO, Tosham. Deepak Kumar, Joint Director, State Tranaport, will be BDPO, Hansi-I.Gulzar Ahmed, Joint Director (Adminstration), Higher Education, has been appointed as BDPO, Raipur Rani.Meanwhile, Vijay Kumar Yadav, Joint Director (Adminstration), Elementary Education, has been appointed as BDPO, Palwal. — TNSIAS officer gets Central deputationThe state has placed the services of IAS officer Rakesh Gupta at the disposal of the Government of India for his appointment as Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Women and Child Development. He has been relieved with effect from September 7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/14-hcs-officers-transferred-in-haryana-308109
08-09-2021||---||Corporal punishment in Fatehabad school: Child rights panel takes suo motu cognisance||Chandigarh, September 7The Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (HSCPCR) today took suo motu congnisance of the alleged beating up of 40 students in a government school in Fatehabad.HSCPCR chairperson Jyoti Bainda also wrote to Fatehabad SP to send the report of investigation or action taken in the case within five days.“At least 40 students were allegedly beaten up with a stick by teachers of a government school in the Tohana area of Fatehabad. It has also come to notice that a complaint in this regard has also been moved before the police authorities,” she said.As per the Commission, the incident took place on September 6. The complainants alleged that a Class XI student whistled in the class. When the teachers inquired who was behind it, the students remained mum. Enraged teachers then allegedly beat up students with a stick.It is alleged that some students were hospitalised too. The parents of the children approached the police too, claiming that two Dalit students faced caste slur as well, noted the Commission.Calling the incident “deeply regrettable”, the Commission asked the SP to ensure that “proper procedure is followed in the entire course of medical examination as well as the investigation of the offence”.SEEKS REPORT FROM FATEHABAD SP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/corporal-punishment-in-fatehabad-school-child-rights-panel-takes-suo-motu-cognisance-308110
08-09-2021||---||Haryana buses to have e-ticketing facility||Chandigarh, September 7State Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma on Tuesday said the government was going to start e-ticketing facility for the convenience of passengers and to make the roadways system transparent.A decision in this regard was made during a meeting of the High Powered Purchase Committee (HPPC), held under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, today. During the meeting, approval for the purchases of good and items to be procured by various departments were granted as well.One of the major tenders that were approved at the meeting was e-ticketing in the Haryana Roadways. Procurement of 4,500 e-ticketing POS machines was finalised for the implementation of e-ticketing system in the Haryana Roadways. All 24 depots will be covered under this. The scheme will be implemented within six months.The Transport Minister said with the introduction of e-ticketing, free passes in Roadways buses and a National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) wouldbe issued to passengers travelling under the concessional quota.“As soon as this card will be scanned by the conductor at his e-ticketing kiosk, data related to the journey of that passenger will immediately be shared with the control room. With this, the department will have the complete data of how many passengers have travelled under free pass and concessional quota,” he added.He said the NCMC cards would also be issued to the passengers travelling on a daily basis. The passengers can recharge their cards in advance and by scanning their cards, the fare for the journey would automatically be deducted.Besides this, approval was also accorded for the purchase of several items for power Discoms along with inviting tenders for the purchase of Jack Suction Sewer Machines.Large projects of furniture and water purifiers for upcoming 4,000 playway schools were also approved.A tender for the purchase of 1.20 crore vaccines for the prevention of foot-and-mouth disease in animals was also approved during the meeting.HOW THE SYSTEM WILL WORK||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-buses-to-have-e-ticketing-facility-308111
08-09-2021||Hisar||Haryana turned into police state, alleges Kumari Selja||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee chief Kumari Selja alleged that Haryana had been turned into a police state as the BJP-led government had been creating hurdles to disturb the movement of people at the Delhi borders and other places on the pretext of the farmers’ stir.Addressing a press meet on Tuesday, she said the state government had been taking measures to deliberately incite and provoke the farmers, who were at the receiving end of its tough stance. “It’s committing atrocities on farmers by unleashing lathicharge on them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-turned-into-police-state-alleges-kumari-selja-308114
08-09-2021||---||10 cornea transplants conducted in a week||Rohtak, September 8 Doctors at the Regional Institute of Ophthalmology of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), Rohtak, have conducted 10 cornea transplants in a week. These transplants have been done during an awareness fortnight on eye donation, which is being observed at Rohtak PGIMS from August 25 to September 8. Talking to The Tribune today, Dr RS Chauhan, head of the institute, said a sharp decline had been witnessed in the number of eye-donations during the pandemic. “But as a result of the awareness campaign, people have started coming forward for donating eyes. Our team has conducted 10 cornea transplants in a week,” he added. Director of PGIMS, Dr Rohtash Yadav, appreciated the efforts of Dr Chauhan and his team. He informed that a unit of the State Organ Tissue Transplant Organisation (SOTTO) had also been set up at PGIMS to facilitate organ donations. As per medical experts, eyes can be donated from four to six hours after a person’s death. The family members of the deceased can call up 01262-281300 or 281304 for donating the eyes of the deceased.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-cornea-transplants-conducted-in-a-week-308115
08-09-2021||Kurukshetra||Brahma Sarovar  laser show project set to get delayed||The multimedia laser show project at Brahma Sarovar is all set to get delayed further as it will now come up on a fixed structure instead of a floating one. The entire project came to a standstill over the issue of the base of the structure despite the fact that a tender was awarded to a firm in 2020. During the International Gita Mahotsav, a temporary multimedia light and sound show on a floated surface was arranged by the Kurukshetra Development Board. A huge sum was spent on it, but in 2017, it was decided to get a permanent show so that there was no need for making any temporary arrangements. The India Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC) had awarded the tender for the floating multimedia laser last year but the Kurukshetra Development Board and Haryana Tourism Department had raised objections to the floating surface and wanted the structure to be a fixed one. As per information, the previous tender will now be cancelled and a new tender will be floated. The executive engineer at Haryana Tourism, Gautam Kumar, said “The existing shows on floating surfaces have not been performing well. Hence, we asked the ITDC that the show at the Brahma Sarovar should be on a fixed structure. The cost of the project may escalate a little as it will be now on fixed surface but we will keep it below Rs 16 crore.”  A senior official in the ITDC said “The matter is with Haryana Government at present. After it submits its revised detail project report, we will start the further process. A tender was awarded earlier but the project got stuck due to the issue of its base. Now, we will see what changes the Haryana Government will demand in the revised proposal and we will proceed accordingly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/brahma-sarovar-laser-show-project-set-to-get-delayed-308116
08-09-2021||Parveen Arora||Farmers firm on IAS officer Ayush Sinha’s suspension in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, September 7Following reports of a huge gathering at the kisan mahapanchayat in the grain market here today, the district authorities called the SKM leaders for talks in the afternoon.Senior SKM leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, Balbir Rajewal, Darshan Pal, Yogendra Yadav and Gurnam Charuni and others, attended the meeting with DC Nishant Kumar Yadav and SP Ganga Ram Punia.The meeting started at 1.15 pm and lasted for around two hours. Farmers went to the meeting with three demands, including the suspension of the then SDM and IAS officer Ayush Sinha, along with police officials involved in the lathicharge, Rs 25 lakh compensation for the family and a job for the son of deceased farmer Sushil Kajal. They also demanded a Rs 2 lakh relief for each injured farmer.Sinha has already been transferred in a reshuffle involving some IAS officers and now posted as Additional Secretary in the Citizen Resources Information Department.As per sources, during the meeting, only the first demand for the suspension of the 2018-batch IAS officer was raised by the farmers. The DC and SP rejected it and asked the farmers to come up with other demands, but the latterrefused to discuss anything else. They asked the administration to discuss their first demand and others later.SKM leader Yogendra Yadav said: “Like Kauravas’ refusal to part with just five villages, the government didn’t even accept our minimum demands. Three rounds of talks remained inconclusive.”Gurnam Charuni said in the three rounds of talks, they had raised the demand of the suspension and inquiry against the IAS officer, but the authorities denied it.Meanwhile, DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said they had called the farmers for talks and discussed the issues with them positively. “We are in touch with them to resolve the issues,” the DC added.How events unfolded 9.30 pm Farmers started assembling in grain market12 pm All main SKM leaders were on stage12.45 pm The district administration offered for dialogue1.15 pm Admn, farm leaders’ meeting start3.15 pm The meeting ended3.45 pm Farm leaders held meeting in grain market4 pm Farmers started march towards the mini-secretariat6.15 pm Farmers overpowered the barricade near Nirmal Kutiya6.30 pm Farmers started a dharna outside the mini-secretariatAdmn ensured tight security: Karnal DC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-firm-on-ias-officer-ayush-sinhas-suspension-in-haryana-308117
08-09-2021||Aman Sood||Deficit rain lowers Bhakra level, to hit crops in 3 states||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 7Deficient rainfall this monsoon in Punjab and Himachal has resulted in low water levels in Bhakra and Pong Dams. Experts suggest this may lead to less release of water in canals for irrigation purposes next year during Rabi season.According to irrigation department officials, Punjab and Himachal have recorded a deficiency of 24 per cent and 18 per cent, respectively, for this entire season so far. Water released from Bhakra is considered the lifeline of the Malwa belt in Punjab and many parts of Rajasthan.As per official records, the water level of Bhakra Dam stood at 1,629 ft on September 4 as compared to 1,659 ft last year. Its capacity is 1,685 ft.“Water level in Bhakra is 30 ft lower than the last year and 56 ft lower than the maximum level. Similarly, the water level of Pong Dam stood at 1,344.6 ft as compared to 1,374.6 ft on the same day last year,” said All India Power Engineers Federation spokesman VK Gupta.“The capacity of Pong Dam is 1,400 ft. This time, the water level is 30 ft less than last year and 55.4 ft less than the maximum level,” he added.Officials confirm that the target for filling the Bhakra reservoir is 1,650 ft on July 31, while it is 1,670 ft on August 15 and 1,680 ft on August 31. “Due to the low water levels of Bhakra and Pong dams, full water is not being released into the canals,” they say.According to a central water commission bulletin dated September 2, the overall water level in eight reservoirs of northern region is just 54 per cent of the total live storage, whereas this figure was 76 per cent last year.The storage at Bhakra Dam is 73 per cent, while at Pong reservoir is 58 per cent of the normal storage for the year. “Low rainfall and reservoir levels are likely to damage food production, pushing inflation and also threatening power production. The normal filling season for the reservoir ends on September 20,” claims an irrigation official.Mainly Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan use Bhakra’s water for irrigation and drinking purposes. Officials say it is high time the state governments chalk out a strategy to reduce dependency on Bhakra for irrigation and instead replace it with “sprinkler or drip irrigation” systems.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/deficit-rain-lowers-bhakra-level-to-hit-crops-in-3-states-308019
08-09-2021||Parveen Arora||Talks fail, farmers lay siege to Karnal mini secretariat||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, September 7Locked in a showdown with the Haryana Government over a police lathicharge last month, thousands of farmers on Tuesday laid siege to the district headquarters after talks with the administration remained inconclusive.Rakesh Tikait, BKU leaderWon’t budgeWe’ve been on dharna at Delhi’s borders for over 9 months. We’ll do the same here till demands are met.They were demanding suspension of the then Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha for his briefing to police personnel on August 28 where he told them to “crack their (farmers’) heads”. The same day, protesting farmers were lathicharged at Bastara toll plaza as they were opposing a state-level meeting of the BJP.As farmers from across the districts and other states started arriving in the city, the administration invited their leaders for talks. The two-hour meeting with an 11-member delegation of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) remained inconclusive as the latter remained adamant on their demand for Sinha’s suspension. The farmers then gathered at the local grain market. From there, they marched towardsthe mini secretariat, 5 km away. They broke two barricades near the complex following which the police used water cannons to disperse them. There was, however, no other serious confrontation.Leaders, including Tikait, Gurnam Singh Charuni and Yogendra Yadav, were detained briefly near Namaste Chowk on the NH-44. The SKM began a dharna at the mini secretariat late this evening amid heavy police presence. Tikait said, “We have been on a dharna at Delhi’s border for over nine months seeking repeal of the central farm laws. We will do the same here till our demands are met.”Nishant Kumar Yadav, DCResolution soonThe administrative officials are in touch with the farmers to resolve the issue.Besides Sinha’s suspension, SKM’s other demands include action against cops involved in the lathicharge, a compensation of Rs 25 lakh and job for the family of deceased farmer Sushil Kajal, who died of heart attack after allegedly sustaining injuries in the police action, and Rs 2 lakh each for those injured. Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said they were in touch with the farmers to resolve the issue.Make our report public: SC panel member to CJINew Delhi: As farmers regroup to intensify their protests against new agricultural laws, Anil Ghanwat, a member of the Supreme Court-instituted committee on the subject wrote to Chief Justice of India NV Ramana today to make the panel report public. “It has been five months since the panel submitted its report in March. The report has neither been made public nor any deliberation held on it. As a farmer myself I am pained that the matter has not been resolved,” Ghanwat said. — TNS‘Give Rs2L to those hurt in lathicharge’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/talks-fail-farmers-lay-siege-to-karnal-mini-secretariat-308009
08-09-2021||Karnal||Tikait announces indefinite dharna in front of Karnal mini-secretariat after talks break down||Farmer unions announced they would sit in front of the mini secretariat in Karnal until the district administration heeded their call for action against the government officials and the cops involved in the August 28 lathicharge.  Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, who made the announcement after union leaders conferred over their next course of action, was among those who led protesters to the mini secretariat after talks with the administration broke down. “Our talks with administration failed as they did not agree to our demands,” senior farm leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan said before leaders decided to go ahead with their original plan to lay siege (gherao) to the mini secretariat.“Like Kauravas’ refusal to part with just five villages, the Khattar government did not even accept the minimum demands of the farmers. The government’s obstinacy has thwarted three rounds of talks,” Yogendra Yadav---who was among the leaders in the 11-member delegation that met the administration and who has been part of a joint front spearheading the larger farmer protests against three central agricultural laws--- said in a tweet on Tuesday evening.कौरवों के पाँच गांव भी नही देने के ज़िद्द की तरह खट्टर सरकार ने किसानों की न्यूनतम मांगों को भी नही माना।सरकार का अड़ियल रवैया ने तीन दौर की बातचीत को भी विफल कर दिया।#KarnalProtest_AgainstLathicharge pic.twitter.com/C8K2M3agIi  The talks lasted two hours, officials said. A 11-member delegation led the talks even as hundreds of other protesters gathered at the grain market as they heeded a call for protest against the August 28 police action. As farmers marched on to the secretariat, police briefly detained some protesters and even used the water cannon to push them back. Yadav tweeted that police had detained farmer union leaders briefly but said later that they were all released soon. Farmers insist on a First Information Report against IAS officer Ayush Sinha, who was the Sub-Divisional Magistrate when the incident occurred and demand action against the policemen involved in the lathicharge. A video that circulated after the lathicharge showed Sinha asking cops to "smash the heads" of protesters breaking down barricades. Make our report public: Member of SC-instituted panel on farm laws??????? ?? ???? ???? ?? ???????? ?? ???? ??? ????? ?? ??? ??????? ?? ???? ?? ???? ???? ??? ??? ???? ???? ??? ??? ??? ???? https://t.co/LV14NWpNaBहम किसान साथियों समेत लघु सचिवालय करनाल में पहुंच चुके हैं पुलिस ने हिरासत में जरूर लिया था लेकिन युवाओं के जोश के आगे पुलिस को छोड़ना पड़ा, किसान साथियों के साथ सचिवालय पर उपस्थित हूं लड़ाई जारी रहेगी#लड़ेंगे_जीतेंगे #karnal     Senior leaders of the joint farmers' front Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), including Rakesh Tikait, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Darshan Pal, Yogendra Yadav and Gurnam Singh Charuni, were among those who lead farmers into the city.“Karnal administration doesn’t want to listen to us farmers. Either the Khattar government must heed our demands or they should arrest us. We’re willing to court arrest,” Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Rakesh Tikait said in a tweet after talks broke down. करनाल में सरकार किसानों की बात नहीं सुन रही। या तो खट्टर सरकार मांग माने या हमें गिरफ्तार करे। हम हरियाणा की जेलें भरने को भी तैयार-राकेश टिकैत@ANI @PTI_News @sakshijoshii #FarmersProtest  Farmer union leaders then urged the large gathering at the mahapanchayat to march peacefully towards the mini-secretariat, 5 km away.The leaders told the farmers not to enter into any confrontation with policemen, and squat in protest wherever they are stopped.Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni had earlier in the day appealed to the farmers to assemble at the Anaj Mandi in a peaceful manner.However, a statement issued by Haryana Police and Karnal district administration said some people had reached the new Anaj Mandi armed with lathis and iron rods, which did not show “good intention” on their part.“Ground intelligence reports indicate that some elements from Rambha, some from Nissing and some from other places have reached the Anaj Mandi armed with lathis, iron rods, which does not show a good intention on their part,” according to the statement.    Thousands of protesters walked towards the secretariat carrying farmer union flags. Several barricades have been put up on the route.Earlier, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait told reporters that they had demanded the suspension of the IAS officer who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to “break heads” of protesting farmers.Rakesh Tikait, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Darshan Pal and Yogendra Yadav were among the senior Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders who had reached Karnal for the rally, being held days after a huge mahapanchayat in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar.Farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting for months over the three farm laws enacted at the Centre, claiming that the legislation will lead to the erosion of the minimum support price (MSP) system.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav, Karnal’s Inspector General of Police Mamta Singh and Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia, were among the officials who took part in the talks with farm leaders.Addressing the mahapanchayat earlier, Yogendra Yadav said, “We have come to ask the government which Constitution, which law gives an IAS officer permission to give orders to break the farmers’ heads”.                “Under which law are police allowed to carry out brutal lathi-charge resulting in the death of one and injuries to several others,” he added.The authorities have, however, denied that any farmer died due to the violence on August 28.The Haryana Police had that day lathi-charged a group of farmers disrupting traffic on the national highway while heading towards the venue of a BJP meeting.Over 10 protesters were injured. The SKM had said a murder case should be registered against IAS officer Ayush Sinha over his alleged “break heads” remark.Sinha, who was later transferred in a reshuffle also involving some other IAS officers, has now been posted as the additional secretary in the Citizen Resources Information Department.Farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said a meeting with district administration officials was held here on Monday as well.After failing to get any satisfactory response on their demands the farmers decided to hold a mahapanchayat on Tuesday, he added.He had earlier sought the registration of a case against those involved in the lathicharge.Security arrangements had been beefed up in Karnal a day ahead of mahapanchayat and central forces deployed.Mobile internet services were suspended in Karnal and the four adjoining districts of Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Jind and Panipat until Tuesday midnight. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 CrPC banning gathering of people were imposed in Karnal district.Traffic on the Delhi-Karnal-Ambala National highway was not disrupted while the panchayat continued, officials said.— With agenciesHighlights20:06: Tikait announces indefinite dharna in front of mini secretariat.19:35: Farmers' union leaders remain firm on the demands. Karnal administration trying to pacify them. Smooth flow of traffic on NH-44. 19:15: The 11-member committee is holding a meeting outside the mini secretariat.18:57: Gurnam Singh Charuni is sitting outside the mini secretariat.18:25: Farmers reach the Karnal Mini Secretariat. 18:18: Water cannons used on protesting farmers near mini secretariat.18:14: Farmers cross first the naka at Nirmal Kutiya and head towards the second naka. 17:27: Farmers in large numbers on the highway; traffic disrupted on one side.16:51: Farmers on the service lane of the national highway, marching toward the secretariat. Traffic flow continues uninterrupted.16:43: Farmer leaders announced they would gherao the Karnal mini secretariat; hundreds of farmers start moving towards NH-44. Heavy police deployment at the mini secretariat.  16:30: Farmer leaders remain firm on their demand for FIR against IAS Officer Ayush Sinha16:18: Farmer leaders hold separate meetings at the grain market. Situation tense15:42: Talks break down between Karnal administration, farmer union leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tikait-announces-indefinite-dharna-in-front-of-karnal-mini-secretariat-after-talks-break-down-307880
