09-09-2021||Begging on streets||Begging on roads damages Smart City tag||Residents continue to face stray cattle menaceResidents of twin cities Yamunanagar and Jagadhri continue to face the stray cattle menace despite being declared stray cattle free. The cattle can be seen roaming freely on roads. They not only pose a serious threat to road users, but also disrupt traffic movement. A number of people have met with accidents here due to the presence of stray animals on the roads. The Municipal Corporation authorities are aware of the issue but they take no concrete steps to solve this problem. —Himanshu, JagadhriOverflowing sewerage a bane of residents Despite repeated complaints and reminders to the SDO, the JE, and the MC, the sewerage water has been overflowing/leaking continuously and stinking for the past four months. The inconvenience is due to the negligence and lack of monitoring by the administration. Officials concerned never visit the street, resulting in unhygienic conditions and making residents suffer. Either our street should be elevated, or the sewer connection of the street should be done in the adjacent street. —Ankush, SonepatWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/begging-on-roads-damages-smart-city-tag-308735
09-09-2021||Yamunanagar||10  khair trees felled illegally in Yamunanagar village||Ten khair trees were illegally felled by the mafia on the gram panchayat land in Tajewala village in Yamunanagar district on the night of September 6.After getting information, Jogesh Kumar, block development and panchayat officer, Pratap Nagar, lodged a complaint with the police on September 7. Khair wood is used to prepare “katha” and as an ingredient in “paan” and also in many ayurvedic medicines. Its price is stated to be between Rs 7,000 and Rs 8,000 per quintal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-khair-trees-felled-illegally-in-yamunanagar-village-308646
09-09-2021||Parveen Arora||Farm stir: After Singhu & Tikri, now Karnal takes centre stage||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, September 8Karnal has now emerged as the new protest site of the SKM, with farm leaders announcing to continue their dharna outside the mini secretariat here for indefinite time.Also read:Ban on mobile Internet services in Karnal extended till Thursday midnight as farmers' protest enters day 3SGPC to arrange langar at Karnal protest siteWheat MSP hiked by 2% amid Karnal standoff‘Meagre’ MSP hike will be of little assistance: Farm unionsBarring BJP & its allies, Punjab farm unions call all-party meeting in Chandigarh tomorrowFarmers have erected tents for “pucca morcha” and their movement from different parts of the state continued today. Farmer leaders announced to stay put here for an indefinite time till the fulfilment of their demands.After a daylong high-voltage drama, farmers laid siege outside the mini-secretariat on Tuesday evening after crossing over barricades. Farmers, led by Rakesh Tikait, Gurnam Singh Charuni and others, spent last night on roads and started their morning with enthusiasm.More supporters to join agitation Farmers will carry on their dharna outside the mini secretariat and more supporters will join from Haryana, UP and Punjab. The CM wants to shift the stir from the Delhi borders to Karnal. —Rakesh Tikait, Farm leaderLangar is being served to them by different gurdwaras. Besides, residents here extended their support to farmers by offering them fruits, water and other eatables. Volunteers of the SKM are also monitoring the situation closely and have installed their own CCTV cameras. Besides, two ambulances with emergency medical facility has been kept to facilitate the protesting farmers. Meanwhile, a farmer brought some makeshift structure for the stay of the farmers and their toilet facility.“The government will not accept our demands. We will sit here till our demands are met. This is a struggle for the freedom of farmers from a government of corporates. Karnal will be another centre of protest like the Delhi borders if our demands are not met.”“Farmers will carry on their “pucca dharna” outside the mini- secretariat and more supporters will join from different parts of Haryana, UP and Punjab,” said Tikait while addressing the gathering.“The CM wants to shift the agitation from the Delhi borders to Karnal,” said Tikait.Charuni has urged the farmers and the SKM leaders to ensure the presence of the gathering in their areas round the clock. “We will not lift our dharna till the fulfilment of our demands,” he said.On the issue of court arrest of the farmers on Tuesday, Tikait, while addressing the gathering, said the administration could have declared the grain market as a jail. He gave the example of Mumbai where the Azad Maidan was converted into a jail for around 60,000 protesters.Maintain disciplineAmid the speeches by the farm leaders, protesters, including youths enjoyed hukkah. Some of them were seen playing cards to pass their time. Scores of volunteers were busy maintaining discipline.Health centre at dharna siteThe Karnal administration has set up a temporary health centre for farmers and cops near the dharna site in Sector-12. Health staff have been deployed and medicines provided. Six ambulances have been stationed at the site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-stir-after-singhu-tikri-now-karnal-takes-centre-stage-308647
09-09-2021||---||10 cornea transplants conducted in a week in Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences, Rohtak||Rohtak, September 8Doctors at the Regional Institute of Ophthalmology of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), Rohtak, have conducted 10 cornea transplants in a week.These transplants have been done during an awareness fortnight on eye donation, which is being observed at Rohtak PGIMS from August 25 to September 8.Talking to The Tribune today, Dr RS Chauhan, head of the institute, said a sharp decline had been witnessed in the number of eye-donations during the pandemic. “But as a result of the awareness campaign, people have started coming forward for donating eyes. Our team has conducted 10 cornea transplants in a week,” he added.Director of PGIMS, Dr Rohtash Yadav, appreciated the efforts of Dr Chauhan and his team. He informed that a unit of the State Organ Tissue Transplant Organisation (SOTTO) had also been set up at PGIMS to facilitate organ donations.As per medical experts, eyes can be donated from four to six hours after a person’s death. The family members of the deceased can call up 01262-281300 or 281304 for donating the eyes of the deceased.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-cornea-transplants-conducted-in-a-week-in-pt-bhagwat-dayal-sharma-university-of-health-sciences-rohtak-308648
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Lathicharge on farmers in Karnal an inhuman act, says Bhupinder Hooda||Former CM and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Wednesday said action must be taken against those who ordered the lathicharge on farmers.He said: “The barbaric crackdown on farmers in Karnal, was illegal, undemocratic and inhuman.” Meanwhile, he termed 2% hike in the MSP of rabi crops — wheat, barley and gram — as grossly insufficient and a cruel joke with the farmers. Hooda said there had been a huge increase in the input costs of the farm produce as petrol and diesel prices had skyrocketed.HPCC chief Kumari Selja termed the MSP hike as insufficient. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lathicharge-on-farmers-in-karnal-an-inhuman-act-says-bhupinder-hooda-308649
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||17 new cases of Covid in a day in Haryana||With 17 new Covid cases, the overall tally of the state has reached 7.71 lakh. No death was reported today.Four cases were reported from Panchkula, followed by three each from Gurugram and Karnal and two from Jhajjar. No case was reported from 13 districts.With 32 recoveries in the last 24 hours, the number of active cases has reached 263.There is no active case in Mahendragarh, Fatehabad and Nuh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/17-new-cases-of-covid-in-a-day-in-haryana-308650
09-09-2021||Gurugram||Hold Janata Darbars to improve police-public ties: Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij||To improve the police-public connect in the city, Home Minister Anil Vij has ordered all top police officials to hold Janata Darbars for an hour in their offices immediately.The policemen have been asked to record the public grievances and keep tabs on their redressal or pendency.Mayor Madhu Azad, along with councillors, met Anil Vij and apprised him of the alleged indifferent behaviour of civic body officials towards elected representatives and their inefficiency. Taking a stern action on the recent walkout by SE Ramesh Sharma during a House meeting, Vij suspended him stating that the MC House had a decorum for everybody.“No indiscipline can be tolerated. So, we took the action,” said Anil Vij.Earlier, while addressing the city’s top cops at a three-hour meeting, Vij said it was important that the top officials did not lose connect with public and asked all DCPs to form a committee of known or eminent people in their area and be in constant touch with them over the law and order situation.“You need not just hear public issues and resolve them, but also record them. DCPs should conduct surprise checks on local police stations at least once week and record their visits,” Vij told the officials.Vij addressed various issues concerning the police and laid emphasis on the traffic management in Gurugram.On staff shortage, Vij said they had already resolved it to a great extent and more people would be hired soon. — OC‘CM is supreme’ On the ongoing row over the appointment of a woman IPS officer as the Principal Secretary (Transport), Anil Vij said he had noted the the mandate of the Department of Personnel and Training regarding the inter-cadre postings in a file, but it was over ruled by the CM. “The CM is supreme.” Vij added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hold-janata-darbars-to-improve-police-public-ties-haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-308651
09-09-2021||Panipat||7-yr-old gangraped in Hisar village||A seven-year-old girl was allegedly gangraped after being tied up and gagged at a village of Hisar’s Hansi area. She has been admitted to a private hospital for treatment.The accused, who are in the age group of 14-16 years, are realted to her as uncles.The police have registered a case against the three under Sections 376 (2) (F) (I) (N), 377, 376D (B), 365, 341, 506 and 34 of the IPC and Section 6 of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.The crime occurred on September 3. Her mother, who works at a private school at a village in the Nandnaur area of Hansi, in her complaint to the police, said she and her husband were at work when the incident took place. Her three daughters were at home along with their grandparents. When she came home after duty on September 3, she saw that one of her daughters was bleeding.She admitted her daughter to a hospital, where doctors confirmed that she had been raped. The woman approached the police. After gaining consciousness, the victim told her mother about the incident. She said her three uncles had taken her to a room and had tied her mouth, hands and feet with a cot and physically abused her.She alleged that the trio threatened her that they would kill her mother if she told anyone about the incident.Subhash Sharma, PRO, Police, said all three accused were nabbed and produced before the Juvenile Justice Board. They have been sent to the Observation Home at Hisar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-yr-old-gangraped-in-hisar-village-308652
09-09-2021||Ravinder Saini||4K Rewari, Mahendragarh students fail in English||Tribune News ServiceRewari, September 8Over 36 per cent students of BA (fifth) semester of more than 50 degree colleges affiliated to Indira Gandhi University (IGU) in Rewari and Mahendragarh districts have failed in English, results of which were declared by the IGU recently.Sources said a total of over 11,200 students in both districts appeared in the exam held offline last month and more than 4,000 among them failed to obtain minimum pass marks leading to a row.“Not only, principals of several colleges have registered their protest by filing complaints against the poor results but also the Indian National Students’ Organisation (INSO) has organised a protest demonstration blaming the IGU authorities for it. The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) will burn the effigy of the Vice-Chancellor on Thursday,” sources said.One-third students fail every yearAround one-third students in English fail every year ,so there is nothing new in it. However, we will ensure justice to the students by executing the recommendation of the three-member committee with immediate effect. The committee has been asked to submit its report. —Suresh Dhanerwal, Controller of examination, IGUComplaint filedOur college has around 800 students in BA (fifth semester) and a majority of them have failed in English this time. Even low marks have been awarded to meritorious students as they attempted the paper well. We have filed a complaint with the IGU and demanded that the results be revised. —Dr HR Yadav, principal, Ahir college, RewariThe sources maintained keeping in view the rising resentment and anger among students and colleges, the IGU authorities have constituted a three-member committee to randomly re-examine the answer books so as to ascertain that the answer sheets have adequately been examined. The committee will start carrying out re-checking of the answer sheets tomorrow.“Our college has around 800 students in BA (fifth semester) and a majority of them have failed in English this time. Even low marks have been awarded to meritorious students as they attempted the paper well. We have filed a complaint with the IGU and demanded that the results be revised,” said Dr HR Yadav, Principal, Ahir College, Rewari.Ravi Maseet, president, IGU unit of INSO, alleged that the IGU authorities had persistently been taking anti-student decisions forcing the outfits to demonstrate for getting the decision withdrawn. “Besides English, some other subjects have also witnessed poor results. We will not sit calmly until the results are revised,” he added.Suresh Dhanerwal, Controller of Examination, IGU, said around one third students in English failed every year hence there was nothing new in it. “However, we will ensure justice to the students by executing the recommendation of the three-member committee with immediate effect. The committee has been asked to submit its report at the earliest,” he added.Pramod Yadav, Principal, RDS Public Girls College, said 115 out of 125 students of her college failed in English while many of them obtained good marks in other subjects indicating that something was wrong with the English results.11,200 took examSources said a total of over 11,200 students in both districts appeared in the exam held offline in August and more than 4,000 among them failed to obtain minimum pass marks, leading to a row.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4k-rewari-mahendragarh-students-fail-in-english-308653
09-09-2021||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra: Vaman Dwadashi fair logo released||The Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB) and Shri Brahmin evam Tirthoddhar Sabha on Wednesday released the logo and poster of Vaman Dwadashi Mela-2021. The fair will be organised at Sannihit Sarovar in Kurukshetra on September 16 and 17, after a period of nearly 25 years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-vaman-dwadashi-fair-logo-released-308654
09-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Fake sports firm scam: Gurugram police probe directors link with 'higher-ups'||Gurugram, September 8The scam involving a sports management firm has got murkier, with the police finding evidence of gangs’ association with many high-ups of various state sports authorities.The accused fraudsters not just met them regularly, but cops also foundevidence of money being transferred into their accounts, raising concerns of bribery.The two main accused, Ashutosh Bora and Nitin Jha, directors of SCM sports Management Company, were in police remand and produced in a city court today and sent to judicial custody.A senior investigator said during police remand, the accused confessed to fraudulently collecting around Rs 1.30 crore from 14 aspiring cricketers, including a girl player of Delhi. The network of these scamsters was spread in many states, including Himachal Pradesh, UP, Maharashtra, Sikkim, Bihar, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand.https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-sports-firm-dupes-20-aspiring-cricketers-307777Officials of the economic offences wing-2 (EOW) said the probe was going on, but refused to confirm any names.Highly placed sources said they had found documents pertaining to transactions some cricket sports associations.Now, cops are working on contacting these agencies. The investigation further revealed that the sources started this scam through their firm in 2019. They collected Rs 1.31 crore from over 14 cricketers for their selection in different cricket tournaments and even the IPL. While all business were hit due to Covid, they thrived.“We are waiting for more complainants who were duped by the gang in the name of better future in cricket. We are asking banks for details of their accounts. We are conducting raids to nab another accused,” said inspector Bijender Kumar, head, EOW-2.Confessed to crimeA senior investigator said during police remand, the accused confessed to fraudulently collecting around Rs 1.30 crore from 14 aspiring cricketers, including a girl player of Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-sports-firm-scam-gurugram-police-probe-directors-link-with-higher-ups-308655
09-09-2021||---||200 structures razed in Faridabad colony on forest land||Faridabad, September 8Around 200 residential structures that had come upon the forest land near Badkhal village were razed by the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) in a drive carried out in the past 24 hours.“The constructions in the shape of kutcha and pucca houses had come up in the locality Jamai Colony in the past about two decades on an area spread over 20 acres,’’ said a senior official of the MCF. He said while the land belonged to the MCF, it fell under the forest protected PLPA Act.”As eviction notices had been served to the residents, the constructions have been demolished after the residents failed to remove these on their own,’’said Yashpal Yadav, Commissioner, MCF. He said the drive was in compliance with the Supreme Court order, which had directed the authorities to remove all encroachments from the forest land in the district.The MCF had earlier removed around 9,500 constructions from the Khori Gaon colony here in July. He said the drive for the removal of encroachments was likely to continue as the identification of illegal constructions was on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/200-structures-razed-in-faridabad-colony-on-forest-land-308656
09-09-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Barring BJP & its allies, Punjab farm unions call all-party meeting in Chandigarh tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, September 8Leaders of 32 farm unions on Wednesday gave a call to all political parties, except the BJP and its allies, in Punjab for a meeting at Chandigarh on Friday.This was decided in the meeting of Punjab’s 32 farm unions held at the kisan andolan office at the Singhu border on Wednesday.Kulwinder Singh Sandhu, general secretary, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, said the political parties, especially Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), were busy holding big rallies in the state, which wasn’t acceptable before the official declaration of the polls by the Election Commission of India. But the farmers discussed that this?act of the political parties would disturb the atmosphere in Punjab and also affected their ongoing agitation.That’s why the 32 farmers’ groups have decided to hold a meeting with the political parties to stop all such activities in the state till an official declaration of the state elections was made, he added.All parties, including Congress, SAD and AAP among others, will participate in the meeting and it has also been decided that the BJP and its allies, which are supporting the three farm laws, would not be allowed to participate in the meeting.Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, BKU (Lakhowal), said it was decided that a meeting with the leaders of all political parties would be organised at Chandigarh at 11 pm on Friday.Besides, the farm leaders have given 10 days to the Punjab Government for the cancellation of the criminal cases registered against the farmers in Moga and Machhiwara.To intensify protestAll farm union leaders have decided to strengthen the farmers’ protest at the Delhi borders. They also decided to intensify the protest at Karnal, BKU (Lakhowal) general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/barring-bjp-its-allies-punjab-farm-unions-call-all-party-meeting-in-chandigarh-tomorrow-308658
09-09-2021||---||Kurukshetra University tells students to arrange net or take exams offline||Kurukshetra, September 8Kurukshetra University (KU) today asked its students, who are from areas where Internet services are suspended, to arrange an Internet connection or appear in examinations offline.Due to Covid, the university has been conducting final examinations through both online and offline modes.Controller of examinations, KU, Hukam Singh said, "The students of the university’s UG and PG courses, who are from the areas where Internet services are yet to be restored, can appear in online examinations by arranging Internet like broadband or Wi-Fi at their own level. Otherwise, they can physically appear in the examinations at the examination centre mentioned on their admit cards."Earlier, Kurukshetra University had to postpone the exams which were scheduled to be held on September 7. These will now be held on September 28, due to the suspension of Internet services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-university-tells-students-to-arrange-net-or-take-exams-offline-308664
09-09-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Seven yrs on, ex-servicemen yet to get possession of flats in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, September 8Aspiring allottees of flats under the ex-servicemen category from the Housing Board, Haryana, are a harried lot.Despite paying 25 per cent of the cost, they have not received the possession of flats for the past seven years since the launch of the project in 2014.“I have paid Rs 5.80 lakh, which is 25 per cent of the total cost of the flat (Type- A), but the authorities concerned are yet to start the construction work in Sector 65 here,” said Suresh Kumar, a retired Havildar from the Army.Land dispute to blame: OFFICIALThe construction work has started in Sector 56 (Faridabad). The work got delayed due to a land dispute, which is now solved. The tender for the work will soon be floated. — Puneet Kumar, SDO, Housing BoardHailing from Jajru village, Kumar said while Rs 2.13 lakh were deposited at the time of submitting the application, he paid another Rs 3.67 lakh after the draw of lots in December 2014.Claiming that the delay had been a cause of stress for him and his family, he asked if the department would pay him the interest on the deposit made more than six years ago? “No relief has come despite that fact that the issue has been raised at various platforms, including the CM window,’’ he laments.Sources claim that the 7.5-acre plot, where the 12-storey flats were supposed to be built, was under a dispute when the project was launched, which became the reason for the delay. The department had invited applications for 192 flats in Sector 56 and 324 flats in Sector 65. These were reserved for those serving in the para-military or ex-servicemen of the rank of JCO’s or equivalent and their widows or orphans on a hire-purchase basis.Stating that the construction work had been started in Sector 56, Puneet Kumar, SDO, Housing Board, said the work got delayed due to a land dispute, which was now solved. He said the tender for the work would soon be floated as the drawings of the building were cleared.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/seven-yrs-on-ex-servicemen-yet-to-get-possession-of-flats-in-haryana-308665
09-09-2021||Bhiwani||Improving nutrition among kids||Bahadurgarh Teacher felicitatedJhajjar: Tejpal Dalal, a resident of Bahadurgarh town here, was felicitated with Delhi State Teachers Award-2021 in Delhi for his marvelous performance. Tejpal is a postgraduate teacher in history with the Education Department of Delhi Government and at present, he is posted at Government Senior Secondary School, Hirankudna village, Delhi. He got a case prize of Rs 25,000, silver medal, momento, certificate and a shawl. Delhi Education Minister Manish Sisodia gave him the award.Drug de-addiction workshopYamunanagar: A one-day drug de-addiction workshop was organised by the Haryana Narcotics Control Bureau and Prayas Sanstha at Government Senior Secondary School, Aurangabad. The programme was concluded under the chairmanship of principal Darshan Lal. Dr Ashok Kumar Verma, Sub-Inspector of Haryana Narcotics Control Bureau was the keynote speaker and at the end of the workshop, all teachers and students took a pledge not to take drugs in life.Webinar on wealth creationYamunanagar: A one-day national-level webinar on 'Wealth Creation through Personal Financial Management' was jointly organised under the aegis of department of commerce of Guru Nanak Khalsa College and Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI). Suryakant Sharma, senior consultant, North Region-AMFI, Ex-DGM SEBI was the resource person of the webinar. The chairman of the managing committee, Randeep Singh Jauhar congratulated the organisers and extended best wishes to all participants.MoU on solar technologyFaridabad: To provide students exposure on emerging technologies, JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Bareja Solar and Projects Private Limited to work on collaborative programmes and industrial internship for the benefit of students. VC Prof Dinesh Kumar said renewable energy had huge potential on providing solutions to increasing energy crisis and it was the key to the future of energy. He hoped that the partnership would promote expertise in training and consultancy in accordance with engineering standards in different industrial systems as well as expertise in renewable energy, specifically Solar Energy and other high technological products that could help students and academia in acquiring skills and become industry ready.KU bio-chemistry online admissionKurukshetra: As Kurukshetra University commences with the online admission process for the academic year 2021-22 for PG courses from 17 August, department of biochemistry, Kurukshetra University calls for online applications to the course of MSc biochemistry. Prof Ranjan Gupta, chairperson, department of biochemistry, highlighted that biochemistry was an immensely vast discipline. KU deputy director, public relations, Dr Deepak Rai Babbar said the department offered 60 seats for MSc bio-chemistry. He further said the online portal for filling application to MSc bio-chemistry was already open and the last date for filling application for this courses was September 16.College Holds Cleanliness driveHisar: Volunteers of the NSS units and the NCC air wing of the Dayanand college in Hisar organised a cleanliness drive and planted trees at Tikona Park in the town on Tuesday. Principal Vikramjeet Singh said it was the duty of those who plant a tree to ensure that the plant survived. He said such programmes also spread awareness in society about the significance of clean environment.Entrance exam for PG, PHD coursesFaridabad: The entrance examination for the admission to PG and PhD courses in various teaching departments of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad has begun. More than 2,000 students are appearing in these examinations, which will be held till September 12. Keeping in view of Covid guidelines, the entrance examinations are being conducted in two shifts.Faculty Development ProgrammeFaridabad: The department of civil engineering of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad is organising a week-long Faculty Development Programme (FDP) on 'Research writing and professional ethics'. Speaking on this occasion, Prof Dinesh emphasised on the quality of research and spoke about the importance of research publication in reputed journals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/improving-nutrition-among-kids-308669
09-09-2021||Kurukshetra||Brahma Sarovar  laser show project set to get delayed||The multimedia laser show project at Brahma Sarovar is all set to get delayed further as it will now come up on a fixed structure instead of a floating one.The entire project came to a standstill over the issue of the base of the structure despite the fact that a tender was awarded to a firm in 2020.During the International Gita Mahotsav, a temporary multimedia light and sound show on a floated surface was arranged by the Kurukshetra Development Board. A huge sum was spent on it, but in 2017, it was decided to get a permanent show so that there was no need for making any temporary arrangements.The India Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC) had awarded the tender for the floating multimedia laser last year but the Kurukshetra Development Board and Haryana Tourism Department had raised objections to the floating surface and wanted the structure to be a fixed one. As per information, the previous tender will now be cancelled and a new tender will be floated.The executive engineer at Haryana Tourism, Gautam Kumar, said “The existing shows on floating surfaces have not been performing well. Hence, we asked the ITDC that the show at the Brahma Sarovar should be on a fixed structure. The cost of the project may escalate a little as it will be now on fixed surface but we will keep it below Rs 16 crore.”A senior official in the ITDC said “The matter is with Haryana Government at present. After it submits its revised detail project report, we will start the further process. A tender was awarded earlier but the project got stuck due to the issue of its base. Now, we will see what changes the Haryana Government will demand in the revised proposal and we will proceed accordingly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/brahma-sarovar-laser-show-project-set-to-get-delayed-308674
09-09-2021||---||Paonta Sahib police seize liquor meant for sale in Haryana||Solan, September 8The Paonta Sahib police seized eight cartons of liquor meant for sale in Haryana from a car in the Rampur Ghat area of Sirmaur district today. As many as 98 bottles were confiscated by the police team led by head constable Dalip.Police officials said Ankur (25) of Shalwala village and Vipin Chamola (21) of Uttarakhand were carrying the liquor in the car without a permit or licence.The cases of country-made liquor, Charlie Malta, bore the address of RSL Distilleries, Chandrao village in Indri tehsil of Karnal. Stacked in the rear seat, the cases had a stamp stating that the liquor was meant for sale in Haryana only.The two youths have been booked and a probe has been started, said DSP, Paonta Sahib, Bir Bahadur.He added that a campaign had been initiated to check the smuggling of contraband and liquor from neighbouring states into Paonta Sahib subdivision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/paonta-sahib-police-seize-liquor-meant-for-sale-in-haryana-308560
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||4.5 lakh cases pending, not 7L, says Punjab and Haryana High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has claimed that around 4.5 lakh cases were pending before it and not seven lakh, as reflected earlier on the National Judicial Data Grid due to a software mismatch.High Court Registrar (Vigilance)-cum-PRO Vikram Aggarwal said the earlier figure of seven lakh was due to a mismatch between “Case Information System” and “Integrated Software for High Court”. As a result, the disposal of cases was not being reflected on the NJDG.“The requisite data synchronisation has been done. The current pendency is around 4.5 lakh cases. This figure is expected to come down further once the softwares are fully synchronised,” the Registrar said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-5-lakh-cases-pending-not-7l-says-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-308521
09-09-2021||Amritsar||SGPC to arrange langar at Karnal protest site||Showing solidarity with farmers, the SGPC has announced providing need-based services in Karnal where the farmers have staged a sit-in.Also read:Farm stir: After Singhu & Tikri, now Karnal takes centre stageBan on mobile Internet services in Karnal extended till Thursday midnight as farmers' protest enters day 3SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said their sub-office in Kurukshetra and managers of gurdwaras in Haryana were instructed to start working in this regard. Similarly, teams have been deputed from the gurdwaras along the Haryana border to arrange langar, tea, water and beddings for the farmers. “Instructions were issued in this regard to the managers of Gurdwara Nada Sahib, Panchkula, Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib, Patiala and Gurdwara Patshahi Chhevin, Kurukshetra,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sgpc-to-arrange-langar-at-karnal-protest-site-308533
09-09-2021||---||Punjab CM says Centre’s wheat MSP pathetic, calls it ‘rubbing of salt on wounds of agitating farmers’||Chandigarh, September 8Terming the Union Cabinet’s measly wheat MSP hike as pathetic, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday slammed the Central government for rubbing salt on the wounds of the beleaguered farmers, who have been out on the roads agitating against the farm laws for the past 10 months.Read alsoAt a time when India’s agriculture sector is passing through a distress phase and the farmers are agitating for a remunerative MSP, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led Government of India has played a cruel joke on the ‘annadaatas’, said the Chief Minister.Demanding MSP of wheat to be fixed at Rs 2,830 per quintal (as against the meagre Rs 2,015/quintal announced today by the Centre), Amarinder said the farmers should not be forced to subsidise the consumers, which they have been doing since long. “It is time the government at the Centre heeds the problems of the farmers and gives them their due,” he said, adding that the BJP-led government’s continued apathy towards the farmers had brought the farming sector, which has been one of the country’s biggest economic strengths, to the brink of disaster. “Why is the Centre treating our farmers so obnoxiously,” he asked.Terming the MSP for wheat at Rs 2,015 per quintal as “far below the expectations of the farmers of Punjab,” the Chief Minister said his government has suggested the MSP of Rs 2,830 per quintal depending on the cost of production of wheat in the State. Pointing out that the CACP estimates project an increase of 3.5% only in the comprehensive cost of production (C2) over the last year, he said this does not even cover the inflation in cost of inputs. The Chief Minister pointed out that the MSP for wheat has increased from Rs 1,975 per quintal for RMS 2021-22 to Rs 2,015 per quintal for RMS 2022-23, which is just 2% increase over last year.However, the increase in input costs is much higher, he said, adding that wages have increased by about 7% during this year, diesel price by more than 4%, and machinery cost has increased by almost 20% in this period. As these inputs constitute major components of cost of cultivation of wheat, a meager 2% increase in MSP will not adequately compensate the Punjab farmers and will reduce their profitability, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-cm-says-centres-wheat-msp-pathetic-calls-it-rubbing-of-salt-on-wounds-of-agitating-farmers-308445
09-09-2021||Karnal||Karnal impasse: With no breakthrough on second day of talks, farmers prepare for long haul||Talks between protesting farmers and the Karnal Administration failed to yield a breakthrough for the second time in the day, officials and farmer leaders said on Tuesday as the farmers brace themselves for a prolonged protest outside the mini secretariat in the district. The standoff spilled into the second day on Wednesday as farmers spent the night outside the mini secretariat after a day of failed talks on Tuesday. Led by a joint action front of 13 farmer unions, the protesters have been demanding criminal action against an IAS officer who was heard telling cops to break protesters' heads in a viral video that circulated after the August 28 lathicharge. Ayush Sinha, an Indian Administrative Service officer of the Haryana cadre, is heard telling cops in the video to “smash the heads” of protesters breaking down police barricades.IAS officer Sanjeev Verma, who’s the commissioner of the Karnal Division, was part of Wednesday’s meeting, which lasted three hours. Also read: Talks fail, farmers lay siege to Karnal mini secretariatFarmers firm on IAS officer’s suspension in HaryanaKarnal a fortress, protesters dig inHaryana turned into police state, alleges Kumari SeljaBJP: Opposition banking on ongoing stir for survivalProtesters want Sinha to face either murder (Section 302, Indian Penal Code) or attempted murder charges (Section 307, Indian Penal Code), but the administration has so far refused to give in.On Wednesday, the district administration again invited a delegation of Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders for a meeting at 2 pm in another bid to end the standoff.“The talks completely failed because the government is adopting an adamant attitude,” SKM leader Yogendra Yadav told reporters after the three-hour meeting.He said the government wasn't even willing to suspend the IAS officer, let alone book him.The protest will remain peaceful, farmer union leaders said after the meeting.Rakesh Tikait, a leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, said earlier in the day the protests will not stop. As the protest continued into the night, Karnal's Deputy Commissioner and Superintendent of Police both tried in vain to persuade protesters to clear the road to avoid causing traffic problems the next day.  “The government will not accept our demands. We will sit here till our demands are met. This is a struggle for the freedom of farmers from a government of corporates. Karnal will be another centre of protest like the Delhi borders if our demands are not met.”Farmers have pitched tents and we're ready for a long haul, he said, adding that the district officials were defending the IAS officer responsible for the lathicharge on farmers.Gurdwaras provided them with food on Wednesday evening and city residents pitched in. Inspector General of Police Mamta Singh and Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia said they were monitoring security arrangements inside and outside the mini secretariat.A large number of farmers stayed put outside the gates of the district headquarters here on Wednesday as they remained firm on their demand for action against Sinha.Locked in a showdown with the Haryana government over the lathicharge, the farmers squatted at the gates of the mini-secretariat on Tuesday evening after talks with the local administration failed. Many spent the night outside the mini-secretariat.On August 28, farmers poured into Karnal to protest a meeting that the Bharatiya Janata Party--- whose central government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been at the very centre of the farmer protests that began last year---held in the city. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattr, who also belongs to the same party, was to attend the meeting. Things took a turn for the worse when clashes broke out between the protesters and the police. Several farmers were wounded in the incident. Protesters claim one even died but government authorities have denied the allegation.   Sinha was the sub-divisional magistrate at the time of the incident, and since has been transferred in a bureaucratic reshuffle, but that has failed to appease the protesters. The protest in Karnal is part of the larger farmers protest against three central laws—The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act.Passed last year, the laws have been a subject of great controversy. Farmers, who’ve been pitched at the borders of Delhi since November 2020 to demand that the government repeal the laws, fear that the legislation leaves them open to corporate exploitation—an allegation the central government under the Bharatiya Janata Party has so far denied. Eight rounds of talks between the Centre and the farmers could not break the impasse. — With PTI inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-impasse-with-no-breakthrough-on-second-day-of-talks-farmers-prepare-for-long-haul-308348
09-09-2021||---||Doctors’ retirement age reduced to 58 from 65||Karnal, September 6With the re-fixing of the retirement and re-employment age of doctors in the state from 65 to 58 with effect from September 30, 2021, the service of 116 doctors, consultants and senior consultants will be discontinued across the state.Also read: An army of re-employed doctors in PunjabThe doctors who have already attained the age of 58 or more but have been working as consultants or senior consultants on extended superannuation will stand retired from service. Earlier, in 2016, the government had extended the retirement age to 65 from 58.The maximum number of 15 doctors, consultants and senior consultants will retire from the Panchkula Civil Hospital, while six from Karnal, five from LNJP Kurukshetra, four each from Ambala City, Hisar, and Civil Hospital Bhadhurgarh, three each from Civil Hospital Ambala Cantt, Faridabad, Gurugram, Jind, CHC Nanakpur, Civil Hospital Palwal, and Sonepat, two each from Civil Hospital Bawanikhera, Kaithal, Mandi Khera, Panipat, Rewari, Gohana, CHC Mathana, Raipur Rani, Bilaspur. One each from TB Hospital Ambala City, Civil Hospital Naraingarh, Polyclinic Ambala, CHC Chormastpur, Civil Hospital Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Ratia, CHC Kherikalan, Civil Hospital Pataudi, Sohna, Jhajjar, Nilokheri, CHC Babain, CHC Jhansa, Civil Hospital Narnaul, CHC Nangal Sirohi, CHC Nangal Chaudhary, CHC Bapoli, Civil Hospital Rohtak, Meham, CHC Chiri, Kiloi, Meerpur, Sirsa, Kalanwali, Chhachhroli, Jagadhari and Chandigarh, said the order.A notification in this regard was issued on September 1 by Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health.The service of the re-employed doctors as consultant and senior consultant after retirement will also be discontinued. Besides, the doctors of the HCMS and the HCDS cadre who have not attained the age of 64 as on September 30, 2021, can submit their re-employment request to the DGHS under the new policy.They have to give choice of three districts depending on the vacant locations. The order further stated that the re-employment will be considered depending upon the eligibility, availability of seat and requirement of the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/doctors-retirement-age-reduced-to-58-from-65-307778
