10-09-2021||---||Justice Hari Pal Verma to be sworn in as Haryana Lokayukta on Saturday||Chandigarh, September 10Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya will administer the oath of office and secrecy to Justice Hari Pal Verma as Lokayukta on Saturday.A former Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Justice Verma will succeed Justice NK Aggarwal, who retired on July 18 this year.Justice Verma will be the fifth Lokayukta of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/justice-hari-pal-verma-to-be-sworn-in-as-haryana-lokayukta-on-saturday-309326
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana reports 12 fresh cases||Haryana reported 12 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, raising its tally to 7,70,626.The state did not record any death in the past 24 hours and the fatality toll stood at 9,686, a health bulletin said.Of the fresh cases, six were reported from Gurgaon and three from Ambala districts.The number of active Covid cases in the state is 213.The total recoveries were 7,60,383, as per the bulletin. The recovery rate was 98.67 percent. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-haryana-reports-12-fresh-cases-309320
10-09-2021||Bahraich (UP)||Two held for objectionable posters against farmer leader Rakesh Tikait||Police here arrested two people after posters announcing a “cash reward” of Rs 11 lakh for thrashing farmer leader Rakesh Tikait with shoes surfaced here, an official said on Friday.The posters were issued in the name of the Kisan Karz-Mukt Abhiyan Sangathan and appeared at a dozen places here on Thursday evening, police said.Additional Superintendent of Police (City) Kunwar Gyananjay Singh in a statement said that it was found that Luv Vikram Singh, a resident of the Huzurpur police station area, got about 50 posters printed at a printing press run by Aman Gupta.                    Luv Vikram Singh, also called Jaynu Thakur, pasted the posters at different places of the city on Thursday, he said, adding that the two were arrested on Thursday night. Police have removed the posters from all places. “There is no law and order problem in the city and district regarding this,” the officer said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-held-for-objectionable-posters-against-farmer-leader-rakesh-tikait-309306
10-09-2021||---||Former Samalkha MLA Hari Singh Nalwa dies at 93||Panipat, September 10Hari Singh Nalwa, former member of Rajya Sabha and former MLA from Samalkha died on Friday.He was of 93.His last rites will be performed at his native village Ujha in Panipat district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-samalkha-mla-hari-singh-nalwa-dies-at-93-309231
10-09-2021||Mukesh Tandon||5 quality monitoring stations for Yamuna, Ghaggar soon||Tribune News ServicePanipat, September 8To assess the pollution level in the Yamuna and Ghaggar, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has started setting up real-time water quality monitoring stations (RTWQMS).To be installed by December-endThe tendering process is under way and we are hoping that the stations will be installed by December-end. The approximate cost of each station will be over Rs 50 lakh. — S Narayanan, Member Secretary, HSPCBThe Centre Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had recently launched the National Water Quality Monitoring Programme (NWQMP) and decided to install the real-time monitoring stations to assess the quality of the water bodies with the support of the state pollution boards.Now, the HSPCB has decided to set up five such stations — three for the Yamuna in Yamunanagar, Panipat and Sonepat districts and two stations for the Ghaggar at Panchkula and Sirsa.Sources said the HSPCB would observe several parameters, including pH, turbidity, conductivity, temperature, dissolved oxygen, dissolved ammonia, biochemical oxygen demand, chemical oxygen demand, nitrates and chlorides in the river water online.The stations will be operational in a real-time mode and the central station will be able to access the data from any of these stations.S Narayanan, Member Secretary, HSPCB, said they had started the work on the process to install the RTWQMS.The board has decided to install RTWQMS on the basis of “3+2 formula” — three stations on the Yamuna and two on the Ghaggar.The stations will help them to identify the places where the Yamuna and Ghaggar were more polluted and the contribution of the states to the pollution of the water bodies, he added.Notably, the pollution level in the Yamuna has been a bone of contention between Delhi and Haryana. The Delhi Government has blamed Haryana for polluting the Yamuna several times.“We will install five stations as a pilot project,” said Narayanan.“The places finalised for the installation of the RTWQMS are Majri Chowk in Panchkula, Ottu Weir in Sirsa, Tajewala on Hathnikund Barrage in Yamunagar, Yamuna Bridge in Panipat and the Eastern Peripheral Way on the Delhi border in Sonepat,” he said. “Tendering process is underway and we are hoping that the stations will be installed by December-end,” Narayanan said.Though the final cost of the RTWQMS will be clear after the tender process, the approximate cost of each station will be over Rs 50 lakh, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-quality-monitoring-stations-for-yamuna-ghaggar-soon-309061
10-09-2021||---||IGU awards 5 grace marks to students who failed in English||Rewari, September 9  The Indira Gandhi University (IGU) authorities have decided to award 5 grace marks each to those students of BA (fifth semester) who failed in English. The decision has been taken following the recommendations of a three-member committee which randomly re-examined the answer sheets today.  The committee was formed acting on the complaints filed by principals of various colleges and student outfits against ‘’poor results’’ in English. They demanded re-examination of answer sheets. Around 4,000 students of over 50 degree colleges affiliated to the IGU in Rewari and Mahendragarh districts failed in English, results of which were declared recently. The students outfits-INSO and ABVP- threatened to launch an agitation campaign if their demands were not met. Suresh Dhanerwal, Controller of Examination, IGU, said the three-member-committee today re-examined 150 answer sheets randomly. It found no anomalies in checking them and awarding of marks, but the committee recommended a grace of five marks to every student citing tproblems being faced by them in studies during the Covid times.  “We accepted the recommendations and announced 5 grace marks which will prove helpful for more than 3 per cent students in obtaining pass marks in English subject,” said he, adding that earlier, 33 per cent students failed in the subject. Meanwhile, The Akhil Bhartiya Vidharthi Parishad (ABVP) today took out a protest march and burnt the effigy of the Vice-Chancellor in protest against the poor results. The protesters blamed the IGU authorities for it and said some other subjects had also witnessed poor results. The protest started from Dharuhera Chungi and culminated at the mini secretariat where the protesters submitted a memorandum to the district authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/igu-awards-5-grace-marks-to-students-who-failed-in-english-309062
10-09-2021||Sonepat||Tokyo Olympians honoured by LIC||The LIC today felicitated the Olympic medal winners and the women Hockey team members with cash rewards.Diwakar Mittal, Senior Divisional Manager of the Rohtak division, said the players had brought laurels to India at Tokyo Olympics.The LIC felicitated silver medal winner wrestler Ravi Dahiya with Rs 50 lakh; bronze medal winner wrestler Bajrang Punia and Indian Hockey team player Sumit Kumar with Rs 25 lakh each and Indian women hockey team members Neha Goyal and Nisha Warsi with Rs 10 lakh each. The LIC also felicitated hockey coach Preetam Siwach. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tokyo-olympians-honoured-by-lic-309063
10-09-2021||---||Sardar Dyal Singh Majithia remembered in Karnal||Karnal, September 9Staff members of Dyal Singh Public School, Dyal Singh Colony, paid tributes to Sardar Dyal Singh Majithia, the founder of The Tribune Trust, the Dyal Singh College Trust and the Dyal Singh Library Trust, to mark his 123rd death anniversary.Marks 123rd death annivPrincipal Shalini Narang, along with the staff and students, paid tributes to the great visionary,Sardar Dyal Singh Majithia, on his 123rd death anniversary. Students were enlightened about his contributions in the field of education.Principal Sushma Devgun said Sardar Majithia was one of the noblest men with a unique personality. She said he was a philanthropist and his liberal and enlightened principles were like a beacon of light for India.An inter-school online ‘bhajan sangeet’ competition was organised in which 12 schools participated.Meanwhile, Dyal Singh Public School, Sector 7, Karnal, organised a ‘havan’ to pay homage to Sardar Majithia on his death anniversary. Principal Shalini Narang, along with the staff and students, paid tributes to the great visionary. Students were enlightened about the remarkable contributions of the legendary Sardar Majithia in the field of education.Sanjay Sharma, Principal of the college under the Dyal Singh Trust, said the institution was created due to the generosity and philanthropic zeal of its founder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sardar-dyal-singh-majithia-remembered-in-karnal-309064
10-09-2021||---||Gurugram Power SDO suspended for negligence of duty||Hisar, September 9The managing director of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), PC Meena, today suspended Vikram Singh, subdivisional officer (Operations), south city subdivision, Gurugram, and Ashok Kumar, upper divisional clerk posted in the same subdivision, with immediate effect for negligence of duty.They have been suspended on the basis of a preliminary inquiry report against a complaint received in the matter of negligence of duty and unjustified cancellation of the application for electricity connection.A spokesperson of the DHBVN said a firm, Sunvision Limited, had applied for non-domestic (NDS) connection of 1550 KW. In lieu of the demand notice issued by the nigam, the requisite amount was deposited by the applicant with material related to electricity connection inspected and independent feeder erected by the consumer. However, despite this, the application for the release of connection was cancelled.In the preliminary inquiry, Vikram Singh and Ashok Kumar have been found responsible for unjustified cancellation of the application for electricity connection, the spokesperson added. The managing director today issued direction to the officials that applications for electricity connections be issued within the stipulated time and better services be provided to consumers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-power-sdo-suspended-for-negligence-of-duty-309065
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Panel to draft rules for guest teachers||The Haryana Government has decided to constitute a committee to examine the matter related to fixation of salary of guest teachers. Besides, the committee has been asked to draft service rules for guest teachers by October 30, 2021. The committee will include Amit Agrawal, Additional Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister; J Ganesan, Director, Secondary Education Department; and Anshaj Singh, Director, Elementary Education Department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panel-to-draft-rules-for-guest-teachers-309066
10-09-2021||---||Farmers must adopt new ways to conserve water, says Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University VC||Hisar, September 9With the depleting water level, farmers will have to adopt modern techniques and shun over exploitation of groundwater, which is a precious natural resource, said Professor BR Kamboj, Vice-Chancellor of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, here today.He was addressing the farmers on the concluding day of the two-day Krishi Mela (Rabi) organised by the university. He said keeping in view the importance of water, this time the theme of the Krishi Mela was also water conservation so that the farmers could be motivated to conserve water. “The techniques which help farmers to conserve water were displayed in the krishi mela. The farmers and agricultural scientists complement each other. Unless the technology developed by the scientists reaches the farmers, the research will not be successful”, he said.He called upon the farmers to visit the university and take maximum advantage of the developed technologies and improved varieties here. As many as 52,000 farmers registered during the fair.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-must-adopt-new-ways-to-conserve-water-says-chaudhary-charan-singh-haryana-agricultural-university-vc-309067
10-09-2021||---||HSSC paper leak: Accused carrying Rs2 L reward held||Karnal, September 9In the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) police constable recruitment paper leak case, Kaithal police arrested a wanted accused from Jammu, who had a reward of Rs 2 lakh on his head.So far, the police have arrested 34 persons in this case. The accused has been identified as Muzaffar Ahmed Khan of Gul village in Ramban district in Jammu. He was arrested by CIA-1 team led by inspector Amit Kumar from Jammu, said Superintendent of Police Lokender Singh.The HSSC conducted the exam on August 7 in two shifts and it was also scheduled for August 8. He maintained that the Haryana police had recently announced a reward of Rs 2 lakh each on two accused and of Rs 50,000 on nine accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hssc-paper-leak-accused-carrying-rs2-l-reward-held-309068
10-09-2021||Ravinder Saini||Haryana Govt may discontinue diploma course in elementary education||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 9The fate of 342 private colleges offering Diploma in Elementary Education (D.EL.Ed) course across the state hangs in balance with the state government contemplating to make no fresh admissions to the course from this academic session. Course discontinued in govt collegesNo new admissionsA delegation urged the Chief Minister to initiate the admission process but he clearly said no fresh admission will be made this session. All 342 private colleges will shut down if the course is discontinued. — Satish Khola, President, Haryana self-finance private college associationThe two-year course was discontinued over two years ago in all District Institutes for Teachers Training (government institutes).Objecting to the move, college operators have demanded rolling back of the decision, stating that it would not only force Haryana candidates to pursue the course from other states but also render over 5,100 teaching and non-teaching employees of such colleges jobless.“There are a total of over 21,000 seats for D.EL.Ed course in 342 private colleges across the state, in which as many as 3,456 teachers and 1,728 non-teaching staffers are employed. All colleges will shut down if the government discontinues the course. Generally, the admission process for the course starts from July but this year, no admission schedule has been released so far,” said Satish Khola, president, Haryana Self-Finance Private College Association.He maintained a delegation of the association had called on Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar during his visit to Rewari four days ago and urged him to direct the authorities concerned to initiate the admission process for the course but he clearly said no fresh admission would be made this session, Khola claimed.Rishi Goyal, director, State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), which releases the admission schedule, said they had sought guidelines from the state government about admission in the diploma course this session but no had received no response so far.Meanwhile, Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gurjar confirmed that the government was seriously contemplating over discontinuation of the D.EL.Ed course as it was not needed in the New Education Policy. However, a final call in this respect is yet to be taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-may-discontinue-diploma-course-in-elementary-education-309069
10-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC imposes Rs 1 lakh cost on litigant for forum shopping bid||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 9The Punjab and Haryana High Court has imposed Rs 1 lakh exemplary cost on a litigant after holding that he attempted to indulge in forum shopping. The amount would be recoverable from the petitioner-litigant as arrears of land revenue.The order by Justice Anil Kshetarpal came on a petition filed by Ram Dayal against the State of Haryana and other respondents. The petitioner had moved the court for directing the respondents to decide his claim and grant seven days to file reply in case an adverse order was passed.The Bench was told that the petitioner was in possession of a house constructed on a 200 square-yard plot in Gurugram’s Nathupur village since time immemorial. The petitioner received a notice under the provisions of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, stating that he had encroached upon the Municipal Corporation land.The state submitted that the petitioner had already filed two civil suits regarding the property in dispute against the Gurugram MC, but had failed to get interim protection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-imposes-rs-1-lakh-cost-on-litigant-for-forum-shopping-bid-309070
10-09-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Child panel serves notice on Bhupinder Hooda, MLAs Kuldeep Vats, Shakuntla Khatak||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 9Taking suo motu congnisance of “harassment, torture and public shaming” of a child at a Congress protest outside the Haryana Vidhan Sabha on August 20, the Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (HSCPCR) today issued show-cause notices to Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda and MLAs Kuldeep Vats and Shakuntla Khatak.A child sitting on a rickshaw was part of the Congress MLAs’ protest on the alleged paper leak and the hike in fuel prices on August 20. The next day, the BJP had condemned the move in the Legislative Assembly.In the notice, HSCPCR Chairperson Jyoti Bainda said the acts of the Congress leaders “amounted to cruelty, harassment and public shaming of the child”. She noted that to gain political mileage, the Congress leaders made an 8-year-old boy sit in a rickshaw “forcefully”.Bainda said the acts of the Congress leaders “attract stringent criminal proceedings under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of the Children) Act, 2015, and the Indian Penal Code and other relevant laws.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/child-panel-serves-notice-on-bhupinder-hooda-mlas-kuldeep-vats-shakuntla-khatak-309071
10-09-2021||---||State-of-art machines for Rohtak PGIMS to treat brain tumour||Rohtak, September 9The state government has provided the Department of Neurosurgery, PGIMS, with state-of-the-art machines to treat patients suffering from brain tumour or serious spinal cord injuries.The neurosurgery department had been facing the issue in treating such patients due to the non-availability of modern machines. Sometimes, patients had to be referred to other healthcare centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/state-of-art-machines-for-rohtak-pgims-to-treat-brain-tumour-309072
10-09-2021||Karnal||Didn’t call Sukhbir Badal for langar: Gurnam Singh Charuni||Reacting strongly to the statement of Punjab’s former Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal in which he said that Gurnam Singh Charuni had called him up for ‘langar sewa’ in Karnal, Charuni demanded Sukhbir’s apology. He made it clear that he did not call him up. In fact, he does not have his number, he claimed.Also read: SGPC to arrange langar at Karnal protest site“I did not call up Sukhbir Badal for langar sewa and I do not have his number. If Sukhbir has any evidence in support of his statement, he should make it public. Otherwise, he should tender an apology for it,” said Charuni.Don’t have numberI did not call up Sukhbir Badal for langar sewa and I do not have his number. If he has any evidence, he should make it public. Otherwise, he should apologise for it. — Gurnam Singh Charuni, Farmer leaderHe said that gurdwaras have been serving langars for centuries and even before the Badals. The ‘sewa’ would continue after the Badals. During Covid and natural disasters, gurdwaras served the society with ‘langar sewa’. “It is very irresponsible statement. He is not the head of gurdwaras,” he said.He accused Sukhbir of playing cheap politics and said that Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has lost its ground in Punjab. “We have launched Mission Punjab and he might be desperate,” said Charuni.Sukhbir, in his statement on Wednesday, said that SKM leader Charuni had called him up to start ‘langar sewa’ in Karnal. “I have asked SGPC to start langar and water sewa there,” said Sukhbir in a video which went viral on social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/didnt-call-sukhbir-badal-for-langar-gurnam-singh-charuni-309073
10-09-2021||---||Anil Vij: Ready for probe into ‘entire’ Karnal incident||Ambala, September 9Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij today said that the state government is ready for an impartial probe (in connection with Karnal lathicharge incident) but the probe would not be limited to the SDM (Ayush Sinha) only but would cover the entire Karnal episode.Also read:Farmers adamant on their demands as their dharna in Karnal enters day 4Support for Karnal farmers’ stir pours in from Punjab, UPTo step up stir, SKM Karnal meeting tomorrowWON’T BE LIMITED TO SDMWe are ready for an impartial probe, but it will not be limited to the SDM only. If the farmers and their leaders are also found guilty, appropriate action will be taken against them as well. — Anil Vij, Haryana home ministerResponding to media queries, the minister said, “Farmers have been protesting in Karnal. It is their democratic right and our officials are in constant dialogue with the farmers. Dialogue in an integral part of any democracy, but only legitimate demands will be accepted. We cannot hang anyone because someone is demanding it. Are the IPC (Indian Penal Code) of the country and the IPC of the farmers different? Punishment is given according to the offence committed and, to find out the offence, investigation has to be conducted.”“We are ready for an impartial probe, but it will not be limited to the SDM only. We will get the entire Karnal episode investigated. If the farmers and their leaders are also found guilty in the investigation, then appropriate action will be taken against them as well,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anil-vij-ready-for-probe-into-entire-karnal-incident-309074
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana increases sugarcane price to Rs 362 per quintal||In the ongoing “sugarcane price war” between Punjab and Haryana, the latter had the last laugh today with the BJP-JJP government announcing a price of Rs 362 per quintal, a marginal hike of Rs 2 over Punjab.Highest in the countryThe sugarcane price has been stable at Rs310 per quintal in Punjab for the past four years. Now that the elections are inching closer, the Congress hiked the price to woo voters. However, Haryana is still offering the highest sugarcane price in the country. —  JP Dalal, Agri ministerHike in rabi crops’ MSP a lollipop: SKMKarnal: Leaders of the SKM termed the hike in MSP for rabi crops as a lollipop and said the hike was shameful. “Except mustard and lentil (masoor), which had a hike of around 8 per cent, the remaining crops were given very less hike, which is not appropriate with the rising inflation,” said Gurnam Singh Charuni, BKU president and SKM member.In a clear case of one-upmanship against Punjab, Haryana announced a hike of Rs 12 per quintal over its existing price of Rs 350 (for early variety), making it the highest in the country. Eyeing the upcoming Assembly elections, the Punjab Government recently announced a massive hike of Rs 50 per quintal, taking the state’s sugarcane price to Rs 360 per quintal.Since then, the Khattar government was on the edge over the quantum of increase in the sugarcane price as the state was already paying Rs 350 per quintal, the highest in the country, before Punjab increased it to Rs 360.Agriculture Minister JP Dalal said: “The sugarcane price has been stable at Rs 310 per quintal in Punjab for the past four years. Now that the elections are inching closer, the Congress hiked the price to woo voters. However, Haryana is still offering the highest price in the country,” Dalal asserted.Sources said in the wake of the farmers’ agitation, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar wanted to retain the top position regarding the sugarcane price in the country. “The announcement of Rs 362 per quintal as the sugarcane price has been made on the directions of the Chief Minister, after an approval from the Sugarcane Control Board,” said Cooperation Minister Banwari Lal.Khattar had publicly expressed displeasure over Punjab farmer leaders, who were spearheading the farm stir at the Singhu and Tikri borders, offering “ladoos” to Capt Amarinder Singh after the announcement of Rs 360 as the sugarcane price by the Punjab Government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-increases-sugarcane-price-to-rs-362-per-quintal-309075
10-09-2021||Karnal||Support for Karnal farmers’ stir pours in from Punjab, UP||The farmers’ dharna here is witnessing huge participation from various districts of Haryana, Punjab and UP.After the talks between farmers and the district administration failed to yield results in the past two days, the leaders had — on Wednesday — appealed to farmers to stay put outside the mini secretariat indefinitely.Also read:Farmers adamant on their demands as their dharna in Karnal enters day 4Didn’t call Sukhbir Badal for langar: Gurnam Singh CharuniAnil Vij: Ready for probe into ‘entire’ Karnal incidentTo step up stir, SKM Karnal meeting tomorrowFarmers came in buses, cars and other vehicles to extend support to this dharna in the CM’s constituency.After spending the night on the roads and parks, the number of farmers was thin at the protest site, but with the passing of time, the number increased and the block outside the mini secretariat was full in the afternoon.BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni and senior leader Baldev Singh Sirsa are among the farmer leaders who are urging the farmers to remain here till the fulfilment of their demands. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/support-for-karnal-farmers-stir-pours-in-from-punjab-up-309076
10-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Gurugram: Day after SE’s suspension, engg unions go on strike||Gurugram, September 9The ongoing cold war between the officials of the Gurugram Municipal Corporation and councillors continues to snow ball as the engineering wing went on a strike today, a day after Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij suspended a Superintendent Engineer (SE) following a complaint by Mayor Madhu Azad.Superintendent Engineer Ramesh Sharma was suspended for allegedly walking out of the House meeting, which Vij considered against decorum.What infuriated the officials further was a letter issued by MC Commissioner Mukesh Ahuja, asking them to show respect to all elected public representatives, be it councillors, Mayor or MLAs. The officials have been asked to ensure that their staff also respects them.Enraged over alleged partiality towards councilors, the engineering wing went on a strike and were joined by other unions as well.They raised slogans against Vij, the state government and Mayor. As many as 500 employees working in the engineering wing participated in the strike.The strike left residents a harried lot as no work was done at the MC today.Supporting the strike, the state secretary of the Safai Karamcharis Union, Naresh Malkat, said that the decision taken against the SE was wrong. “If the suspension is not withdrawn within 24 hours, all employees of the corporation will stop cleaning work in the city. If all honest officers are removed, then corruption will increase. We demand reinstatement of SE Ramesh Sharma,” added Malkat.MC’s chief engineer Thakur Lal Sharma said a complete inquiry should be conducted in the matter and action should be taken against the guilty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-day-after-ses-suspension-engg-unions-go-on-strike-309079
10-09-2021||Karnal||Net suspended, online services hit in Karnal||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/net-suspended-online-services-hit-in-karnal-309100
10-09-2021||Jhajjar||Delhi’s most-wanted criminal arrested by Jhajjar police||Man gets 20 years for sexual assault on minorSonepat: A court on Thursday sentenced a man to 20 years jail for sexually assaulting a three-and-a-half year old girl and attempting to rape her mother while she tried to save the child. The incident had taken place in 2019. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhis-most-wanted-criminal-arrested-by-jhajjar-police-309103
10-09-2021||Sonepat||Sonepat: Ashoka University campus foundation stone laid||Seminar on Right to Service ActJind: Deputy Commissioner Naresh Narwal said the Right to Service Act had ensured time-bound delivery of services by the government departments. He was addressing a seminar on the theme of RTS Act as the chief guest at Chaudhary Ranbir Singh University (CRSU) Jind. The DC said the officer concerned can draw a fine of Rs 5,000 to Rs 20,000 if he/she was found negligent in providing services to the people. The DC said 546 services of 42 departments had been brought under the online system of the RTS Act. Narwal said the Act was gaining popularity among people due to its effectiveness in delivery of services by the government departments.Academic block inauguratedSonepat: Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya said universities should sign MoUs with world-class universities of international repute and make students aware of new research and research works. It should be used for the welfare of human beings and society. Governor Badaru Dattatreya was addressing the gathering after inaugurating Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Academic block at Dr BR Ambedkar National Law University (DBRANLU). He said this was the only law university of the state which was making full efforts to carry forward the thinking of self-reliance advocated by the Prime Minister. The programme was presided over by Vice-Chancellor Professor Viney Kapoor Mehra. She also highlighted the activities and achievements of the university and assured the Chancellor that the university would implement the National Education Policy from the current session.Vet varsity to organise trainingHisar: Lala Lajpat Rai University of Animal and Veterinary Sciences (LUVAS) will organise a training camp on "Animal biotechnology" from September 9 to September 29. Dr Sushila Maan, the head of the animal biotech department will organise the camp which will be attended by cientists from other universities also. Dr Maan said the department had organised 32 training camps and imparted training to 500 scientists and students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-ashoka-university-campus-foundation-stone-laid-309104
10-09-2021||Stray animals||Stray animals a permanent source of nuisance in Rohtak||Kamal, RohtakPoor upkeep of sewerage system irks Hisar residentsResidents of Sector 33 are facing problem due to wild growth of bushes and lack of cleanliness of the sewerage system. A delegation of the Residents Welfare Association (RWA) has met the Superintending Engineer (SE) of the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) Pawan Kumar. The SE of the HSVP has informed the delegation that the work-tender removal of the wild growth and also cleanliness of the sewerage has been allotted and the work will start soon. The RWA has decided to withdraw its call for dharna after the assurance of the SE. I urge the authorities to immediately start work to provide relief to the residents.Rajpal Nain, HisarDrain becoming breeding ground for mosquitoesWhile there is a rise in dengue cases in Ambala, all colony houses of Defence Colony drain their sewer water in this drain on the side of Kalahari road, which is becoming a breeding ground for mosquitoes. The district administration and the health authorities should stop this and prevent the spread of dengue. Rajeev Mukerjee, AmbalaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stray-animals-a-permanent-source-of-nuisance-in-rohtak-309105
10-09-2021||Panchkula||Ex-GM of BSNL gets 4-year jail for graft||A special CBI court here today sentenced a former senior general manager (GM) of BSNL to four years in jail for accepting a bribe of Rs 2 lakh in the year 2014.The court of special CBI judge Dr Sushil Kumar Garg also imposed a fine of Rs10 lakh on the convict, Chanderhas, the then senior GM, Telecom District (BSNL), Karnal.Chanderhas had demanded a bribe of Rs3 lakh from Yashpal, a junior telecom officer of BSNL, office of Divisional Engineer, Karnal, in lieu of reducing the penalty in a chargesheet against him. Chanderhas later reduced the bribe amount to Rs2.75 lakh and agreed to accept Rs2 lakh as the first installment.Yashpal then approached the CBI. A trap was laid and the convict was caught red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs2 lakh from the complainant.The convict has been sentenced to three-year rigorous imprisonment, along with a fine of Rs3 lakh, under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, and four years in jail, along with a fine of Rs7 lakh, under Section 13 (1) (d) read with 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. Both sentences will run concurrently.Chanderhas pleaded for leniency, stating that he had never been convicted before and was “facing the agony of criminal trial since 2014”. However, CBI public prosecutor KP Singh argued for the maximum punishment.The court observed: “...one lie is enough to question all truths. But it is the duty of the court to enforce the rule of law and, therefore, to guard against erosion of the rule of law. The duty of the court is that any anti-corruption law has to be interpreted and worked out in such a fashion so as to strengthen the fight against corruption.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-gm-of-bsnl-gets-4-year-jail-for-graft-309022
10-09-2021||Parveen Arora||To step up stir, SKM Karnal meeting tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, September 9With the stalemate persisting, BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni on Thursday said the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) had called a meeting on September 11 in Karnal to chalk out the next course of action even as the government offered to hold an “impartial” probe into the Karnal incident.At Rs362, Haryana cane SAP Rs2 more that Punjab'sTo counter the hike in state advised price (SAP) of sugarcane by Punjab to Rs360 per quintal, the Haryana Government has fixed the same at Rs362 per quintal, a marginal hike of Rs2 over Punjab’s.Demanding action over the August 28 lathicharge, farmers in large numbers are squatting at the main gate of the mini secretariat. On the third day, no talks took place between the administration and farmers. Charuni said, “We are firm on our demands, which include the suspension of (IAS officer) Ayush Sinha and registration of a case against him.” Farmer leader Jagdeep Singh Aulakh said, “If the government does not accept our demands, we will take a tough decision and block the entire state.”Talking to reporters in Ambala, Vij said, “We are ready for an impartial probe, but this will not only be related to (former Karnal) SDM, but the entire Karnal episode.”Karnal DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said they were ready for talks to resolve the issue. “Without any investigation, no official can be suspended,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-step-up-stir-skm-karnal-meeting-tomorrow-308958
10-09-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Punjab vs Haryana: In sugarcane price war, Khattar govt has the last laugh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 9In the ongoing sugarcane price war between Punjab and Haryana in the wake of farmers’ against three farm laws, the latter had the last laugh on Thursday with the BJP-JJP government announcing a price of Rs 362 per quintal, a marginal hike of Rs 2 over neighbouring Punjab.In a clear case of one-upmanship against Punjab, Haryana announced a hike of 12 per quintal over its existing price of Rs 350 (for early variety) to make it Rs 362, highest in the country.With an eye on next year’s assembly elections, the Capt Amarinder Singh Government recently announced a massive hike of Rs 50 per quintal taking state’s sugarcane price to Rs 360 per quintal.The sugarcane price has been stable at Rs 310 per quintal in Punjab since last four years. It is only in the election year that the Congress Government has effected Rs 50-hike to woo the voters. But still Haryana is paying highest price in countryJP Dalal, Haryana Agriculture Minister Since then, the Khattar Government was at its end about the quantum of increase in the sugarcane prices as the state was already paying highest price of Rs 350 per quintal in the country (before Punjab increased in to Rs 360).In fact, Agriculture Minister JP Dalal tried to score some brownie points over its neighbouring state regarding sugarcane price. “The sugarcane price has been stable at Rs 310 per quintal in Punjab since last four years. It is only in the election year that the Congress Government has effected Rs 50-hike to woo the voters. But still Haryana is paying highest price in the country,” Dalal asserted.Sources said in the wake of the farmers’ agitation against three farm laws, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar wanted to retain Haryana’s No 1 position in sugarcane price in the country. “The announcement of Rs 362 per quintal as sugarcane price has been made on the directions of the chief minister, after approval from Sugarcane Control Board,” Cooperation Minister Banwari Lal said.Khattar had gone public with his displeasure over Punjab farmers’ leaders, who were spearheading farm stir at Singhu and Tikri borders, offering “ladoos” to Capt Amarinder Singh after announcement of Rs 360 as sugarcane prices by the Punjab Government recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-vs-haryana-in-sugarcane-price-war-khattar-govt-has-the-last-laugh-308879
10-09-2021||Vibha Sharma||PGI Chandigarh second-best medical college after Delhi’s AIIMS, says Ministry of Education's annual ranking||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 9The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras retained its top spot among institutes while the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, ranked the best among research institutions in the country, according to the sixth edition of the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) announced by Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan today.The PGIMER, Chandigarh, ranked second in the category of Medical Education and Panjab University, Chandigarh, which bagged the second place in the Pharmacy category, ranked 38th in the ‘Overall’ list of 100 institutions in the country.According to NIRF ranking, AIIMS, Delhi, got the top spot in Medical category.In the University category, Panjab University got the 23rd rank among the 100 on the list.In the university category, Patiala-based Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology ranked 26, University of Kashmir (48), Chandigarh University (52), Guru Nanak Dev University (53), Lovely Professional University (62), University of Jammu (66), Maharshi Dayanand University (78), Central University of Punjab (84), Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (88), Solan based-Shoolini University of Biotechnology and Management Sciences (89), Ashoka University (95), Dehradun-based Graphic Era University (98) and University of Petroleum and Energy Studies (100).Among the B-Schools, IIM-Ahmedabad topped the list while Jamia Hamdard emerged the top institution for pharmacy studies.In the colleges category, Miranda House in Delhi bagged the first rank, followed by Lady Sri Ram College for Women, Delhi, and Loyola College, Chennai. Otherwise too, colleges in Delhi dominated ranking with as many as five making to the top 10.Pradhan said a robust and a role model ranking framework will serve as India’s contribution to the global learning landscape “We must ensure that our ranking framework emerges as a benchmark not only in the country, but also globally, especially for the developing economies”, he said while urging for regional ranking frameworks.“NEP provides us with an opportunity to internationalise our education system. We must work collectively to bring more and more institutions under our rankings framework and also establish India as a preferred global study destination,” Pradhan said.As many as 4,030 unique institutions offered themselves for ranking under “overall”, category-specific and / or domain-specific rankings for India Rankings 2021, according to the ministry.In all, 6272 applications for ranking were made by these 4030 unique applicant institutions under various categories / domains including 1657 in Overall Category, 1143 in Engineering, 659 in Management, 351 in Pharmacy, 120 in Law, 111 in Medical, 78 in Architecture and 1802 in General Degree Colleges.Highlights*IIT Madras retained 1st position in Overall Category as well as in Engineering for the third consecutive year.*IIS Bengaluru topped the University as well as Research Institution category introduced for the first time*IIM Ahmedabad topped in Management subject*AIIMS got the top slot in Medical for the fourth consecutive year.*Jamia Hamdard topped Pharmacy for the third consecutive year.*Miranda College retained 1st position amongst colleges for the fifth consecutive year.*IIT Roorkee bagged the top slot for the first time in Architecture subject displacing IIT Kharagpur.*National Law School of India University, Bangalore retained first position for in Law for the fourth consecutive years.*Manipal College of Dental Sciences, Manipal, secure 1st position in Dental category.Rankings of institutions from NorthOverall ranking (list of 100)1. IIT Madras, Tamil Nadu2. Indian Institute of Science, Karnataka3. IIT Bombay, Maharashtra7. IIT Roorkee, Uttarakhand31. IIT Ropar, Punjab38. Panjab University, Chandigarh40 Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Mohali45. Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Punjab77. Chandigarh University, Punjab78 Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Punjab81. Lovely Professional University82 Indian Institute of Technology, Mandi, Himachal85 Guru Nanak Dev University, PunjabArchitecture (list of 25)1. IIT Roorkee, Uttrakhand12. Lovely Professional University Punjab16. Chandigarh University Punjab21. Chitkara University Punjab23. National Institute of Technology, Hamirpur, Himachal24 Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University, J&KMedical (list of 50)1. AIIMS, Delhi2. PGIMER, Chandigarh26. Dayanand Medical College, Punjab29 GMCH, Chandigarh35. Maharishi Markandeshwar, HaryanaLaw (list of 30)1. Indian Law School of India University, Karnataka16 Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of Law, Patiala, Punjab21. Army Institute of Law, Punjab24 Lovely Professional University, Punjab25 University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, Uttarakhand27 Panjab University, ChandigarhManagement (list of 75)1 IIM Ahmedabad, Gujarat11 MDI, Haryana14 IIT Roorkee, Uttarakhand28 IIM Rohtak, Haryana33. IIT Kashipur, Uttarkhand37. Lovely Professional University, Punjab42. Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Punjab45. Chandigarh University, Punjab46 University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, Uttarakhand54. Chitkara University, Punjab67 IIM AmritsarPharmacy (list of 75)1. Jamia Hamdard, Delhi2. Panjab University, Chandigarh4. Indian Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, Mohali18. Punjabi University, Patiala, Punjab23. Lovely Professional University, Punjab27 Guru Jambeshwar University of Science and Technology29. ISF College of Pharmacy, Punjab31 Maharishi Dayanand University, Haryana34 Maharishi Markandeshwar, Haryana35. Chitkara University, Punjab36 Shoolini University of Biotechnology and Management Sciences, Himachal51. Chandigarh University, Punjab57. Amar Shaheed Baba Jujhar Singh Memorial College of Pharmacy, Punjab58. Kumaun University, Nainital, Uttarakhand63. Chandigarh College of Pharmacy Landaran, PunjabResearch (list of 50)1. Indian Institute of Science Karnataka7. IIT Roorkee Uttarakhand28. Panjab University, Chandigarh38 Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Punjab44. Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Mohali49 IIT Ropar, PunjabColleges (list of 100)1. Miranda House38 I.C. College of Home Science, Hisar78 Government Home Science College, ChandigarhEngineering (list of top 100 of 200)1. Indian Institute of Technology Madras, Tamil Nadu6. Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee, Uttarkahnd19. Indian Institute of Technology Ropar, Punjab23 Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology Patiala, Punjab41. Indian Institute of Technology Mandi, Himachal49 Dr. B. R. Ambedkar National Institute of Technology Jalandhar61 Chandigarh University66 Lovely Professional University, Punjab69 National Institute of Technology Srinagar, J&K70 unjab Engineering College (Deemed to be University), Chandigar79 Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University, J&K89 Panjab University97 The Northcap University, Gurugram Haryana99 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pgi-chandigarh-second-best-medical-college-after-delhis-aiims-says-ministry-of-educations-annual-ranking-308840
10-09-2021||---||Haryana minister Anil Vij says govt ready for impartial probe into ‘entire Karnal episode’ as farmers’ protest enters day 3||Karnal/Chandigarh, September 9Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Thursday said the government is ready for a probe into the "entire Karnal episode", including an IAS officer's controversial remarks and a police lathicharge on farmers that has triggered a sit-in outside the district headquarters.The minister made it clear that "nobody can be hanged without a probe just because someone demands it".Farmers have been protesting against a lathicharge on August 28 in which 10 people were injured when police used force to stop them from marching to the venue of a BJP event in Karnal. Their demands centre around the suspension of IAS officer Ayush Sinha, who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to "break heads" of farmers if they crossed the line during their demonstration last month.Also read: Farm stir: After Singhu & Tikri, now Karnal takes centre stageWheat MSP hiked by 2% amid Karnal standoff‘Meagre’ MSP hike will be of little assistance: Farm unionsSGPC to arrange langar at Karnal protest siteLathicharge on farmers in Karnal an inhuman act, says Bhupinder HoodaBarring BJP & its allies, Punjab farm unions call all-party meeting in Chandigarh tomorrowSinha was the former SDM of Karnal before being transferred as part of a larger bureaucratic reshuffle. Farm union leaders have maintained that transfer is not a punishment."We are ready for an impartial probe, but this will not only be related to (former Karnal) SDM (Ayush Sinha), but the entire Karnal episode. In this (probe), if farmers or their leaders are found guilty, then whatever action is deemed fit will be taken," Vij told reporters in Ambala.The minister, however, said, "Only genuine demands (of farmers protesting in Karnal) can be accepted.""We cannot hang anyone because someone says so...Is the country's IPC (Indian Penal Code) different from that of the farmers? It cannot be like this and punishment is always given as per the offence committed. To find out the offence, a probe has to be conducted," said Vij referring to their demand of suspending the IAS officer.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha had earlier said a murder case should be registered against Sinha over his alleged remarks to policemen.About the farmers protesting in Karnal, he said people had the right to hold a protest in a peaceful manner."Farmers are holding an agitation in Karnal which is their democratic right," said Vij, adding, "Our officials are regularly holding talks with them. Dialogue is an integral part of democracy.”Meanwhile, the Haryana government has extended the suspension of mobile Internet services in the district till Thursday midnight, an order issued by state Home Department said."Mobile Internet services in Karnal district will remain suspended from0 700 hours till 23:59 hours of September 9," said the order issued on Thursday.Another round of talks between district officials and farmers protesting over the police lathicharge had failed on Wednesday after which the protesters said they would continue their sit-in "indefinitely" at the district headquarters.Meanwhile, into the third day of the dharna, protesters are staying put at the gate of the mini-secretariat complex in Karnal, though farm union leaders have said officials and the public won’t be stopped from entering it. With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-minister-anil-vij-says-govt-ready-for-impartial-probe-into-entire-karnal-episode-as-farmers-protest-enters-day-3-308804
