13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Stir against farm laws ‘completely political’, nothing to do with farmers’ welfare: Haryana BJP chief||Haryana BJP chief OP Dhankar on Monday hit out at the farm leaders spearheading the ongoing agitation against the Centre’s agri laws and said the stir is “now completely political” and has nothing to do with farmers’ welfare.     Dhankar was speaking at a news conference here and gave details about the BJP’s 20-day “seva and samarpan” campaign comprising various welfare activities to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “two decades in public service”.The campaign will commence on Modi’s birthday on September 17.The BJP president said the farmers’ agitation has gone beyond its original agenda which was to seek improvements in the farm laws.“This agitation is now completely political; it has nothing to do with farmers’ welfare,” Dhankar said when asked about the protesters asserting that they will continue to oppose public functions of BJP leaders in the state.“This agitation has now gone beyond its agenda. These farm union leaders (who are part of the ongoing agitation) initially said they wanted some improvements in the three laws. But when that issue came up, they changed track and remained adamant on demand for repeal of these laws,” he said, adding the protesters were opposing the laws only for the sake of opposing them.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been agitating at Delhi’s borders for over nine months. They have been demanding the repeal of the laws which they are afraid will do away with the MSP system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations.Over 10 rounds of talks with the Central government that has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties.Dhankar, the former Haryana agriculture minister, asserted that the Central government has always kept its doors open for dialogue and continues to do so.“For the government, farmers’ interest is above all,” he said, adding the BJP-led government in Haryana too has taken several pro-farmer initiatives during the last nearly seven years.Taking a dig at the opposition Congress, he said some of their leaders have been attacking the Haryana government on the farmers issue in spite of several pro-farmer measures undertaken by the present dispensation, but they must ask their party-ruled regimes in neighbouring states what have they done in comparison.“Haryana gives the highest compensation for crop damage. We procure bajra at Rs 2,250 (per quintal), why don’t they ask their government in Rajasthan to procure at the same rate. For four years, sugarcane rates were not increased in Congress-ruled Punjab,” he claimed.While Haryana procures 10 crops at MSP, why does the Congress not ask its party-ruled neighbouring states to procure as many crops, he added.He also accused the Congress of putting the Swaminathan Commission report recommendations on the backburner for eight years when they were in power at the Centre.He further claimed farmers in Haryana were happy with the schemes of the present government and said “agitation by one or two organisations” cannot be called a stir by the entire farming community.Meanwhile, giving details of the “seva and samarpan” campaign, Dhankar said party workers will also urge people to get vaccinated against Covid and facilitate them.              The BJP workers, as part of the campaign, will also carry out a large-scale cleanliness drive on October 2, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and people will be encouraged to use Khadi and local products.As the prime minister will be turning 71, we will hold blood donation camps at 71 places in the state and 71,000 trees will be planted in cities and villages, Dhankar said. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stir-against-farm-laws-completely-political-nothing-to-do-with-farmers-welfare-haryana-bjp-chief-310594
13-09-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Foreign travellers can get second dose of Covisheild before 84 days as Haryana cuts mandatory gap||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 13The Haryana Government has reduced the mandatory 84-day gap between two doses of Covisheild for certain other category of persons travelling abroad.The Mission Director of the National Health Mission (NHM) on Monday directed the Civil Surgeons to extend such relaxation to the persons availing treatment for any health problem abroad and foreign nationals wising to return to their countries.“Such relaxation will also be available In any circumstances in which foreign travel may be unavoidable and the mandatory 84 days’ period after the first dose of vaccination has not elapsed,” the order of the NHM Managing Director said.This relaxation is already available to persons going for higher education, employment or official purposes and the participation in the recently-concluded Olympics.However, the individual concerned will be asked to produce a copy of the travel documents such as visa or confirmed tickets besides other documents justifying the urgency of the foreign visit.Meanwhile, the facility will be extended to all government Covid Vaccination Centres for the convenience of the citizens.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/foreign-travellers-can-get-second-dose-of-covisheild-before-84-days-as-haryana-cuts-mandatory-gap-310587
13-09-2021||New Delhi||Haryana BJP, INLD leaders, industrialist join Congress||Haryana-based industrialist Ashok Goel, former Haryana BJP leader Pawan Beniwal and INLD vice president Sardar Kanwarjit Singh on Monday joined the Congress in the presence of AICC incharge Vivek Bansal and state unit chief Kumari Selja.Introducing them, Selja said they had pledged to work for the propagation of Congress ideology and had decided to join the party unconditionally.“There are leaders who understand that the Congress is the only viable option to the BJP which has proved a failure in all spheres of governance, be it on the issue of farm laws, jobs, prices of essential commodities, or paper leaks. The BJP has become a paper leak government. After the JEE Main paper leak there are reports that NEET UG held on Sunday was also leaked,” Selja said.Beniwal, formerly with the INLD, had joined the BJP ahead of the 2014 state elections and contested unsuccessfully against INLD’s Abhay Chautala from Ellenabad in the 2019 state polls.The seat is vacant with bypolls due after Chautala resigned from the state Assembly in January this year in solidarity with the farmers protesting agriculture reform laws.Beniwal is likely to contest from the seat on a Congress ticket in the bypoll.Beniwal had quit the BJP in April protesting against farm laws.Haryana BJP leader Goel is an industralist who Selja said “could have spent a carefree life but decided to enter politics to serve the people”.Kanwarjit Singh is the son of former Congress MP Tara Singh, who was in the tenth Lok Sabha with Kumari Selja.Selja said Singh hails from Karnal, the epicentre of farm protests in Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-bjp-inld-leaders-industrialist-join-congress-310552
13-09-2021||New Delhi||Urge Centre to direct states to mandatorily use Pusa bio-decomposer for stubble management: Kejriwal||An audit by a central agency in Delhi has found the use of Pusa bio-decomposer, a microbial solution for stubble management, highly effective, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday, and urged the Centre to ask neighbouring states to distribute it for free among farmers.He said stubble burning in neighbouring states in October is a major factor behind the high level of air pollution in Delhi."The farmers are not at fault. Governments are at fault because they had to offer a solution," Kejriwal said.Last year, the Delhi government distributed the bio-decomposer free of cost which was used by farmers on 1,935 acres of land in 39 villages to convert stubble into manure, he said.A survey by a central government agency, WAPCOS, has come up with very encouraging results on the use of the bio-decomposer.Ninety per cent of the farmers claimed that the solution turned stubble into manure in 15-20 days. Also, the content of carbon in the soil increased by 40 per cent, nitrogen 24 per cent, bacteria seven times and fungi three times. Sprouting of wheat also increased by 17-20 per cent, the chief minister said."We appeal to the Centre to ask the states to distribute the bio-decomposer free of cost among farmers to stop them from burning stubble," he said.Kejriwal said he would call on the Union environment minister with the audit report and request his personal intervention in the matter. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/urge-centre-to-direct-states-to-mandatorily-use-pusa-bio-decomposer-for-stubble-management-kejriwal-310544
13-09-2021||---||8 injured as Haryana Roadways bus rams into stationary truck in Punjab's Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi, September 13Eight people were injured in a bus-truck collision near Dera Bassi on the Chandigarh-Delhi highway in the wee hours of Monday.The injured were rushed to the Dera Bassi hospital from where six patients with serious injuries were referred to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh. Two patients were discharged after the first aid, said Dera Bassi SMO Sangeeta Jain.Dera Bassi SHO Kamal Juneja said, ''The incident took place around 3.20 am when a Haryana Roadways bus of Gurugram depot rammed into a stationary truck on the highway. Police have impounded the vehicles and are investigating.''The left front side of the bus was badly damaged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/8-injured-as-haryana-roadways-bus-rams-into-stationary-truck-in-punjabs-dera-bassi-310521
13-09-2021||F lood-like situation on main roads and low-lying areas in Rohtak city on Saturday exposed the tall claims of the district administrative authorities of making elaborate arrangements for not letting rainwater accumulate in the city. The situation was so horrible that water was stagnant in many residential localities even in the HSVP sectors by the evening. Neither the officials nor public representatives of this area are bothered about people’s plight. Deepak Rathi||Flood-like situation on Rohtak roads, low-lying areas||Poor maintenance of sewerage in YamunanagarI wish to bring to the notice of the authorities concerned the condition of blocked sewerage and overflow of sewage in front of my clinic. Moreover, with lot of rainwater also getting collected, there is increased chance of mosquito and other diseases like dengue spreading in the area. Even with the presence of departments of the Municipal Corporation on the first floor, there is no change in the ground situation. Weekly cleaning and maintenance of sewerage is required. Kindly look into the matter as it is important and urgent.Dr Tajinder Pal Singh, YamunanagarArea adjoining Sector 9 of Ambala City in pathetic conditionThis muck seen here has been created by vegetables and fruits sellers, hawkers and retailers who have illegally encroached on the roadside corners. This area is in front of Sector 9 alongside the road leading to Inco Chowk and Model Town. The Municipal Corporation, Ambala City, has a contingent of cleaners and supervisory staff, despite that everything goes unnoticed. What is the rationality in allowing the encroachment here who are causing nuisance. I hope the administration will look into the issue seriously and get the garbage cleared and remove the encroachment.Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/flood-like-situation-on-rohtak-roads-low-lying-areas-310497
13-09-2021||Faridabad||Haryana Diary: Politics over demolition of farmhouses||‘Shaheedi Diwas’ event a show of strengthRewari: The Shaheedi Diwas samaroh to be organised in Jhajjar’s Patauda village on September 23 on the martyrdom of Rao Tularam is being seen as a ‘show of strength’ by Union Minister Rao Inderjit. People of his stronghold (Ahirwal) have keenly been awaiting Rao’s next political move since newly Union Minister Bhupinder Yadav got a rousing welcome in Gurugram, Rewari and Mahendragarh, especially by Rao’s opponents within the BJP.Quota system: BJP leader vs Rajya Sabha MPHisar: A BJP leader from Hisar and convener of the OBC Arakshan Bachao Sangharsh Samiti, Prajapati Hanuman Varma, has lashed out at party’s Rajya Sabha MP Ramchander Jangra. Varma claimed that Jangra’s remarks on the existing reservation policy exposed his anti-reservation stand. “If he has any problem with the quota policy, he should announce on a public platform that his family will never avail the benefit of the OBC quota,” Varma stated.MC, elected representatives on warpathGurugram: The cold war between the MC employees and elected public representatives in Gurugram is flaring up with each passing day. While it was the officials who ruled the roost for long, the visit of the Home and Urban Local Bodies minister almost two months ago changed the power equation. With Anil Vij openly seeking more power respect and say to public representatives and eventual suspension of an SE during his last visit, there is a storm raking up.BJP leaders heave a sigh of reliefYamunanagar: BJP leaders and workers heaved a sigh of relief after a programme held at the party’s district office in Jagadhri on Saturday ended peacefully. By the time farmers got information about the programme, BJP leaders and workers had left the venue. Farmers have been opposing BJP’s programmes in Haryana for several months now to press for their demand of repealing the three farm laws.Lathicharge episode fuel to farmers’ stirKarnal: ‘Lathicharge’ on farmers by cops at Bastara toll plaza on August 28 gave fuel to farmers’ agitation. A large number of farmers across Haryana, Punjab, UP and Rajasthan gathered in Karnal to protest the lathicharge. During the agitation, the main gate of the mini secretariat was kept closed for the general public, due to which the number of people visiting the key offices remained low.Contributed by: Bijendra Ahlawat, Ravinder Saini, Deepender Deswal, Sumedha Sharma, Shiv Kumar Sharma and Parveen Arora||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-diary-politics-over-demolition-of-farmhouses-310496
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Five new Covid cases, no death in Haryana||No death due to Covid was recorded in the state on Sunday, while five new cases were reported. According to the Health Department’s bulletin, the toll stands at 9,686. Of the new cases, three were reported from Gurugram, while one each was from Karnal and Yamunanagar districts. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-new-covid-cases-no-death-in-haryana-310495
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya greets war veteran on birthday||Governor Bandaru Dattatreya greeted Maj Bahal Singh Yadav (retd) on his 100th birthday. Dattatraya called up Major Yadav, who is based in Faridabad, to convey birthday wishes to him. Major Yadav was wounded on duty in the 1965 war. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-governor-bandaru-dattatreya-greets-war-veteran-on-birthday-310494
13-09-2021||Hisar||Hisar: Father, uncle booked for rape||A 24-year-old woman has lodged a complaint against her father and uncle for sexually abusing her when she was 16. The police have registered a zero FIR against the victim’s uncle and father. The case has been referred to the Karnal police as the victim is settled in Karnal. In her complaint, the victim said she was 16 when her uncle raped her. A few days later, her father raped her. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-father-uncle-booked-for-rape-310493
13-09-2021||Karnal||20-year-old Kaithal village woman ends life after being ‘stalked’||A 20-year-old woman allegedly died by suicide by consuming poison after she was harassed and stalked by a neighbour at Ahun village in Kaithal district on Saturday. The police have registered a case on the complaint of the victim's father against accused Chetan Kumar, who runs a sweet shop opposite the house of the victim, for abetment to suicide. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/20-year-old-kaithal-village-woman-ends-life-after-being-stalked-310492
13-09-2021||---||Yamunanagar-Jagadhri MC removes illegal hoardings||Yamunanagar, September 12The Municipal Corporation Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ) on Friday started a drive to remove illegal hoardings, banners and other publicity material at public spaces.A team of MCYJ removed illegal hoardings and publicity material from Jagadhri’s Railway road, Ambala road, Jagadhri-Ponta Sahib road and several other roads.The team comprised Chief Sanitary Inspector Harjeet Singh, sanitary inspectors Amit Kamboj, Pradeep Dahiya and assistant sanitary inspector Sachin Kamboj.“I have issued instructions to remove all illegal hoardings and other publicity material from the MC area,” said Ajay Singh Tomar, Municipal Commissioner, MCYJ.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-jagadhri-mc-removes-illegal-hoardings-310491
13-09-2021||Karnal||Aged couple held captive at home in Karnal, robbed||An elderly couple was held captive inside their house and allegedly robbed by five masked miscreants at knifepoint in Sector 9 here on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday.The incident took place around 1 am, when SK Soni and his wife Kamal Soni were sleeping. The miscreants entered the house by breaking open the lock of the main door.They attacked the couple as they refused to give the cupboard key. The woman suffered injuries as she refused to give her earrings, but the miscreants forcibly took them by cutting her ears.The miscreants remained in the house for around two hours and fled with around Rs 50,000, jewellery and two mobile phones. The movement of the miscreants has been captured in the CCTV cameras installed near the house.SP Ganga Ram Punia said the police were making efforts to arrest the miscreants. “We have taken the CCTV footage,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aged-couple-held-captive-at-home-in-karnal-robbed-310490
13-09-2021||Karnal||Pregnant woman dies, kin blame hospital for ‘lapse’||A 24-year-old pregnant woman, Reena, of Phoosgarh village in the district died during delivery at the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) on Saturday.Alleging negligence on the part of the doctors, the family on Sunday protested outside the hospital. It refused to give the body for the post-mortem examination and placed the body on the road outside.The KCGMC authorities marked an inquiry by a board of three professors.DSP Mukesh Kumar pacified the family members and relatives of the victim. After around two hours of protest, they handed over the body for the post-mortem examination. They were also assured of a video recording of the post-mortem process in the presence of the family.Dr Jagdish Dureja, Director, KCGMC, denied the allegations. “Reena came here in a critical condition and doctors tried to save her and the baby, but could not save her,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pregnant-woman-dies-kin-blame-hospital-for-lapse-310489
13-09-2021||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar youth killed; nine booked||A 21-year-old youth was allegedly murdered here following an old rivalry. The deceased has been identity as Surya Pandit of New Hamida Colony.On the complaint of deceased’s brother Shivali Sharma, a case was registered against nine persons under Section 302 of the IPC on Saturday.Shivali said that on the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi, they organised a programme every year. He said he and his brothers Surya and Krishna were showing the site to a tent owner, where a pandal was to be erected near Guru Gobind Singh Educational Institute at 11.30 pm on Friday.He said about 15-20 bike-borne armed persons came there and attacked Surya.“We rushed Surya to the Civil Hospital, from where he was referred to the PGIMER, Chandigarh. He died during the treatment on Saturday,” Shivali added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-youth-killed-nine-booked-310488
13-09-2021||Yamunanagar||HCS, allied services exam held at 43 centres in Yamunanagar||The Haryana Public Service Commission on Sunday held preliminary examinations for the post of Haryana Civil Services (HCS-civil) and allied services at 43 exam centres in Yamunanagar district.Chief Executive Officer of Zila Parishad, Naveen Ahuja, who is also the nodal officer of the examination, said that the 43 exam centres were set up for 12,485 candidates in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hcs-allied-services-exam-held-at-43-centres-in-yamunanagar-310487
13-09-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||12% rise in deaths in Faridabad road mishaps||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, September 12The number of accidents and deaths has been on the rise in the district this year.An increase of 12.61 per cent has been recorded in the number of deaths in road mishaps till August this year in comparison to the corresponding period last year.According to the Traffic Police Department, a total of 125 deaths and 267 injuries surfaced in the district against 111 deaths and 251 injuries in the corresponding period last year.According to officials in the department, the number of accidents recorded till August this year is 303 as against 288 last year. There is an increase of around 5.21 per cent.The percentage in the rise in the number of injuries in road mishaps has also surged by 6.37 per cent in this period. Around 267 persons got injured in this period in comparison to 251 last year.Though the traffic police has identified several dark spots in the city, it is observed that the number of accidents on roads, other than NH-19 passing through the city, have been a cause of concern as 232 out of the total 303 accidents till August this year took place on city roads, resulting in the death of 95 persons.Similarly, a total of 76 commuters lost their lives on internal roads in the corresponding period last year.Attributing the increase in accidents to easing of lockdown restrictions and normalised movement of people on roads, accompanied with rampant violation of traffic rules, SK Sharma, district coordinator of Road Safety Organisation (RSO), an NGO working in this field, claimed that the authorities needed to work on several points in order to keep a tab on the problem.Seeking immediate repairs of damaged patches and ensuring working of street lights, he said lack of active monitoring of traffic resulted in the violation of rules and accidents.Suresh Kumar, DCP (Traffic), said: “Measures are being taken to bring down the number of accidents. Cops have been posted at all sensitive points. Legal action against offenders is also being speeded up.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-rise-in-deaths-in-faridabad-road-mishaps-310486
13-09-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Over 350 employees of Mewat model schools unpaid for 5 mths||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 12The tug-of-war between the Education Department and the Mewat Development Agency (MDA) over the control of seven model schools in the educationally-backward region has affected over 350 teaching and non-teaching employees as they are yet to get their salaries for the past five months.With the Education Department apparently failing to disburse the grant for the payment of the salaries to the staff, resentment is brewing among them. Meanwhile, the Mewat Model Schools Employees’ Welfare Association, in a representation to the Nuh DC, who is also the vice-chairman of the Mewat Model Schools Society, rued that due to economic distress as a result of the delay in disbursement of salaries, the staff were forced to default on the payment of loan EMIs.During a meeting of the MDA earlier this year, it was decided that the model schools, which are currently being run by the agency, will be taken over by the Education Department from financial year 2021-22. It was also decided that the MDA will provide budgetary support to the schools till March 21, 2021, and thereafter the Education Department will make budgetary provisions for running the schools. “Despite the promised budgetary support, the Education Department has failed to disburse the grant for the payment of salaries to the teaching and non-teaching staff, leaving them under financial stress,” Subhash Lamba, president of the Sarv Karamchari Sangh, said threatening to launch agitation on the issue. Alleging step-motherly treatment with the Mewat region by the BJP-JJP government, Nuh MLA and Deputy Leader of the Congress Legislature Party Aftab Ahmed asserted that delay in the payment of salaries to the teaching and non-teaching staff for five months was inhuman, especially during the forthcoming festive season.Confusion over management control||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-350-employees-of-mewat-model-schools-unpaid-for-5-mths-310485
13-09-2021||---||SAI honours Paralympic archer Harvinder Singh in Sonepat||Sonepat, September 12Para-archer Harvinder Singh, who won the bronze medal in the recurve category at the Tokyo Paralympics recently, was felicitated at the Northern Regional Centre (NRC) of the Sports Authority of India (SAI) in Sonepat.Felicitating Harvinder during a programme at the NRC, Lalita Sharma, SAI Regional Director, said it was a great moment for us as the first Paralympic medal in archery came from this centre.She said a high-performance centre for archery was being developed and the work on it would start soon. The approximate cost of the project is Rs 5 crore.Harvinder was a part of the Para-Archery National Coaching Camp being conducted at the NRC, Sonepat, since October 2020.Amid Covid, SAI took measures to continue the training of the para-archers in the national camp so as to ensure that their preparations for the Olympics and Paralympics were not hampered, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sai-honours-paralympic-archer-harvinder-singh-in-sonepat-310484
13-09-2021||Ravinder Saini||Rs 5.6 cr for renovating monuments||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, September 12The Department of Archaeology and Museums has sanctioned a budget of Rs 5.66 crore for renovating historical monuments — Chhatta Rai Bal Mukund Dass and Mirza Ali Ki Bawdi — in Narnaul town.More than three months ago, the district administration had sent a proposal to the department in this regard.“The renovation of the monuments will not only give impetus to the tourism sector in the district, but will also connect tourists with the architectural excellence of the structures. The arrival of tourists in the district will boost the business prospects of the region, which has been hit hard by Covid,” said Anil Kaushik, a local resident and heritage lover in Narnaul.He maintained that “negligent” attitude of the previous governments resulted in the dilapidated condition of the two historical memorials. “The present government has paid attention towards the poor conditions of the monuments and initiated a move to renovate them,” said Kaushik.Deputy Commissioner Ajay Kumar said the state government vowed to preserve all monuments and heritage sites so that the young generation could learn about the glorious past of the region.“We will soon float tenders for the renovation. The original aesthetic and natural look of both monuments will be preserved by using marble, teakwood, natural colours and coloured stones,” the DC said, adding a district-level committee which was formed to suggest ways to conserve heritage sites was on the job and was taking stock of other monuments in the district.Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Om Prakash Yadav, who is the MLA from Narnaul, said: “The government has sanctioned Rs 3.59 crore for Birbal ka Chattar and Rs 2.07 crore for Mirza Ali Ki Bawdi. It will be ensured that the renovation starts at the earliest.”Chhatta of Birbal gets Rs3.59 croreTakht Baoli: Rs2 cr||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-5-6-cr-for-renovating-monuments-310483
13-09-2021||---||3 years on, Rs 200-cr water project at Palwal only 30% complete||palwal, September 12With less than 30 per cent work completed in the past three years, the ambitious water and sewerage project scheme, AMRUT Yojana, costing around Rs 200 crore is marked with sluggish progress.Aimed at providing upgraded water and sewage facilities within the civic limits, the project had been launched in August 2018. The deadline for the augmentation of the scheme was March 2020.“Though three years have passed, the work appears to be only in its primary stage. The contractor is yet to complete the basic civil works (process of digging up and laying the pipeline),” said an official, adding that the sewerage work had been 13 per cent completed while the work related to water pipeline had been only 30 per cent done.Though the deadline of the project has been extended to March 2022, sources claim that the project is unlikely to be completed by December next year.Claiming that the agency involved in the project has been replaced, a senior official of the Municipal Council said the work on the project was affected adversely by the pandemic and would be sped up to get it completed as soon as possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-years-on-rs-200-cr-water-project-at-palwal-only-30-complete-310482
13-09-2021||Ravinder Saini||39 specially abled teachers under lens in Haryana over eligibility papers||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 12Documents submitted by 39 candidates selected under disability quota over 18 years ago for the posts of master/mistress in government schools have come under the scanner.The Directorate of Elementary Education has asked the District Elementary Education Officers (DEEOs) to submit disability certificate, academic documents and domicile of the teachers at its Disciplinary and Leave Branch in Panchkula by Monday noon.The candidates had attached the documents with their job application form while applying for the post. Among them, 13 are posted at government schools in Bhiwani, six in Hisar, five in Mahendragarh, four each in Faridabad and Panipat, two each in Kaithal and Sonepat and one each in Rohtak, Jhajjar and Sirsa district. Some of them had already retired, said sources.An official said the appointments were made in 2003 under a special recruitment drive for persons with disabilities. “The documents of the selected candidates were verified then too. But someone later filed a complaint raising doubts over their disability and the certificates submitted by some of the selected candidates,” said the official.Mahendragarh DEEO Vijender Singh told The Tribune that one of the five teachers posted in the district had retired. “The documents had been sent to the head office. The eligibility certificates may have been sought in connection with some inquiry,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/39-specially-abled-teachers-under-lens-in-haryana-over-eligibility-papers-310481
13-09-2021||Nitish Sharma||BKU's new strategy: Kurukshetra villages to be assigned days of protest||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, September 12The district unit of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) has decided to form groups of villages at the block level. They will be directed to keep tabs on the movement of BJP and JJP leaders, their events and hold protests at the venue of functions.The strategy has been chalked out in view of the upcoming paddy harvesting season.Also read: Crowds at Singhu, Tikri thinning as protesting farmers head home ahead of harvesting seasonKarnal victory shot in arm for morcha: BKUDistrict BKU (Charuni) chief Krishan Kumar said, “The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) has given a protest call against BJP and JJP leaders, but they continue to hold events and meetings, trying to instigate the farmers.”He further said, “The paddy harvesting season is about to begin. Farmers will get busy, but farm organisations will ensure that BJP-JJP leaders do not hold any event during the harvesting season. The BKU will form groups of selected villages where it wields influence. Each group will be assigned a day for holding protests if there is a political event by BJP and JJP leaders. The groups of other blocks will also help the protesting group and, if required, senior leaders will also be called.”For instance, if there is an event in Ladwa block on Monday, the group of selected villages of that block will protest that day. In show of strength, the groups of the remaining blocks such as Shahabad, Pehowa and Pipli will also reach the protest site.Kumar also said the new strategy would allow farmers harvest the produce and help the union in preparing more activists and leaders. “Soon a district-level meeting will be convened to form groups and they will be assigned days of protest.”Some BKU leaders assembled at a resort here today when they learnt that a BJP event was scheduled there. However, no BJP leader turned up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bkus-new-strategy-kurukshetra-villages-to-be-assigned-days-of-protest-310480
13-09-2021||Manjit S. Kang||Crop residue management: Innovative solutions can douse farm fires||The problem of burning of crop residue (stubble) following combine harvesting of paddy in Punjab and Haryana has been around for more than 50 years. The main causes of stubble burning are the narrow window for sowing wheat after harvesting paddy; labour shortage; much stubble left behind by the combines; and the high cost of removing/transporting stubble.Editorial: Checking stubble burning: Curb the menace to reduce pollutionAlso read: Incentivise alternative technologies, raise awarenessIn-situ mgmt, mulching effective for managing paddy strawAs estimated by the International Rice Research Institute, each kg of milled rice generates 0.7 to 1.4 kg of rice straw, depending upon the variety of rice, cutting height, and moisture content at the time of harvesting.Pusa DecomposerThe Union government has taken steps for creating awareness about Pusa Decomposer, the new low-cost capsule which can convert paddy stubble into bio-manureWhile wheat straw can be fed to cattle, paddy straw contains a high amount of silica, which makes it less palatable to livestock and less digestible. In addition, it wears out components (e.g., conveyers and grinders) of the processing machines.A four-capsule packet of of Pusa Decomposer costs Rs20, from which 25 litres of solution can be prepared to treat about one hectare of land. The cost/acre is merely Rs8. A microbial solution is sprayed on the stubble, converting it into manure within about 25 days.Stubble burning causes emissions that worsen air pollution. Some of the emitted gases are also responsible for global warming and climate change, which are expected to impact all aspects of agriculture, food security and rural livelihoods.According to the Hyderabad-based International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), Punjab’s farmers lose Rs 133 crore worth of urea and Rs 220-260 crore worth of all nutrients in burning crop residue. Stubble burning also kills essential soil organisms and farm-friendly insects.As Albert Einstein put it, “We cannot solve our problems with the same thinking we used when we created them.” It must be recognised that a practice that has been going on for over 50 years cannot be stopped at once. Farmers need economically viable solutions. Farmers should have the choice to adopt a solution that best suits them.Incorporating paddy stubble into the soil: The chief principle of sustainable agriculture is to return to the soil what has been taken out of it. A sustainable agricultural system is one that produces abundant food without depleting the earth’s resources and without polluting the environment. Thus, it is best if crop stubble is incorporated into the soil. This would enhance soil health and curtail air pollution.Earlier, PAU and ICRISAT developed a method that produced compost from crop stubble in about 45 days. That compost contained about 2% nitrogen, 1.5% phosphorus, and 1.5% potassium, which could increase crop production by 4 to 9%. This method required much labour.The most recent and most promising method, Pusa Decomposer, has been developed by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) to decompose paddy stubble in the field itself.The IARI has partnered with two outfits: a company called nurture.farm, whose mission is “Making agriculture profitable and environmentally sustainable today and in the future”, and IIM-Rohtak. The company has enrolled 25,000 farmers from Punjab and Haryana and plans to cover five lakh acres of farmland this year. Reduce area under paddycultivation: Noted rice expert Dr GS Khush has suggested that area under paddy could be reduced from 27 lakh hectares to 15 lakh hectares in Punjab. This could be a doubly beneficial — helping with crop diversification and saving groundwater. Farmers can choose shorter-duration varieties of paddy, giving themselves more time for planting wheat.Biofuel production: As done in countries such as China, the Philippines, Malaysia and Japan, crop stubble could be used to produce bioenergy. Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA) has listed on its website some energy development projects from paddy straw. They have indicated that several biomass power projects (total capacity of 97.5 MW) have already been commissioned and are operational in Punjab, utilising 8.8 lakh metric tonnes of paddy straw annually.In January 2021, a paddy straw briquetting plant was inaugurated at Kulburchan village (Patiala), which has a per-day capacity of 100 tonnes. The Punjab State Council for Science and Technology was instrumental in setting up this plant.Straw management systems: The Punjab Government provides 50% subsidy to individual farmers and 80% to cooperatives or groups of farmers for the purchase of machines such as Happy Seeder. The government has already provided close to one lakh machines on a subsidy of about Rs 1,000 crore. The much-improved Happy Seeder allows farmers to plant wheat directly in the standing paddy stubble. When, in the not-too-distant future, Pusa Decomposer becomes available on a large scale, the paddy stubble could be turned into useful manure in a short time.Build cheap houses from paddy stubble: I chaired a workshop on ‘Innovations in Paddy Straw Management’ in Chandigarh in December 2018. Harsharan ‘Dhido’ Gill demonstrated how to build a room from paddy straw. He stated that, based on substantial research, houses built from paddy straw were being promoted in the US and Europe. Such houses cost much less than traditional houses and saved electricity, as these houses stayed warm in the winter and cool in the summer.The author is former Vice-Chancellor, PAU, Ludhiana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/crop-residue-management-innovative-solutions-can-douse-farm-fires-310450
13-09-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Crowds at Singhu, Tikri thinning as protesting farmers head home ahead of harvesting season||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, September 12With a large number of Punjab and Haryana farmers returning to their villages to check their paddy crop before harvesting, crowds have been thinning fast at the protest sites on the Delhi border.Also read:Days after Samyukt Kisan Morcha meet, Navjot Singh Sidhu wants FIRs droppedMorcha diktat on party events win-win for Capt Amarinder SinghFarmers gherao BJP office in JalandharKarnal victory shot in arm for morcha: BKUIntelligence sources said the numbers at Singhu and Tikri, the epicentre of protests against the farm laws on the Haryana-Delhi border, had fallen considerably over the past few days. The leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 32 farm unions spearheading the protest, however, called it a temporary decline. “The farmers have gone home to take care of their paddy crop. They will start returning in a week,” claimed Harinder Singh Lakhowal, BKU (Lakhowal) general secretary.SKM leader Yogendra Yadav too called it an agriculture-based phenomenon. “They will be back soon. Moreover, our focus is on making the September 27 Bharat Bandh successful and streamlining campaign for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly poll,” maintained Yadav. Another union leader said nonetheless, they would plan a fresh strategy to revitalise the agitation, which will complete 10 months later this month.Sources said besides paddy, the thinning crowds could be attributed to “non-availability” of senior leaders at the protest sites. The veterans, the sources said, remained occupied with Muzaffarnagar ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ and the Karnal sit-in over the past fortnight while others were busy planning a strategy for the Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand Assembly elections.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders last week asked the top politicians of various parties in Punjab to defer their political functions till the Assembly elections were announced so as to retain crowds at the protest sites. Besides, the morcha has asked its top leaders to convince more farmers to move to the Delhi border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/crowds-at-singhu-tikri-thinning-as-protesting-farmers-head-home-ahead-of-harvesting-season-310337
13-09-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib. September 12||Karnal victory shot in arm for morcha: BKU||Senior SKM leader and BKU (Ekta Sidhupur) president Jagjit Singh Dalewal today formed a youth wing of his union to ensure participation of youths in the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the central agriculture laws. He also announced the formation of a women’s wing shortly.Also read: Crowds at Singhu, Tikri thinning as protesting farmers head home ahead of harvesting seasonMorcha diktat on party events win-win for Capt Amarinder SinghFarmers gherao BJP office in JalandharAddressing the mediapersons, he said the success of the farmers’ struggle in Karnal had boosted their morale and encouraged them to continue protesting the laws. He said the SKM had been exercising maximum restraint, but BJP leaders were constantly provoking them. He said farmers would ensure no BJP candidate won in the Punjab elections. — OCSidhana leads convoy to SinghuHundreds of vehicles led by gangster-turned-social activist Lakha Sidhana on Sunday left from Fatehgarh Sahib for the Singhu border to join the farmers’ stir. Lakha said he along with his supporters would fully support the SKM’s September 27 Bharat bandh call.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-victory-shot-in-arm-for-morcha-bku-310217
