17-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||SC Collegium clears Justice Rajesh Bindal’s name for elevation as Chief Justice of Allahabad HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 17The Supreme Court Collegium has cleared the name of Justice Rajesh Bindal for elevation as the Chief Justice of the Allahabad High Court — one of the oldest high courts to be established in India. Justice Bindal is the senior-most Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and is currently the Acting Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court.Also read: SC Collegium recommends 8 names for appointment as High Court Chief JusticesAmong other important cases, Justice Bindal had headed the five-Judge Bench that delivered verdict on the Kolkata post-poll violence. Justice Bindal was Acting Chief Justice of the Jammu & Kashmir High Court prior to this.Justice Bindal was recently appointed as Chairperson of a committee constituted by the Supreme Court’s e-committee to formulate modern electronic registers for use by the district judiciary across the country. The effort is to replace all manual registers or paper records.As Chairman of a committee constituted by National Legal Services Authority (NALSA), Justice Bindal has already submitted a report on optimal use of technology, including use of Artificial Intelligence (AI). Known for his proficiency in brining justice closer to people through computerisation, Justice Bindal was instrumental in launching a unique project, in which the post offices in Jammu and Kashmir help in delivering justice. The project uses the pre-existent postal system in 11 districts to allow citizens to register their disputes through the local post offices as well as common service centres.Justice Bindal was elevated as a Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on March 22, 2006, and remained Chairman of a committee for framing draft rules for electronic evidence. The report was submitted to the Supreme Court in November 2018. As Chairman of a multi-member committee, constituted by the Union Ministry of Women and Child Development, to study civil aspects of International Child Abduction Bill-2016, Justice Bindal submitted report accompanied by the recommendations and draft of the Protection of Children (Inter-Country Removal and Retention) Bill-2018 to the Ministry in April 2018.Before his transfer to the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir in November 2018, he disposed of around 80,000 cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-collegium-clears-justice-rajesh-bindals-name-for-elevation-as-chief-justice-of-allahabad-hc-312559
17-09-2021||---||SAD protest: Huge traffic jam on Gurugram-Delhi border blocks expressway||Gurugram, September 17 A massive traffic jam was reported at Gurugram-Delhi border that has blocked the entire expressway. Checking is underway at the border since Thursday night using barricades due to the SAD protest march to the capital today.People have been asked to avoid the route. The Delhi Traffic Police said that there will be heavy traffic on Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Road, Ashoka Road and Baba Kharak Singh Marg due to the protest.Vehicles carrying more than two people are being stopped on both Gurugram and Delhi sides, and in many cases, cars have been asked to park there on suspicion.  "This border is already a nightmare and today’s traffic has worsened it. I have been waiting for 20 minutes and maps show it will take over an hour to reach Dhaula Kuan.  The Gurugram police are still letting us pass, but the Delhi Police are unnecessarily harassing us,” said Rahul Yadav who was headed to CP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sad-protest-huge-traffic-jam-on-gurugram-delhi-border-blocks-expressway-312515
17-09-2021||---||29 govt depts owe Rs 150 cr to Karnal Municipal Corporation||Karnal, September 16Battling financial crunch, the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) has started the process of recovering property tax from departments of the Union and state governments.September 25 deadline for state deptsOn the demand of the government departments, we have redone the survey of their properties. I had an interaction with officials of various departments of the state government, in which the deadline of September 25 has been given for the assessment of their property dues. Dr Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, KMC17 from state; 12 centreThe KMC has to recover Rs 250 crore from various ‘defaulters’, of them, 29 departments are defaulters of nearly Rs 150 crore. As many as 17 departments of the state government has an outstanding amount of Rs 51.17 crore, while 12 departments of the Union Government are defaulters of over Rs 98 crore.The KMC has given a deadline of September 25 to the state government departments to assess their dues and thereafter, take approval from their departments to deposit the pending amount. The KMC Commissioner also had an interaction with officials of these departments on Wednesday. Earlier, he had an interaction with the heads of the Central Government departments, asking them to start the process of depositing the dues.“On the demand of the government departments, we have redone the survey of their properties. I had an interaction with officials of various departments of the state government, in which the deadline of September 25 has been given for the assessment of their property dues,” said Dr Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, KMC.A sum of Rs 29.63 crore is pending with Haryana Armed Police, Madhuban, Rs 3.36 crore with UHBVN, Rs 10.77 crore with Haryana Agriculture University Regional Station, Uchani, Rs 22.97 lakh with Agriculture Department, Rs 5.35 lakh with BDPO office, Rs 49.62 lakh with Public Health and Engineering Department, Rs 2.29 crore with PWD (B&R), Rs 4.88 lakh with RTO office Transport Department, Rs 7.85 lakh of Animal Husbandry Department, Rs 76.75 lakh of SP Office, Rs 40.79 lakh of Fisheries Department, Rs 90.97 lakh with Sports Department, Rs 5.69 lakh with Hafed, Rs 1.60 crore with Tourism Department, Rs 15 lakh with Civil Hospital, Rs 37 with Bal Bhawan and others, the Commissioner said.The NDRI, IIWBR, CSSRI, NBAGR, IARI Regional Station and Sugarcane Breeding Institute are among the defaulting departments of the Union Government, said the Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/29-govt-depts-owe-rs-150-cr-to-karnal-municipal-corporation-312255
17-09-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Stray cattle hinder traffic in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 16Residents of Rohtak as well as commuters passing through the city face inconvenience as stray cattle occupy the busy roads, including national highways.Hordes of cattle can be seen roaming and resting on the roads round the clock, which not only hinders the movement of vehicular traffic, but also poses the risk of road accidents.Several mishaps have been caused due to the stray cattle occupying city roads in the recent past, especially during the night hours.“Stray cattle have become a big nuisance for the residents. They add to the woes of commuters who are already grappling with damaged, potholed and waterlogged roads,” says Mahavir Singh, a resident.Bimla Devi, a retired teacher, points out that the stray cattle often cause road mishaps, in which people get injured or even killed.“The authorities concerned should take effective steps to tackle the stray cattle menace and provide some relief to residents,” she maintains.Contacted for his comments, the Rohtak Municipal Commissioner, Dr Narhari Singh Banger, asserted that their teams have been catching and rehabilitating stray cattle, but their number keeps on increasing.“Owners/managers of certain gaushalas/dairies often abandon cows which have been rendered useless for them. Cattle also come to the city from nearby towns and villages quite frequently,” he points out, adding that they have sought an additional vehicle to catch stray cattle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stray-cattle-hinder-traffic-in-karnal-312256
17-09-2021||Nitish Sharma
||Old banyan tree at Jyotisar Tirtha to be Kurukshetra mascot||Tribune News Service Kurukshetra, September 16  The banyan tree at Jyotisar Tirtha — which is believed to be an offshoot of the one under which Lord Krishna delivered the sermon of ‘Gita’ to Pandava prince Arjuna during the Mahabharata — will be now be promoted and used as a mascot or “brand ambassador” for Kurukshetra.  The Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB) has planned to get the saplings of the tree ready to get these planted at all major ‘tirthas’ across the country. The KDB has handed over seeds of the tree to the state Forest Department so that some saplings could be prepared. An official of the Forest Department said, “We have got the seeds of the banyan tree and the germination of the seeds is being checked. If the germination percentage is good, then the saplings will be ready by next year. In case the germination percentage is not good, then other methods of propagation will be used. After preparing the saplings, the department will hand over the saplings to the KDB for further distribution. We have also contacted the Forest Research Institute (FRI), Dehradun, to determine the age of the tree. While the project will help the KDB in promoting Kurukshetra, it will help the department in increasing forest cover.” Meanwhile, Green Earth, an NGO that has been seeking the status of national cultural heritage for the tree for several years has welcomed the KDB’s move.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/old-banyan-tree-at-jyotisar-tirtha-to-be-kurukshetra-mascot-312257
17-09-2021||---||2 die as trucks collide||Yamunanagar, September 16Two brothers died today when a truck collided with the truck they were travelling in. The truck was parked on the side of the road near Aurangabad village in Yamunanagar.The deceased have been identified as Gaurav and Rahul, residents of Sugh Majri village, Yamunanagar.The complainant, Vijay Sharma, the truck driver in whose vehicle the brothers were in, said Gaurav was his conductor and his brother was also travelling with them.In his complaint, Vijay said he had got down from the truck to check the tyres and was standing on the roadside when a truck coming from the Yamunanagar side collided with his truck.A case was registered against an unknown truck driver under Sections 279 and 304A of the IPC at Sadar police station, Yamunanagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-die-as-trucks-collide-312258
17-09-2021||Hisar||HAU entrance exams results||Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture university declared the results of the entrance examination conducted by the university for the admission in BSc agriculture, MSc agriculture and MSc home science courses today. The registrar of the university, Dr SK Mehta, said Astha, a girl from Hansi, topped the BSc agriculture while Sangeeta of Urban Estate, Hisar topped in MSc home science. Gunjan Sharma of Panipat has bagged the top position in MSc agriculture. The entrance examination was conducted on September 4. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hau-entrance-exams-results-312259
17-09-2021||---||Farmers show black flags to Sukhbir Badal in Hisar over Moga incident||Hisar, September 16Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president and former Deputy Chief Minister of Punjab Sukhbir Singh Badal faced protest by farmers at the Mayyar toll plaza in Hisar district on Thursday.The farmers identified his cavalcade and briefly blocked the toll plaza to show black flags when Sukhbir was on the way to Delhi from Punjab.SAD BACKED AGRI BILLSThe SAD had earlier backed the Agriculture Bills. Later, its MPs quit the Modi Cabinet and walked out of the NDA in protest against these Bills apparently under farmers’ pressure. — Kuldeep Kharar, Farmer LeaderThe protesting farmers said that the double standards of the SAD leader over the ongoing farmers’ agitation had been exposed as the party had supported the BJP in Parliament when the three agriculture Bills were introduced in the House.Now, the farmers were lathicharged in Moga when they were staging demonstration during a public meeting of Sukhbir Badal on September 2.A group of farmers sitting on dharna at the toll plaza in Mayyar village on NH-9, about 10 km from Hisar town, spotted Sukhbir’s cavalcade today.The protesting farmers, including women, briefly blocked the toll passage and stood along both sides of the passage for vehicles carrying black flags in their hands. They raised anti-SAD slogans demanding scrapping of three agriculture laws.The local police assisted the security personnel escorting the SAD leader and placated the protesters to give way to the cavalcade.Farmers leader Kuldeep Kharar said that Sukhbir should express regret over the lathicharge on farmers at Moga as five farmers had been hurt in the police action.“The SAD had earlier supported the Agriculture Bills. Later, its MPs resigned from the Modi Cabinet and walked out of the NDA in protest against these Bills apparently under farmers’ pressure,” Kharar said.“We will continue to stage protest against him until he tenders an apology on the Moga incident,” the farmer leader said.Many leaders including Haryana Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa, MLAs Kamal Gupta, Jogiram Sihag had faced protest by farmers at the toll plaza where the farmers have been holding dharna for nearly nine months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-show-black-flags-to-sukhbir-badal-in-hisar-over-moga-incident-312260
17-09-2021||Rohtak||No concession in monthly pass at Haryana toll plazas; policy scrapped||Persons residing within the radius of 20-km of toll plazas, operated by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), will now not be able to avail the discount on monthly passes for their commercial and non-commercial vehicles as the state government has discontinued Toll Relief Policy after seven years.The decision will affect thousands of daily commuters in the state. However, a majority of the toll plazas on the National Highways are, at present, not functional in the state in view of the farmers’ protest against three farm laws.“The Toll Relief Policy was introduced by the state government in 2014 for one year and the policy was being extended annually ever since. This year, the time period of the policy expired on August 14. Thereafter, the government reconsidered the policy and decided to discontinue it. We have stopped giving discounts to the commuters in monthly passes on receiving a communiqué recently in this respect,” said Bijendra Tiwari, manager, Gangachai Ahir Toll Plaza, in Rewari district.He maintained that the policy ensured 75 per cent rebate in the monthly passes for non-commercial and 50 percent for commercial vehicles of those people residing within 20-km radius of the toll plazas. Now, they would have to pay full tax for a monthly pass like other commuters. There were a total of 2,600 monthly pass holders at the Dighal toll booth in Jhajjar and Gangaicha Ahir toll plazas in Rewari district, he added.Notably, Dighal toll plaza is closed as farmers have been camping there, but the Gangaicha Ahir Toll Plaza is still charging tax from the commuters.Meanwhile, the Toll Hatao Sangharsh Samiti has threatened to launch an agitation campaign against the government if the policy was not restored soon.“We carried out a long campaign in 2014, forcing the then state government to frame the Toll Relief Policy for providing 75 per cent concession in monthly pass to those residing within a radius of 20-km of the toll plazas. The state had only five toll plazas at that time. Now, the BJP-JJP government has put extra financial burden on the commuters by discontinuing the policy, but this decision is not acceptable at all,” said Virendra Hooda, national president of the samiti. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-concession-in-monthly-pass-at-haryana-toll-plazas-policy-scrapped-312261
17-09-2021||---||Dushyant Chautala's quitting not a solution: Ajay||Panipat/Sonepat, September 16Ajay Singh Chautala, national president, Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), on Thursday backed Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Singh Chautala on the ongoing farmers’ agitation and asked why should he resign. Has Dushyant done the work of making these agricultural laws, he questioned.Ajay Chautala was addressing a conference of district-level party functionaries in Panipat and Sonepat. He said that Deputy CM Dushyant and JJP MLAs have no role in making these laws.These agricultural laws were made by the Centre in which there was participation of 10 members of Lok Sabha and five Rajya Sabha members from Haryana, he said.If anyone has to demand resignation, then he should ask all the MPs to quit, Ajay said. At the same time, Ajay Chautala said that resigning was not the solution to the three laws.He said that the resignation of 10 JJP MLAs is in his pocket. If any solution could be found by resigning, then anyone could come and take the resignation from him at any time, Ajay Chautala claimed.Ajay said that INLD leader Abhay Singh had also tendered his resignation from the post of MLA, but no solution was found.The JJP national president said that the interests of farmers were paramount for the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dushyant-chautalas-quitting-not-a-solution-ajay-312262
17-09-2021||---||Haryana Chief Minister invites PM Modi to rail corridor event||New Delhi, September 16Haryana CM ML Khattar on Thursday called on PM Narendra Modi on the eve of the latter’s birthday and greeted him, besides inviting him to the state to lay the foundation stone of the proposed Railway Orbital Corridor.The Rs 5,600-crore project of the Railway Orbital Corridor would run along the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway (also known as Western Peripheral Expressway). Administrative and other clearances regarding it have been obtained.A top source in the Haryana Government said the CM’ Office would soon send a formal, written invitation to the PMO in this regard. The date of laying the foundation stone would be fixed accordingly.The source further said that the state government was exploring the possibility of including more projects for laying of foundation stones or possibly their inaugurations.The CM said he apprised the PM of the schemes and development works in Haryana, including “Apna Pani, aapni Virasat”, “Parivar Pahchan Patra”, “Mera Fasal, Mera Byora”, etc which are programmes of the state government.He said he also briefed the PM on the farmers’ agitation, besides the Supreme Court’s directive to free roads of the blockades raised by the protesting farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-chief-minister-invites-pm-modi-to-rail-corridor-event-312263
17-09-2021||Our Correspondent
||3 cops in dock for drinking with firm head in hospital||Gurugram, September 16 Faridabad police commissioner Vikas Arora today suspended three policemen after a video of Faridabad’s Metro Hospital went viral, where under-treatment prisoner Anil Jindal, chairman of the SRS Group, was seen enjoying beer in the presence of the policemen, who were deployed for his security.  The policemen were allegedly drunk and enjoying with him.  The video from August 28 went viral on the social media today. The three policemen are ESI Sanjeev, EHC Chandraprakash and constable Mukesh. They have been suspended for negligence of their duty.  The hospitalised prisoner is Anil Jindal, who is the chairman of the SRS Group of Faridabad, accused of embezzling crores. Jindal is currently lodged in Neemka Jail in Faridabad .  Sources said he was often admitted to Metro Hospital on the pretext of treatment, where he was given many other facilities, along with alcohol.  It was late on August 28 night that the hospital the security personnel caught Jindal and the three cops red-handed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-cops-in-dock-for-drinking-with-firm-head-in-hospital-312264
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||2 crore jabbed in Haryana||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij said a total of 2,00,60,158 eligible beneficiaries had been vaccinated against Covid-19 in the state so far.Vij tweeted today: “Haryana achieved target of 2 crore for Covid vaccination with 1,47,92,987 administered first dose and 52,67,220 both doses. Eligible persons for vaccination above 18 years of age in Haryana are 1,90,69,418.”He said out of 1,90,69,418 eligible beneficiaries, 1,05,67,138 in the age group of 18 to 44 had been vaccinated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-crore-jabbed-in-haryana-312265
17-09-2021||---||Classes I to III to resume from Sep 20||Chandigarh, September 16The Haryana Government has decided to open government and private schools for students studying in Classes I to III from September 20.The classes will be held while strictly adhering to SOPs issued by the Education Department.An official spokesperson said that schools across the state were closed in compliance with the lockdown guidelines issued due to the Covid pandemic.While Classes VI to XII were started on July 23, Classes IV to V were opened on August 1.The spokesperson said that according to the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, the students would be allowed to attend school with prior permission of parents. The screening of every student will be done in schools. No student or visitor with above-normal temperature will be allowed to enter the school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/classes-i-to-iii-to-resume-from-sep-20-312266
17-09-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Staff crunch hits patient care at Rohtak's PGIMS||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 16An acute shortage of staff, including doctors, nurses and faculty members, is adversely affecting the functioning of the Rohtak PGIMS. As per official data, a total of 202 posts of senior resident doctor at the PGIMS are lying vacant, severely hitting patient care at the institute.Healthcare infrastructure crumblingThe healthcare infrastructure in Haryana is crumbling due to the acute shortage of trained medical staff. We have been raising the voice of the residents for a long time now, but the state authorities have paid no heed to our demand . Dr RS Dahiya, former professor of surgery at PGIMSUHC rendered without Vice ChancellorAlso, of the 291 sanctioned posts of senior resident doctor, only 89 are filled as of now.Similarly, 140 posts of PGIMS faculty members (teachers), including Assistant Professor, Associate Professor and Professor, are also lying vacant. Of the 410 sanctioned posts of teachers, only 270 are filled.The data further reveals that of the 85 sanctioned posts of Senior Professor at PGIMS, 60 are filled while 25 are vacant. Likewise, of the 68 sanctioned posts of demonstrator, 34 are filled while the same number of posts is lying vacant.Of the 42 sanctioned posts of teaching staff at the College of Nursing, only 16 are filled while 26 are lying vacant. As many as 36 miscellaneous Group-B posts of the 83 sanctioned posts are also lying vacant.Dr RS Dahiya, a former professor of surgery at PGIMS, has demanded that vacant posts of doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers at the PGIMS be filled forthwith.“The healthcare infrastructure in Haryana is crumbling due to the acute shortage of trained medical staff. We have been raising the voice of the residents for a long time now, but the state authorities have paid no heed to our demand,” said Dr Dahiya.When contacted, PGIMS director Dr Rohtash Yadav stated that the process for the recruitment of senior resident doctors and demonstrators was underway, adding that other vacant posts would also be filled as soon as possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/staff-crunch-hits-patient-care-at-rohtaks-pgims-312267
17-09-2021||Mukesh Tandon
||Only 2,385 of 30K units registered in Panipat||Tribune News Service Panipat, September 16 Hundreds of industries in ‘Textile City’ are operational without any registration. An RTI query revealed that only 2,385 industries here are registered with the Labour Department.  Besides, only 525 industries are registered under Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB). Advocate Vaibhav Deswal had sought information on various points including registration of factories, registered labourers and others from the Labour Department. Deswal said that the department in its reply said that only 2,385 industries have been registered on the portal of the Haryana Labour Department, Chandigarh. Besides, only 660 factories have approved building plans, he added. Meanwhile, only 1,16,797 labourers are registered on the portal of Haryana Industrial Safety and Health Department, he said. “I had also sought information regarding deaths of labourers in factories in which the Industrial Health and Safety Department replied that only 54 labourers died in factories due to industrial accidents,” Deswal said. Over four lakh labourers from Bihar, West Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh are working in around 30,000 industries here, he added. He said Panipat was famous globally for its textile and handloom products but labour laws were not implemented here properly. The HSPCB in its reply said that only 523 industries had valid consent to operate in Panipat. Of these, 342 industrial units are in red category; 158 in orange and only 25 industries in green category.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/only-2-385-of-30k-units-registered-in-panipat-312268
17-09-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||199 ‘offences against state’ in 2020, conviction rate just 5.7% in Haryana: NCRB||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 16A total of 199 cases were registered in Haryana in 2020 under “offences against state”, while the conviction rate was just 5.7 per cent, says National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report-2020. Zero conviction rate in cybercrimeIt was a dip from 2019 when 572 FIRs were registered.In 2020, there were six cases of sedition (under Section 124-A of the IPC), one case for imputation, assertions prejudicial to national integration, two under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, one case under the Official Secrets Act, and 189 FIRs under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.A total of 212 persons were arrested.Also, there were 85 cases pending investigation from the previous year. So, in total, the police looked into 284 FIRs. While 27 cases ended as false, 45 fell under the head of insufficient evidence or untraced or no clue. The charge-sheets were filed in 163 cases, while 49 cases were still pending at the end of 2020.In the courts, 3,118 cases were pending from previous years, while 163 were added in 2020. A total of 122 cases were decided by the courts in 2020, out of which 172 people were acquitted in 115 cases, and 10 people were convicted in seven cases. The conviction rate was just 5.7 per cent.There was a rise of 16.3 per cent in cybercrime in Haryana in 2020, with the registration of 656 cases, but the conviction rate was zero. In comparison, the conviction rate was 13 per cent in 2019.In 2020, there were 193 cases (29.4 per cent of total) of publication or transmission of an obscene or sexually explicit act in electronic form (Section 67 of the IT Act), 181 cases (27.6 per cent of total) of cheating by personation by using computer resource (Section 66-D of the IT Act) and 26 cases (4 per cent of total) of online banking fraud.In 157 cases (23.9 per cent of total), the motive was fraud, while sexual exploitation was the intention in 70 (10.7 per cent of total) cases.Just 11 cases were decided by the courts where nine ended in acquittals and two were quashed. Close to seven arms per day were recovered by the police during 2020 in the state. There was a rise of 11.1 per cent in the recovery of arms, as 2,428 arms were seized. Out of these, just one was licensed, while the rest were unlicensed.There was a rise of 8.8 per cent in environment-related offences in the state as 57 cases were registered in 2020. These included 15 related to noise pollution, 17 under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, 13 under the Cigarette and Other Tobacco Products Act, 2003, and five under the Air Act, 1981, and Water Act, 1974. Just one case was decided in the court in 2020, which ended in conviction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/199-offences-against-state-in-2020-conviction-rate-just-5-7-in-haryana-ncrb-312269
17-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Palwal couple 48 years apart, but happily married, High Court told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 16She is 19 and he 67, and both are living happily as married couple. Just about a month after the Punjab and Haryana High Court ordered Palwal Superintendent of Police to hold an inquiry into the possibility of forced marriage, the Bench was told that the bride had tied the knot on her own free will and volition with the groom — a father of seven children from his first marriage.As the case came up for resumed hearing, Justice Jasgurpreet Singh Puri was told that the bride in her statement recorded before a court had stated that she has married with her mother and brother’s consent and was staying at her in-laws’ house happily.A status report placed before Justice Puri’s Bench added that the bride was earlier married to a resident of Alwar district in Rajasthan, but she was not happy with the marriage. She married for the second time on May 18 and they had no problem with it. The inquiry also revealed that the groom, too, was married earlier, but his wife was not alive. He had four sons and three daughters, all of whom were married.Taking a note of the submissions, Justice Puri observed that it had come to light that “there was no force or threat of any kind in the performance of the marriage of the petitioners”. Considering the totality of the circumstances of the present case, Justice Puri accepted the prayer by the counsel for the petitioner-couple for dismissing the petition as withdrawn.Justice Puri had, on the previous date of hearing, observed that it was a shocking case where protection was being sought by a girl of 19 and a man of 67. It was not clear from the pleadings or the arguments by their counsel whether the man had solemnised first marriage or multiple marriages. The circumstances under which a girl of 19 had married an old man, too, were not clear.“Prima facie this court is of the view that there is some suspicion with regard to the marriage. The possibility of forced marriage can also be not ruled out at this stage,” Justice Puri added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/palwal-couple-48-years-apart-but-happily-married-high-court-told-312270
17-09-2021||---||Increase in cane price inadequate, says Bhupinder Hooda||Chandigarh, September 16Former CM and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today termed the increase in the sugarcane price by the state as inadequate.Hooda said the BJP-JJP government was fiercely marketing the increase in sugarcane price by them, which was 10 times lesser than what the Congress had done during its term.“The increase in the MSP of all crops and the FRP of sugarcane is negligible as compared to the increasing cost of cultivation. The rate of sugarcane was increased by 165 per cent in the nine-and-a-half years of the Congress. In the seven years of the BJP, there was a total increase of 16 per cent,” he said.Hooda said the price of petrol and diesel, cost of sugarcane cultivation, farm labour, fertiliser, seeds, pesticides, insecticides and farming equipment had increased significantly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/increase-in-cane-price-inadequate-says-bhupinder-hooda-312271
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Set up fish units in all Haryana districts, says minister JP Dalal||Haryana Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare and Fisheries Minister JP Dalal held a review meeting of the Fisheries Department here today.During the meeting, he stated that in the field of inland fish culture, the state was first in India as it had been producing around 9,600 kg per hectare annually. A target has been given to all district officials of the Fisheries Department to set up fishery units by March 31, 2022, he added.He also sought the report of the number of fish farms set up in the past three years as well as the amount of subsidy provided to farmers. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/set-up-fish-units-in-all-haryana-districts-says-minister-jp-dalal-312272
17-09-2021||Karnal||Karnal: Missing youth’s body found in canal, kin allege murder||Family members, relatives and friends of Saurabh (22) of Hansi road, who went missing four days ago and his body was later recovered from a canal near Ghogripur yesterday, blocked two places — Hansi Chowk and Ambedkar Chowk — here today.They alleged that he was murdered and his body was dumped into the canal. They refused to lift the body from the post-mortem house till the accused were arrested.The alleged police inaction and said they had given names of the suspects, but the police were not investigating the case properly.However, the police claimed that all suspects were being inquired.Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia said the blockade was lifted after 40 minutes after the protesters were assured of fair investigation. “A post-mortem was conducted and the process was videographed. Other sections will be added as per the complaint of the family now,” said Punia.Members of the deceased’s family alleged that his body bore injury marks. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-missing-youths-body-found-in-canal-kin-allege-murder-312273
17-09-2021||Nitish Sharma
||SHGs to help deal with paddy straw burning||Tribune News Service Ambala, September 16 To deal with the issue of burning of paddy straw, the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department in Ambala has come out with a pilot project, in collaboration with the Haryana State Rural Livelihoods Mission (HSRLM), for converting the straw into manure for mushroom. Self-help groups (SHGs) will be roped in for the project.  According to the Agriculture Department, the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) will train women for the project and then, the mushrooms grown will be sold to a Kurukshetra-based farm.  Speaking to The Tribune, Deputy Director Agriculture Dr Girish Nagpal said: “To curb the paddy straw-burning menace and turn it into a source of livelihood and additional income for farmers, the department is collaborating with the HSRLM in Ambala, ‘Project Vridhi’, a group of students from Delhi, who have been working in this field, and KVK. Under the project, self-help groups have been identified and the women will be trained by the students and the KVK for preparing mushroom manure from paddy straw.” “To ensure that the women don’t have to go to find buyers for the produce, we have already contacted a Kurukshetra-based mushroom farm to buy the produce,” he added.  A Punjab-based firm has also assured the department of procuring 50,000 tonnes of paddy straw for a distillery from 145 villages of Ambala. About 4.1 lakh tonnes of paddy stubble is generated in Ambala in a year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/shgs-to-help-deal-with-paddy-straw-burning-312274
17-09-2021||---||Graft: Faridabad CA gets 3 yrs||Panchkula, September 16A special CBI court today sentenced a charted accountant to three-year rigorous imprisonment for accepting a bribe of Rs 60,000 in an income tax assessment case.The convict, identified as Suman Kumar (40) of Faridabad, Haryana, had demanded a bribe of Rs 2 lakh (later negotiated to Rs 1.5 lakh) from Subhash Chand, the proprietor of a Faridabad-based tech company, on behalf of the Income Tax Officer Radhey Shyam Sharma for “setting a matter of assessment of the income tax”.Kumar agreed to accept Rs 60,000 as the first installment.Meanwhile, Chand, approached the CBI and filed a complaint against the charted accountant to take necessary action. After preliminary verification, the CBI laid a trap and caught the convict while accepting the bribe from the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/graft-faridabad-ca-gets-3-yrs-312275
17-09-2021||---||Govt staff on ‘sensitive’ posts for three years to be shifted||Chandigarh, September 16 In a bid to check corruption, Haryana Government has decided to shift employees working on “sensitive” posts for more than three years. The Chief Secretary has asked all heads of departments to immediately prepare a list of such “sensitive” posts involving public dealing, decision making involving financial implications, grant of licences, making certificates, purchase of store items etc along with the names of officers/officials who have been posted on these posts continuously for over three years and forward those to the state government till October 5. Meanwhile, through another decision, investigating officers deliberately delaying the ongoing investigation against employees and officers in ongoing cases are also being summoned. It has been decided that the disposal of disciplinary cases, particularly pertaining to Gazetted Officers of Group A and B, should be ensured before November 30.  In cases where an Inquiry Officer is unable to submit the inquiry report by November 30, the Administrative Secretaries concerned shall submit a report to the Chief Secretary by December 7, mentioning the causes of delay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-staff-on-sensitive-posts-for-three-years-to-be-shifted-312276
17-09-2021||---||Delhi-Mumbai in 12 hrs, e-way will be game changer for Haryana: Nitin Gadkari||Gurugram, September 16Calling the 1380-km eight-lane Delhi-Mumbai Expressway a game changer for Haryana, Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari announced reservation of lanes for electric public transport and services of helicopter ambulances and heliports for drone operations.State scraps toll relief policyThe Haryana Govt has discontinued the Toll Relief Policy introduced in 2014. The decision will affect thousands of daily commuters in the state. “This expressway will forever change the way we look at Indian roads. It will not just bring down the travel time between Delhi and Mumbai to 12 hours, but would also unleash new job and development opportunities for backward areas falling along it,” said Gadkari.He was in city today along with CM Manohar Lal Khattar for a spot inspection of the project. The eight-lane expressway will pass through Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat and will be completed by 2023.About 160 km length of the expressway falls in Haryana on which Rs 10,400 crore is being spent. The expressway will pass through Gurugram, Palwal and Nuh districts. During a media interaction, Gadkari urged Khattar to acquire land along the expressway and build a smart city. Khattar said, “Haryana has thrived under his (Gadkari’s) support.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhi-mumbai-in-12-hrs-e-way-will-be-game-changer-for-haryana-nitin-gadkari-312210
17-09-2021||Tribune News Service ||Haryana to reopen government and private schools for Classes I to III from September 20||Chandigarh, September 16The Haryana Government has decided to re-open government and private schools for Classes 1 to 3 from September 20.However, online mode of education will also continue.The students willing to attend the schools will have to seek written permission from their parents. All Covid-19 guidelines, including social distancing and wrestling of masks, will have to be followed by the students, teaching and non-teaching staff, an order of the education department said.Those not willing to attend physical classes can attend the online classes, it added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-reopen-government%C2%A0and-private-schools-for-classes-i-to-iii-from-september-20-312022
