18-09-2021||Shahjahanpur (UP)||Will continue to protest till farm laws are withdrawn: Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said the farmers will continue to protest at Delhi’s borders till the three controversial agriculture laws are withdrawn.He alleged a nexus between the central government and corporates to “rob” the farmers of their rights.Till the black laws are not withdrawn, the farmers will remain on the borders of Delhi, Tikait, who is the national spokesperson of the BKU, said, adding the farmers were now aware of their rights.He alleged that the government was not sensitive towards protecting the rights of the farmers and said time has come for the “farmer warriors to shake the roots of the government”.Tikait and other farmer leaders had come to Bunda tehsil here on the occasion of the 38th death anniversary of Sant Sukhdev Singh to pay homage to him.National president of BKU (Charuni faction) Gurnam Singh Charuni termed the farmers’ movement as a “dharam yudh” being fought to safeguard the rights of the peasants.The intention of the government is to enslave the farmers which will not be allowed under any circumstances, he said.On the occasion, the leaders of about half a dozen farmers’ unions asked the farmers to reach Delhi on their call.Recently, Tikait had led a massive farmers’ mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar to put pressure on the central government to withdraw the three farm laws.He has already announced that he will work to ensure the defeat of the BJP in the upcoming UP elections on the issue of three legislations. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-continue-to-protest-till-farm-laws-are-withdrawn-rakesh-tikait-313019
18-09-2021||The district administration claims to remove accumulated rainwater within hours but the reality is far from it. Several streets of Valmiki Basti in Samchana village have been flooded with rainwater for the past one month. Residents have lodged complaints with the authorities but no one is paying any heed. The stagnant water has now not only started stinking but also become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. The administration should take cognizance of this issue.||Reality is far from govt’s tall claims||Lokesh,RohtakUnbridled plying of autos leading to accidentsUnbridled plying of thousands of auto-rickshaws in the city are not only a cause of growing traffic chaos, but have become a prominent cause of accidents and traffic blockades on almost all roads in the city. While over 30,000 such vehicles were plying in the city, the traffic police have hardly any knowledge of how many of them had been operating on the basis of valid documents. The police should launch an intensive drive against illegal auto rickshaws and ensure proper parking spots with CCTV camera surveillance to curb any untoward incident.Deepak Mukhi, FaridabadDirty water flowing on roads irks residentsDespite There is a fear of spreading disease due to the dirty water flowing on the roads due as there is no proper drainage of water in Agroha town of Hisar district. The sanitation system in Agroha has completely collapsed. Even the service-lane work in front of Agroha Dham has been incomplete for a long time, due to which many accidents are taking place leading to loss of lives. Though the government has issued directions for expeditiously completing the pending work of the service lane, the government officials have not completed the work till now.Bajrang Garg, HisarIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/reality-is-far-from-govts-tall-claims-312863
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||PM’s birthday celebrations to go on till Oct 7: Haryana CM Khattar||2-day Vaman Dwadashi fair concludes at KurukshetraKurukshetra: The two-day Vaman Dwadashi fair concluded on the banks of Sannihit Sarovar on Friday evening. Earlier in the day, various events, including a shobha yatra, were organised. State Education Minister Kanwar Pal said the fair would be celebrated every year. TNSGovernment promotes 11 HCSS superintendentsChandigarh: The government has promoted 11 superintendents of Haryana Civil Secretariat Service (HCSS) to the posts of under-secretary with immediate effect. They are Yashpal Bankar, Subhash Chander, Satyender Pradeep, Vivek Swami, Jitender Singla, Charanjit Kaur, Sanjeev Kumar, Rajesh Kumar, Deepali Malik, Manohar Lal and Raj Kapoor. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pms-birthday-celebrations-to-go-on-till-oct-7-haryana-cm-khattar-312862
18-09-2021||Sirsa||Chaudhary Devi Lal University, Skill Development Council sign MoU||CUH VC releases bookMahendragarh: The book 'Shaded justice and rights: People, power and pandemic' edited by Dr Pradeep Singh, assistant professor, law department, Central University of Haryana (CUH), Mahendragarh and Dr Aneesh V Pillai of Cochin University of Science and Technology, was released by Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, CUH. On the occasion, Dr Pradeep Singh elaborated on how the book filled the gaps and suited the academic requirements of human rights activists, and researchers working in the field of law, medicine and social sciences.Date of online admissions extendedKurukshetra: Kurukshetra The university has extended the last date of online application for admission in various MA/MSc/MCom and diploma and certificate courses as per the order of KU Vice-Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva. KU spokesperson Prof Brajesh Sawhney said now applicants could apply for admission in MA/MSc/MCom courses without any late fee till September 27. Applications can be applied for PG diploma, advanced diploma, diploma and certificate courses will be accepted till October 18 without any late fee. For further details about display of admission lists and detailed information in this regard, the applicants can visit the website of the university www.kuk.ac.in, said Prof Sawhney.Tulsi plant distribution driveFaridabad:The Vasundhara Eco-Club, the Environment Society and the department of environmental science and engineering of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad organised a two-day Tulsi plant distribution drive in the university. Vice- Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar launched the drive by planting a sapling of Tulsi. The VC said that Tulsi had been used as a medicinal plant for thousands of years in Ayurveda for its diverse healing properties.39 take part in Poetry competitionHisar:Indira Chakraborty Home Science College at Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University, Hisar, organised an online poetry competition. As many as 39 participants got registered for the poetry competition. Rahul got the first prize while Anu and Harshita got second and third positions, respectively.Karnal lad secures 10th rankKarnal: Raj Kumar, student of BCA VI semester of DAV PG College, brought laurel to the college by securing 10th rank with 82 per cent marks in the results of the Kurukshetra University Kurukshetra (KUK) and 1st rank in the district.Foundation day at JC Bose varsityFaridabad: JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, celebrated its foundation day recently by holding various activities. Dinesh Kumar, VC, said the university, which came into existence in 1969 as an Indo-German diploma institute famously known as YMCA Institute of Engineering and upgraded to the level of university in 2009, has completed its 52 years as an institution, and 12 years as university. Recalling the contribution and achievements made in various fields Prof. Kumar said that the university had proved itself on the various quality parameters in a very short span of time.Refresher course conductedHisar: A refresher course was organised by the bio and nano science department of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar on Thursday. Prof Neeraj Dilbagi said while inaugurating the refresher course that the significance of biological science was increasing continuously as it had been realised during the Covid epidemic that biological science had immense possibilities of research. Therefore, today there was need for such research in biological science which supports human life.MMDU shines in NIRF rankingsAmbala: Adding another feather to its cap, Maharishi Markandeshwar (deemed to be university) emerged stronger in NIRF rankings 2021 that featured respectively MM (DU)'s Dental College at 34th, Pharmacy College at 34th and Medical College at 35th rank in India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chaudhary-devi-lal-university-skill-development-council-sign-mou-312861
18-09-2021||Palwal||161 get degrees at skill varsity in Palwal||As many as 161 students were awarded degrees at the first convocation of Shri Vishwakarma Skill University (SVSU), Palwal, today.Haryana Governor and SVSU Chancellor Bandaru Dattatreya presided over the function. He said the youth should hone their skills so that they could become job givers and not job seekers. During the convocation, two honorary PhD degrees were also awarded. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/161-get-degrees-at-skill-varsity-in-palwal-312860
18-09-2021||---||Karnal Ward 7 byelection on October 3||Karnal, September 17The process for the by-elections for the post of the councillor of Ward 7 of the Karnal Municipal Corporation began today. The seat was left vacant after the death of councillor Sudarshan Kalra.Voting will be held on October 3. Counting of votes will be done on the same day. No nominations were filed on the first day.The ruling BJP has formed a panel to finalise the name of their candidate while the Opposition parties are also in the process to shortlist names.The last date to file nomination papers is September 22 while the withdrawal can be done on September 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-ward-7-byelection-on-october-3-312859
18-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Fake call centre busted in Gurugram||Gurugram, September 17The Gurugram Police today busted another fake call centre duping US residents and arrested one person in this regard. The call centre was being run in Sector 44.The police said the call centre was duping US citizens through voice messages. The accused posed as Amazon employees.The cybercrime police got a tip off that a fake call centre was being run at Sector 44. Following the tip off, the police raided the centre.When the police asked for documentation, the accused could not produce any valid OSP licences of the Department of Telecommunications or any other agreement/MoU related to their work upon.The police have arrested a partner at the call centre, Jitender Sharma, a resident of Trinagar, Delhi. The other partner, Nikhil Kumar, is still at large. An FIR has been registered against the accused under Sections 420, 120B of the IPC and Sections 66-D and 75 of the IT Act at cybercrime police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-call-centre-busted-in-gurugram-312858
18-09-2021||Faridabad||‘75% work done’ in Palwal water project||Contradicting media reports, Palwal Municipal Council said 75 per cent of work has been accomplished in the Rs 200-crore Amrut Jal Yojna and the reports of only 30 per cent work published recently were wrong. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/75-work-done-in-palwal-water-project-312855
18-09-2021||Karnal||2 secretaries of market panels suspended by Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board||Taking a strict note of discrepancies, the Chief Administrator, Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB), has suspended the secretaries of Karnal and Taraori Market Committees.Karnal Market Committee secretary Hakikat Rai has been suspended on the report submitted by an official of the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB), Hisar, based on an inspection of the grain market.Taraori Market Committee secretary Mohit Beri was suspended on the report submitted by Karnal DMEO, allegedly for not deploying employees on gates to check the arrival even after the instruction given by the Chief Administrator.“I inspected the grain market and found the employees were not deployed on gates even though I have issued instruction to deploy employees on gate to check the arrival of paddy,” said Vinay Yadav, CA, HSAMB. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-secretaries-of-market-panels-suspended-by-haryana-state-agricultural-marketing-board-312854
18-09-2021||---||Congress slams Haryana government for shifting airport project from Meham||Hisar, September 17Congress’ Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda has alleged that a number of mega projects which were proposed and conceptualised by the previous government were shifted out of the state after the change of guard in the state and at Centre.Alleging that weak leadership of the state government was to be blamed for shifting of proposed projects, the Congress MP said a proposal to set up international airport in Meham was one of such projects.He said ever since the BJP came to power, departments were being privatised.Expressing displeasure over the slow pace of work on the Meham-Hansi-Rohtak railway line, he said the project was started in 2013, but was still hanging fire. “Hisar will be the biggest beneficiary of this rail line as it will be directly connected to Delhi,” the MP said.Deepender said his government had left no stone unturned in the development of Hisar and worked with a vision to give a better future to the next generation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-slams-haryana-government-for-shifting-airport-project-from-meham-312853
18-09-2021||Panipat||Two shopkeepers shot at in Samalkha||Four miscreants shot at two shopkeepers at Bhatnagar Colony of Samalkha town on Thursday night. The police on Friday lodged a case against the attackers under various sections of the IPC on the statement of an injured and began a probe into the matter.Superintendent of Police Shashank Kumar Sawan announced a reward of Rs 50,000 for information about the miscreants.As per sources, four youths riding a motorcycle reached Bhatnagar Colony on the Chulkana road where they shot at two shopkeepers — Vinod Singla (46), owner of a flour mill, and his neighbour Nishu (28), owner of confectionary shop.Nishu heard the sound of firing and saw three youths, holding pistols, coming out from the flour mill. When they reached near him, they fired upon him and fled on the motorcycle.The police have collected CCTV footage, in which three masked miscreants could be seen and have also released the footage. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-shopkeepers-shot-at-in-samalkha-312839
18-09-2021||---||Haryana turning into a crime hub, says Surjewala||Chandigarh, September 17Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala today said the “wrong policies” of the BJP government had converted the peaceful state of Haryana into a crime hub, where on an average three murders were being reported each day.In cognisable crime rate under the IPC and special and local laws, Haryana stood fourth in the country, he said while citing the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data. Surjewala questioned Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala and Home Minister Anil Vij for the big delay in filing charge sheets against offenders.“The national average rate of filing charge sheets was 82.5, but why was Haryana a laggard at only 39.7,” he further asked. Surjewala said due to the laxity in filing the charge sheets against the criminals and the casual attitude of the government, crime in Haryana had been increasing continuously for the past seven years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-turning-into-a-crime-hub-says-surjewala-312831
18-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Court restores house to man evicted from plot of IG’s mom in Gurugram||Gurugram, September 17The ongoing case of the alleged fraudulent sale of a plot of the octogenarian mother of Haryana IG took a new turn on Thursday as Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) not just withdrew the vacation orders of the house but also restored possession of the plot to Praveen Bhargava.Bhargava, who was allegedly “sold the plot fraudulently” 12 years ago, was evicted by HSVP and the police few days ago. He then had moved court saying even he was being unduly punished.The counsels of HSVP submitted two letters in which they clearly mentioned that a report has been submitted by a junior engineer after visiting the plot. On the basis of his findings, the notice of evacuation from the house had been withdrawn.In the other letter, it is clearly mentioned that the speaking order of September 8 regarding cancellation of re-allotment letters issued in favour of Kamal Singhal, Pankaj Kumar, Bimla Bhargava and Parveen Bhargava and revocation of occupation certificate are hereby withdrawn with immediate effect.After the hearing, the court of Civil Judge (junior division) Anil Kumar passed the order. “Hence in the light of the above, the court is appointing the Tehsildar concerned as Court Commissioner for ensuring the restoration of possession of the plaintiff in property bearing plot no. 552-P, Sector-52, Gurugram. The Court Commissioner is directed to ensure that the entire proceedings should be videographed as well as photographed in order to rule out further controversy. Now, Court Commissioner is told to come up on September 28 with the compliance report,” read the order.It may be noted that an FIR was registered at Sadar police station last month against Kamal Goyal, Pankaj Singhal and other for allegedly duping 86-year-old Sushila Devi, the IG’s mother, of her 500-square yard plot in Sector 52 by forging documents.In this case, the police nabbed one accused, Atul Goyal, a resident of Sector 92 who is now on bail. The next hearing is on September 28.Case recall||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/court-restores-house-to-man-evicted-from-plot-of-igs-mom-in-gurugram-312830
18-09-2021||Ambika Sharma||Solan MC ropes in Haryana-based firm to dispose of solid waste||Tribune News ServiceSolan, September 17After facing flak from the NGT and the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB), Solan MC officials have woken up to ensure scientific disposal of solid waste.Commissioner, Solan MC, LR Verma said, “A Haryana-based firm, Suntan, has been awarded the work to scientifically dispose of the solid waste generated in the Solan MC area as well as lift the legacy waste lying at Salogra.”The Panchkula-based firm will collect the waste after due segregation into dry and wet and transport it to its facility for scientific disposal. The firm has been given time to seek requisite permissions from the SPCB, NGT as well as the Haryana authorities.“The tender has been initially awarded for a six-month period and if the work is satisfactory, it will be extended to three years,” said Vishrut Bharti, Joint Commissioner, MCWith nearly 8,000 tonnes of legacy waste having accumulated at Salogra, the firm will also transport and dispose it of within six months.“About 10-15 tonnes of solid waste is generated on a daily basis in the MC area with the component of wet and dry waste being 60 and 40 per cent, respectively. The wet waste will be segregated daily at Salogra and transported everyday while the dry waste will be transported after four-five days to the processing facility,” said Bharti.The MC will pay about Rs 900 per tonne for disposing of and processing the legacy waste while about Rs 1,970 per tonne will be paid for the solid waste generated daily.The work will begin only after permissions have been sought from the SPCB, NGT and the Haryana Government as they will also assess the waste disposal facility of the firm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/solan-mc-ropes-in-haryana-based-firm-to-dispose-of-solid-waste-312792
18-09-2021||---||104 MTP kits, 28,000 banned tablets seized in Karnal||Karnal, September 17A team of CIA-2 has seized 28,230 banned tablets and 104 MTP (medical termination of pregnancy) kits during a raid at a house in Prem Nagar here today.A woman, identified as Shilpa, was arrested in this connection, while her husband Kamal Sikka was absconding, said Inspector Mohan Lal, in charge, CIA-2.Kamal has been supplying prohibited medicines for long, the police have said, adding “he buys prohibited medicines from Delhi at cheap prices and supplies them at higher prices”.On a tip-off, a police team and the drug authorities conducted a raid at Kamal’s house, and seized 13,000 prohibited tablets, 10,800 Tramadol capsules, 1,200 tablets of Alprazolam, 2,880 tablets of Lomotil and 350 other prohibited tablets.In 2015, the Karnal police had arrested Kamal with prohibited medicines. He came out of jail a few months ago after serving a five-year sentence. “A case has been registered and efforts are being made to arrest the key accused,” said Inspector Lal.3 held with heroinThe Sirsa Police arrested one person with 352 gram heroin, worth about Rs 35 lakh, in Hisar today. The police also recovered Rs 10,000 from his possession.The accused has been identified as Vikash, a resident of Thehar Mohallan. He was intercepted by the narcotics wing of the police when he tried to speed away on his motorcycle at a naka.In another case, Fatehabad CIA arrested two persons with 265 gram heroin near Kallar Dhani of Bhuna area of the district.The accused have been identified as Vikram and Sonu. The police have registered an FIR under the NDPS Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/104-mtp-kits-28-000-banned-tablets-seized-in-karnal-312829
18-09-2021||---||5 IPS officers transferred by Haryana Government||Chandigarh, September 17The Haryana Government on Friday issued transfer and posting orders of five IPS officers with immediate effect.Charu Bali, ADGP SCB, Gurugram, has been given the additional charge of Bhondsi Police Complex, Gurugram. Mamta Singh, IGP Karnal Range, Karnal, has been given the additional charge of IG STF.Amitabh Singh Dhillon, IG STF with additional charge of Transport Commissioner, has been posted as IGP Modernisation with Additional Charge of Transport Commissioner, Haryana.Rakesh Kumar Arya, IGP Hisar Range, Hisar, has been given additional charge of IGP Personnel, Haryana.Mayank Gupta, on inter-cadre transfer from Assam-Meghalaya to Haryana, has been posted as Assistant Superintendent of Police Kharkhouda (Sonepat).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-ips-officers-transferred-by-haryana-government-312828
18-09-2021||---||One more held in HSSC paper leak case||Karnal, September 17In a major breakthrough in the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) police constable paper leak case, the Kaithal police have arrested a wanted person carrying a reward of Rs 2 lakh from Delhi.So far, the Kaithal police have arrested 40 persons in this case.“The arrested person is another key accused in the case. He has been identified as Mohammad Afzal Dar, a resident of Wasim Bagh, Hazratbal, Srinagar,” said Lokender Singh, SP, Kaithal.In this case, a reward of Rs 2 lakh each was announced for giving any information leading to the arrest of two accused and Rs 50,000 each for the arrest of nine accused, he added.The police have already arrested accused Muzaffar Ahmed, who carried a reward of Rs 2 lakh, from Jammu and the arrest of accused Mohammad Afzal was pending. He was caught after a tip-off from near Delhi airport, the SP said.Six accused with a bounty of Rs 50,000 have also been arrested. During the remand period, the police have seized two mobile phones used in the crime from the possession of accused Muzaffar Ahmed and two mobile phones used in the crime have also been seized from the possession of accused Ved Prakash.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-more-held-in-hssc-paper-leak-case-312827
18-09-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Rs 4.6 cr collected as challan fee, but Faridabad roads in bad state||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, September 17The city traffic police collected Rs 4.62 crore as fee for traffic challans till August this year, but ask Municipal Corporation officials and they say fund crunch is the major reason behind the delay in repairing potholed roads.As per the Motor Vehicles Act, at least 50 per cent of the challan fee should be used for road safety measures, said RTI activist Ajay Bahl.“Instead of using the challan money for road maintenance, it is diverted for some other purposes. In September last year, I had filed an RTI query seeking information about the usage of challan funds. The Police Department failed to respond,” he said.Last year, Rs 6.68 crore was collected as challan fee.“The majority of city roads are damaged. Potholes are filled with debris and earth, which are stop-gap measures. This result in dust and slush on roads,” said SK Sharma, district coordinator of NGO Road Safety Organisation.In the past three years, 541 persons lost their lives and 1,323 others were injured in road accidents, he said, adding poor condition of roads was the reason behind mishaps.Sharma added, “The authorities concerned have failed to implement a strategy of using the challan fee for the repair and maintenance of roads.”Municipal Corporation Commissioner Yashpal Yadav claimed the repair work would be taken up after the monsoon.He denied the claim that the MC lacked funds for road maintenance. “There is no shortage of funds for the repair work,” he said.The Commissioner claimed he was unaware of the rule that provided for using the challan fee for such road safety measures. No response to RTI query from policeInstead of using the challan money for road maintenance, it is diverted for some other purposes. In September last year, I had filed an RTI application seeking information about the usage of challan funds. The Police Department failed to respond. — Ajay Bahl, RTI activistChallan fee collectedRs6.68cr: last yearRs4.62cr: till August this year||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-4-6-cr-collected-as-challan-fee-but-faridabad-roads-in-bad-state-312749
18-09-2021||Parveen Arora
||Four more mathematical parks for Karnal||Tribune News Service Karnal, September 17 After developing mathematical parks in two government schools to enhance mathematical skills of students and also to improve their learning skills, four more parks will be developed at different locations of the city by  Karnal Smart City Limited (KSCL). Among the earmarked sites, three are government schools comprising Government Primary School in Model Town, Government School in Sector 13, Government Primary School in Uchana village and the fourth site is at the Community Centre Sector 6. Earlier, two parks were developed under the D-plan in continuation with its efforts of beautifying the government-run schools, but the proposed four parks are being developed as part of the Smart City project.  The authorities claim that it will help students in understanding the practical usage of mathematics in a better way and also make the government schools exceptionally better than a private one.  “It is well said that visual mathematics is an important part of mathematics and it helps the student in learning numerical mathematics. Promoting the same principle, the KSCL is going to develop four such parks by supplying and fixing different equipment of different shapes and sizes related to mathematics to generate interest of the students,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner,-cum-CEO, KSCL. With the help of these parks, the students will be able to understand the subject in a better way, he added. The project elements comprise of three dimensional figures for different solids –cone, hemispheres, cubes, pyramids and spheres will be developed in these parks. Besides, a visual representation of pythagoras theorem, along with a tree, which will help in understanding factors through practical representation will also be there. These parks will also have formula for understanding of mathematical formulas of a cube. Models of comparison of scales will also be there to understand the different measurement units and an abacus model to learn place values easily. Apart from these, the parks will also have a manual clock to understand the working of clocks. To build a better understanding for angles, there will be clinometers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-more-mathematical-parks-for-karnal-312751
18-09-2021||---||Yamunanagar man gets 10-yr jail for rape||Yamunanagar, September 17 Neha Nohria, Additional Sessions Judge, Yamunanagar sentenced a man to 10-years imprisonment for raping a woman.  Aman Kaushik, Public Prosecutor said the ASJ delivered the decision on Thursday and imposed a fine of Rs 12,000 also on the convict, Punit alias Hairy of Hamida Colony of Yamunanagar.  He said the ASJ also ordered that in default of payment of the fine, the convict would further undergo an imprisonment for a period of one year. On the complaint of the victim, who belongs to a colony of Yamunanagar, a case had been lodged against Punit alias Hairy under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC at Woman police station, Yamunanagar on September 6, 2018. The complainant had alleged that Punit was known to her and met her near ‘truck adda’ (truck stand) on September 3, 2018. She said he took her to his house on some pretext that day. “I was served tea probably mixed with sedatives at Punit’s house. After drinking the tea, I felt uneasy so I lay down on the bed,” alleged the victim. She said after sometime when she felt better, she went to a doctor and returned home after taking medicines from him. “When I reached home, Punit called me on my phone and told me that he had made my MMS, when I was sleeping on the bed” alleged the victim. She alleged that on September 5, Punit came to her house and raped her after blackmailing her. She alleged that he threatened her with dire consequences if she told anyone about the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-man-gets-10-yr-jail-for-rape-312752
18-09-2021||Yamunanagar||BKU to Haryana govt: Start buying paddy early||A delegation of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait), led by district president Subhash Gurjar, today handed over a memorandum to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar through the Yamunanagar DC demanding start of paddy procurement from September 20.“The paddy procurement is scheduled to start from October 1. But, the crop is ready for harvesting in a large area of the district. Several farmers have already started harvesting the crop. Therefore, the government should start procurement from September 20, so that farmers do not face any problem in selling the crop on minimum support price,” said Gurjar.He said they today gave a memorandum to DC Parth Gupta in connection with their demand. — TNSSuggests Sept 20 to Yamunanagar admnPaddy procurement is scheduled to start on October 1. But, the crop is ready for harvesting in Yamunanagar district. The government should start procurement from September 20. Subhash Gurjar, BKU leader||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bku-to-haryana-govt-start-buying-paddy-early-312755
18-09-2021||---||Extra vigil at Gurugram e-way to stop farmers||Gurugram, September 17There was a massive traffic jam on the Gurugram-Delhi border area, which led to blocking of the expressway.While the jam is a regular feature during office hours at the Sirhaul border due to the under-construction of an underpass, the situation aggravated today with both the Gurugram and Delhi Police erecting extra barricades. This was done to stop farmers from entering Delhi and join the SAD protest.The checking, which started last night, left commuters harried, especially those travelling to Delhi. The vehicles carrying more than two persons were stopped on both Gurugram and Delhi sides. Some commuters were made to wait on the roadside on the suspicion that they were farmers.“This border is already a nightmare and the traffic jam has worsened it. I have been waiting for 20 minutes. It will take over an hour to reach Dhaula Kuan. The Gurugram cops are letting us pass, but the Delhi Police are harassing us,” said Rahul Yadav, a commuter.Several commuters complain to copsSeveral commuters contacted the police through social media, complaining that they were stuck at the expressway because some farmers had illegally parked their vehicles and blocked the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/extra-vigil-at-gurugram-e-way-to-stop-farmers-312756
18-09-2021||---||Samyukt Kisan Morcha: Emergency services not to be disrupted during Bharat Bandh on September 27||Sonepat, September 17The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has decided that emergency services such as ambulances, medical shops, hospitals, medical care and fire brigades would not be disrupted during the Bharat Bandh on September 27.This and other guidelines were issued during a meeting of the Haryana Samyukt Kisan Morcha today at the Kundli border.The timings of the bandh will be from 6 am to 4 pm.The meeting also decided that Central and state government offices, markets, shops, industries, schools, colleges, universities, other educational institutes, and private and government transportation would not be allowed to function. Besides, public or government functions cannot be organised on September 27.The SKM appealed to traders to keep their business establishments and shops closed.“The main focus of the meeting was to make Bharat Bandh a success. The SKM will mobilise more organisations in the state. Farm activists will meet traders, members of market associations and transporters to garner support, said Abhimanyu Kuhar, a farmer leader.Meanwhile, five more farmer organisations joined the Haryana SKM. Now, 24 outfits are part of it.Bandh timings: 6 am to 4 pmTo mobilise more outfits, tradersThe main focus of the meeting was to make Bharat Bandh a success. The SKM will mobilise more organisations in the state. Activists will meet traders and members of market associations to garner support. Abhimanyu Kuhar, farmer leader||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samyukt-kisan-morcha-emergency-services-not-to-be-disrupted-during-bharat-bandh-on-september-27-312757
18-09-2021||Sonepat||Haryana government panel to hold meet with farmer leaders tomorrow||The administration has scheduled a meeting of a high-powered government committee with protesting farmers with at Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram University for Science and Technology in Murthal on Sunday, a day before a hearing in the Supreme Court.The committee headed by the ACS (Home) would hold a dialogue with SKM leaders over removal of blockade on the NH-44 at the Kundli-Singhu border.Notably, while taking up a writ petition filed by Noida resident Monica Agarwal, the Supreme Court had ordered that the farmers protesting on the Kundli-Singhu border in Sonepat district should give way to common people and shift to one side of the road.Following the SC’s order, DC Lalit Siwach held a meeting with the representatives of the protesting farmers on the road blockade on Tuesday.The SKM has claimed that if the BJP government was concerned about the protests, it should fulfil the demands of the farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-panel-to-hold-meet-with-farmer-leaders-tomorrow-312758
18-09-2021||---||When protests go unruly, cops forced to act: Haryana to HC||Chandigarh, September 17When the “protests go unruly, the police is forced to act to maintain law and order and safeguard the elected representative”, Inspector General of Police, Karnal Range, Mamta Singh, today told the Punjab and Haryana HC. The Bench was hearing a writ petition seeking probe by a retired HC judge into the police lathicharge on protesting farmers in the district on August 28.In an affidavit, Mamta Singh contended 211 FIRs had so far been registered in matters related to the stir and a majority of these were related to road blockade. Besides this, there were serious incidents of law and order created by protesters leading to damage to public property and great inconvenience to common citizens, apart for compromising the safety of the elected representatives.The police had resorted to lathicharge on the farmers allegedly after being given specific instructions by SDM Ayush Sinha. The officer has already been transferred and posted as Additional Secretary in the Citizen Resources Information Department.The affidavit said farmer-protesters, whenever stopped from damaging/harming property/person and dealt with lawfully, held the system to ransom by threatening to jam the whole state. This had become a regular feature causing inconvenience and harassment to the common people.The affidavit further added it was wrong to state that the police officials attacked protesters on head, nose, forehead and other body parts under the directions of the SDM as evident from the medico-legal report submitted by the petitioner themselves.The petitioners, through counsel Navkiran Singh, Hakam Singh and Ajit Pal Mander, sought directions to the state government to provide compensation to the petitioners and injured farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/when-protests-go-unruly-cops-forced-to-act-haryana-to-hc-312759
18-09-2021||Pradeep Sharma||To conserve water, farmers on 98K acres shift from paddy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 17Taking up crop diversification in a big way, farmers on 98,000 acres of land in Haryana have said goodbye to water-guzzling paddy crop and shifted to alternative crops under Haryana Government’s flagship “Mera Pani, Meri Virasat” crop diversification scheme.The data for the kharif-2021 showed that the farmers are taking up sowing of alternative crops like maize or pulses or diversifying into horticulture or growing vegetables in place of paddy with the ultimate aim of conserving water. The payment of incentive amounting to Rs 7,000 per acre under the scheme seems to be the primary reason for the switching over from paddy to non-paddy crops, sources said.A maximum of 16,563 acres of land have been registered for non-paddy crops in Sirsa district followed by Fatehabad (12,187 acres), Hisar (11,471 acres), Jind (11,373), Yamunanagar (6,762) and Kaithal (6,647 acres). An encouraging sign about the awareness about the scheme is the fact farmers in all 22 districts across the state have opted for the innovative scheme, the sources said.Additional Chief Secretary (Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare) Sumita Misra claimed that following the stupendous success of the scheme in the past two years, the state government would promote the scheme in a big way in the coming years. “The ‘Mera Pani, Meri Virsat’ is set to be a people’s movement in Haryana with more and more farmers coming forward to reap the benefits being offered under the scheme,” she asserted.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had launched the scheme last year in a bid to conserve water and goad farmers to move away from paddy cultivation and diversify to other crops. Last year, an area of about 96,000 acres of land was diversified under the scheme and farmers given an incentive amounting to Rs 46 crore.Initially, the scheme was launched in eight paddy-intensive blocks — Ratia, Siwan, Guhla, Pipli, Shahabad, Babain, Ismailabad and Sirsa. Seeing the response to the scheme, it was was later extended to the whole of Haryana.Govt to promote plan in a big wayFollowing the stupendous success of the ‘Mera Pani, Meri Virasat’ scheme in the past two years, the state government will promote it in a big way in the coming years. — Sumita Misra, ACS (agriculture and farmers’ welfare)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-conserve-water-farmers-on-98k-acres-shift-from-paddy-312761
18-09-2021||---||Hisar: Minor, who wed using sister’s Aadhaar card, seeks protection||Hisar, September 17A minor girl married her lover by producing the Aadhaar card of her elder sister in Hisar. Then suspecting threat from her family, she sought police protection.The matter was exposed when District and Sessions Judge Arun Kumar Singhal heard the case for protection filed by the couple in court yesterday.The District and Sessions Judge, while rejecting their protection petition, directed the police to register a case of fraud against them.Acting on the complaint from the reader of the District and Sessions Judge, the police registered a case against the youth and his minor bride.The police spokesperson said a case under Section 420, 419 and 34 of the IPC has been registered and the accused youth, Kuldeep, has been sent to judicial custody. The minor married girl had been handed over to Nari Niketan, the police said.According to records, a 16-year-old girl had married a 30-year-old youth by misusing the Aadhaar card of her married elder sister.The couple filed a petition for protection in court on September 10 pleading that they got married on September 3 at Rivaj Vivah Seva Samiti, Arya Nagar, Hisar.They also attached the marriage certificate and the photocopies of the Aadhaar card. The Aadhaar card’s copy produced by the girl showed date of birth as July 13, 2000.After this, the court issued notice to the girl’s family for September 16, ordering the police to provide security.On September 16, the elder sister of the girl appeared in court and stated that the Aadhaar card produced by the girl was in fact hers.She said that she was married to Rakesh, adding that her younger sister is a minor and her date of birth is March 25, 2005 (approximately 16 years) as per school records.Going by the record produced in court, the District and Sessions Court dismissed the protection petition and ordered the police to register a case against both of them for forgery and cheating the court.Records say||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-minor-who-wed-using-sisters-aadhaar-card-seeks-protection-312762
18-09-2021||---||Will gherao official if no ops at Naraingarh sugar mill: Farmers||Ambala, September 17Following the apprehension that the Naraingarh sugar mill may not start operation in the coming cane crushing season and sugarcane will be diverted to other sugar mills, sugarcane farmers — under the banner of Ambala Samyukta Morcha — held a panchayat in Saha. They have threatened to gherao the office of Cane Commissioner Haryana in Panchkula on September 28.Vinod Rana, president of Ganna Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, said, “The cane commissioner has intimated the MDs of Shahabad sugar mill, Piccadily Agro Industries Bhadson (Karnal) and Chief Operating Officer of Saraswati sugar mill, Yamunanagar, that in case the Naraingarh sugar mill fails to start operation in crushing season 2021-22, the sugarcane available in the assigned area of Naraingarh sugar mill may be diverted to these three sugar mills.The current financial condition of the mill and the letter issued by the cane commissioner indicates that the mill is not going to start its operation in the coming season.BKU (Charuni) Ambala spokesman Rajiv Sharma said, “The morcha has decided to gherao the cane commissioner’s office on September 28. Besides the farmers’ dues of Rs 66 crore, there is a crop loan of around Rs 35 crore which the mill needs to clear. If the season is not started, the previous payments may get stuck.”Meanwhile, Niraj, SDM, Naraingarh, said, “We have no orders from the government to close the mill. We have been making all preparations for the coming session which is expected to start from November 15.”On the other hand, sugarcane farmers in Shahabad also held a meeting and have threatened to protest if sugarcane of other districts is brought there.BKU Charuni (spokesman) Rakesh Bains said, “The Shahabad sugar mill has the capacity to crush 80 lakh quintal sugarcane and it already gets more sugarcane than its capacity. The government should ensure smooth operation of Naraingarh sugar mill. The Shahabad mill officials have informed that they have apprised the government that the mill is in no position to accept sugarcane from any other district.”80L quintal capacityThe Shahabad sugar mill has the capacity to crush 80 lakh quintal sugarcane and it already gets more sugarcane than its capacity. The government should ensure smooth operation of Naraingarh sugar mill. — Rakesh Bains, spokesman, BKU Charuni||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-gherao-official-if-no-ops-at-naraingarh-sugar-mill-farmers-312768
