19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Vice President Naidu felicitates Haryana Paralympians||Vice President of India M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday praised the grit and determination of Indian Paralympians, saying they brought cheer and hope to the entire nation through their stellar performances at the Tokyo Games.Addressing a felicitation ceremony in Gurgaon for athletes of Haryana who represented India at the Tokyo Paralympics, the vice president lauded the entire contingent for winning the highest-ever tally of medals for the country.Recognising that these achievements were not easy, he said the entire nation is proud of them.“You have overcome several obstacles, demolished stereotypes and have triumphed over social attitudes that looked down upon sports,” Naidu said.The vice president, together with Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, distributed cash awards worth over Rs 27 crores among 19 medallists and participants of Haryana in the Tokyo Paralympics.“Having got an opportunity to felicitate these talented sportspersons of Tokyo Paralympics 2020, I feel honoured,” Naidu said.Shooter Manish Narwal and javelin thrower Sumit Antil, both gold medallists, were given cash awards of Rs 6 crore each, an official statement said.Yogesh Kathuniya, who clinched a silver in men’s discus throw, and Singhraj Adhana, silver medallist in men’s shooting, were awarded Rs 4 crore each.Bronze medallist in archery Harvinder Singh was given a cash prize of Rs 2.5 crore, the statement said.Emphasising on the need to create a sporting culture in the country, the vice president called for developing sports as an attractive and viable career option for the youth.He complimented the Haryana government for taking several policy initiatives in this connection.Taking cognisance of the general lack of sporting facilities for differently-abled sportspersons at the local level, Naidu called for creation of more such centres.He also emphasised the need to identify and encourage differently-abled sportspersons at the local level. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vice-president-naidu-felicitates-haryana-paralympians-313393
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Haryana government extends lockdown till October 4||The Haryana Government extended Covid-19 lockdown until October 4 on Sunday but allowed colleges and polytechnic institutions to open.“The Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana is extended in the state of Haryana along with guidelines to be implemented during this period issued vide earlier orders till October 4," an order issued by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan said on Sunday.The order said: “Colleges and Polytechnics are allowed to re-open for students with strict adherence of requisite social distancing norms, regular Covid appropriate behavioural norms, the guidelines as indicated in the SOPs released by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, GOS and regular sanitization of the premises. Department of Higher Education and Department of Technical Education, Haryana, will release guidelines for implementation of these orders immediately”.All other relaxations remain the same.  Vice-Chancellors of residential universities however should continue conducting classes online till October 15, the order said.  “The decision to allow students to attend classes physically in residential universities shall be taken on October 15, 2021, after assessing the prevalent COVID situation then,” the order said.“Meanwhile, the University administration may strive to ensure to get all students,  faculty members and staff (including the outsourced ones)  fully vaccinated and share the progress with the  Department of  Higher  Education,  Technical  Education and Medical Education & Research as the case may be,” the order said.What’s open?—Restaurants and bars (including in hotels and in malls)  are  allowed  to open at  5O per cent seating—Gyms and Spas to stay open at 50 per cent capacity—Clubhouses/restaurants/bars at golf courses to stay open at 50 per cent capacity—Shops and malls with adherence to Covid protocols—Swimming pools with adherence to Covid protocols. All patrons should, as far as possible, get fully vaccinated—For indoor gatherings, 50 per cent capacity with a limit of 100 people. For outdoor gatherings, 200 people—Entrance and recruitment exams with strict adherence to Covid protocols—Coaching institutions, libraries  and training institutes allowed  to  open  with  strict  adherence to Covid protocols—Industrial training institutes allowed to open for students for doubt classes, practical classes with strict adherence to Covid protocols.—Religious places allowed to open with 50 persons at one time and strict adherence to Covid protocols—Corporate offices can open with full attendance with strict Covid protocol—All production units, establishments, industries are allowed to function.—Sports stadiums allowed to open for all activities, including outdoor sports activities except contact sports. Spectators will not be allowed —Cinema halls, both malls and standalone, allowed to stay open at 50 per cent seating capacity||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-haryana-government-extends-lockdown-till-october-4-313332
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bhupinder Hooda seeks early start of procurement||Ex-CM and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Saturday demanded that the government should start the paddy procurement soon.“Due to frequent rains, there is also a threat to the produce kept in the market. Instead of making arrangements, notices are being sent to the arhtiyas on behalf of the market committee to harass the farmers.”He said there was confusion over the government’s policy on the issue. “At times, the government talks about starting the procurement from September 25 while at other times, it says that the process will begin on October 1. The longer the delay in starting the procurement, the greater the suffering of farmers.”Hooda also opposed the decision to reduce the standard moisture content in paddy from 17 to 16. He said farmers were affected twice because of the delayed procurement and moisture content. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhupinder-hooda-seeks-early-start-of-procurement-313222
19-09-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||After 4-yr delay, industrial sectors’ rejuvenation begins in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, September 18After a delay of about four years, the civic rejuvenation project of industrial sectors was inaugurated by local MP and Union Minister of State for Heavy Industries Krishan Pal Gurjar here on Saturday.The project proposal prepared and submitted in 2017 was hanging fire due to some legal hurdles, claim sources in the HSVP, which will be carrying out the work. It aims at relaying all roads with concrete (RMC), laying water supply pipelines and augmentation of the sewerage network in the industrial areas of Sectors 24 and 25, NIT area and DLF industrial zone. The budget of the project has, however, been scaled down to Rs 107 crore from the previous estimate of Rs 190 crore after a review, it is revealed.Project expected to be completed in yrThough a proposal of Rs190 crore was submitted initially, it has beenre-budgeted after a financial review. Now, the project will cost Rs107 crore and is expected to be completed in a year. —Rajeev Sharma, Supdt engineer, HSVPClaiming that all roads in these sectors were badly damaged and had potholes, a spokesperson of the Faridabad Industries Association (FIA) said the project was awaited for the past many years and one of the major issues of concern for the industry, which was providing employment to lakhs of residents.“The repair of roads will help in the revival of the industry already facing problems related to the pandemic and lockdown,” says Ramnik Prabhakar from the Manufacturers’ Association, Faridabad. “Despite an annual revenue contribution of Rs 1,600 crore, the industry was a victim of poor infrastructure,” he added.With a majority of bituminous (coal tar) roads in a dilapidated condition, entrepreneurs here have been raising the demand for repairs along with other civic amenities in industrial areas housing several thousand manufacturing units. Industrial units here are also facing issues of choked sewer lines and lack of potable water supply.“Though a proposal of Rs 190 crore was submitted initially, it has been re-budgeted after a financial review,” says Rajeev Sharma, Superintending Engineer, HSVP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-4-yr-delay-industrial-sectors-rejuvenation-begins-in-faridabad-313223
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Make arrangements to buy paddy, Haryana officials told||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today directed officials to make arrangements for hassle-free procurement for kharif 2021. Timely identification of places required for setting up additional procurement centres should be done at the earliest, he ordered.While giving directions regarding strengthening of the mandi system, he said along with making timely arrangements for the availability of labourers, adequate number of dryers, weighing scales, gunny bags and sewing machines should be ensured.Khattar said this while presiding over a meeting held under his chairmanship to review the verification of crops on ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’, preparedness for procurement of crops and verification of income and ‘divyaangs’ in Parivar Pehchan Patra with Deputy Commissioners and other district officers concerned held through video conferencing today. Administrative Secretaries also attended the meeting in Chandigarh.The CM was apprised that the paddy procurement would likely begin from September 25 and continue till November 15. The procurement of maize, millet and moong was planned from October 1 and till November 15.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/make-arrangements-to-buy-paddy-haryana-officials-told-313224
19-09-2021||Yamunanagar||3 booked for duping Yamunanagar youth of Rs 5.27 lakh||Three persons have been booked for allegedly duping a youth of Rs5.27 lakh on the pretext of arranging a job of the supervisor for him in the Food Corporation of India (FCI).On the complaint of Aman of Musimbal village, a case of cheating was registered against Nitin of Masana village, Ajay of Farakpur Colony and Sanjeev Kumar of Nayagaon village on Friday.Aman said Nitin was known to him. He introduced him to his associates Ajay and Sanjeev, who arranged a job for him at a godown in Delhi in June 2020 instead of the FCI.He alleged that they took Rs6.50 lakh from him for this job. “I worked there for three months as a trainee after which, I was given a transfer letter to West Bengal.”When he asked for his money back, they gave him Rs1.23 lakh cash and Rs5.27 lakh cheque, which got dishonoured. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-booked-for-duping-yamunanagar-youth-of-rs-5-27-lakh-313225
19-09-2021||Gurugram||Six robbers flee with bank ATM cash tray||Six masked robbers entered Axis Bank at Dhankot village after breaking open its shutter at 2 am on Saturday.They cut the ATM machine with a gas cutter after spraying paint on the CCTV cameras and managed to flee with the cash tray in their white i-20 car. The ATM is just 400 metre away from the Dhankot police chowki.The driver of the PCR van patrolling the area rammed his vehicle into robbers’ car from behind. Enraged by this, the miscreants opened fired on the police team.Later, the robbers abandoned their car near Kaliawas village and fled with the looted cash. An FIR has been registered and raids are on to nab the suspects. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/six-robbers-flee-with-bank-atm-cash-tray-313226
19-09-2021||Gurugram||Congress, BJP workers come face to face in Gurugram||Tension gripped the Kaman Sarai area as workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress came face to face today. The BJP staged protest against the Congress’ Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Congress workers countered it with protest against the Central Government. Heavy police force was deployed at venue as both party workers waged a war of slogans.Agitated over Capt Amarinder Singh’s remark that farmers should shift their agitation against the three Central farm laws either to Haryana or the Delhi borders, BJP leaders from Gurugram staged a protest in front of the Congress district office at Kaman Sarai today. Workers of the BJP workers put up a tent on the site and sat on dharna.Local BJP MLA Sudhir Singla said, “The Punjab CM has given an absurd statement, which is completely wrong.”BJP leader GL Sharma said the farmer’s protest was an organised plot of the Congress. “Punjab CM’s statement has exposed that he wants to disturb peace in Haryana, which is shameful. The Haryana Congress needs to clarify their stake,” Sharma added.Senior Congress leader KL Yadav said, “The BJP government is anti-farmer.”Woman Congress leader Sunita Sehrawat said, “ Beti-Bachao, Beti-Padhao’ is only a slogan as daughters are not safe.” Workers of both the parties went back after protest against each other. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-bjp-workers-come-face-to-face-in-gurugram-313227
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Property registration made easier||Additional Chief Secretary and Financial Commissioner, Revenue and Disaster Management Sanjeev Kaushal has said that along with the registration of property or land in Haryana, land mutations would also be registered on the same day so that people do not face any inconvenience.He was reviewing the progress of the Swamitva Scheme and Modern Record Room being implemented in the direction of making villages Lal Dora-free with the District Deputy Commissioners through video conferencing on Saturday.He directed that the work of girdawari should be completed by Wednesday.He ordered all the revenue officers to issue notices by October 7 to the joint co-partners of the partition of the land as per the statutory provision in the Punjab Revenue (Haryana Amendment) Act, 2020. This Act was notified on July 7 according to which it is mandatory to issue notice within three months. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/property-registration-made-easier-313228
19-09-2021||Rewari||21 injured in Rewari mishap||24-yr-old youth dies by suicideGurugram: A 24-year-old MCom student, Sachin Yadav, ended his life by hanging himself in his room on Saturday after allegedly being hurt in a quarrel with his uncle’s son Ronnie. The police didn’t find any suicide note from the spot. On the complaint of the deceased’s father, Anil Kumar of Tikli village, an FIR has been registered against the cousin. However, no arrest has been made so far. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/21-injured-in-rewari-mishap-313229
19-09-2021||Deepender Deswal||Harappan site in Hisar draws interest of archaeologists||Tribune News ServiceHisar, September 18After a gap of three years, the Harappan site of Rakhigarhi in Hisar district has drawn the interest of archaeologists. While a team of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has started digging up at the site, Prof Vasant Shinde, former Vice Chancellor of the Deccan College, Pune too is keen to start excavation in collaboration with the Central University of Haryana (CUH), Mahendergarh.CUH Vice Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar stated that Prof Shinde had held discussion with him and a final course for the excavation project was likely to be laid soon. He said the CUH had a team of archeologists who had shown interest in Rakhigarhi. They had brought out significant facts about the lives and times of the indigenous culture and people nearly 5,000 years ago.Sources said RSS ideologues Suresh Soni and Tarun Vijay too had made several visits to Rakhigarhi recently. The RSS ideologues have assured the residents of developing Rakhigarhi as a centre of ancient culture of the country.The ASI had made a significant discovery in Rakhigarhi when Professor Amarendra Nath, the then director of ASI carried out an excavation in 1997-2000. He wrote in his report that Rakhigarhi had made a substantial contribution in scientific and technical fields in its time.Rakhigarhi grabbed the attention of the archeologists the world over when five skeletons were found at the site during excavation by the team of Deccan College, Pune, headed by Vice-Chancellor Prof Vasant Shinde in 2015.There are nine mounds at the site of which mound numbers 1,2,3,4,5 and 6 are residential localities of pre-formation age early Harappan settlement. The mound number 7 is a cemetery where four human skeletons were recovered by the excavators recently. The ASI has got the carbon dating of the site number 1,2 and 6. It established a pre-formative age of 5,640 years before present (BP) and 5,440 (BP) from samples from mound number 6. The early Harappan age from the mound number 1 and 2 was traced about 5,200 and 4,570 years BP while two more samples from the mound number 2 which is a mature Harappan site are dated back to 4,040 and 3,900 years BP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/harappan-site-in-hisar-draws-interest-of-archaeologists-313230
19-09-2021||---||Miss India Manika Sheokand is Haryana's ambassador for save water campaign||Chandigarh, September 18The Haryana Government today appointed Femina Miss Grand India-2021 Manika Sheokand as the goodwill ambassador for Water Conservation Campaign.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar handed over appointment letter and an agreement to Manika at a programme organised at Haryana Niwas today.The Chief Minister said spreading awareness about water conservation was the need of the hour. “Water is one of the key necessities of everyone’s life. Life is not possible without water. Just as time is considered precious, water is also precious.”Khattar congratulated Manika for coming forward for the campaign and wished her good luck for the upcoming competitions. Manika is a native of Uchana in Jind district. She did her BTech in Chemical Engineering.“I am daughter of a farmer. I know the importance of water conservation,” said Manika.Impressed by the thinking of the Haryana Government, she offered to work as an ambassador to support the noble cause. “It’s a matter of pride for me to be appointed as the goodwill ambassador,” Manika added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/miss-india-manika-sheokand-is-haryanas-ambassador-for-save-water-campaign-313234
19-09-2021||---||Will make efforts for free treatment of kids with rare genetic disorder: Haryana minister Anil Vij||Ambala, September 18Giving a ray of hope to the children suffering from spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) in the state, Home and Health Minister Anil Vij on Saturday said he would make efforts to provide free treatment to those suffering from the genetic disorder.He said: “The medicine has been recently launched in India and I’ll make efforts that the children get free treatment for SMA in Haryana. If needed, a policy will also be prepared for the treatment of children affected with SMA.”Vij said this after a few parents reached the Janta Darbar on Saturday, where he was listening to the complainants from across the state. The complainants sought immediate intervention to arrange access and affordability to treatment for SMA, a rare life-threatening neuromuscular genetic disorder. Parents claimed that there were around 19 children in the state, who needed to be treated for SMA.Sushila Rana, mother of a 20-year-old boy from Naraingarh who came with her son on a wheelchair, said: “The medicine for SMA has been recently launched in the country but it is too expensive and we can’t afford. We have requested the minister to help us. He has assured that he will make efforts. It will be a big relief for people like us.”People from Fatehabad, Karnal, Ambala, Sonepat, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, and Gurugram complained of molestation, forgery, encroachment, land grabbing, immigration and murder issues. Vij directed his personal assistants to mark the complaints to the officials concerned, asking them to examine, reprobe and resolve them.After nearly two hours of the Janta Darbar, Vij came out of the room and personally collected the remaining complaints.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-make-efforts-for-free-treatment-of-kids-with-rare-genetic-disorder-haryana-minister-anil-vij-313236
19-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Two seniormost Punjab & Haryana High Court judges cleared for transfer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 18Two seniormost judges of the Punjab and Haryana High Court are among the 28 judges recommended to be transferred by the Supreme Court (SC) after its collegium meeting. Once the transfers come into force, the High Court Collegium comprising the Chief Justice and two senior judges will be reconstituted.Available information suggests the Supreme Court Collegium has recommended the transfer of Justice Rajan Gupta to the Patna High Court. He is likely to take over as Chief Justice. Justice Jaswant Singh has been shifted to Odisha. This is in addition to Justice Sudip Ahluwalia’s transfer to Calcutta. Another recommendation is to transfer senior Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge Justice Sabina to the Himachal Pradesh High Court. She is currently a judge in the Rajasthan High Court after being transferred from the Punjab and Haryana High Court.As a result of the transfers, Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Augustine George Masih will replace Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Rajan Gupta in the High Court Collegium. The last time the collegium recommended names of advocates for elevation as HC judges was more than a year ago. The names of judicial officers, on the other hand, were recommended for elevation as High Court judges more than two years ago.Justice Gupta likely to be Patna CJCase pendency reaches 4.5 lakhThe process of appointing judges is lengthy and time-consuming. Once cleared by the states and the Governors, the file containing the names with Intelligence Bureau reports is placed before the Supreme Court when it meets. The names cleared for elevation are then sent to the Union Law Ministry before their warrants of appointment are signed by the President. The process can take several months if not taken up on a priority basis. The SC Collegium has already cleared four of the five names sent by the HC Collegium from the advocates’ category. The names were finalised and forwarded by the High Court Collegium in August last year. These were further forwarded to the SC in April this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-seniormost-punjab-haryana-high-court-judges-cleared-for-transfer-313219
19-09-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Unblocking NH-44: Punjab farm unions to boycott panel meet today||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, September 18A day ahead of the talks with the high-powered government committee at Murthal, leaders of 32 farmers’ unions of Punjab on Saturday decided to boycott the meeting.The decision was taken at a meeting of the unions held at Singhu. Bhog Singh Mansa, a farmer leader, said the Sonepat administration had sent an invite for the meeting, but they had decided not to attend it.Earlier while taking up a writ petition, the SC had ordered the farmers protesting on the Kundli-Singhu border on the NH-44 to give one-way passage to the commuters. Following this, the Haryana Government formed a high-powered committee headed by Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajeev Arora. Sonepat DC Lalit Siwach had fixed a meeting for talks with farmers over the matter and invited 43 SKM members.Say SC directions only for govt, not themMansa said the SC had not given any directions to them and no farmer was party to the matter. “The SC has only directed the Centre and states to give passage to the common man,” he said.The leaders said they wanted to go to Delhi, but the Centre and state government stopped them at the borders. “The roads have not been blocked by us, but by the Delhi Police by placing concrete barriers,” Mansa claimed. The unions, meanwhile, decided to intensify their protest ahead of the Bharat Bandh on September 27.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/unblocking-nh-44-punjab-farm-unions-to-boycott-panel-meet-today-313138
19-09-2021||Ambala||Haryana: Journalist arrested, news editor booked for publishing ‘incorrect place’ of suspected militant's arrest||A journalist was arrested and another was booked at Ambala Cantonment here for allegedly mentioning the “incorrect place” of the arrest of a suspected militant in a news report, prompting the opposition to attack the Haryana government for “suppressing” freedom of the press.An FIR was registered against reporter Sunil Brar and news editor Sandeep Sharma, both from a Hindi daily, on Thursday under different sections of the IPC, police said, adding that Brar was taken into custody on Friday.Efforts are on to nab Sharma, they said.Brar was later released on bail on a bond of Rs 30,000, his lawyer, advocate Rohit Jain, said.A suspected militant was arrested by the Punjab Police on Wednesday over an alleged tiffin bomb plot from Mardon Sahib village of Ambala. The newspaper headline on the following day stated ‘Punjab Police claims arrest of terrorist at Cantt from near IOC depot’.However, the newspaper published a correction the next day on the location from where the suspected terrorist was arrested.In his complaint, sub-inspector Radhey Shyam, who’s in charge of the Parao Police Station, said Brar had called him to ask him if it was true that a suspected militant had been arrested near IOC depot. “I told him that I’d neither received any such information nor was any help sought from my police station by the Punjab Police. Despite that, Sunil published the news without verification.”SHO Ambala Cantt Vijay Kumar said the case against the journalists was registered as they published the news without any authentication. Journalists Sunil Brar and Sandeep Sharma have created fear among the masses by publishing false news, he added.The duo has been booked under IPC sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 177 (furnishing false information), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 505 (2) (statement creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill will between classes), police said.Latching onto the issue, the opposition parties, including the Congress, INLD, Haryana Democratic Front and BSP, criticised the action taken against the media persons.Senior Congress leader Rohit Jain said the arrest was made against the direction of the Supreme court. He said the police had not issued any prior notice to the journalist before arresting him.Chitra Sarwara, a senior leader of the Haryana Democratic Front, and BSP leader Prakash Bharti alleged the police had violated the norms of democracy.It is an attack on the freedom of the press, they said.—  With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-journalist-arrested-news-editor-booked-for-publishing-incorrect-place-of-suspected-militants-arrest-312987
