20-09-2021||Pradeep Sharma ||Haryana govt okays eco-friendly farmhouses near urban areas||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, September 20 The urban landscape of Haryana is set to change with the BJP-JJP government unveiling a new policy for the setting up of eco-friendly farmhouses. Under the policy, which would be applicable in the area beyond 500 metre of the urbanisable zone of the towns and cities in the agriculture zone, the owners would be able to get the change of land use (CLU) to set up farmhouses on under two categories, minimum of one acre and 1-2 acres. Farmhouses must haveOne main residential and one ancilliary unit Solar water heating systems and 100% treatment of waste waterRain water harvesting, site processing of all green/animal wasteSwimming pool for personal use; no commercial use of premises  AK Singh, Principal Secretary, Town and Country Planning, said while only one dwelling unit would be allowed on farmhouses spread over a minimum of 1 acre of land, the main dwelling unit and ancillary unit (servant quarter and farm and animal sheds) would be allowed in the  1-2 acre and above 2 acre of land. A maximum ground coverage of 8% of will be allowed for the main unit in the 1-2 acre category. The ground coverage 800 square metre will be permissible for main unit on the farmhouse above 2 acre. The policy said  1% of the total farmhouse area could be used for   constructing single story ancillary units subject to  a maximum 150 square metre.  However,  the setting up of the “self-sustaining”  farmhouses will be strictly regulated with the beneficiaries  mandated to take environment-friendly  measures, including installation of solar water heating systems, 100% treatment of waste water,  rain water harvesting,  site processing of all green/animal waste, tree plantation over 15% of the farm land and strictly no commercial use of the premises. Besides, as part of the recreational activities on the farmhouse, a swimming pool (up to 50 square metre) would be permitted for the personal use of the owners. The provision of the Haryana Apartment Ownership Act shall not applicable on the sites approved under the policy, which meant that any structure in the farmhouse cannot sold to another party. Meanwhile, a District Level Monitoring Committee, headed by the concerned DC, will conduct regular checks on the premises to ensure that various provisions of the policy are implemented in letter and spirit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-okays-eco-friendly-farmhouses-near-urban-areas-313798
20-09-2021||Karnal||Haryana civic bodies staff take out protest rally||To press for their demands, hundreds of employees of the various civic bodies of Haryana on Sunday held a state-level protest rally in the CM’s city. They wanted to gherao the CM’s camp office, but with the assurance of a meeting with the CM on September 30 to discuss their issues, the employees cancelled their gherao schedule.Naresh Shashtri, state president of the employees association, said all sacked employees should be reinstated contractual employees should be given equal work and salary along with 10 medical and 10 casual leaves. He said they would hold gate meetings at all civic bodies' offices on September 21, and protest in the cities while holding the brooms upside down on September 23. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-civic-bodies-staff-take-out-protest-rally-313595
20-09-2021||Karnal||Pundri MLA Randhir Golan threatens to withdraw support to BJP-JJP alliance||Upset at “not being heard” by officials in Kaithal, independent MLA from Pundri and chairman of the Haryana Tourism Corporation, Randhir Golan, has threatened to withdraw his support to the BJP-JJP alliance.“The bureaucracy is dominating the system. No heed is paid by officials even to MLAs and ministers. In democracy, we have been elected by the public and will continue to raise the issues of the general public. If our issues are not heard, what is our standing as public representatives?” said Golan in a media interaction.He alleged rampant corruption in the police and revenue departments and said that he had prepared a list of the officials involved in corruption. “They would not be spared. If required, I will interact with the CM,” said Golan. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pundri-mla-randhir-golan-threatens-to-withdraw-support-to-bjp-jjp-alliance-313599
20-09-2021||---||Haryana receives awards for quality standards||Chandigarh, September 19Haryana has won awards for the outstanding implementation of National Quality Assurance Standards from the financial year 2018-19 to 2020-21 in the categories of Community Health Centres, Primary Health Centres, while it has received the first runner-up award for Urban Primary Health Centres.Health Minister Anil Vij congratulated the Health Department for the accomplishment. The minister said the department had been working consistently to improve the healthcare facilities in the state and the efforts had ensured excellent health facilities to patients in various wards across the state.The department was today given the awards during a virtual function held on the completion of the Rogi Suraksha Saptah (Patient Safety Week). The function was chaired by Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare Mansukh Mandaviya and was attended by Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Dr Bharti Pravin Pawar and Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Rajesh Bhushan and officers and officials of the Health Department from various states.Vij shared that the nodal agency for implementation of the campaign in Haryana was State Health Systems Resource Centre (SHSRC,) which is overseeing the implementation of National Quality Assurance Programme also.The minister also elaborated that the Rogi Suraksha Saptah was being celebrated across the country from September 11-17, with emphasis on various activities related to patient as facility safety.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-receives-awards-for-quality-standards-313600
20-09-2021||---||Boat capsizes in canal in Yamunanagar, two go missing||Yamunanagar, September 19Two persons, including a diver, went missing when a boat capsized in Western Jamuna Canal (WJC) near Hamida Head in Yamunanagar today.The boat was reportedly carrying six persons. Four occupants swam to safety.The missing persons have been identified as Surender Kumar, diver-cum-employee of the Yamunanagar-Jagadhri Municipal Corporation, and Vijay, a resident of Camp area.The incident took place when the occupants of the boat were tracing a person, who had gone missing while immersing the ashes of his relative in the canal this morning.According to information, Satinder Singh of Camp area of Yamunanagar, along with his relatives, had gone to Hamida Head to immerse the ashes of his uncle in the canal at about 8.30 am when his foot reportedly slipped and he fell into the canal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/boat-capsizes-in-canal-in-yamunanagar-two-go-missing-313601
20-09-2021||---||Faridabad-Palwal belt to have a toll plaza||Palwal, September 19The Faridabad-Palwal belt of NCR part is set to get the ninth toll plaza soon. It will be located near Gadpuri village of Palwal and close to the border with Faridabad.The toll plaza is likely to be functional from October. It is slated to collect toll from commuters on NH-19, connecting Faridabad and Agra.Sources revealed that the new toll point was being developed to recover the cost of six-laning of the national highway between Faridabad and Hodal border.The manager of the Delhi- Agra Toll Road (DATR), Shahnawaz Khan, said 95 per cent work on the toll plaza had been completed, adding that the next plaza on this highway, at present located at Tumsura village in Hodal, is also being shifted to Karman border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-palwal-belt-to-have-a-toll-plaza-313602
20-09-2021||Faridabad||Swachhta plan worries members of civic body||Vij all ears for public grievancesAmbala: Despite suffering from health issues, Home and Health Minister Anil Vij continues to hold his Janta Darbar to resolve the grievances of hundreds of complainants who reach Ambala Cantonment from across the state on every Saturday. The complainants approach him as the last hope for the salutation to their issues in various districts. He keeps listening till the last complainant narrates his/her grievance. While the complainants feel satisfied after narrating their grievances to Vij, the latter says no work should suffer because of him.Traders raise corruption issue with Bhiwani-M’garh MPBhiwani: In a district-level traders’ conference here, the business community raised their grouse about prevalent corruption in the district administration in front of BJP’s Bhiwani-Mahendragarh MP Dharmabir Singh and local MLA Ghanshyam Saraf. They said the situation had reached such a pass that any trader couldn’t remain honest if he wants to get going in the industry. “Nothing works without money for us. Everybody deems and treats us a thief,” the traders added. The BJP leaders, however, were taken aback and admitted that they found it tough to defend the administration on this front. “Corruption has been contained and is comparatively lesser than the previous years,” said the MLA. He, however, added that he would take up the issue with the higher government officials.BJP unit takes credit for Capt Amarinder’s resignationAs Punjab CM Amarinder Singh tendered his resignation, the local BJP unit took the credit for it. A handful of BJP leaders through their social media posts and WhatsApp groups have been crediting their Saturday’s protest for the same. Interestingly, supporters of a local leader gathered with bouquets and sweets at his house congratulating him for Captain Amarinder’s resignation. They had even reportedly planned to put up a “thank you” hoarding for him but the idea was dropped as it may have perturbed the CM, who is visiting the city along with the Vice-President on Sunday. The leaders are even sending their videos of the protest to the state high command.Contributed by: Bijendra Ahlawat, Nitish Sharma, Deepender Deswal, and Sumedha Sharma||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/swachhta-plan-worries-members-of-civic-body-313603
20-09-2021||---||Decision to reduce bajra procurement  anti-farmer: Cong MLA||Hisar, September 19Congress MLA from Tosham Kiran Choudhary alleged that the state government has reduced the target of procurement of pearl millet (bajra) to 1.5 lakh metric tonnes this year against last year’’s actual procurement of 7.76 lakh metric tonnes.In a statement, the Congress leader said the government was forcing the farmers of Bhiwani and Mahendragarh to sell pearl millet to private traders. “The support price of bajra is Rs 2,259, while farmers are getting Rs 1,300 per quintal,” she said, adding that it had exposed the anti-farmer attitude of the government.Yojana fails farmersThe support price of bajra is Rs2,259, while farmers are getting Rs1,300 per quintal. Bhavantar Bharpyee Yojana has failed to provide adequate prices to farmers. —Kiran Choudhary, Congress MLA from toshamChoudhary said the “Bhavantar Bharpyee Yojana” of the government too had failed to provide adequate prices for farmers’ produce as the State Human Rights Commission had taken cognisance of non-reimbursement of claims under the scheme to a large number of poor farmers who had sold their vegetables at throwaway prices. The MLA demanded compensation to the dependents of all deceased farmers who lost their lives during the agitation.Condemning the lathicharge in Karnal, she said farmers were being ill-treated by the government. “The farmers’’ movement is going on peacefully, but the government is trying to instigate the farmers,” she alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/decision-to-reduce-bajra-procurement-anti-farmer-cong-mla-313604
20-09-2021||More than 25 per cent of the population resides in localities on the Bhiwani road but still there is no public park where residents can go for morning walks. In the absence of a park||Park needed in Bhiwani road localities||Unapproved vehicles’ movement dangerousA lot of motorcycles fitted with carriers in unauthorised and self styled manner can be seen on the roads of various sectors in Ambala City. These vehicles are unapproved and mechanically untested which are being used to ferry building materials, iron roads, fruits and vegetables. Sometimes these vehicles carrying irons run at a great speed which may cause fatal accidents. The authorities must look into the issue and take action at once. —Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityCommuters at receiving end in Ambala marketResidents and shopkeepers who park their vehicles at their whims and fancy at the busy Sadar market of Ambala Cantonment have become a cause of traffic jams. People leave their cars on the road while going for shopping and sometimes there is only a narrow passage left which is just sufficient for a single car to move. The administration must pay some attention towards this issue as well and provide relief to commuters. —Ashish, AmbalaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:    haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/park-needed-in-bhiwani-road-localities-313605
20-09-2021||Karnal||Karnal: Women farmers’ seminar||KU award for four scientistsKurukshetra: Kurukshetra University has selected four eminent scientists of the country, Prof NK Mehra (AIIMS, New Delhi), Prof A Ajaya Ghosh (CSIR-NIIST, Thiruvanthipuram), Prof Shyam Sundar (BHU, Varanasi) and Prof Rohini Godbole (IISc, Bangalore) for the coveted Goyal prizes. Each prize consists of a medal, a citation and Rs 2 lakh in cash. This was announced by Prof Som Nath Sachdeva, Vice-Chancellor and chairman of the organising committee for Goyal prizes. These scientists have made great contribution in the areas of applied sciences, chemical sciences, life sciences and physical sciences respectively.Inter-squadron debate cotestAmbala: An inter-squadron debate competition on the topic `Is farmers' agitation a justifiable issue' was organised by the NDA wing of Gurukul Kurukshetra at Maharishi Dayanand Auditorium. Speakers from Alpha Squadron and Bravo Squadron put forward their forceful arguments in favour and against the motion. Alpha Squadron was declared the winner. Cadet Abheynoor was declared the best speaker of the debate competition whereas Cadet Amish Singh was declared second runner up. Third position was shared by Cadet Pancham Kumar and Cadet Sumit Kumar. Col. Arun Datta, director, Gurukul, Kurukshetra complimented all participants for their active participation.National Dance Day celebratedAmbala: National Dance Day was celebrated at OPS Vidya Mandir. The little dancing stars of pre-primary wing celebrated the day with exuberance. Dance competitions, rock n roll and boogie woogie were conducted for the toddlers. The movers and shakers chose their favourite songs. The dual combination of fun and exercise created positive mindset for better health and active lifestyle.'Yuva Prerna Diwas' at YMCA varsityFaridabad: Anand Mohan Sharan, Principal Secretary, Technical and Higher Education, Haryana has called for the launch of initiatives aimed at making the youth self-reliant through skill-based education. Addressing the 'Yuva Prerna Diwas' programme organised recently at the university, Sharan said as the effective implementation of the new National Education Policy was the main focus area of the state government, and the technical and higher education institutions in the state are also equally responsible for ensuring its proper implementation. To mark this occasion, Yuva Ideathon Challenge-2021 was organised by the university to promote the innovative start-up ideas of the youths. The programme was presided over by Prof Dinesh Kumar, VC, JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA here.'Nature in danger' projectYamunanagar: 'Nature in danger' project was conducted by the Indian National Trust for Art and Heritage (INTACH) at Dyal Singh Public School, Jagadhri. Parul Kumar, principal of the school, said students participated in the competition and sent four projects out of which two projects got shortlisted from the Yamunangar chapter and were sent at the national level. She said that it was a matter of great pride for the school that one of their projects was honoured with regional award.Talk show organisedHisar: The training and placement cell of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar organised a talk show under its Udbhavana programme with Nikita Tayal serving as investment banking analyst in JP Morgan, Bombay. Around 100 students attended this online programme. Partap Singh, director, placement said such talk shows are organised to motivate and guide the students about future career perspectives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-women-farmers-seminar-313608
20-09-2021||---||Panel for pre-marital counselling centres in Haryana||Chandigarh, September 19Due to a rise in issues between live-in couples, the Haryana State Commission for Women (HSCW) has recommended the state government to set up pre-marital counselling centres in districts.Holding a press conference, acting chairperson of the commission Preeti Bhardwaj Dalal said besides helping couples in live-in relationships, such counselling centres would also be beneficial for those going for arranged marriages to avoid early marital discord. “Such centres will help in building faith between couples,” she said, adding that the commission would launch a campaign for premarital counselling too. She said if the officials at women police station handled the cases with sensitivity and through mediation, many families could be saved from falling apart.In the past three days, the commission has heard 70 complaints from Panipat, Sonepat, Kaithal, and Kurukshetra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panel-for-pre-marital-counselling-centres-in-haryana-313596
20-09-2021||Ravinder Saini||Admissions to edu course yet to begin, pvt colleges move HC||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 19Haryana Self-Finance Private Colleges Association, a group of private colleges running Diploma in Elementary Education (D.El.Ed) course, has filed writ petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court against State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), Gurugram, for not releasing the admission schedule for the course this year.The case will come up for hearing on September 21.The petitioner has prayed that either the state carries out centralised admissions process for the course or the colleges be permitted to take admissions on their own level as admissions are being made in adjoining states like Punjab, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.Case to be heard on Sept 21There is no bar on a student taking admission in any other state. The situation will force candidates from Haryana to take admission in other states in case the admissions process doesn’t commence soon, the association added.“We had to move High Court on getting no positive response from the Education Minister and Director, SCERT, despite submitting separate representations regarding commencement of the admission process for the D.El.Ed course. It is already too late and candidates are persistently contacting us for admissions. The D.El.Ed course is governed by the National Council for Teachers Education (NCET). Thus, not initiating the admission process for the course is also against the NCTE Act and regulations 1993,” said Satish Khola, president of the association.He maintained the government had discontinued the course at its colleges across the state two years ago and now, it wanted to scrap it in private colleges as well. Getting education is a fundamental right of every person. Hence, the government cannot discontinue the course without any firm reason.There were 342 private colleges in the state and over 5,100 teaching and non-teaching employees are employed there. No admissions to the course would not only ensure closure of the colleges, but also render all employees jobless, Khola added.Notably, the government is seriously contemplating scrapping the course, pleading that it is not needed in the new Education Policy and the number of diploma holders is already surplus in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/admissions-to-edu-course-yet-to-begin-pvt-colleges-move-hc-313598
20-09-2021||Sonepat||Protesting farmer from Samrala dies at Singhu||A 74-year-old farmer, Jai Singh, of Dhinsa village of Samrala in Punjab was found dead in his tent under suspicious circumstances at the Singhu border this morning.Heart attack was suspected to be the reason behind the death. The farmer was an active member of the BKU (Lakhowal) and had come to participate in the farmers’ protest at here around six months ago and was staying in the tent. He reportedly had an acre of land.Jai Singh did not get up in the morning when his fellow farmers approached him. They called a doctor, who declared him dead. The body was sent for post-mortem, said inspector Ravi Kumar, SHO, Kundli. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesting-farmer-from-samrala-dies-at-singhu-313583
20-09-2021||Deepender Deswal||Stir not hit by Punjab’s change of guard: Farmers||Tribune News ServiceHisar, September 19The change of guard in Punjab is unlikely to have any bearing on the farmers’ agitation that has been going strong for the past many months at the Singhu and Tikri borders along the national capital.Haryana farmers, who are standing shoulder-to-shoulder with their Punjab counterparts in the agitation, see in Capt Amarinder Singh a champion of farmers who supported the stir in his state.The farmers from Punjab stated that it is the political compulsion of the Congress government in Punjab to support the farmers’ agitation. “The farmers issue will play a major role in the upcoming elections in Punjab. The new Chief Minister, Charanjit Singh Channi, too had expressed support to the agitation when he was a minister the Amarinder Singh Cabinet,” said Jasbir Kaur, a farmer activist from Punjab, adding that Captain Amarinder had failed to fulfil pre-poll promises in Punjab.Labh Singh, a farmer activist from Tohana in Haryana, said the state farmers see Capt Amarinder Singh as a leader who was backing the Punjab farmers with all kinds of support from the beginning of the agitation.“Captain Amarinder has gained much support from Haryana farmers on the issue of the farmers’ agitation. He is being seen as a strong leader who is standing with the farmers in Punjab,” he said.Ramkumar, a political expert, maintained that the new Chief Minister would have to be more vocal than Amarinder in supporting the farmers. “He has very little time with him as the elections are just six months away. There is a possibility that Channi will be more supportive of farmers,” he added.Ravi Azad, a Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader from Bhiwani, said that farmer leaders are not concerned about political changes. “We are going strong on our issues and want rollback of the three agriculture laws. Though attendance at the dharna sites is slightly low nowadays, we expect that the people from Punjab will start returning to dharna sites after completing their agricultural works of the kharif season soon,” he said.A routine process: Hry Cong inchargeKarnal: State Cong affairs incharge Vivek Bansal on Sunday said the change of guard in Punjab was a routine process. It was the result of the feelings of the MLAs. “The BJP changed six CMs recently,” Bansal told the media at the residence of AICC secretary Virender Rathore in Sector 13. On being asked about the stir, Bansal said the farmers were in a do-or-die situation and the govt should listen to their issues positively by keeping aside its “ego”. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stir-not-hit-by-punjabs-change-of-guard-farmers-313584
20-09-2021||---||Sir Chhotu Ram understood farm issues: M Venkaiah Naidu||Gurugram, September 19Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu today called for developing an integrated approach towards rural economy to ensure income security for farmers.Lauding farmers for not letting the country down even during the trying times of Covid, he emphasised that our objective should be the overall and holistic improvement of rural society.Olympians & Paralympians honouredNaidu was in the city today to release five volumes of “Sir Chhotu Ram: Writings and Speeches” of Sir Chhotu Ram, whom he credited with major agricultural reforms in undivided Punjab.“Improving the quality of life in rural areas will be a true tribute to revolutionary visionaries like him. Taking lessons from our past experiences, we must regularly revisit and renew our strategies on agriculture and rural development,” he said.Addressing the gathering, Naidu lauded the efforts of the Haryana Academy of History and Culture for documenting the works and suggested that copies of the publication should be available in public libraries and Panchayat Ghar.”Sir Chhotu Ram worked tirelessly to bring reforms in the agriculture sector and free farmers from the exploitation of money lenders. He was the first person to visualise the Bhakra Nagal dam on the Sutlej, the Vice-President said. He was a farmer’s son and had deep understating of farmers’ problems, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sir-chhotu-ram-understood-farm-issues-m-venkaiah-naidu-313585
20-09-2021||---||Key admn posts vacant in Meham, locals suffer||Rohtak, September 19Meham MLA Balraj Kundu, in a letter to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, said the residents of the township had been facing difficulties in getting administrative work done due to unavailability of key government officials.The posts of administrative officials such as Tehsildar, Naib Tehsildar, Block Development Officer and Panchayat Officer and Block Education Officer are lying vacant as the officials appointed on these posts have not joined their duties.The post of Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) was also lying unoccupied for a long time till recently.The unavailability of government officials has led to residents facing difficulties in getting official documents and certificates such as domicile certificate, driving licence, vehicle registration, birth and death certificates among others.The MLA has urged the Chief Minister to take cognisance of the matter and intervene to get the vacant posts filled.“Residents of Meham are facing problems as several key administrative posts in various government departments have been lying vacant for a long time now. Certain officials, who have been posted here, have not joined duty, owing to which residents are suffering,” the letter reads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/key-admn-posts-vacant-in-meham-locals-suffer-313586
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Colleges, polytechnics to reopen in Haryana||The state on Sunday allowed the reopening of colleges and polytechnics for students even as it extended the Covid lockdown by another fortnight till October 4.Meanwhile, various relaxations, including the opening of restaurants, bars, malls, club houses, gyms, spas and shops, will continue.“The Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana is extended in the state along with guidelines to be implemented during this period issued vide earlier orders till October 4,” an order issued by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan said.Residential universities had been asked to continue with online mode of education till October 15. As per other relaxations allowed earlier, conduct of entrance and recruitment exams by different universities, institutes or government departments and recruitment agencies will continue to be permissible.All Covid guidelines, including those related to social distancing, sanitisation and seating capacity would have to be followed, the order said. It also said immediate action might be initiated/ensured by the university administration to fully vaccinate all hostel students, day scholars, faculty and other staff including the outsourced ones. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/colleges-polytechnics-to-reopen-in-haryana-313587
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Arhtiyas seek SIT probe into ‘irregularities’ in paddy purchase||Alleging irregularities in the purchase of paddy by some rice millers of Nissing, a few commission agents on Sunday demanded a probe by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) into the matter.Addressing a press conference here, the commission agents alleged they had not been able to recover their payment for the past six months despite the registration of 27 FIRs in the past six years.Commission agents, including Manish Malik, Rajveer Malik, Manish Garg, Amit Mittal, Hemant Kumar, Ashok Kumar, Virendra Garg and Sonit, alleged that a private mill defrauded them by not paying their dues. The mill was shut in connivance with high officials, which resulted in embezzlement of crores of rupees of arhtiyas and farmers.All cases should be probed by forming an SIT for the entire state, the commission agents under the Peedit Arhtiya Sangh added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arhtiyas-seek-sit-probe-into-irregularities-in-paddy-purchase-313588
20-09-2021||Palwal||Palwal: Dr BR Ambedkar Government College principal booked for sexual assault||The police have registered a case of sexual assault against the principal of Dr BR Ambedkar Government College here.According to the police complaint, the accused, Babu Lal, allegedly molested and used force on a woman employee with intent to outrage her modesty on the campus recently. The 39-year-old victim, who reportedly consumed some poisonous substance after the incident, claimed the accused had called her to his office on September 11 and 13 and allegedly offered to regularise her job in return for having physical relations with him. She said while she had been working on outsourcing basis for the past few years, the accused had first called her in his office in January 2021 to reveal his intentions.Charges BaselessCharges levelled against me are totally false. It’s an attempt to pressurise me to get the complainant’s job regularised. We have recahed a compromise on the issue. —Babu Lal, Accused PrincipalThe victim claimed that the accused tried to assault her twice on September 13 and 17.On Friday, the victim was admitted to a private hospital for treatment after she reportedly consumed some poisonous substance . On the basis of her statement to the police, a case under Sections 323, 354, 354A, 506 and 509, IPC, was registered against the accused on Saturday. “The arrest will be made as soon as the victim gives her statement before a judicial magistrate,” said the Investigating Officer.Refuting the allegations, prinicipal Babu Lal told The Tribune over the phone that the charges levelled against him were completely fabricated and false, and were an attempt to pressurise him to get the complainant’s job regularised. A compromise on the issue had been reached on Sunday and the woman had agreed to withdraw the complaint, he claimed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/palwal-dr-br-ambedkar-government-college-principal-booked-for-sexual-assault-313589
20-09-2021||---||Jhajjar: Crackdown on bikes with altered silencers||Jhajjar, September 19Tightening noose around bikers who have modified the silencers of their motorbikes to produce a firecracker-like sound, the district police have impounded a total 141 bikes this year and slapped a penalty of Rs 16.15 lakh on them.The police have also decided to intensify the campaign against such violators in the coming days.“Locals have got some relief after the drive against the use of modified silencers. Such youths deliberatelyuse the sound in crowded places to cause scare among people. It also leads to noise pollution,” said Om Prakash, an ex-serviceman.Jhajjar SP Rajesh Duggal said teams deputed at various points in Bahadurgarh and Jhajjar had especially been instructed to curb the growing use of modified silencers producing firecracker-like sound.Devender Kumar, SHO, Traffic Police Station, Bahadurgarh, said the use of such modified silencers invited a penalty of at least Rs 10,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-crackdown-on-bikes-with-altered-silencers-313590
20-09-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Yamunanagar plywood industry struggles hard for survival||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, September 19Despite increased rates of plywood, board and flush doors, the plywood industry of Yamunanagar district is struggling hard for its survival.Lack of funds, orders from clients and increased rates of raw materials including timber, formaldehyde, preservative dipping chemical, phenol and shuttering base papers’ cost are believed to be the main reasons behind the struggle of this industry.Increased rates due to short supplyAccording to information, the rates of poplar wood, which is used to manufacture all types of plywood and board, have witnessed an increase of 25 per cent due to its short supply. Sources said the rates of oversize poplar wood were Rs 800 per quintal in February 2020, but after the first and the second waves of Covid, the rates have now reached to Rs 1,000 per quintal of this size wood. Anil Garg, director, Ambalika Plywood Private Limited said there were two major reasons behind the short supply of poplar wood and an increase in its rates. “The plywood industry of Yamunanagar district receives about 80 per cent supply of poplar wood from Uttar Pradesh. But now, a lot of plywood factories have come up in Uttar Pradesh itself and the farmers of Uttar Pradesh prefer to supply their poplar wood to factories, situated in their surrounding areas. Second, we have to spend more transport expenses (Rs 150 per quintal extra) than the factories of Uttar Pradesh to get supply of poplar wood,” said Anil Garg.Facing huge crunch of fundsThey are getting orders, but most of the orders are on credit, while the orders of cash are very less. Therefore, this industry is facing a huge crunch of funds. —JK Bihani, president, haryana plywood manufacturers’ associationUP farmers not selling wood to USThe plywood industry of Yamunanagar district receives about 80 per cent supply of poplar wood from Uttar Pradesh. But now a lot of plywood factories have come up in UP itself and the farmers there prefer to supply their poplar wood to factories situated in their surrounding. areas. —Anil Garg, director, Ambalika plywood private limitedAccording to information, before the lockdown was imposed in March 2020; about 2 lakh quintals of poplar wood (including some quantity of eucalyptus wood) was being supplied daily here, but now the supply had come down to less than 1 lakh quintals.“They are getting orders, but, most of the orders are on credit, while the orders of cash are very less ,” said JK Bihani, president, Haryana Plywood Manufacturers’ Association. He said they held a meeting of the association on July 24, 2021 and decided to raise the rates of plywood, board and flush doors by 7 per cent and rates of film faced plywood by Rs 2 per sq feet with immediate effect for the survival of the industry, but that too did not help.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-plywood-industry-struggles-hard-for-survival-313591
20-09-2021||---||Chief Minister’s Twitter handle to rescue of Haryana residents||Chandigarh, September 19Haryana Chief Minister’s Twitter handle is proving to be effective in resolving residents’complaints.Bhupeshwar Dayal, OSD to the CM, said Rahul Verma, a resident of Faridabad, tweeted on September 6 that some girls had complained of stalking by certain miscreants near Sector 37, Faridabad.He said immediate cognisance was taken by the CMO and the Commissioner of Police directed the SHO concerned to teach a lesson to the miscreants. Rahul Verma retweeted his reply on September 7 saying that the police had done the needful.Similarly, @arpitHR02 posted on Twitter that his mother got the first dose of vaccine on August 28 in Sarojini Colony, Yamunanagar. However, there was no information about which vaccine was given to her, neither a message was sent to the mobile number nor was there any data on CO-WIN App and Arogya Setu App, due to which vaccination certificate was also unavailable. On September 6, the matter was resolved.In two other cases, Ankit Rawal from Panipat and Vikas Tiwari from Sonepat tweeted regarding waterlogging in their colonies. The Public Health Engineering Department had the water drained out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chief-ministers-twitter-handle-to-rescue-of-haryana-residents-313592
20-09-2021||---||Portal prepared for admission to govt, pvt ITIs in Haryana||Chandigarh, September 19Haryana Skill Development and Industrial Training Minister Mool Chand Sharma has said that a new portal has been prepared by the department for admission in all government and private ITIs across the state.It has been prepared with the help of NIC and has been linked with Parivar Pehchan Patra, easing the application process for students. Applicants can apply directly through the link itiharyanaadmissions.nic.in.The minister said that Parivar Pehchan Patra is a flagship scheme of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. While linking PPP with this portal, most of the details of the applicant will be filled automatically which will help in saving the applicant’s time. He added that admission is to be done for 86,000 seats of 172 government ITIs and 200 private ITIs across the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/portal-prepared-for-admission-to-govt-pvt-itis-in-haryana-313593
20-09-2021||---||Checking water theft in Haryana with real-time data||Chandigarh, September 19To check canal water theft, CM Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday inaugurated real-time data acquisition system (RTDAS). In the first phase, the RTDAS has been installed at 90 places across the state.The CM said use of technology in water management was essential these days, so RTDAS had been installed. He said, “We cannot produce more water, it can only be managed. The circumstances are emerging from different studies that if water is being exploited in the same manner, then there is a possibility of a desert-like situation in upcoming years. Therefore, timely water management is very essential.”He said the Haryana Government had prepared a two-year plan for water management last year. Under this, “Mera Pani, Meri Virasat Yojana” is getting good public response, as an incentive of Rs 7,000 is being provided to the farmers’ adopting the scheme. The Chief Minister said the government was also implementing Jal Jeevan Mission and other water management schemes across the state.Not all places were facing water scarcity. The water level is low at some places whereas it is high at other places. In such a situation, micro irrigation system scheme was being used for irrigation so that water could reach even the areas of south Haryana having water scarcity issues.The RTDAS will enable tracking of water released into the canal. If there is a case of water theft midway, then a message will be sent to the official concerned. Through the RTDAS, the data of complete water level in canals will also be available with the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/checking-water-theft-in-haryana-with-real-time-data-313594
20-09-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Farmers skip talks on NH blockade||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, September 19Farmers’ leaders today did not attend a meeting scheduled by the state government at Murthal to find a solution to the protest blockade on NH-44 following the recent Supreme Court directions to allow one-way passage to commuters on the Kundli-Singhu border.The meeting called by a high-powered committee headed by Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajeev Arora ended after a discussion with members of industrialists’ associations, who had also been invited. Arora said it was the first meeting of the committee, and more rounds would be held till the matter was resolved. Sonepat DC Lalit Siwach had invited 43 Samyukt Kisan Morcha members to talk with the government committee. But, leaders of 32 Punjab farmers’ unions and the Samyukt Kisan Morcha had announced yesterday that they would boycott the meeting.A delegation of industrialists’ association of Rai, Kundli, Bahadurgarh, Murthal and Barhi which attended the meeting said 5,000 industries in the district had employed 4.5 lakh labourers and their business was being affected due to the farmers’ protest.Sonepat is a hub of MSME industries but the production has been reduced by over 30%, said industrialist Dheeraj Chaudhary. Another industrialist Rakesh Chhabra said the issue must be resolved as soon as possible.Efforts to find a solution would continue and, if needed, the committee might go to Singhu border too, Arora said.74-year-old Punjab farmer dies at SinghuSonepat: A 74-year-old farmer from Samrala in Punjab was found dead in his tent on Sunday. Heart attack is suspected to be the reason behind the death of Jai Singh, camping at the protest site for the past around six months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-skip-talks-on-nh-blockade-313495
20-09-2021||Dipender Manta||Car with Haryana number falls in Beas river in Mandi on Chandigarh-Manali highway, no trace of passengers||Tribune News ServiceMandi, September 19A car bearing number of Haryana state fell into Beas river near Saudi Khad on Chandigarh-Manali highway on Sunday. So far, there was no trace about the occupants of car.According to police, some passerby noticed the car in Beas river and informed the police about this mishap.The police have engaged divers to locate the occupants of the car.The police are also trying to find out the contact number of the owner of this car to establish contact with the family of the victims.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/car-with-haryana-number-falls-in-beas-river-in-mandi-on-chandigarh-manali-highway-no-trace-of-passengers-313338
