22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Singhu, Tikri borders closed, Vij directs officials to open alternative routes to Delhi||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Wednesday directed officials to immediately open alternative routes in Sonepat and Jhajjar districts towards Delhi as the Singhu and Tikri borders remain closed due to the farmers’ protest.He asked them to start repairs on these roads so that people do not face any kind of problem commuting to Delhi on these routes from Haryana, an official statement said.Keeping in mind the inconvenience faced by the people due to the closure of the main roads on the highway by the agitating farmers, all alternative routes will have to be opened and repaired at the earliest, and work in this regard will start soon, the minister said.He said that repairs and filling of potholes on the roads being used by the people going to Delhi should be started from Thursday.Haryana BKU (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni, addressing a farmers’ gathering in Kurukshetra district on Wednesday, said the farmers sitting at Delhi’s borders will not budge till the three contentious farm laws are repealed.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and elsewhere have been sitting at Delhi’s borders for nearly 10 months demanding the repeal of the laws.At the meeting with officials, Vij said Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation roads are the main alternative routes from Sonepat to Delhi, and they should be repaired at the earliest. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/singhu-tikri-borders-closed-vij-directs-officials-to-open-alternative-routes-to-delhi-314769
22-09-2021||---||Can’t give anticipatory bail where accused jumps bail: Punjab and Haryana HC||Chandigarh, September 22The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that anticipatory bail cannot be extended to cases where an accused was apprehending arrest due to jumping bail. “The scope of 438 CrPC cannot be extended to cases where such apprehension of arrest is on account of jumping bail,” Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill ruled.Referring to the provisions of law, Justice Gill asserted a person may approach the Courts under provisions of Section 438 CrPC for grant of anticipatory bail only when there was an apprehension of arrest upon an accusation being made — upon the institution of an FIR, lodging of a complaint or being summoned by the Court for the first time to face trial.The assertion came on a petition seeking anticipatory bail regarding a criminal complaint under Section 138 of Negotiable Instruments Act. The Bench was told that his bail was cancelled following the petitioner’s absence before the trial Court on July 6, 2019, and on subsequent dates.Justice Gill added the Court could not lose sight of the fact that an accused in certain cases might not be able to appear before the trial Court on account of genuine reasons, such as incorrect noting of the date or certain reasons beyond his control.In such cases, the accused could surrender before the trial Court. It was expected that the trial Courts, in turn, would take a lenient view in genuine cases and decide the regular bail application expeditiously.“In a given set of circumstances where the trial Court is satisfied that there were valid reasons for the absence of an accused and that he has surrendered at the shortest possible time, the trial Court can, in fact, dispose of the regular bail application on the very day the same is presented by accused upon his surrender,” Justice Gill added.Before parting with the case, Justice Gill added that the trial Court, in its discretion, may also choose to grant interim bail, in fit cases, but only after the surrender of the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cant-give-anticipatory-bail-where-accused-jumps-bail-punjab-and-haryana-hc-314761
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Channi meets Khattar, hopes for cooperation between Punjab, Haryana||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday met his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar here and expressed hope that the two states will work together with the spirit of friendship and cooperation.  Khattar also expressed hope that with mutual cooperation, they will work for the overall development of the region.Channi, who was sworn-in as Punjab CM on Monday, and met Khattar in the latter’s office here.“I hope Punjab and Haryana would work together with the spirit of friendship and cooperation,” said Channi.Channi offered sweets to Khattar during his visit.According to an official statement, Khattar congratulated Channi on being sworn-in as the new chief minister of Punjab.The Haryana CM said that it will be his endeavour to ensure the smooth progress of the region by working together in the spirit of mutual love, harmony and cooperation.Khattar wished Channi a bright future and also welcomed him by presenting him a bouquet.  Khattar presented a copy of the Shrimad Bhagavad Gita, a memento and a shawl to Channi. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/channi-meets-khattar-hopes-for-cooperation-between-punjab-haryana-314760
22-09-2021||New Delhi||Farmers’ protest against 3 agri laws completes 300 days||As the ongoing farmers’ protest against three contentious agriculture laws of the Centre completed 300 days on Wednesday, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) said the movement is a testimony to the will and determination of lakhs of farmers across the country that would only grow stronger.“It has been 300 days since lakhs of farmers were forced to stay put at Delhi’s borders. The protesting farmers have been peacefully communicating their resistance against a corporate takeover of India’s food and farming systems.“Their demands are clear and known to the (Narendra) Modi government, which has been obstinately choosing not to agree to these legitimate demands of farmers, even though farmers constitute the largest set of workers in the country and even though elections in our democracy are won through votes cast mainly by farmers,” a statement issued by the SKM said.“The Samyukt Kisan Morcha states that this historic movement stands as a testimony to the will, resolve and hope of lakhs of farmers across the country. The SKM also vows to strengthen the movement, going forward, and make it more widespread,” it added.Meanwhile, preparations for the “Bharat bandh” called by the SKM on September 27 are in full swing.“Various sections of the society are being reached out to by farmers’ outfits in different parts of the country to get their support and solidarity to the farmers’ cause, which is also becoming a movement to protect India’s democracy,” the SKM said.According to the statement, workers’ unions, trade unions, employees’ and students’ unions, women’s organisations, transporters’ associations, in addition to the joint planning meetings of many farmers’ organisations, are being roped in for the planning of the “bandh”.Kisan mahapanchayats are also being organised to get more citizens to rally around the “bandh” call. Cycle and motorcycle rallies are also being organised, the SKM said. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-against-3-agri-laws-completes-300-days-314751
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Helicopter crash: Army pilot cremated with full military honours in Panchkula||The mortal remains of Major Anuj Rajput, who was killed along with his co-pilot when their helicopter crash-landed in a dense forest in Jammu and Kashmir, were consigned to flames with full military honours in Panchkula on Wednesday.Wrapped in the Tricolour, a coffin carrying his body was brought to the cremation ground in Panchkula from his home in the Haryana city near here, where a large number of people joined Army personnel to bid a tearful adieu to him.Floral wreaths were laid and the last rites of Major Rajput were performed with full military honours, including a gun salute.Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, who is the ruling BJP MLA from Panchkula, was also present when the funeral was performed.Earlier in the day, the Army officer’s mortal remains were brought to his hometown, Panchkula.The family members of Major Rajput, a bachelor who had turned 28 just a few days ago, were inconsolable when the body reached their Panchkula home.Major Rohit Kumar and Major Rajput were on a training sortie when their Cheetah helicopter crash-landed in Shiv Garh Dhar near Patnitop in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, resulting in grave injuries. Both the pilots succumbed to the injuries at Command Hospital, Udhampur where they had been evacuated for treatment. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/helicopter-crash-army-pilot-cremated-with-full-military-honours-in-panchkula-314748
22-09-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram police start impounding old vehicles||In the compliance of the orders of Supreme Court and NGT about the closure of 10-year-old diesel and 15-year-old petrol vehicles, Gurugram police started the special impound operations again on Wednesday.On Wednesday, the traffic police confiscated a ten-year-old Swift car while it was operating on road.The vehicles shall be impounded and deposited at special yard located near Rajiv Chowk.Surprisingly the Gurugram traffic police does not have the data of how many ten and 15-year-old vehicles are in the district. In this situation the traffic police has sought list of these vehicles from RTA.DCP Traffic Ravindra Tomar has given strict instructions to all 100 traffic zonal officers (ZOs) today that they should pay special attention to vehicles that are ten and 15-years-old.He said that all vehicles whether registered with Gurugram authority or registered from other states will be confiscated. Such vehicles are not allowed to ply in Gurugram.“Gurugram police seized 208 vehicles from January 2021 to September 22, 2021. After seizing all the vehicles, a yard has been built near Rajiv Chowk where the vehicles are parked. From 2018 till now, Gurugram traffic police has seized 640 such vehicles in the district. A letter has been written to RTA to know numbers of such vehicles. Now the police stop the vehicles and check their RC and then take action,” added DCP Tomar.Meanwhile, DC Dr Yash Garg has also written a letter in all the offices of the district giving instructions not to drive vehicles that are ten and 15-years-old. Following the direction all the departments have started collecting the information of vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-police-start-impounding-old-vehicles-314743
22-09-2021||New Delhi||AAP will launch a statewide campaign in Haryana on issue of corruption||Following the completion of its eight-day “yatra” in support of farmers and peasants across Haryana, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will now soon launch a campaign to highlight corruption during the incumbent BJP rule in the state.“AAP will launch a campaign on the issue of corruption. A sit-in agitation has started in Jind and the same will now be replicated across Haryana,” AAP Rajya sabha MP and in-charge of Haryana Sushil Gupta said here on Wednesday.The issue of corruption will be highlighted even while the party would remain centred on farmers’ issues, which include roll back of the three Central agro-laws, jobs to each of the families whose members lost lives during agitation against the farm-laws, and withdrawal of criminal cases against those farmers who were booked during the protests.   “The state-wide ‘Kisan Mazdoor, Khet Bachao Yatra’ of the AAP received good response from the public. The proposed campaign against corruption is expected to receive equally good response.”The yatra, which commenced from Rohtak and terminated at Palwal, was led by Gupta. It passed through all the 90 assembly constituencies of the state, and claimed to have covered 4000 Km. “The BJP government is neck-deep in corruption, even while its functionaries claim to provide transparent administration.” The AAP is in the process of establishing its base and wants to test its strength in the next elections to village panchayats and urban local bodies before it sets its eyes on assembly and Lok Sabha elections.The AAP has charged that the BJP-government was unnerved by the growing popularity of AAP. Hence, it is resorting to gimmicks and shelving the civic body elections on flimsy grounds.Gupta also took jibe at the main Opposition Congress in Haryana, saying it was responsible||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aap-will-launch-a-statewide-campaign-in-haryana-on-issue-of-corruption-314719
22-09-2021||---||Haryana to give subsidy for buying e-vehicles||Chandigarh, September 22Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said that in a bid to encourage use of e-vehicles in the state, the state government had decided to give subsidy to the people for purchasing e-vehicles. The government has also formulated a vehicle-scrap policy for the discontinuation of vehicles older than the prescribed period in the NCR region, said Khattar.The Chief Minister said this while interacting with media after inaugurating an awareness exhibition on e-vehicles organised at the Civil Secretariat here on the occasion of ‘World Car-Free Day’.While calling upon the people of the state to protect the environment, Khattar said the environment was getting polluted due to the increase in the number of vehicles.People consider vehicles as status symbols, due to which employees and officers use them as the main mode of commuting even when they stay close to their offices, said the Chief Minister.On the occasion of ‘World Car-Free Day’, the Chief Minister called upon people to take a pledge to adopt a car-pooling system or to travel on foot or cycle to nearby places.The Chief Minister said while taking steps to reduce pollution levels, till now plying of CNG buses was being encouraged in Gurugram, but now the emphasis would be laid on running e-buses and e-autos there too.Earlier, Khattar, Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar, Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister JP Dalal and many MLAs cycled from the Chief Minister’s residence to the Punjab and Haryana Civil Secretariat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-give-subsidy-for-buying-e-vehicles-314705
22-09-2021||---||Sameer Pal Srow apointed Haryana State Environment Impact Assessment Authority chief||Chandigarh, September 22Retired Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer Sameer Pal Srow has been appointed chairman of the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA), Haryana.A notification to this effect has been issued by Sujit Kumar Bajpayee, Joint Secretary of the Union Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change.Constituted by the ministry, the Authority is mandated to clear the public and private project keeping in view their impact on the fragile ecosystem. Srow has been the Director General, Information and Public Relations, besides being deputy commissioner of key districts in Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sameer-pal-srow-apointed-haryana-state-environment-impact-assessment-authority-chief-314674
22-09-2021||Ravinder Saini||31-year-old woman gets new lease of life at Rohtak PGIMS||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 21A team of doctors at the obstetrics and gynaecology department at PGIMS has given a new lease of life to a 31-year-old woman by operating on her abdominal pregnancy of almost 37 weeks after the MRI examination found her baby dead in the abdomen.The doctors claim that it is a type of ectopic pregnancy and merely one case is found in 10,000 expectant women. There is always a serious threat to woman’s life and a strong possibility of damage to other organs in such cases but the operation was a successful one.“The woman is resident of Sonepat and had come to PGIMS four days ago after she experienced no movement of her unborn baby. The patients had regular ante-natal check-ups and ultrasound tests, which reported it a case of intrauterine pregnancy, but we found it a case of abdominal pregnancy,” said Dr Pushpa Dahiya, unit head of the department, who operated on the patient.“Generally, abdominal pregnancy is diagnosed at two to three months as the baby does not remain alive in the abdomen for long. But in this case, the pregnancy period was over and the baby’s growth was also normal because of proper blood supply from intestines, uterus and other organs,” said Dr Pushpa.Dr Pushpa said the baby was found glued with the intestines and uterus of the woman. The baby had no heart beat and hence the operation was performed immediately. The patient’s condition was well and had no postoperative complaints yet, she added.Dr Pushpa maintained that the baby could have been saved had the woman come three to four days earlier.“A normal fertilised egg gets implanted in the uterus where it rises and develops. After maturity, the uterus expels it, leading to the birth of the baby. But in this case, the fertilised egg diverted its way and got stuck in the abdomen, threatening the life of the mother,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/31-year-old-woman-gets-new-lease-of-life-at-rohtak-pgims-314478
22-09-2021||Parveen Arora||Super-100 Programme: In Karnal, future of 43 students in limbo||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, September 21The future of 43 students selected under the Super-100 Programme is in limbo in the absence of professionals at the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) at Shahpur village in the district.For govt school students onlyOur dreams are shatteredWe were enthusiastic when we joined the classes, but our dreams are shattered. Now, our future is bleak as we have no hope that experts will teach us for competitive exams. Abhishek, a student from HisarWritten to education departmentFaculty members of the assigned coaching centre are not coming to conduct classes, for which we have written to the higher authorities of the Education Department. Ravinder Chaudhary, Principal dietIt is an ambitious programme of the Haryana Government, aimed at providing free coaching of JEE, IIT and NEET competitive exams to meritorious students who have passed Class X.The programme was started in 2018 for providing a platform to students of government schools to crack the National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE). In Karnal’s DIET institute, the first batch was started in February 2021. The programme was launched for the students from various government schools who could not afford expensive coaching for competitive exams. The coaching, boarding, lodging, food and uniforms are free for these students. The students were also provided tablets for study free of cost. As many as 50 students were selected here, but now only 43 are left.As per the students and their parents, the professionals from the assigned coaching agency have not been coming to DIET to conduct classes for the past around five months.The students and their parents are worried and blaming the government for shattering their dreams. They are demanding their migration to other centres where regular classes are being conducted.“My daughter Monika was selected under the Super-100 Programme to get free coaching for competitive exams. The session was started in February 2021 and the classes were conducted for around two months, but after that no regular classes were conducted,” said Ramesh Kumar of Fatehabad. He maintained that two precious years of his daughter had been wasted. She had been going for regular classes for board exams. No study for competitive exams was being conducted here, he added.Abhishek, a student of Hisar, said they were enthusiastic when they joined the classes, but their dreams were shattered. Now, their future was bleak as they had no hope that experts would teach them for competitive exams.Another student said only classes for board exams was being conducted for which they could prepare at their home in a better way. “We need professional guidance for our competitive exams, which was the mandate of this programme, but we are not getting it,” said another student.Principal DIET, Ravinder Chaudhary, said the faculty members of the assigned coaching centre were not coming to conduct classes, for which they had written to the higher authorities of the Education Department. Five teachers have been appointed by the DEO from government schools to conduct their classes. “We can provide them boarding and lodging facility. The experts were to be sent by the agency,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/super-100-programme-in-karnal-future-of-43-students-in-limbo-314479
22-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Inmate thrashed for not paying Rs5 lakh ransom in Bhondsi jail||Gurugram, September 21A Ghaziabad man lodged in Bhondsi jail has accused four inmates of brutally thrashing him for not paying up a ransom of Rs 5 lakh to use jail facilities. An FIR has been registered at the Bhondsi police station after 51 days of investigation. The police have started proceedings for taking the accused on production warrant for questioning.According to the complaint filed by Ayush Garg, a resident of Delhi Gate, Ghaziabad (UP), that he had come to Bhondsi jail on June, 21 this year in a case of fraud. After a few days in jail, chairman Elamuddin, numberdar Sachin and Shakrulla met him.The next day chairman Elamuddin called him to the women’s ward and said that if he wanted to survive in the jail and get access to phones, hospital and escape work he had to pay Rs 5 lakh.“He warned me that there will be a lot of trouble in jail. Apart from this, phone, canteen and hospital facilities will also not be available if I did not give them money”, as the complaint told the police.After this incident, Ayush called his mother and told her about the incident. The next day his brother and sister-in-law arrived to meet him and while talking, the chairman told Ayush’s family that his man was standing outside and that they should hand over Rs 5 lakh to him. His family members said that the money had not yet been arranged. After that Elamuddin threatened Ayush saying that he was lying and now he would have to give Rs 20 lakh.“After this Shekhar, Sachin, Shakrulla took me again to the women’s ward. Elamuddin asked his associates to teach me a lesson and brutally beat me. They made four calls to my house and forced them to get the money. When my family refused to give money, they banned phone, hospital and canteen facilities for me and I suffered a lot of injuries but I did not go to the jail hospital due to fear. Somehow, I got admitted to the jail hospital but I also lied to the doctor that I was hurt by falling in the bathroom. Finally, my family went to the police”, said Ayush.After getting information a special inquiry was conducted into the same and after 51 day-long investigation, the police took the statement of the victim.Following the statement, an FIR has been registered against all four inmates Elamuddin, numberdar Sachin, Shekhar and Shakrulla under Sections 384 (extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of the IPC at the Bhondsi police station.“We have lodged an FIR and are investigating. The accused are lodged in the jail and they will be taken on production warrant soon”, said inspector Jagbir Singh, SHO of the Bhondsi police station. Despite several attempts Harinder Singh, Superintendent of the jail did not respond to numerous calls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/inmate-thrashed-for-not-paying-rs5-lakh-ransom-in-bhondsi-jail-314480
22-09-2021||---||Applications invited from students for minority community scholarships||Chandigarh, September 21The Union Ministry of Minority Affairs has decided to provide scholarships for the year 2021-22 to eligible students belonging to the Muslim, Sikh, Buddhist, Christian, Jain and Zoroastrian community for pre-matriculation, post-matriculation and merit-cum-means-based eligible students.The eligibility criteria for pre-matric, post-matric and merit-cum-means based for each minority community is 50 per cent or more in final examinations. Applications have been invited at the national scholarship portal at www.scholarship.gov.in.An official spokesperson said the income and minority certificate must be issued by the competent authority declared by the state government, or else the application would be rejected. According to the guidelines issued by the government, the scholarship will be directly transferred to the bank account of the students/guardians, he added.The applicants can avail scholarship for only one course/class at a time.The spokesperson said for online scholarship applications, it is mandatory to attach pre-final examination certificate, income tax and minority community certificate, bank passbook, PAN card and Aadhaar card with the application form.The last date for submission of online applications for fresh scholarship (first time applicant) and renewal scholarship (applicant who got scholarship for (2020-21) for pre-matric scholarship is November 15 and November 30 post-matriculation and merit-cum-means-based scholarship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/applications-invited-from-students-for-minority-community-scholarships-314481
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Police launch awareness drive against old vehicles||In the view of the SC ban imposed on 10-year-old diesel and 15-year-old petrol vehicles in the NCR, the police has launched a special drive not only to make the public aware of the SC order but also motivate them not to ply such vehicles as these were a serious threat to the environment.Under the drive, the police teams will spread awareness at taxi stands, auto markets, vehicle sales centres and other public places. Simultaneously, enforcement drives will be started and vehicles flouting norms will be impounded. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-police-launch-awareness-drive-against-old-vehicles-314483
22-09-2021||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar: Two duped of Rs 6.62 lakh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-two-duped-of-rs-6-62-lakh-314484
22-09-2021||Ambala||Dengue larvae found at homes, 6K in Ambala get notices||The Health Department has served notices on as many as 6,000 people in Ambala district since July after dengue larvae were found at their houses during inspection.Double task for Health teamsHealth officials said an extensive drive was being carried out to control dengue cases as any rise in numbers would mount pressure on the department, which was carrying out Covid vax drives and also preparing for the expected third wave.In Ambala, 16 cases of dengue have been reported so far, of which 12 have been treated and discharged, while four persons are undergoing treatment. As per the Civil Surgeon’s office, 50 breeding checkers have been deployed in the district for inspection. Those who have been served notices have been directed to clear water within 48 hours. If no action was taken and larvae were found again, a challan between Rs 300 and Rs 2,500 would be issued, the department said in the notice.Dr Sanjeev Singla, deputy civil surgeon, said necessary steps were being taken to check mosquitoe breeding .Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “Our teams have found larvae in coolers, back tray of refrigerators, flowerpots and other objects. Starting from July, 16 dengue cases while none of malariahave been reported so far.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dengue-larvae-found-at-homes-6k-in-ambala-get-notices-314485
22-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana HC notice to Adidas India on plea alleging sexual harassment||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 21Allegedly subjected to sexual harassment at workplace, an “in-house lawyer” has moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court against her erstwhile employer, Adidas India Marketing Pvt Ltd, challenging a single Judge’s decision to quash on technical grounds proceedings before an internal committee on her complaint.Order challenged on 22 groundsTaking up a plea challenging the judgment on as many as 22 grounds, the Division Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Meenakshi I Mehta on Monday issued a notice of motion to Adidas and other respondents, including the State of Haryana.Taking up her appeal challenging the judgment on as many as 22 grounds, the Division Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Meenakshi I Mehta today issued a notice of motion to Adidas and other respondents, including the State of Haryana. The Bench also fixed January 20, next, for further hearing in the case.Senior advocate Meet Malhotra with counsel Ritesh Aggarwal and Pallak Singh appeared before the Bench on the appellant-woman’s behalf. The Bench was told that the appellant joined the organisation as “manager-legal counsel”, vide appointment letter dated November 16, 2017, but, she was allegedly sexually harassed by a respondent-supervisor till November next year.It was submitted that she raised the sexual harassment issue with the management, but no response was received. In January 2019, she was threatened and forced to resign before being asked to leave within three to four hours. She was neither allowed to give 30-day notice, nor was compensated in accordance with the job agreement.The company’s “compliance official” later in the month approached her regarding the charges and assured her of fair and independent investigation. But “she was not included in any manner in the alleged internal investigation”. Despite repeated requests, the “compliance official” did not provide details of its internal committee.The Bench was told the appellant in March 2019 was told that the internal investigation was complete, but the official refused to provide the report’s copy. A counter blast probe was conducted on the alleged wrongful reimbursement claims, but the official failed to provide details on the source of documents.In June 2019, she received a “threatening and intimidating” letter on full and final settlement. After she failed to receive response to her follow-up emails, she submitted a complaint on “She-Box”. She was called for hearing before respondent-Local Committee, District Gurugram, following which the respondents approached the HC.It was added that the single Judge allowed the petition and quashed the proceedings before the internal committee on her sexual harassment complaint, compelling her to move the HC. “The single Judge limited his determination to one issue, namely limitation. In taking this rather limited approach, the single Judge then brushed aside various contentions of considerable legal importance raised before him,” the petition said, adding that the defence of limitation or ‘laches’ may not find relevance in a complaint of sexual harassment persisting over a length of time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-hc-notice-to-adidas-india-on-plea-alleging-sexual-harassment-314486
22-09-2021||Deepender Deswal||Medical waste cleared near Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar||Tribune News ServiceHisar, September 21Taking cognisance of The Tribune story on biomedical waste being dumped in open adjoining CCS Haryana Agricultural University (HAU), the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) directed the agency concerned to remove it and started an inquiry into the matter.Editorial: Biomedical waste dumping: Covid has caused surge in hazardous waste productionA team of the waste management firm, tasked with the disposal of biomedical waste in the town, rushed to the spot and cleared it. The officials found some medical slips with the name of a private nursing home operating in the town.Sunil Sheoran, HSPCB scientist, said biomedical waste was segregated from two sites adjoining the boundary wall of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University on the southern bypass and taken for scientific disposal into the common biomedical waste treatment facility. He said the Urban Local Body too had removed other garbage, which was mixed with the biomedical waste.Officials of the waste management firm said in the past too, they had got complaints about the dumping of the biomedical waste in open in areas like Kaimri Road. “There are certain nursing homes/hospitals that don’t want to take the services of the bio waste management agency to save money. But throwing the biomedical waste in open is a serious offence,” an official said.Notably, the southern bypass which is a favourite stretch for morning walkers was turned into dumping yard for biomedical waste as PPE kits, syringes and used medicines found dumped at two spots. It poses a serious health hazard to the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/medical-waste-cleared-near-haryana-agricultural-university-hisar-314487
22-09-2021||Karnal||Haryana rice millers demand panel to frame fresh CMR policy||Hundreds of rice millers across the state held a state-level meeting in Karnal today under the banner of the Haryana Pradesh Rice Millers and Dealers Association, during which they expressed their resentment over the present CMR policy.The members of the association demanded the Centre to constitute a committee comprising all stakeholders — rice millers from each district, agriculture institutes and the FCI to frame a fresh CMR policy.They stated that in the present CMR, 25 per cent of broken grain, 3 per cent damaged grain and 3 per cent discolouration is allowed in the delivery of CMR to the government.“This pattern has been running for over past 30 years. It worked at the time was harvesting was done manually by farmers but with time, manual harvesting was replaced with machinery, which resulted in extra broken, damage and discolouration of grains,” said Amarjeet Chhabra, state president of the association. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-rice-millers-demand-panel-to-frame-fresh-cmr-policy-314488
22-09-2021||Jhajjar||3 held in blind murder case in Jhajjar||The police claimed to have solved the blind murder of Manoj, a resident of Silani Gate locality, in four days. The police said the wife of the deceased was the mastermind behind the murder but the crime was committed by her two acquaintances.Manoj’s body was found lying in the fields at Guda village here on September 17.The wife of the victim, Payal; and her two acquaintances, Rohit of Nandgarh (Jind) and Amit of Bhawad (Sonepat), have been arrested.“Payal called Rohit and Amit to her in-laws house in Jhajjar to kill her husband. The duo took Manoj to Guda village on their motorcycle where they forced him to take alcohol and hit him in the head with bricks while he was in an inebriated condition,” said Jhajjar SP Rajesh Duggal.The wife of the deceased was arrested after the duo confessed to killing Manoj, the SP added. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-held-in-blind-murder-case-in-jhajjar-314489
22-09-2021||Kurukshetra||Firm employee held taking bribe in Kurukshetra||A team of the state vigilance bureau caught an employee of an outsourcing company red-handed for taking Rs 15,000 as bribe for sending the attendance of a ward attendant at the LNJP hospital in Kurukshetra to the company. The accused was identified as Pawan Kumar.The DSP State Vigilance Bureau said the complainant, Sandeep Kumar, who works as a ward attendant at the hospital, had approached the bureau and alleged that Pawan Kumar and a supervisor of the firm had sought bribe for sending the attendance of his wife Seema, who also works as ward attendant, at LNJP hospital.The accused had demanded Rs 30,000, but the deal was fixed at Rs 15,000. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/firm-employee-held-taking-bribe-in-kurukshetra-314490
22-09-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Sonepat: MBBS students accuse professor of using foul language, go on strike||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, September 21A professor of the microbiology department at Bhagat Phool Singh (BPS) Medical College for Women at Khanpur in Sonepat allegedly misbehaved and used abusive language with the girl students of MBBS (second year) during the class.With no action by the college administration, students of all batches went on a strike today and demanded the termination of the assistant professor with immediate effect. The incident occurred on September 16 when Dr Sumit Kumar of the microbiology department was taking a class of MBBS (second year) students.Students said during the interactive session, Dr Kumar was asking them questions and they were clapping and whistling to buck up their classmates. “After the class, the professor left. He returned within seconds and started hurling abuses at us,” the students alleged.Students informed about the incident to their seniors and submitted a complaint to the college director. They also gave an audio recording as an evidence. They also went to Rohtak and submitted a complaint to the VC of the University for Health Science.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-mbbs-students-accuse-professor-of-using-foul-language-go-on-strike-314491
22-09-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||At 35.7 pc, Haryana has highest unemployment rate, says CMIE||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 21In its latest figures released as part of the unemployment rate report by the CMIE (Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, May-August, 2021), Haryana is the most unemployed state followed by Rajasthan even as the Haryana Government dismissed these statistics and termed these as “fanciful”, maintaining that the NSSO data was the only official data on unemployment.Report has irregularities: CMThe CMIE is a profit-oriented self-financing company and its decisions cannot be seen as “unbiased and transparent”. There are a number of irregularities in its data, design, questionnaire at a time when the report has pegged the unemployment rate at 28 per cent. Manohar Lal Khattar, cm on the floor of the houseCMIE sample size larger than NSSO’sOur organisation’s sample size of 5,874 for Haryana compares very favourably with the NSSO’s data for 2019-20, which was 2,607. While for rural Haryana, it was 1,328, for urban sample, it was 1,279. It was unlikely, as claimed by some, that hardly anyone in Haryana has studied below Class X. Mahesh Vyas, CMIE, CEOAccording to the CMIE report, the unemployment rate of Haryana is pegged at 35.7 per cent, while that of Rajasthan is 26.7 per cent. Rajasthan and Haryana are the only states to cross the 20 per cent mark in terms of unemployment and this is not the first time that Haryana has been placed at number one for its unemployment rate. Jharkhand is at third spot, with an unemployment rate of 16 per cent and all other states have a rate lower than this.The unemployment rate stands at 39.69 among the graduates, at 32.9 per cent among those in the Class X to XII standard and at 11.84 per cent in the up to Class V category. While the unemployment rate is at 37.08 and 25.59 per cent in the urban and rural category, it stands at 25.27 (male) and 78.9 (female) per cent on the basis of gender.The report also looks at unemployment rate in the various age groups. While 85.11 per cent are unemployed in the 20-24 age bracket, 36.07 per cent are unemployed in the 25-29 age group.Sources in the CM office said the CMIE data plays out every three months, but the NSSO data is the official rate of unemployment and stands at around 11.7 per cent for Haryana. Released quarterly, an official explained that, for some reason, there was a large difference in the unemployment rates arrived at by the NSSO and the CMIE for some states.Pointing out the shortcoming in the CMIE report which the government termed as “fanciful”, sources maintained that a sample size of 1,400 was too small to arrive at the unemployment rate of the state. Also, it takes into account housewives, even though they cannot be classified as “unemployed”.The Parivar Pehchan Patra data itself has 9.6 lakh self-declared unemployed in the state. There are 2.6 lakh Saksham Yuva, Class X and 12 passouts and graduates, who are unemployed and provided work openings and financial assistance. “The CMIE data shows 2.68 lakh unemployed below Class X, whereas we hardly have anybody in this category. On this basis, they can’t work out a 35 per cent unemployment rate,” a senior official said.Meanwhile, the Chief Minister, Manohar Lal Khattar, had himself refuted the CMIE report on unemployment on the floor of the House.The CM had said that the CMIE was a profit-oriented self-financing company and its decisions could not be seen as “unbiased and transparent”. Among other things, the CM had stated that there were a number of irregularities in its data, design, questionnaire at a time when the report had pegged the unemployment rate at 28 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/at-35-7-pc-haryana-has-highest-unemployment-rate-says-cmie-314492
22-09-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad dengue cases rise by 114% in 4 days||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, September 21With a surge of around 114 per cent cases of dengue in the past four days here, the total number touched the figure of 77 on Tuesday.This is 140 per cent more than the total cases reported in the entire year of 2020. The sharp rise is attributed to widespread water-logging and poor civic conditions prevailing in the city and the district after the recent heavy downpour witnessed in the past several weeks.“Though a total of only 32 cases of dengue and nine of malaria had surfaced last year, rise in such cases was expected this year in the wake of the above-normal rainfall and the failure of the civic agencies to ensure the draining of the excess water, leading to the germination of malarial larvae, said sources in the Health Department.“Acute waterlogging for several days and unhygienic civic conditions due to the poor disposal of garbage and waste have also been an open invitation for the growth of mosquitoes,’’ said an official of the department. A large number of the patients who have reported in the OPDs of both government and private clinics recently have either malaria or viral fever, it was revealed.Admitting that almost all cases of dengue and malaria had surfaced in the past four to five weeks, Dr Ram Bhagat, district malaria officer, said the department had taken several measures to contain the menace. Besides engaging additional workers to prepare slides and tests of the samples, he said 40 teams had been deployed in the field to conduct the checking of the accumulation of water in and around the residential pockets. Around 1,625 notices have been served to the residents for the presence of mosquito larvae on their premises. Foggingand spray of temiphos liquid has been increased inthe areas to contain the problem, he said. While the first case of dengue surfaced last month, no fatality has been reported so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-dengue-cases-rise-by-114-in-4-days-314495
22-09-2021||Faridabad||MoU for guidance in overseas education||Principals' association meetingPanipat: A state-level meeting of Haryana-aided College Principals' Association was held at Arya PG College on Sunday here in which 25 principals of colleges participated. Dr Ashok Chaudhary, president of the association, presided over the meeting. The principals discussed the problems facing the online admission process and demanded that the government should resolve such issues on priority. The principals also demanded that the classes should not be delayed so that examinations are conducted on time. The association also demanded increase in principals' pay as per the Seventh Pay Commission; admission, classes and examinations should be conducted as before. Dr Surender Rana, general secretary said earlier, a joint meeting of the association was held with the Haryana College Teachers' Association and a joint committee had also been formed for further actions.Online applications invited for ITIsChandigarh: Online applications have been invited for admission to various engineering and non-engineering courses for the session 2021-22 at all government and private industrial training institutes of Haryana. The online applications can be submitted by September 30 on the departmental website i.e. itiharyanaadmissions.nic.in An official spokesperson said the prospectus for admission guidelines, list of institutes and seats availability in institutes was available on the website.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mou-for-guidance-in-overseas-education-314519
22-09-2021||The accompanying photograph||CCTV cameras obstruct full view of traffic lights in Panchkula||Vinayak G, PanchkulaGaping hole waiting to be filledThis gaping hole is waiting to be filled for the past nearly two weeks. After a sewerage pipeline was laid in a bylane to be connected to the main hole on the road in Lane 9, Sector D, Defence Colony. It is not understood why the contractors leave a job half done for so long. As a senior citizen, every day, one is trying to mark it with bricks etc so that motorists don't meet with an accident. It is also causing inconvenience to residents and commuters. The authorities should please come on ground and ensure timely and good quality of work.Col. RD Singh (retd), Ambala CanttCondition of three parking lots patheticThe condition of the three haphazardly constructed parking lots for the vehicles of lawyers inside and outside the judicial complex and near the lawyers' chamber complex is in a poor condition. The road leading from Nirmal Kutiya to the parking lots has also been completely damaged. It has become very dangerous to park vehicles in the parking lots or walk on the road. The district administration should repair the road and rebuild these three parking places afresh at the earliest and arrangements should be made to park the vehicles of lawyers in an orderly manner.Shakti Singh, KarnalWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cctv-cameras-obstruct-full-view-of-traffic-lights-in-panchkula-314520
22-09-2021||Rohtak||Joint awareness programme at school on rabies||Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Science, Haryana Pashu Vigyan Kendra Jhajjar and Rohtak organised a joint programme at Shri Guru Nanak School in Anwal village to make teachers and students aware of rabies. Dr Rajinder Singh, programme coordinator, informed they were educated about reasons, carriers of rabies, signs and symptoms of rabies in animals. Besides, the students were also made aware of breeds of cattle and buffaloes with the help of demonstration.TNSChandigarhUltrasound facility at Sonepat college beginsThe Haryana Government has started ultrasound service at the Department of Respiratory Medicine, BPS Government Medical College for Women, Khanpur Kalan, Sonepat. An official spokesperson said anyone could avail the facility free of cost.TNSHospital in list of empanelled health institutesThe Haryana Government has also included Healing Hospital and Institute of Medical Sciences, Sector-34 A, Chandigarh, in the empanelment list of private hospitals for the treatment of state government employees/pensioners and their dependents. The list has been prepared for the period of May 22, 2020, to May 21, 2023.TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/joint-awareness-programme-at-school-on-rabies-314521
22-09-2021||---||Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta directs cops to set up beat boxes in Panchkula markets||Panchkula, September 21Concerned over the recent robbery attempt at Maa Luxmi Jewellers in Sector 8 here, Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta directed the police to set up beat boxes in the markets.Gupta stated this while reviewing the progress in the case with senior police officials at the PWD Rest House in Sector 1 here today. He said the aim of the police was to create a sense of security among people so that they could move anywhere without any fear. He said the beat box concept of the police could prove to be effective in this direction. He directed the Police Department that one beat box should be set up in each market of Panchkula and the duty of two police personnel should be fixed on each beat box.Commissioner of Police Saurabh Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police Mohit Handa, non-official member of the District Grievance Redressal Committee BB Singhal and representatives of the Panchkula Jewellers Association were also present in the meeting.Gupta said the robbery attempt in broad daylight in a peaceful city like Panchkula was a matter of concern. He said there could have been a huge loss of life and property during the incident, but the manner in which Sandeep Verma, owner of Maa Luxmi Jewellers, had shown courage and foiled the robbery attempt was commendable.Commissioner of Police Saurabh Singh informed Gupta that various police teams had been formed to nab the accused involved in the incident. He said the police had got several important leads in this case and he was confident that all accused would be arrested soon.Gupta said arms licence was necessary for personal protection and considering the threat perception to the jewellers, arms licences should be given to them in a time-bound manner. He said the police should ensure that the licences were issued to the applicants within a stipulated time period after applying and submitting the required documents as per the prescribed guidelines. The process for applying the arms licence should be further simplified. The police should also ensure that security guards were deputed by the banks at ATM booths. For this, necessary instructions should be issued to all banks.The Haryana Speaker also appealed to the representatives of the Jewellers Association to make adequate arrangements for installation of high-resolution CCTV cameras at the entry and exit points of markets. Wherever CCTV cameras were already installed, it should be ensured that these were functional.Cops announce reward for infoThe police have received the CCTV footage of the cameras installed in the area in which the three suspects can be seen at the shop and later running after their loot bid was foiled. The police have also announced a reward for giving information about the suspects and said the identity of the informer(s) would be kept secret.Important leads in robbery attempt case: CPCommissioner of Police (CP) Saurabh Singh informed Haryana Spearker Gian Chand Gupta that various teams had been formed to nab the suspects. He said the police had got several important leads in this case and he was confident that all of them would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-speaker-gian-chand-gupta-directs-cops-to-set-up-beat-boxes-in-panchkula-markets-314316
22-09-2021||New Delhi||2 Majors die in J&K copter crash, one from Panchkula||Two pilots of the Indian Army’s Aviation Corps lost their lives this morning when a helicopter they were flying crash-landed near Patnitop in Jammu and Kashmir. This is the second crash for the Aviation Corps in six weeks.The pilots, Major Rohit Kumar from Noida and Major Anuj Rajput from Panchkula, had taken off from Udhampur in a single-engine Cheetah helicopter, which crash-landed in Shiv Garh Dhar area of Udhampur district.“Both the pilots were critically injured. They were rushed to the nearest medical facility, both succumbed to their injuries,” an Army spokesperson said. The Cheetah helicopters are based on the 1950s’ designed Alouette Aérospatiale 315B Lama of France and are produced by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL).Efforts to replace the entire fleet of some 400 — with the Army and the IAF – have not borne fruit in the last decade or more. The project to have light utility helicopter (LUH) is progressing slowly. The Ministry of Defence placed an order of just 15 copters and called it “limited series production”. The need was of 197 copters.Another project to plug this gap was to produce Russian Kamov 226-T copter in joint venture between Kamov and HAL. The JV was formed in 2016 and till date, the production has not started.Earlier on August 3, an HAL-built Rudra copter had crashed into the lake of Ranjit Sagar Dam, killing one officer while another is still missing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-majors-die-in-jk-copter-crash-one-from-panchkula-314410
