25-09-2021||Deepender Deswal||Riding on farmers’ stir, INLD organises show of strength in Jind||Tribune News ServiceJind, September 25The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) seeks to capitalise on the farmers’ agitation in an attempt to regain the political ground by organising a rally to mark the 108th birth anniversary of former Deputy Prime Minister Chaudhary Devi Lal in Jind on Saturday.Former chief minister Om Prakash Chautala who has embarked on a hectic politicking managed to bring regional satraps, including SAD supremo Parkash Singh Badal, National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah, Janta Dal (United) leader KC Tyagi, on his stage today.Former Union minister and BJP leader Birender Singh too attended the rally triggering speculations about his next political move.Addressing the rally, the former CM Chautala stated that he had to go to jail due to the Congress conspiracy and now had come out of the jail to serve the people. “The farmers and working class communities have been struggling to get rid of the incumbent regime which is indulging in the loot of the country’s resources and indulging in agenda of divisive politics,” he said, adding that government was deferring the Ellanabad byelection deliberately as the bypoll will result in fall of this government as the alliance will break down soon after the result.Chautala said previous four farmers’ agitation, including 1907 in Punjab, 1917 in Bihar, 1918 and 1928 Gujarat agitation, had been successful. “The ongoing going agitation too will be successful,” he stated. The former CM said on coming to power, every educated youth of the state will be given a job as per their qualifications. “The fall of this government which is indulging in loot of resources is imminent,” he said.Badal urged people to bring the regional forces in power as the national parties don’t know the ground realities of particular regions. “I urge all the regional forces, including Chautala, Birender Singh, Tyagi and others join hands,” he said. While referring to change of guard in Punjab’s Congress government, Badal said recent developments showed that political power is controlled by high command in Delhi as they floated the four names in four days to head the government.NC leader Abdullah maintained that the incumbent regime is least bothered about the demands and requirements of the farmers. Stating that the farmers are struggling for their justified demands, he said government is making false claims on the condition of framers. Raising the issue of J&K, the NC leader said that government lied when it claimed that they would give jobs to the local people after abrogating Article 370. “I urge the regime to win hearts and not to impose its decision on people against their wishes,” he said.The surprise entry of the BJP leader local satrap Birender Singh at the INLD stage triggered a roar among gathering. He maintained that he came to pay homage to Chaudhary Devi Lal on the invitation of Om Prakash Chautala. He said that Devi Lal’s ‘Nyaya Yudh’ in 1986 effected a major political change in politics in Haryana and at the national level.INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala said the Congress has launched a false propaganda against the INLD. “We will not only defeat the Congress in the election but also take the leaders of the BJP regime to task for their misdeeds on coming to power,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/riding-on-farmers-stir-inld-organises-show-of-strength-in-jind-316098
25-09-2021||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Gurugram Division Commission complains of credit card fraud||Gurugram Divisional Commissioner Rajiv Ranjan has approached police with a complaint that his credit card was being misused, police said on Saturday.Ranjan said in his complaint that he began getting messages that his Kotak Mahindra Bank credit card was being used for making five successive unauthorised transactions—first for Rs 3,000, a minute later for Rs 1500, then three more, all for Rs 89.in all, Rs 4,767 was transacted using his card before he got his card blocked, he said.“While checking, it was found that these transactions are being done on apple.com/bill.After this, I called the bank to get the card blocked. I received another message the following afternoon that the card had been used again, but since the card was blocked, it was unsuccessful,” the complaint said.Police have registered a case of fraud Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code and cheating by personation online (Section 66D) of the Information Technology Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-division-commission-complains-of-credit-card-fraud-316097
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to conduct butterfly survey in Aravalli||Haryana's first butterfly survey in Khol block in Rewari district will be conducted by Forest and Wildlife Department on September 27, it was announced on Saturday.In the survey, the diversity of butterflies will be assessed in the Aravalli region. The survey will be conducted in Khol block comprising 10 villages having a continuous stretch of hillocks namely Palra, Ahhrod, Bassduda, Khol, Manethi, Bhalki, Majra, Nandha, Balwari, and Khaleta have about the 1,000-hectare area.The outcome of the survey will help to chalk out a management strategy for the conservation of butterflies and moths, an official statement said.This will also form the basis for observing the impact of habitat disturbance and climate change on the ecology of the region.The survey will be undertaken with the assistance of nature lovers, voluntary agencies, and volunteers under the guidance of experts.— IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-conduct-butterfly-survey-in-aravalli-316063
25-09-2021||Ravinder Saini||Rao Inderjit’s announcement not to quit leaves experts guessing||Tribune News ServiceRewari, September 24After Thursday’s assertion by Union Minister Rao Inderjit’s of not retiring from politics, political analysts are now busy in finding out what has made him reverse his decision of quitting electoral politics that he had announced ahead of the General Election in 2019.Aarti was denied ticketRao’s daughter Aarti was denied BJP ticket from Rewari in Assembly elections 2019 despite all-out efforts by Rao.Since Rao is known for keeping his word as well as remaining firm on his stand, his latest assertion to remain active in politics in the future as well has come as a bolt from the blue for everyone. Different meanings of it are also being drawn in political circles.Rao had described his political opponents as the main reason for reversing his decision, but analysts feel that there’s more to it.Rather, it seems to be a bid to clear the way for his daughter Aarti Rao to enter the poll fray. Notably, Aarti was denied BJP ticket from Rewari in Assembly elections 2019 despite all-out efforts by Rao.Moreover, the sudden entry of BJP MP Bhupinder Yadav in the political arena of Ahirwal with his elevation to the Union Cabinet is also being seen as a prominent factor that made Rao keep hold on the people of his region.Bhupinder may, as per political observers, become a hurdle for him in pitching his daughter in electoral battleground in the 2024 elections if he (Rao) quits poll politics.“No doubt, Yadav, through his recent Jan Aashirvad Yatra, created a flutter in politics as his elevation is being observed as a planned move by the BJP to establish him in Rao’s citadel Ahirwal. Moreover, Yadav belongs to Jamalpur village, a part of Gurugram being represented by Rao in the Lok Sabha,” said Naresh Chauhan, a political observer. Chauhan said Rao mentioned about a “parachute leader” in his address at Shaheedi Divas Samaroh in Jhajjar’s Patauda village on Thursday and this term was for Yadav whose name might be considered as BJP nominee from Gurugram in the next General Election if Rao quits.Jitender Bhardwaj, another analyst, said, “Rao would like to seek the party ticket from Gurugram for his daughter if he retires from poll politics. But now, it seems to be difficult after the entry of Yadav.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rao-inderjits-announcement-not-to-quit-leaves-experts-guessing-315901
25-09-2021||---||Police team attacked in Karnal village, five held||Karnal, September 24A police party was allegedly attacked by a group of people at Sadarpur village in Gharaunda block on Thurday night. They had gone there to arrest a person in connection with the illegal felling of trees at a government school in the village. A police vehicle was also vandalised by the mob.Main accused axed trees illegallyThe principal of a government school, Surinder Singh, had filed a complaint with the Gharaunda police that Sulekh Kumar, the husband of the chairman of the school management committee, had been axing trees on the school premises. He and his wife had even been given a warning, but to no avail.The policemen alleged that the miscreants opened fire at them.Five persons have been arrested though the main accused is absconding.Due to the tense situation, the school remained shut today. However, the police assured Principal Surinder Singh of security on the school premises. Police personnel were deployed in large number in the village.Surinder had filed a complaint with the Gharaunda police that Sulekh Kumar, the husband of the chairman of the school management committee, had been axing trees on the school premises. He and his wife had even been given a warning, but to no avail. “We registered a case under Sections 332, 353, 380 of the IPC against Sulekh. When the police went to the village on Wednesday to serve him a notice, he misbehaved with them. On Thursday evening, when the police team went to his house, he along with other villagers attacked them,” said Deepak Kumar, SHO, Gharaunda. “They vandalised the vehicle of the police and pelted stones at them. They also fired on the police party. However, the personnel had a narrow escape,” said the SHO.“We have registered a case against Sulekh and others under Sections 307, 148, 149 and 379B of the IPC and various sections of the Arms Act,” he added.He said they had arrested five persons, including Rajbir, Ravi, Mitar Pal, Sompal and Sumit.On the other hand, Sulekh alleged that the police party had forcefully entered into his house and misbehaved with him.Karnal Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia said efforts were on to arrest the main accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-team-attacked-in-karnal-village-five-held-315902
25-09-2021||Gurugram||Congress accuses Gurugram MP Rao Inderjit Singh of land scam, seeks CBI probe||Accusing Union Minister and Gurugram MP Rao Inderjit Singh of a land scam in the name of Ahir College, Rewari, Congress leader Captain Ajay Singh Yadav has moved CM Manohar Lal Khattar seeking a CBI probe. He has demanded the resignation of Rao Inderjit Singh.“Rao, using his Ahir College Society, bought 105 kanals worth Rs 200 crore for a meagre Rs 1.5 crore. This land was bought from people who were not even the owners and it was big land scam. When a local tried to object and moved the CM Window, he was attacked. The police hushed up the case and the man is being treated at a Gurugram hospital. Now, I have moved the CM in this regard. He listened to me but did not give any assurance for any kind of inquiry,” said Yadav.Addressing a press conference, Yadav — targeting Rao for his alleged indifference towards the people of his constituency — said that people chose him nine times but he is a letdown. “He has never been there for the people. A university was announced in Kankrola in 2017 but nothing has happened till date. Similarly, defence university remains pending in Binaula. The Rao Tula Ram Science and Commerce College in Sector 51 was announced in 2012 but has not started working,” alleged Yadav. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-accuses-gurugram-mp-rao-inderjit-singh-of-land-scam-seeks-cbi-probe-315903
25-09-2021||Karnal||Ensure smooth paddy purchase, Agriculture Minister JP Dalal tells Kaithal officials||Agriculture Minister JP Dalal on Friday inspected Kaithal grain market and directed the officials to ensure cleanliness before the commencement of the paddy procurement season.He asked them to ensure smooth procurement along with availability of potable water and other facilities for the farmers. Besides, he also directed the officials to pay the farmers within the fixed time and also to lift the procured paddy at the earliest.“I visited grain market and asked the officials to make all the arrangements for procurement so that the farmers do not face any difficulty,” said Dalal.The Agriculture Minister also took feedback about the arrangements in other grain markets of the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ensure-smooth-paddy-purchase-agriculture-minister-jp-dalal-tells-kaithal-officials-315904
25-09-2021||---||Bhiwani girl 51st in civil services exam||Hisar, September 24Nisha Grewal, 23, hailing from Bhiwani’s Bamla village, has got the 51st rank in the civil services examination, whose result was declared by the Union Public Service Commission today.Nisha did her schooling from Bhiwani Public School in Bhiwani and then took admission in Miranda House in Delhi for graduation. Nisha gave credit to her grandfather Ramphal Singh Grewal, who is a retired mathematics teacher, for motivating and helping her prepare for the prestigious exam.Nisha cracked the exam in her first attempt.Nisha’s father, Surender Grewal, is employed with the Electricity Department, while her mother Promila is a housewife.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala talked to Nisha on phone and congratulated her on her achievement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhiwani-girl-51st-in-civil-services-exam-315905
25-09-2021||Deepender Deswal||Haryana farmers yet to get relief for last year’s crop loss||Tribune News ServiceHisar, September 24The cotton-growing farmers, who are staring at crop loss due to the three-day rains in the region, have been waiting for compensation for the last year’s kharif crop failure in Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad districts.Officials said as per the special girdawari of the 2020 kharif crop losses to the farmers, a compensation of about Rs 525 crore would be disbursed to the affected farmers in these districts. This amount is meant for the farmers for their non-insured crops under the PMFBY. It comprises Rs 302 crore in Sirsa, more than Rs 200 crore in Hisar and 23 crore in Fatehabad district. However, the compensation is yet to be released from the state government for disbursal.Rs525 cr compensation awaitedn However, the compensation is yet to be released from the government for disbursalThe officials said the insurance firm had already paid the compensation to the farmers in these three districts. However, farmers alleged that the insurance firm had failed to provide adequate compensation to them and a large number of the affected farmers were not awarded the compensation even though they had faced crop losses.Pradeep Duhan, a farmer from Chainat village in Hisar, said he had taken 18 acres land on lease at the rate of Rs 20,000 per acre for sowing cotton this year. “But the rains have almost washed away the entire crop. Since the crop was at maturity stage, I had to bear the input cost of about Rs 20,000 per acre,” he said.Duhan had not got his crop insured under the PMFBY this year. He maintained that he got his entire crop insured last year under the PMFBY. “But despite the crop losses last year too, he as well as all other farmers of his village got no compensation. Thus I decided not to spend additional money on paying the premium for the PMFBY”, he said.In Daulatpur village of the Uklana block in Hisar, farmer Bhoop Singh said his 6 acres of cotton and another 10 acres of paddy crop were waterlogged. He feared for crop loss due to inundation. Similar is the story of the pearl millet growing farmer in Maan Singh who had cut bajra produce in 3 acres, but the stock is lying unharvested in the field. “I don’t think I will get the produce as the grain is wet”, he said.Vijender Bhardwaj, district revenue officer (DRO) Hisar, said the government had prepared the proposal for disbursal of over Rs 200 crore to farmers in Hisar on the basis of special girdawari for crop failure in 2020 on account of pest attack. “It will be disbursed to the farmers as soon as it arrives with the district administration,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-farmers-yet-to-get-relief-for-last-years-crop-loss-315906
25-09-2021||---||Couple stabbed to death in Kaithal||Karnal, September 24A commission agent (arhtiya) and his wife were allegedly stabbed to death at their house in Kaithal city on Friday afternoon.The deceased have been identified as Satyawan (60) and his wife Kailasho Devi (58) of Kaithal city.The incident took place around 2 pm when the couple was alone at home. The number of the assassins and the motive are yet to be determined.“We are probing all angles. Personal enmity could be a reason. Our three teams are on the job to identify and nab the suspects,” said Lokender Singh, SP Kaithal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/couple-stabbed-to-death-in-kaithal-315907
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana state to prepare infra for steel recycling, says Dushyant Chautala||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said the state government was striving to make Haryana a leading state in steel recycling so that the Union Government’s goal of ‘Clean and Green India’ could be fulfilled.He was speaking as the chief guest at Haryana Energy Transition Summit organised virtually by the PHD Chamber of Commerce today.He said Haryana was one of the few states that were promoting recycling, in which work was being done on systematic scrapping of vehicles and recycling of steel from it. In Rohtak, a plant costing around Rs 150 crore has already been commissioned while talks are on with some other big companies to create a strong scrap-recycling infrastructure in the state, he said.He said by the time the Union Government starts its Vehicle Scrapping Policy in 2023-24, the Haryana Government would have prepared the supporting infrastructure for an automatic testing centre and scrapping facilities in the state.He said the Delhi-Chandigarh highway had become the first “electric vehicle-friendly highway” in the country along which solar-based electric vehicle charging stations had been installed.He urged all industrialists to use low-carbon material in their units.Meanwhile, North India Office, US Embassy, New Delhi, Michael Rosenthal, along with his delegation, called on Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala at his office. Dushyant discussed in detail about various sectors — industry, commerce, education and agriculture — with the delegation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-state-to-prepare-infra-for-steel-recycling-says-dushyant-chautala-315908
25-09-2021||Yamunanagar||13 khair trees cut illegally in Yamunanagar village, four booked||Despite crackdown on wood mafia by officials of the Forest Department, 13 khair trees were cut illegally from the forest area of Sandhaya village in Yamunanagar district.On the complaint of forest guard Vikas, a case was registered against Aashik of Chhachhrauli town, Jakir of Baagpat village, Islam of Nagalpati village and Furkan of Mujahidwala village at the Bilaspur police station on September 22.The complainant stated that around 4 am on September 20, when he and forest officials Maan Singh and Ajay Kumar were on night patrolling duty in the Sandhaya forest area, they found that 13 khair trees had been illegally cut from that area.He said it was found that Aashik, Jakir, Islam and Furkan were involved in the act. The khair wood price is stated to be between Rs 7,000 to Rs 8,000 per quintal in the market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/13-khair-trees-cut-illegally-in-yamunanagar-village-four-booked-315909
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Hold door-to-door drive for 2nd jab: Anil Vij||Health Minister Anil Vij said the health staff who had done good work during the Covid period would be honoured at the district and state levels.Besides, the homes where all members have received both the doses will be called “Green Star Houses” to encourage others to get the vaccine. Similarly, the personnel working in all 92 municipalities will be vaccinated.Presiding over a review meeting on health-related activities with the officials of Health Department here on Friday, Vij said a door-to-door campaign must be carried out to administer the second dose to the eligible beneficiaries.He instructed the officials that the people eligible for the second dose must be informed after preparing their data. On this, the officials apprised the minister that the eligible people would be informed by SMS. It was also decided to start a special vaccination campaign in Nuh.Regarding oxygen, Vij said we want to make Haryana self-reliant and for this, of 40 PSA plants received from the PM Cares Fund, 39 had been made operational. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hold-door-to-door-drive-for-2nd-jab-anil-vij-315910
25-09-2021||Karnal||Fake marriage gang busted in Karnal||A team of the CIA-2 has busted a gang of fraudsters allegedly involved in looting people on the promise of getting them married.The team arrested four persons — Rimpi, alias Preeti, Paramjeet Kaur, Herry Singh and Sohan Lal, all residents of Ludhiana in Punjab — from Karnal on Thursday.In the preliminary probe, they told the police that Santosh Rana of Kalram, Shamsher Singh of Panipat and Ajit of Panipat had been operating marriage bureaus. The accused were in contact with these three persons, said Mohan Lal, in charge, CIA-2.The accused lured the gullible on the pretext of getting them married, for which they charged a huge amount from the prospective groom.They used to show Rimpi’s picture to the unsuspecting person. Others were shown as the bride’s relatives. The persons operating marriage bureaus got their weddings conducted. Later, the bride used to escape with valuables of the groom. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-marriage-gang-busted-in-karnal-315911
25-09-2021||---||Economy showing signs of recovery: Nirmala Sitharaman||Chandigarh, September 24Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman today said that the Indian economy was showing signs of recovery.State did better amid Covid timesHaryana handled the economy better during the Covid times, as it didn’t feel the need to utilise the widened borrowing capacity for states. Also, we’re 100% committed to doubling farmers’ income. For this, we have added alternative income sources. Nirmala Sitharaman, Finance MinisterHowever, she refrained from making a comment on it reaching the pre-Covid levels.Sitharaman was in Chandigarh as part of the 20-day birthday celebrations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi under the “Sewa and Samarpan” programme.She said Haryana had handled the economy better during the Covid times, as it didn’t feel the need to utilise the widened borrowing capacity for states. On Punjab’s GST dues, Sitharaman said after meeting their Finance Minister Manpreet Badal, she had released the dues for the state.On Border Area Development Programme for Punjab, which is in ratio of 60:40 between the Centre and states, she said it couldn’t be equated with Himalayan states and north-eastern states, which are in the ratio of 90:10 between the Centre and states.On the question whether the Centre would increase the deadline for doubling farmers’ income, which was slated for 2022 earlier, she said, “It is our 100% commitment to double their income. We’ve added alternative income sources for farmers, including dairy and growing valuable trees.”On bringing petrol and diesel under the GST, she said the GST council would decide the rate. On a question of whether demonetisation had achieved its objectives, she said it managed to curb fake currency and black money.The Union Minister said for the past seven years, the Centre was running many schemes for the economic uplift of the people on the last rung of society. Through these schemes, loans are being given to people from the lower strata to run their businesses. Referring specifically to the Jan Dhan accounts, she said through the DBT, the benefits of many schemes were reaching the poor families. She said collateral free loans were being given under Mudra for standups and startups.She said many economic reforms had been implemented since 2014 under the leadership of PM Modi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/economy-showing-signs-of-recovery-nirmala-sitharaman-315912
25-09-2021||---||Kurukshetra: BJP leaders face farmers’ wrath||Kurukshetra, September 24BJP leaders faced a massive protest and the rear windscreen of Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini’s SUV and a side glass of BJP MLA Subhash Sudha’s car were smashed during farmers’ protest in Kurukshetra on Friday evening. The BJP leaders were on their way to Saini Samaj Bhawan to attend a meeting of the OBC morcha.Even in April, the windscreen of MP Saini’s car had been smashed in Shahabad.On getting information about the event, the farmers gave the call of protest and sat in front of the bhawan. Meanwhile, heavy police force and a company of CRPF were deployed to maintain law and order. The police tried to remove the farmers but they resisted. Some of them were detained. After seeing policemen taking away some farmers, the others agreed to get aside and hold a peaceful protest from a distance.However, on seeing the BJP leaders coming, some farmers broke the barricades, showed black flags and some also surrounded the vehicles of the BJP leaders.Meanwhile, the windscreen of MP Nayab Saini’s SUV and the side glass of MLA Subhash Sudha’s car got damaged. However, the farmers claimed that the cars were damaged by BJP workers to defame farmers. MP Nayab Saini, Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha and former minister Karan Dev Kamboj were in the MP’s car. The police had a tough time in providing safe passage to BJP leaders.After the incident, 25 farmers were detained and taken to the Police Lines where they were released.BKU (Charuni) district president Krishan Kumar said, “We were trying to hold peaceful protest and show black flags to the BJP leaders. Some farmers have suffered injuries as we were forcefully removed by the police.”MP Nayab Saini blamed the Congress for the incident and said that such hooliganism would not be tolerated. MLA Subhash Sudha alleged, “FIRs will be lodged and strict action will be taken against the Congress-backed protesters.”SP Himanshu Garg said, “The situation is being evaluated. All efforts are being made to maintain the law and order and resolve the matter peacefully. The entire incident will be investigated.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-bjp-leaders-face-farmers-wrath-315913
25-09-2021||---||Haryana Home Dept staffer caught  ‘leaking info’||Chandigarh, September 24Home Minister Anil Vij caught a Home Department employee for allegedly leaking information contained in files.After receiving a complaint, Kapil Kumar’s phone was checked and it was found to have pictures of various files. After this, Vij complained to Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan, who further informed the police about the matter.Till the filing of the copy, Kumar was at the Sector 3 police station, Chandigarh, for questioning. His phone has been seized. Kumar was posted at the Civil Secretariat, Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-home-dept-staffer-caught-leaking-info-315914
25-09-2021||---||National yoga champs work as home tutors to make ends meet||Rohtak, September 24Even though the Union and the state governments claim to be promoting yoga, yet a majority of yoga experts find themselves in a difficult financial position.Lack of job avenues, coupled with the restrictions imposed due to lockdown, has hit yoga trainers hard. The situation has come to such a passe that even national champions and medal winners in yoga have been forced to work as home tutors to keep them afloat.“Everyone acknowledges the significance of yoga but nobody likes to spend money on it. People undermine the necessity of trained yoga coaches, thinking it can be learnt for free in parks or through social media channels,” said a national yoga champion, who takes home classes to make a living.Another medal winner in national yoga championships said the state government had discontinued the grant of cash prizes to players who won medals at national level.“Owing to increasing popularity of yoga in several European countries and other western nations, many yoga trainers have been moving to those foreign lands. But the restrictions on international flights and strict immigration norms imposed due to the pandemic dashed the dreams of many to ground,” he added.Contacted for comments regarding lack of job opportunities, Sunita Khatri, deputy director (Sports), Rohtak zone, said the process to appoint coaches in various disciplines was underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/national-yoga-champs-work-as-home-tutors-to-make-ends-meet-315915
25-09-2021||Nitish Sharma||Cluster-based solid waste management projects to come up in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, September 24To deal with solid waste, cluster-based integrated solid waste management projects are set to come up for the Ambala-Yamunanagar and Karnal-Kaithal-Thanesar clusters.While the Ambala-Yamunanagar cluster will cover six urban local bodies (ULBs), including Ambala, Yamunanagar, Radaur, Sadhaura, Barara, and Naraingarh, the Karnal-Kaithal-Thanesar (of Kurukshetra) cluster will cover 15 ULBs, including Karnal, Indri, Nilokheri, Taraori, Gharaunda, Nissing, Assandh, Thanesar, Shahabad, Ladwa, Kaithal, Rajound, Kalayat, Cheeka and Pundri.A pre-bid meeting of the tender was held. Its technical qualification bids will be opened on October 1 and then the financial bid will be opened. A senior official said it was an open technology tender in which the company would install waste to energy or waste to compost plants.The estimated costs of the waste to energy plant and waste to compost plus refuse derived fuel (RDF) project for the Ambala-Yamunanagar cluster will be Rs 280 crore and Rs 175 crore, respectively, while the cost for waste to energy and waste to compost project for Karnal-Kaithal-Thanesar cluster will be Rs 215 crore and Rs 122.5 crore, respectively. The tenure of the project is 22 years.The Executive Engineer, Ambala City Municipal Corporation, Raman said, “It is a cluster-based tender in which the agency will carry out door-to-door garbage collection, segregation and then treatment of the entire collected garbage in a scientific manner. The agency will choose the technology. If it goes for waste to energy plant then the agency will get a period of two years to set up the plant, and if it goes for waste to compost plants then it will get a period of one year. The agency will be able to sell the end products.”“The project will also help in compliance with NGT guidelines. The land will be provided by the government on lease and the machinery will be installed by the agency. In Ambala, the plant will be set up at Patvi plant where the bio-remediation of legacy waste is being done and over 50 per cent work has been already completed” he added.The Commissioner, Ambala City Municipal Corporation, Dhirendra Khadgata said “It is an integrated solid waste management project for collection, transportation, processing and disposal of waste on the PPP mode. In this tender, the agency will be given the choice of installing waste to energy or waste to compost plants for the management of the solid waste.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cluster-based-solid-waste-management-projects-to-come-up-in-haryana-315916
25-09-2021||---||63 illegal structures razed by Faridabad town planning dept||Faridabad, September 24A team of the department of the District Town Planner (DTP) (enforcement and vigilance) here today pulled down as many as 63 illegal constructions that had come up in an unauthorised residential colony spread on one acre of land in the revenue area of Basantpur village of the district.According to DTP Rajender Sharma, the constructions razed today included 18 residential constructions, 20 boundary walls, 25 DPC and a road network built illegally in the recent past.Legal action has been launched against the property dealer who, he said, had sold the plots in contravention to rules and regulations.It is also claimed that around 1,200 illegal residential, commercial and industrial structures have been demolished in the drives carried out in various parts of the district in the past year.The DTP office has also put up notices in various parts of the district, asking residents not to buy plots and land without a no objection certificate from the department concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/63-illegal-structures-razed-by-faridabad-town-planning-dept-315917
25-09-2021||---||Karnal: Anganwadi, Asha workers demand regularisation of  jobs||Karnal, September 24Asha, mid-day meal and anganwadi workers today on Friday held a protest demanding to make their jobs regular. They also handed over a memorandum to the tehsildar for the Prime Minister and Chief Minister.Apart from regularisation of jobs, workers demanded a minimum pay scale of Rs 24,000, along with social safety benefits and health facilities.Sudesh Rani, district president, Asha Workers’ Union, Shimla, and district president of the Mid-Day Meal Workers’ Union; and Rupa Rana, district president, Anganwari Workers and Helpers’ Union, led the protest. They demanded from the government that their demands be fulfilled at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-anganwadi-asha-workers-demand-regularisation-of-jobs-315919
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Governor: Involve universities to combat drug menace||Governor Bandaru Dattatreya has stressed the need for involving public and private universities and other educational institutions in wiping out drug trafficking from Haryana. Dattatreya was interacting with Shrikant Jadhav, ADGP, State Narcotics Control Bureau, here.The Governor said the youth would be effective in checking the use of illegal substances and preventing drug trafficking.Dattatreya said the university administrations could play a pivotal role in preventing drug trafficking through their own information system, adding that scouts and students associated with the NSS could also play a pivotal role.Jadhav said a toll-free number and mobile number – 9050891508 — had also been set up at the headquarters in Madhuban to give information related to drugs. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-governor-involve-universities-to-combat-drug-menace-315920
25-09-2021||---||Entries invited for Haryana state song||Chandigarh, September 24The Art and Cultural Affairs Department has invited entries from writers and poets of Haryana for the composition of the state song.Interested writers and poets can send their entries to the Department’s e-mail id: artandculturalaffairshry@gmail.com by September 30, 2021.An official spokesperson said it was mandatory to compose the song in Hindi. The number of words should be 100-120. It should be sound through literary and rhythmic point of view, he said.He said the composition should be based on the cultural heritage of Haryana, its traditions and historical, geographical and social aspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/entries-invited-for-haryana-state-song-315921
25-09-2021||Hisar||Hisar: Smart classroom inaugurated at Indira Chakravarty College||Programme to boost morale launchedAmbala: The National Independent Schools Alliance (NISA) has launched an unlock programme to boost the morale of students of Class I-VIII at its office. The objective of the programme is to bring studies back on track after lockdown and online classes. The national president of NISA, Dr Kulbhushan Sharma, said the institute will run a survey campaign to know how children’s studies were affected in the past two years.Science exhibition heldMahendragarh: The School of Basic Sciences, in coordination with the Department of Mathematics at Central University of Haryana, organised an exhibition on science and technology. Dr Vinod Kumar, convener, said a number of recorded videos on multiple scientific models were received for the exhibition. Arpit Dubey and team got the first prize for ‘Mask detecting automatic door’, Akshat Kant and Team bagged the second prize for ‘Dual-fused deposition modeling 3D Printer’, and Vijayan Sharma and the team received the third prize for an AI robot.Idea-generation contest organisedRohtak: The Institute of Management Studies and Research of Maharshi Dayanand University organised a business idea-generation competition on its digital platform IMSAR-Eventila. More than 350 students from business schools across the country participated in the competition. Vice Chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh inaugurated the event. Noted industrialist Rajesh Jain also addressed the participants during the event.Talk show on résumé buildingHisar: The training and placement cell of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology held a talk show-cum-webinar on “Effective résumé building”. A total of 185 students attended this webinar. Capt Richik Sinha Roy, Indian Territorial Army Officer and co-founder of smart resume generator platform Ureify, was the keynote speaker of the webinar. Capt Sinha shared that Ureify was an intelligent web app with multiple résumé samples and summary statements that built perfect job-winning resumes.Programme on financial literacyFaridabad: The faculty development cell of DAV Institute of Management organised an awareness programme on financial literacy and money management. Ganesh Tripathi, an NISM-certified investment adviser, was the keynote speaker for the programme. He talked about measures aimed at highlighting financial literacy in today’s world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-smart-classroom-inaugurated-at-indira-chakravarty-college-315940
25-09-2021||A pick-and-choose strategy is allegedly being adopted in the demolition of illegal farmhouses built on the forestland in Surajkund area of the Aravali belt in the district. While only 14 farmhouses have been targeted by the Municipal Corporation||Faridabad MC discriminates in demolition drive||LN Parasher, FaridabadWaterlogging issue prevailsWe have been witnessing for the past many decades now that whenever it rains, streets of the district get waterlogged, causing inconvenience to commuters. Roads, drainage and sewer system get damaged and the life of the residents gets completely disturbed. Despite being aware of the problem, the state government, district administration and the Municipal Corporation do not take this problem seriously. The condition of sewer, drain and roads in the city should be rectified at the earliest.Shakti Singh, KarnalGaping hole filled after issue raised in The TribuneAfter the issue of ‘gaping hole waiting to be filled’ was raised in the “What Our Readers Say” column of The Tribune on Wednesday, authorities concerned reached the spot on the same day and filled the hole. The gaping hole was waiting to be filled for the past two weeks after a sewerage pipeline was laid in a bylane to be connected to the main hole on the road in Lane 9 of Defence Colony. Col RD Singh (Retd), Ambala CanttWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-mc-discriminates-in-demolition-drive-315943
25-09-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||40% rape cases declared ‘false’ by Haryana Police||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 24About 40 per cent of the rape cases disposed of by the police in Haryana between 2018 and 2020 have been declared “false”, according to the State Crime Record Bureau data. Also, the conviction rate in cases where the court trials proceeded was less than two incidents out of every 10. The police disposed of 4,093 cases in the three-year period, of which 1,650 (40.3 per cent) rape FIRs were found false.Citing instances, an official said in October 2020, the Gurugram police registered a case of extortion against a woman for allegedly demanding Rs 1 crore from a retired cop for taking back her rape case against him. In September 2019, a Rohtak court ordered the registration of a case against a woman for allegedly reporting false gang-rape incident, the official said.“In several cases, including those of elopement and marriage-related disputes, rape is alleged initially, but the charges are dropped later due to lack of evidence,” said Haryana DGP PK Agrawal.Among gang-rape incidents, 55 cases (39.6 per cent) of the total 139 were declared false in 2018. The corresponding figures stood at 80 (51 per cent) of 157 in 2019 and 72 (45.3 per cent) of 159 in 2020.In 2018, 104 complaints (37.7 per cent) of the 276 related to “repeated rapes on same women” were found false. The corresponding count stood at 60 (32.6 per cent) of 184 in 2019 and 181 (44.9 per cent) of the 403 complaints in 2020.“There are cases where live-in relationships go sour and women allege rape. There are also cases of habitual women levelling allegations only for money. The truth comes out after detailed investigations and FIRs are subsequently cancelled,” said criminal lawyer Abhishek Rana.Sameer Sethi, another lawyer, alleged that the rape law was often misused to settle scores and extort money. “There are also cases where both parties reach a compromise during trial,” he said.When it comes to child rapes under Sections 4 and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, the story of false cases remains the same. A total of 89 FIRs (8.5 per cent) of the 1,046 in 2018 were declared false. It was 11 per cent in 2019 (126 false of 1,147). The count stood at 12.4 per cent for 2020 (136 of 1,097 cases declared false). The conviction rate here was 32.5 per cent in 2018, 32.4 per cent in 2019 and 25.2 per cent in 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/40-rape-cases-declared-false-by-haryana-police-315777
25-09-2021||Mukesh Ranjan||Bihar's Shubham Kumar tops civil services exam; Mansa's Simrandeep Singh bags 34th rank||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 24The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on Friday declared the results of the examination 2020, conducted annually to select IAS, IFS and IPS officers, among other civil servants.Engineering graduates Shubham Kumar and Jagrati Awasthi have bagged the first and second ranks, respectively.Kumar, who hails from Bihar, is a Bachelor of Technology (civil engineering) graduate from IIT-Bombay. He has qualified the examination with anthropology as his optional subject.Awasthi is the topper among women candidates, according to a statement issued by the UPSC. Awasthi qualified the examination with sociology as her optional subject. She completed B.Tech (electrical engineering) from Maulana Azad National Institute of Technology (MANIT), Bhopal.Ankita Jain has achieved the third rank in the prestigious test.While Mansa engineer Simrandeep Singh secured 34th rank in his third attempt, Nisha Grewal of Bamla village in Haryana’s Bhiwani district has bagged the 51st rank in the examination.A total of 761 candidates—545 men and 216 women—have cleared the examination, as the UPSC under the law has kept 150 candidates in the reserve list.Incidentally, of the total 761 selected candidates for different central services, 263 qualified in the general category, 86 in economically weaker section (EWS) category, as 229 candidates selected under OBC category, while 122 SCs and 61 STs, according to the list declared by the UPSC. This means that 498 candidates of the total 761 have been selected under different types of reserve categories.   Candidates have been selected on the basis of the main written exam held from January 8 to January 17 and the interview held from August 2 to September 22. Prior to the main written exam, a preliminary test was held in October 2020. Candidates who had qualified the preliminary test were shortlisted for the main exam.In the preliminary exam, which was conducted on October 4 last year, 10,564 candidates qualified for appearance in the written (main) examination. A total of 2,053 candidates qualified for the personality test and of which, 761 candidates (545 men and 216 women) have been recommended by the UPSC for appointment to various central services.Result will also be available on the UPSC website i.e. http//www.upsc.gov.in.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bihars-shubham-kumar-tops-civil-services-exam-mansas-simrandeep-singh-bags-34th-rank-315638
