27-09-2021||Sumedha Sharma||Bharat Bandh: Traffic congestion at Delhi-Gurugram border||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, September 27Massive traffic snarls gripped Delhi-Gurugram-Rajokri border on Monday morning for about an hour as Delhi police resorted to checking in view of Bharat Bandh call given by farmer organisations.Though the Bandh was not planned in Delhi, taking no chances Delhi police along with their paramiltary counterparts pressed preventive security plan in action leading to major traffic congestion at border and leaving hundreds of people harried.The police barricaded all but two lanes ill 10.30 am. They werestopping and checking each and every vehicle passing through these lanes.The pictures and videos of the traffic jam went viral on social media and it was then that the congestion was cleared though cops from Delhi as well Gurugram stood guard at border.Bharat Bandh: Farmers block roads at various places in Punjab, HaryanaBharat Bandh: Farmers block Chandigarh-Ambala road, Mohali airport road at 5 places“The cars were virtually crawling bumper to bumper 8.30 am and 9.30 am. The situation worsened as farmers blocked traffic movement in Rewari and traffic was diverted to Bilaspur, Pachgaon and KMP,” said a cop posted at border.According to Ravinder Tomar, deputy commissioner of police, though the traffic movement was slow owing to checking by Delhi police, Gurugram cops managed to keep things moving and it was cleared within an hour.“This is not new. We have a waiting time at this border of around 15 to 20 minutes every day. It’s the ongoing construction of underpass and the regular barricading by Delhi police which lead to traffic congestion every day during office hours. Today, I had to wait for an hour as majority of lanes were closed due to protest. With a great difficulty I had managed to get an appointment at AIIMS for my son butmissed it because of this now the next appointment available is after one month. Who is responsible for this?” said Adarsh Juneja whose 12-year-old son suffers from congenital cardiac issue and was headed to Delhi for treatment.Meanwhile, the farmer associations in Gurugram staged a protest march in Sadar Bazaar and made shopkeepers shut shops. The situation was under control and peaceful across the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bharat-bandh-traffic-congestion-at-delhi-gurugram-border-316864
27-09-2021||---||Bharat Bandh: Farmers block Chandigarh-Ambala road, Mohali airport road at 5 places||Mohali/Panchkula, September 27Farmers on Monday blocked the airport road at five places, including Sohana Singh Shaheedan Gurdwara, Sectors 78-79 Chowk and Chhat village light point.Bharat Bandh: Traffic diversions in Chandigarh todayBesides, the farmers also blocked the Landran Chowk, Motemajra, Sandra village, Derri, connecting the airport road to the Kharar-Banur road in Mohali district.LIVE UPDATES: Farmers block roads at various places in Punjab, HaryanaBharat Bandh: Traffic congestion at Delhi-Gurugram borderFarmers also blocked the Chandigarh-Ambala road at Dappar toll plaza, Lalru, Zirakpur and Handesra road section falling in Punjab area on the Ambala-Naraingarh road.Farmers blocked the Zirakpur-Shimla highway at the Chandimandir toll plaza.There was no major impact of the Bharat Bandh on Chandigarh as all shops were open in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bharat-bandh-farmers-block-chandigarh-ambala-road-mohali-airport-road-at-5-places-316857
27-09-2021||Waterlogging after rain is a big issue in Sector 9||Waterlogging a big issue in Ambala city||Rainwater still stagnant on farmlandRainwater is still stagnant in hundreds of acres of agricultural land in several villages under Meham subdivision in Rohtak district even after many days of informing the authorities concerned in this respect. The situation is no different in many residential localities in the region too. The waterlogging has not only caused damage to standing crops but also thrown normal life out of gear for those facing the worst conditions. The authorities must act swiftly and ensure removal of water from fields and streets of the villages. —Deepak Rathi, MehamRoads from Kalka to Panchkula in dilapidated conditionRoads from Kalka to Panchkula, including the NH-22 Kalka-Shimla highway are in a poor condition. The highway has become so fragile that it may give way at any moment. Rather than pursuing the blame game later, it is better to take prompt action which can save us from regretting later. —Minni Kalra, PanchkulaGovernment must Work on war footing against dengueThis refers to the news, Faridabad dengue cases rise by 114 per cent in four days (September 22). This is a matter of serious concern that overflowing sewers, waterlogging on fractured roads in many sectors of Faridabad is adding fuel to fire. The dengue virus spreads in places where water stagnates frequently and is not being cleaned by the civic authorities. It's more or less the duty of vigilant RWAs to make people aware of keeping the neighbourhood neat and clean. Like the Delhi Government, Haryana Government too needs to work on war footing against dengue. —Yugal Kishore Sharma, FaridabadWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/waterlogging-a-big-issue-in-ambala-city-316728
27-09-2021||---||Karnal canal front to be developed as tourist attraction||Karnal, September 26On the second day of his visit in his constituency, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday reviewed various ongoing projects in the city.Apart from visiting the canal front of Western Yamuna Canal, the CM also reviewed the progress of the widening of Karnal-Meerut highway. Khattar directed the officials to speed up the work to meet the deadlines.He also inspected the work of the bridge on Western Yamuna Canal on Kaithal road which is being constructed at Rs 7 crore.He launched pulse polio drive from PWD rest house and administered polio drop to infants. The CM also held a meeting with councillors at the residence of the former Senior Deputy Mayor Krishan Garg and took feedback about development works.While reviewing the projects, the CM said that the city will have another tourist place in the form of canal front of Western Yamuna Canal between Kachwa road and Kaithal road. It will be developed at the cost of Rs 6.5 crore. “The 2-km-long canal front will have an amusement park, a cycle track, a walk way, a play area for children and other facilities for residents,” said the CM. Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav apprised the CM about the project and its deadline.After reviewing it, the CM reached Meerut road where the widening work of the road is going on at a cost of Rs 105 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-canal-front-to-be-developed-as-tourist-attraction-316723
27-09-2021||Jhajjar||26 bikes added to Jhajjar police fleet||Twenty motorbikes have been added to the Jhajjar police fleet. The bikes were flagged off by SP Rajesh Duggal, who said police personnel would now be able to reach the victims and crime spots quickly.The bikes have been sponsored by Aravali Power Company Limited, Jharli. “The bikes are equipped with public address system, GPS, wireless system, red and blue lights. The vehicles will be connected with the Police Control Room through GPS. Riders will be deputed on bikes. It will help in curbing crimes like chain-snatching, loot, burglary, eve-teasing and riots besides ensuring smooth flow of traffic,” said Duggal.The SP said they had identified crucial points in the district where riders would be deployed to help the victims and to keep a close tab on the activities in a particular area.He said incharges of all police stations and posts would be responsible if they fail to reach the crime spot quickly despite getting information about it. “No negligence in duty will be tolerated.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/26-bikes-added-to-jhajjar-police-fleet-316724
27-09-2021||Yamunanagar||2 booked for duping man of Rs 4.45 lakh||A man was duped of Rs 4.45 lakh by two persons on the pretext of providing him the job of a clerk in the Excise and Taxation Department.On the complaint of Rahul Sharma of Bava Colony, a case was registered against Madan of Punjab’s Mohali and Varun of Jagadhri Workshop in Yamunanagar under Sections 120B, 406, 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC at Farakpur police station on September 24.The complainant said he was searching for a job after getting a degree in BBA. He said one day, Varun, who lived in their area, met him and told him that his known Madan could help him in getting a government job.“I met Madan through Varun. They took Rs 4,85,000 from me between November 2019 and May 2020 on the pretext of providing me the job of a clerk in the Excise and Taxation Department,” alleged the complainant.He said when they failed to provide him the government job, he asked for his money back. “They returned me only Rs 40,000. They are not returning me the rest of the amount i.e. Rs 4,45,000. They were now making one excuse or the other for returning me the rest of the amount,” alleged the complainant. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-booked-for-duping-man-of-rs-4-45-lakh-316715
27-09-2021||---||Saraswati reservoirs to come up at five locations in Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra, September 26The Haryana Saraswati Heritage Development Board has come out with a project of developing Saraswati reservoirs at five locations in Kurukshetra district. The reservoirs will be developed on the panchayati land of Mahuwa Kheri, Sanghor, Bohli, and Mukurpur villages, and another one in Seaonsar forest.Dhuman Singh Kirmach, vice-chairman, Haryana Sarasvati Heritage Development Board, said “The board has planned to develop reservoirs on panchayat land located on the banks of Saraswati river. The reservoirs will facilitate the storage of water which will fulfil the need of its flow in the river. Earlier, the board had identified Mukurpur village for a reservoir but later four more locations (Mahuwa Kheri, Sanghor, Bohli, and Seaonsar forest) were identified for the project. Besides Kurukshetra, three reservoirs will be developed in Yamunanagar district as well.” “With the construction, the problem of the dark zone of the selected areas will also be solved and the groundwater will increase. During rain, excessive amount of water reaches these villages from nearby areas and it damages the standing crop. Under the project, rainwater will be channelised and stored in the reservoirs. Later the stored water will be used for agriculture purposes and it will also be flowed to Saraswati river to maintain its flow”, he added.“All identified sites are located on the banks of Saraswati river. Administrative approval has already been granted for the reservoir in Bohli village and the work will be started soon by the Irrigation Department. There is already a pond in Seaonsar forest in Pehowa, which will be developed and maintained by the board. Later, more reservoirs will also be developed in the villages located on the banks of Saraswati river”, he said.To be developed on panchayat landThe reservoirs will be developed on the panchayat land of Mahuwa Kheri, Sanghor, Bohli and Mukurpur villages and another one in Seaonsar forest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/saraswati-reservoirs-to-come-up-at-five-locations-in-kurukshetra-316717
27-09-2021||Kurukshetra||Woman arrested for killing husband in Kurukshetra||The Kurukshetra police on Sunday arrested a woman for allegedly killing her husband with the help of her paramour, and later burying his body in their house.The deceased has been identified as Farooq (50), a resident of Amin village of Kurukshetra. It is being suspected that the man was killed nearly 20 days ago.On September 22, a missing persons’ complaint of Farooq and his family was lodged at Kurukshetra University police station.The SHO of the Kurukshetra University police station, Mange Ram, said “A woman has been arrested today for killing her husband with the help of her paramour. She was the second wife of Farooq. The skeleton has been recovered and the matter is being further investigated. She used a knife to kill him. The exact date of murder is yet to be ascertained. The second accused is yet to be arrested.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-arrested-for-killing-husband-in-kurukshetra-316719
27-09-2021||---||Arrest Kaithal double murder suspects or face stir: Cong||Karnal, September 26AICC media in-charge and former Kaithal MLA Randeep Singh Surjewala today met the family members of an arhtiya, who along with his wife, was killed two days back in Kaithal.Surjewala blamed the government for creating ‘jungle raj’ and for the poor law-and-order situation in the state. While interacting with mediapersons, he said that the situation has deteriorated in Haryana in the past seven years and the crime graph is rising. “Kaithal grain market and Model Town were considered to be safest places of the city, but the double murder of arhtiya Satyawan and his wife Kailasho Devi has exposed the poor law-and-order situation,” said Surjewala. The former minister served an ultimatum of 24 hours to the government for the arrest of five persons, the names of whom have been given by the family members to the police. “Otherwise, we will hold protest,” he said.On the call of Bharat Bandh given by farmer unions on September 27, he said that the Congress was supporting the farmers’ agitation since the start.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arrest-kaithal-double-murder-suspects-or-face-stir-cong-316720
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||US delegation meets Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala||Director, North India Office, US Embassy, New Delhi, Michael Rosenthal, along with his delegation, called on Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala at his office. Dushyant discussed in detail about various sectors — industry, commerce, education and agriculture — with the delegation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/us-delegation-meets-haryana-deputy-cm-dushyant-chautala-316721
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Centre allots 6 IAS slots to Haryana||With the Centre allotting six IAS slots to Haryana cadre for the current year, two local women candidates Mamta Yadav (5th rank) and Devyani (11th rank) have strong chances of getting assigned to the home state.The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), in a communication to the state Chief Secretary on September 22, said Haryana would get six IAS slots this year on the basis of the 2020-21 Civil Services Examination, the result of which was declared on September 24. While four officers will be from outside the state (“outsiders”), two will be local (“insiders”).Of the four “outsiders”, one officer will be from the general category while three from the OBC. As far as the “insiders” are concerned, one officer each will be from the ST and OBC categories. Since Haryana does not have an ST category, this slot too will be filled from the general/OBC/SC category.Meanwhile, sources said as both Mamta and Devyani are Yadavs (OBC), they are in contention for the state cadre.However, cadre allotment by the Centre to different states is a complex process as besides the rank, the performance of the candidates in the foundation course also accounts for 10% weightage.Last year, the Centre had allotted IAS topper and general category candidate Pradeep Singh to Haryana cadre. This was despite the fact that of the five IAS slots, three were to be filled by “outsiders” and two by the “insiders”.An RTI application filed by advocate Hemant Kumar in this regard was rejected by the ministry on the plea that the information was sought by the third party. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/centre-allots-6-ias-slots-to-haryana-316713
27-09-2021||Deepender Deswal||Canal breach floods farmland in 3 Haryana districts||Tribune News ServiceHisar, September 26The incidents of canal breach at about six places in the region after heavy rains have inundated thousands of acres of land in Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad districts.While the breaches had been plugged by the Irrigation Department with the help of villagers at these places, these have left a trail of destruction as heavy flooding has not only destroyed the kharif crops but also left the residential areas in dhanis and villages waterlogged.DC Deputy Speaker Inspect affected sitesAccording to reports, the breach in Sidhmukh canal in Gurakhpur village of Fatehabad district two days ago flooded about 2,000 acres of land in Gorakhpur, Kajlaheri and Khajuri Jati villages. It took nearly 20 hours for the authorities to plug the breach. The water of this canal is meant for Rajasthan. However, the canal bank caved in due to overflow in Gorakhpur, which caused massive flooding of cotton fields in the region.About 10 villages in Hisar’s Hansi subdivision were the worst-affected due to overflowing canals and drains, which resulted in flooding in about 8,000 acres of farmland. A breach in a drain in Bhatol village inundated large tracks. Residents of Bhatol and Kharkara villages met the Hansi SDM for action to plug the breach and discharge the rainwater.The Adampur minor canal also overflowed resulting in breach in Kabrel village, inundating the fields. The drain meant for storm water disposal in Khanda Kheri village too caved in on Friday night. A 10-ft opening into the bank of the Hisar-Ghahhar multipurpose channel (drain) in Shakkar Mandori village in the Chopta block of Sirsa too had caused flooding in the adjoining villages two days ago. The villagers, however, plugged the breach on their own after nearly 10 hours of exercise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/canal-breach-floods-farmland-in-3-haryana-districts-316714
27-09-2021||Ravinder Saini||Bahadurgarh traders move Delhi HC, seek opening of Tikri border||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, September 26The Bahadurgarh Chamber of Commerce and Industries (BCCI), a body of more than 9,000 large- and small-scale units in Bahadurgarh, has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in the Delhi High Court against the Delhi Police for blocking the Tikri border by putting concrete barricades.The petitioner said the Tikri border had been lying closed for 10 months and the Delhi Police were not letting citizens to cross the border. Even ambulances were not allowed to cross the Tikri border at a time when the threat of the Covid pandemic still looms.The HC has fixed November 15 as the date for hearing.“The police are not opening the Tikri border even after the Chief Secretary, Haryana, submitted an affidavit in the Supreme Court, stating that the Jharoda border was open, while the one at Tikri was closed. We made representation to the Prime Minister’s Office and the Chief Minister’s Office, but to no avail. This forced us to approach the High Court. Lakhs of labourers who work in Bahadurgarh factories face inconvenience every day,” said Narinder Chhikara, vice-president, BCCI.Around 7.5 lakh workers are engaged in more than 9,000 industries in Bahadurgarh. They take a long detour of 14-15 km via fields to commute between Delhi and Bahadurgarh.“The closure of the Tikri border has hit industrial production. The industries have suffered a loss of around Rs 20,000 crore in the past 10 months. If the situation doesn’t improve, several industries may close down or be forced to shift,” added Chhikara.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bahadurgarh-traders-move-delhi-hc-seek-opening-of-tikri-border-316709
27-09-2021||---||Rakesh Tikait to youth: Take to social media, counter fake news||Panipat, September 26On the eve of the Bharat Bandh call by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), farmer leader Rakesh Tikait has appealed to youth to counter the “misinformation campaign” against the protest, which has completed 10 months.Highways to be blocked“The IT cells of the corporate sector have been spreading fake news about the farmers’ protest. The only way to counter them is to run our own campaign. The youth must take this responsibility. It is important to present reality on social media,” he said while addressing farmers at a “kisan mahapanchayat” in the new grain market here today.Ready to agitate for 10 yearsThe farmers’ agitation has completed 10 months. The government must listen with open ears that even if we have to agitate for 10 years, we are ready. The Centre will have to repeal the laws. —Rakesh Tikait, BKU leaderPolice up for challengeElaborate arrangements have been put in place by the civil and police administration. The primary objective is to maintain peace and order, prevent violence and facilitate the functioning of traffic and public transport systems across the state. —Haryana Police spokesmanProtest within ambit of lawEveryone has a right to raise their voice within the ambit of the law. The government has no problem with that, but nobody will be allowed to take the law into their hands. — Manohar Lal Khattar, CMThe farmer leader further said the Centre and the state government had tried to defame the protest by spreading lies, but farmers remained united. “The condition of farmers in several states is bad and the SKM is fighting for their rights.”On the blockade of the Delhi national highway, Tikait said, “The Delhi Police and the Central Government, not the farmers, have blocked roads.”Tikait also said the protest would not end until the three controversial farm laws were repealed. “There is no doubt that the SKM will win. It will be a win of youth and women.”Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said: “The police have booked more than 40,000 farmers in criminal cases. Summons have been issued. I appeal to farmers not to court arrest if the police visit their villages with the arrest warrant.”Grain markets to be shut todayHisar: The Haryana Beopar Mandal on Sunday announced that grain markets in the state would remain closed on Monday in support of the Bharat Bandh call by farmers’ organisations. State mandal president Bajrang Garg said, “Traders support farmers. Arhtiyas have a family bond with farmers. We cannot leave them in the times of crisis.” He added the farmers’ demand for the withdrawal of three controversial agricultural laws was justified. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rakesh-tikait-to-youth-take-to-social-media-counter-fake-news-316710
27-09-2021||---||To close shops or not: Rohtak traders in fix||Rohtak, September 26Shopkeepers at main markets in Rohtak city are in a dilemma whether to open their shops tomorrow or not as traders’ associations have not clarified their stance over the Bharat Bandh call by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) against the three farm laws.“The SKM has called upon traders to support the protest by closing their business establishments but we are in a fix as our market association has not yet issued any instruction in this respect. Customers residing in nearby villages are calling up to know if shops will remain open tomorrow or not,” said Pramod Kumar, a cloth merchant.“Yesterday, representatives of protesting farmers requested us to keep our shops shut on Monday but we could not hold a meeting in this respect today. Hence, no call for closing shops has yet been given to traders. However, an emergency meeting may be held tomorrow morning if needed,” said Gulshan Ishpuniyani, president, Shouri Cloth Market Association.Bittu Sachdeva, president, Quilla Road Traders’ Association, said the traders had already suffered heavy losses due to the Covid pandemic so they had not yet decided anything about the bandh call.Hemant Bakshi, president, Rohtak Traders’ Association, said no farmer leader had so far contacted them for support. Hence, no call for shutting shops tomorrow had been given, but traders were free to take a call on their own as per the situation.Meanwhile, Inderjit Singh, vice-president, All-India Kisan Sabha, said over 20 points had been earmarked on various highways passing through the district for installing blockades.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-close-shops-or-not-rohtak-traders-in-fix-316711
27-09-2021||---||On way to Singhu, Tarn Taran farmer killed in road accident||Karnal, September 26A 35-year-old farmer was allegedly killed, while two others were injured when their tractor-trailer was hit by a canter on the National Highway-44 near Baldi bypass in the wee hours of Sunday.The incident took place around 4 am when the farmers were going to the Singhu border to join the agitation, which has completed 10 months.The deceased farmer has been identified as Harjinder Singh of Tarn Taran district in Punjab, while the injured are Kanwaljeet Singh and Sharvan Kumar, also from Tarn Taran. They are undergoing treatment. Harjinder was driving the tractor.The driver of canter, however, fled the spot after leaving the vehicle behind.“We have registered a case against the canter driver under Sections 279, 304-A and 337 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). We are probing the case,” said Vijay Kumar, investigation officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/on-way-to-singhu-tarn-taran-farmer-killed-in-road-accident-316712
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Over 1L get jab in a day in Haryana||With 1,03,394 more persons getting the jab against Covid on Sunday, the number of vaccinations are pegged at 2,22,94,084 in the state. Meanwhile, 7,60,673 persons have recovered to date. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-1l-get-jab-in-a-day-in-haryana-316722
27-09-2021||---||Sonepat: Ready to join classes, but will not call off strike, say MBBS students||Sonepat, September 26MBBS students of Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College for Women at Khanpur Kalan , who were on strike for the five days, on Saturday agreed to join their classes from Monday, but were not ready to call off their strike till the action was not initiated against the professor.The protesting students gave 15 working days time to the authorities to initiate action against the professor who allegedly misbehaved with them. They also warned that if action was not initiated within the stipulated time period, they would go for full-fledged protest again. The students said they would not call off their strike and they would continue a symbolic protest till the action was not initiated.The students also demanded to constitute a statutory committee comprising teachers and students’ representatives, elected by the students to initiate action against such incidents. Notably, Dr Sumit Kumar, a professor of microbiology department allegedly misbehaved and used abusive words with the MBBS second year students during an interactive session of the class on September 16. Following the complaint, the college administration has conducted an inquiry and sent the reports to the Director, Medical Education and Research (DMER) for further action. The students have even met Home Minister Anil Vij on this issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-ready-to-join-classes-but-will-not-call-off-strike-say-mbbs-students-316718
27-09-2021||Parveen Arora||Four deadlines missed, AMRUT project on at snail’s pace in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, September 26The execution of Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) project, one of the flagship programmes of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, is moving at a slow pace in the city even after missing four deadlines.The laying of storm water drain lines, installing of rainwater harvesting system and intermediate pumping stations at a cost of Rs 84 crore was started on July 1, 2017, and it was to be completed on January 31, 2019, but the project agency failed to meet the first deadline, forcing the government to extend the deadline to March 31, 2020 and further March 31, 2021 and later to June 30, 2021, but still a lot of work is pending. The fresh deadline is November 30.Agencies told to submit progress reportI have reviewed the progress of the project and directed the agencies concerned to finish the remaining works in the fixed deadline. All agencies have been asked to submit a progress report every week and the site visit will be conducted every fortnight to assess the progress. —Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, KMCFour rainwater harvesting systems were to be set upUnder the AMRUT project, around 38-km storm water drain lines were to be laid, along with four rainwater harvesting systems in Jhanjhari, Uchana, Dholgarh and Saidpura and four intermediate pumping stations at Mera Ghati, Saidpura, Hakikatnagar and Sector 5. —Satish Kumar, Xen, Karnal municipal corporationUnder this project, around 38-km storm water drain lines were to be laid, along with four rainwater harvesting systems in Jhanjhari, Uchana, Dholgarh and Saidpura and four intermediate pumping stations at Mera Ghati, Saidpura, Hakikatnagar and at Sector 5, said Satish Kumar, XEN, KMC. So far, around 35-km drain lines have been laid, while the civil work of the water harvesting systems have been completed, but the installing work of bore is yet to be done, he added. The civil work of Saidpura intermediate pumping station has been completed, but the mechanical and electrical work is yet to be done.So far, around 50 per cent of the civil work of the pumping stations at Meera Ghati and Sector 5 has been completed, while around 30 per cent civil work of the Hakikatnagar pumping station has been completed.The work of installing five tubewells and water supply line of around 49-km at a cost of Rs 13 crore has been completed. Besides, around 147-km sewerage pipe lines were to be laid in the deficit colonies at a cost of Rs 178 crore. The work was started on November 15, 2017 and the first deadline was October 23, 2019, and later it was extended to March 31, 2020 and further to December 30, 2020, but the company failed to complete the work. Later, the deadline was extended to June 30, 2021 and now the fresh deadline is February 28, 2022. So far, 142-km of sewerage pipelines have been laid, while two sewage treatment plants with the capacity of 20 MLD in Phoosgarh and 8MLD of Shiv Colony were to be constructed, but only around 78 and 76 per cent of the works have been completed, respectively.Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC), when contacted, said they had imposed a penalty of around Rs 1.35 crore to the agency assigned for the work of laying storm water drain lines. “I have reviewed the progress of the project and directed the agencies concerned to finish the remaining works in the fixed deadline. All the agencies have been asked to submit progress report every week and the site visit will be conducted every fortnight to assess the progress,” said the Commissioner.Work incompleteSo far, 142-km of sewerage pipelines have been laid, while two sewage treatment plants with the capacity of 20 MLD in Phoosgarh and 8MLD of Shiv Colony were to be constructed, but only around 78 and 76 per cent of the works have been done.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-deadlines-missed-amrut-project-on-at-snails-pace-in-karnal-316716
27-09-2021||---||Villagers protest delay in constructing Palwal ROB||Palwal, September 26Residents of the district’s Rasulpur village allegedly stopped the water supply from the booster pump for a few hours today in protest against the delay in constructing a railway overbridge (ROB) near the village.The Rs 45-crore project was launched in October 2018. It is being built by the Haryana State Roads and Bridges Development Corporation (HSRDC) and its deadline was 18 months.Residents of Lohgarh, Hari Nagar and Raunija localities claim their movement has been hampered because of the under-construction flyover.“Commuters take a long detour to reach their destinations, resulting in wastage of time and money,” said Virender a resident.The protesters asked the district administration to provide a passage for crossing the railway line until the flyover is constructed.On learning about the protest, a senior official of the Municipal Council reached the protest site and assured the protesters that the construction would resume soon.Rahul Singh, Executive Engineer, HSRDC, said: “Some pending work on the part of Railways and certain technical issues have led to the delay in constructing the ROB. The construction will pick up pace soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/villagers-protest-delay-in-constructing-palwal-rob-316725
27-09-2021||Nitish Sharma||58 new principals await postings in Ambala, Kurukshetra||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, September 26As many as 58 postgraduate teachers (PGTs) promoted to the post of principal in the first week of August have been waiting for their postings in government schools of Ambala and Kurukshetra districts.Notably, there are 26 newly promoted principals in Ambala and 32 in Kurukshetra, who have been awaiting the posting orders.Education Department's call As per the orders, principals have been trained in administrative, IT and accounts work. They also visit schools for mentoring and inspection. But only the Edu Dept can take a call on their postings. —Arun Ashri, DEO, KurukshetraGurinder Singh, a new principal in Ambala, said: “We got promoted in the first week of August but are yet to be posted as principals in government schools as the transfer drive couldn’t be conducted due to some litigation. Following the orders, we have been providing our services at the District Education Office. We are also being sent to schools for mentoring and inspection while we have been requesting the Education Department to at least give us temporary posting.”Another such principal said: “After the promotion, we were relieved from our previous schools. It would have been better if we were relieved after making the arrangement for our next posting. We keep sitting here most of the time. It’s a loss for students as well.”Meanwhile, Balram Sharma, president, Haryana School Lecturers’ Association, Kurukshetra unit, said: “Senior-most teachers, who have been given the additional charge of principal, have to look after the administrative work due to which they don’t get much time to pay attention to their own subjects. The department should make adjustment at the district level and provide temporary postings to these principals.”Ramakant, chief of the association’s Ambala unit, however, said, “There are nearly 35 schools where the posts of principal are lying vacant. We have requested the department to send the newly promoted principals to these schools so that the administrative work could be performed efficiently.”Ambala DEO Suresh Kumar, however, said: “As per the orders, they reported at the District Education Office and are being sent to schools for inspections as well. We will implement whatever directions we get from the Education Department.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/58-new-principals-await-postings-in-ambala-kurukshetra-316726
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Pulse polio drive begins in Haryana||The second Sub-National Immunisation (SNID) round of the Pulse Polio Drive 2021-22 was inaugurated by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in Karnal district on Sunday.Of the target of 25.7 lakh children, approximately 13.21 lakh (51%) under 5 years of age were administered the polio drops on Sunday.An official spokesperson of the Health Department said the immunisation started at 13 identified districts — Ambala, Faridabad, Gurgaon, Jhajjar, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Mewat, Palwal, Panchkula, Panipat, Rohtak, Sonepat and Yamunanagar — on Sunday.Those left out during the booth activity on the first day will be given the polio drops on Monday and Tuesday in a door-to-door drive. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pulse-polio-drive-begins-in-haryana-316727
27-09-2021||Karnal||Parthenium weed eradication campaign in Karnal||Selfie point attracts studentsRewari: A selfie point created by Indira Gandhi University (IGU) during a function organised on the campus to mark International Plastic Free Day became the centre of attraction as students made beeline to click a selfie there. Nandini Yadav, a brand ambassador for 'polythene free Rewari', on the occasion encouraged students to shun using polybags for keeping the environment safe. She also motivated them to participate in her special campaign 'Selfie with cloth bag'. Nandini also gifted a cloth bag to every person who clicked his selfie with a cloth bag at that point. Vice Chancellor Prof SK Gakhar too applauded Nandini's efforts.Nominated to KU academic councilKurukshetra: Prof Som Nath Sachdeva, Vice-Chancellor of Kurukshetra University, has nominated eminent scientist, Dr Kuldeep Singh Dhindsa as member of Academic Council of Kurukshetra University for the next two years. During his 35 years of service, Dr. Dhindsa brought laurels to Haryana in the field of chemistry and environmental science in the country and abroad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/parthenium-weed-eradication-campaign-in-karnal-316734
27-09-2021||Faridabad||Haryana Diary: Doubts over car-free day move||Khattar’s kind words for CaptChandigarh: It seems CM Manohar Lal Khattar has started sympathising with Capt Amarinder Singh since the day he quit. When asked about Haryana ministers’ allegations against him for instigating farmers during a press conference on Saturday, Khattar replied a person “has different traits of personality”. “He must have done it as the CM or a Congress leader. He is no more the CM now,” he added. He quipped that Capt’s belief was in India’s interest but Sidhu might connect with someone and would say anything.BJP leader Birender Singh’s surprise appearance on INLD stageHisar: The presence of BJP leader Birender Singh on the INLD stage on Saturday has come as a surprise to observers in the political circles. However, Birender whose son Brijendra Singh is BJP MP from Hisar is known for his outspoken speeches, his turning up at the stage of his arch rival Om Prakash Chautala has triggered speculations on his next political move. Political circles are abuzz that he was feeling uneasy after his son Brijendra could not get a place in the Modi ministry in the recent reshuffle. “It may be a pressure tactic to seek a berth in the Union Ministry,” said a political observer. However, SAD leader Parkash Singh Badal also named him as one of the leaders in his speech in Jind when he was urging regional forces to join hands.MP’s political plans for kinRewari: The announcement made by Union Minister and Gurugram MP Rao Inderjit’s daughter Aarti Rao about contesting the next election has left the political analysts brainstorming over “when and from where she may jump into the poll fray”. Some of them predicted that she would contest the Lok Sabha poll in place of her father from Gurugram while others are guessing beyond it. They observe Rao won’t hesitate to field her in the Assembly poll from Rewari in case the plan doesn’t materialise. “Since a long time, Rao has been leaving no stone unturned to clear the way for her daughter to enter the poll fray but he has not made it yet. As the 2024 election is the last chance for him, Rao is mounting pressure and creating a political atmosphere in favour of his plan. His assertion of not quitting politics is also a part of that plan,” says a political analyst.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-diary-doubts-over-car-free-day-move-316736
27-09-2021||Ambala||Haryana cop, kin booked for wife’s murder||The Ambala police today booked a Haryana Police constable and two of his family members on the charges of murder and criminal conspiracy after the cop’s wife was found dead with a bullet injury in their house yesterday.The deceased has been identified as Surjit Kaur of Naraingarh. On a complaint of Surjit’s mother Amarjit Kaur, a murder case has been registered against constable Harjit, his mother and sister. Earlier, it was suspected to be a case of suicide.Amarjit of Naraingarh told the police that her daughter got married to Harjit around 20 years ago. “I spoke to her over the phone around 2 pm on Saturday and she told me that she was fine. Around 2:30 pm, I got a call from my son Sukhvinder and he informed me that Surjit has suffered a bullet injury. After getting information, I, along with other family members, reached Panjauri village and found her dead. Harjit is employed with the CID, Haryana Police, and he has killed Surjit with his licensed gun,” the complainant alleged.Harjit was an ex-serviceman. A case was registered under Sections 302 and 120B of the IPC. Dhoom Singh, SHO, Naraingarh police station, said: “A case has been registered. The weapon is a licensed one. Action will be taken on the basis of the evidence.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cop-kin-booked-for-wifes-murder-316668
27-09-2021||Mukesh Tandon||SKM appeals for peace, parties back bandh||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, September 26The traffic on all national and state highways would be hit during tomorrow’s Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), said farmers’ leader Rakesh Tikait.Speaking at Panipat after the farmers’ mahapanchayat, the SKM leader appealed to the people not to venture out till 3 pm because there would be traffic jams all around.Trains would also be stopped during the bandh, he said. The farmers in Sonepat reportedly plan to block traffic at 10 places by staging protests. All grain and vegetable markets would also remain closed in the district.Blockade 6 am to 4 pm; advisory issuedThe SKM claimed that a number of political parties, traders’ bodies, transporters, bank unions etc. have assured support for the bandh call. Morcha leaders claimed the bandh would be peaceful.Jai Kisan Andolan convener Yogendra Yadav said, “We have got support from across the country. It will be a historic bandh.”The call for the bandh has been given to mark the anniversary of three contentious agricultural laws. The President had given assent to the three laws on September 27 last year. The SKM claimed the Andhra Government had expressed support for the bandh. The LDF, AAP, SP, TDP, JD(S), BSP, NCP, DMK, and many other parties have also extended support to the bandh, it claimed. A bandh would be observed across the country from 6 am to 4 pm tomorrow, the SKM said.Congress backs morcha callThe Congress has said it supported the farmers’ call for a ‘Bharat Bandh’ on Monday and demanded immediate rollback of the three farm laws passed by Parliament last year||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/skm-appeals-for-peace-parties-back-bandh-316573
27-09-2021||Mukesh Tandon & Ravinder Saini||10 months on, farmers’ stir  still strong; no sign of thaw||Tribune News ServiceSonepat/Jhajjar, September 25Even as the farmers are set to mark the completion of 10 months of their dharna at Singhu and Tikri on Sunday, there is no sign of weakening of the movement against the Centre’s three farm laws.Though the number of protesters camping at both the sites keeps varying, their morale and spirit are still high. Confident about winning the battle against the Centre, they reiterate that they will not go back home till the laws are repealed.The agitation has seen many ups and downs in the past 10 months. With the harvesting season round the corner, small camps have come up in place of tractor-trailers and langar is now confined to small groups. Many farmers have started their own kitchens and the supply of ration and other food items from outside has dipped.Bhajan Singh, an 85-year-old farmer from Barwali Kalan village in Fatehgarh Sahib who has been staying at Singhu border for months, said, “Our number here has come down as this is the time to work in fields. If we won’t work, how we will provide food to our family and to the nation?”As soon as the crop season ends, the farmers will again reach the Delhi borders to fight for their rights, he claimed.Gurpal Singh, another elderly farmer, said, “We have been staying on the roads bearing the vagaries of the weather for 10 months, but we are determined to get the farm laws repealed.”Pragat Singh, a BKU (Rajewal) leader, said, “In 10 months, the agitation has only gained strength. It has now spread to other states. We are also getting support from abroad. The Centre seems to be under pressure due to the growing unrest against the laws. We are hopeful of a resolution soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-months-on-farmers-stir-still-strong-no-sign-of-thaw-316143
