28-09-2021||Deepender Deswal||Ellenabad bypoll to be a litmus test for 3 main stakeholders in Haryana politics||Tribune News ServiceHisar, September 28With the announcement of schedule for the bypolls in different states of the country by the Election Commission of India, the stage has been set for a key contest in Ellenabad Assembly constituency of Sirsa district.The bypoll will be a litmus test not only for the ruling BJP-JJP coalition, but also for the INLD and the Congress. The by-election was necessitated after INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala resigned from the Assembly on January 27 in support of the ongoing farmers’ agitation.Bypolls to Mandi Lok Sabha and 3 Assembly seats in Himachal, Ellenabad Assembly seat in Haryana to be held on October 30The INLD after a split in the outfit three years ago was reduced to just one seat – Ellenabad - in the Assembly election in 2019. However, after the release of party supremo Om Prakash Chautala from Tihar Jail on completion of jail term in the JBT recruitment case, the INLD has been trying to resurrect its cadre base by organising party functions across the state.Abhay is likely to get re-nomination from the party to contest the Ellenabad byelection. He has gained the sympathy and support of the farmers after he kept his word and resigned from the Assembly seat.The INLD had suffered a setback after Chautala’s elder son Ajay Singh and his sons - Dushyant and Digvijay - formed a separate outfit – Jannayak Janata Party which is in power in alliance with the BJP in the state.The functioning of the ruling BJP-JJP will be put to test in the by-election. Though both the parties had contested separately in the 2019 assembly polls, they are likely to field a joint candidate in Ellenabad this time. The coalition will also have the advantage of being in power. The state government has also been trying to strengthen its position in Ellenabad. The Congress also has been trying to regain its ground after consecutive two drubbings in the assembly elections. State Congress president Kumari Selja has been trying to put the party cadre together and has visited across the state.   Assembly result 2019Abhay Singh Chautala INLD 57,055Pawan Beniwal             BJP   45,133Bharat Singh Beniwal  INC    35,383OP Sihag                      JJP      6,569||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-to-be-a-litmus-test-for-3-main-stakeholders-in-haryana-politics-317378
28-09-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Post rain, open areas, plots inundated in Bhiwani||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Post rain, open areas, plots inundated in BhiwaniDespite repeated tall claims made by the district administration, there has been a poor drainage system in the town. The open areas and vacant plots in Sector 23 remained inundated every time it rained, which turned into breeding grounds for mosquitoes. Residents in the posh locality have to bear the brunt of the negligence of the administration. In the absence of proper drainage arrangements in Sector 23, water has entered houses of the people. It seems that the administration is not worried about the common man. Ajay Tanwar, BhiwaniStart helpline for dengue patientsWith a sharp rise in the number of patients of dengue, malaria and viral fever, the district health authorities have failed to take timely action to deal with the problem. While the number of patients who require immediate hospitalisation has been shooting up daily, many patients and their kin were being turned away even by the private hospitals, claiming that they had no vacant beds or facilities. Though the official figure of just over 100 dengue patients in the city seems to be under reported, the authorities should initiate immediate measures to provide assistance and help to patients, so that they do not face the harassment which usually happens when the demand of treatment or facility is sought in case of a surge in any kind of illness. Varun Sheokand, Faridabad||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/post-rain-open-areas-plots-inundated-in-bhiwani-317266
28-09-2021||Hisar||Teacher training programme||NSS Day celebratedFaridabad: The JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad organised a function to mark the NSS Day. More than 200 volunteers and associates attended the event. Addressing the participants, VC Dinesh Kumar said as the NSS was formally launched on September 24, 1969, the day recognises the efforts of the youths towards the work of nation building and selfless service. He said as the motto of this organisation is 'Not Me-but You', he said the NSS had perfectly exemplified the ideology which was aimed at the welfare of society.Conference in applied sciencesKurukshetra Bhagwan Parshuram College, Kurukshetra organised its Ist one day international conference on advance research in applied sciences (ICARAS-2021). The primary goal of the conference was to share scientific information among researchers, engineers, students and practitioners working across the globe. ICARAS-2021 included key note talk by Professor Richard N Zare from Stanford University, California, USA on topic "What is the physical and chemical basis for seasonality in the transmission of viral respiratory infections?" The inauguration of the conference was done by Dr Yogeshwar Joshi principal, Bhagwan Parshu Ram College.2 national awards for HAUHisar: Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (HAU), Hisar has received two national awards for its excellent performance in the field of National Service Scheme (NSS), a section of the Directorate of Students Welfare (DSW). Both these honours have been conferred by President Ram Nath Kovind at a programme organised in New Delhi, which was attended by Union Minister for Youth Affairs and Sports, Anurag Thakur. VC Prof BR Kamboj congratulated the Director of DSW, Dr Devender Singh Dahiya besides the NSS officer Dr Bhagat Singh who got the award under the programme officer category, NSS volunteer, Abhishek, who got the award in the volunteer category. The Union government gave away the awards on the occasion of National Service Scheme Day for 2019-20. Under the award, the university has received a trophy, a silver medal and a cash amount of Rs 2 lakh to the NSS unit and Rs 1.5 lakh to the individual awardee officer. Similarly, the volunteer has personally received a silver medal and a cash amount of one lakh rupees.OSD to VC Dr Atul Dhingra was also present on the occasion.'Rashtriya Poshan Maah'Karnal: Students from Mount Litera Zee School in Karnal took part in the Rashtriya Poshan Abhiyan, by donating nutritious meals to underprivileged children in their community. Rashtriya Poshan Maah is observed to expedite different operations under the Poshan Abhiyan (National Nutrition Mission) announced by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 8, 2018, and to build a jan aandolan in the process by adhering to the Covid-19 norms. This event was held to encourage every child to share or provide a nutritious lunch to at least one child from the underprivileged sections of society who lives in their neighborhood. This will aid the kid in understanding societal nutritional levels as well as instilling a feeling of social duty, inclusiveness, and involvement.Avni bags 1st place in English honsAmbala: Avni, a student of GMN College, secured first position in English Honours in Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra in the session 2018-2021 and set a new record for the college. Avni bagged the first position in the university merit by securing 85.083%, i.e. 2,042 out of 2,400 marks in the aggregate of all semester examinations. Avni gave the credit of her success to the college principal Dr Rajpal Singh and all professors of the department of English.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/teacher-training-programme-317267
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Retd teachers for Haryana govt schools||The Haryana School Education Department has decided to take the services of retired professors and teachers on vacant posts in Government Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary Schools under the Sugam Education for the academic session 2021-22, an official spokesperson of the department said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/retd-teachers-for-haryana-govt-schools-317262
28-09-2021||---||Give relief for crops damaged in rains: Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Chandigarh, September 27Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today raised the demand for compensation for extensive damage caused to paddy, cotton, bajra, maize, guar, pulses and vegetables due to excessive rain and waterlogging.Hooda said standing crops of farmers across the state including in Hisar, Fatehabad, Sirsa, Jind, Kaithal, Bhiwani, Rohtak, Sonepat, Karnal, Kurukshetra have been ruined due to the rain in the past few days. He said there is an urgent need for government intervention to provide immediate relief to the farmers. “The government assures compensation and pretends to carry out a girdawari every season after crop loss but farmers do not get compensation. Therefore, the government should stop going back on its promises made to farmers and compensate them for their loss”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/give-relief-for-crops-damaged-in-rains-bhupinder-singh-hooda-317263
28-09-2021||Karnal||2,634 Karnal residents get notices on dengue larvae||Dengue has started spreading its tentacles in the district. So far, the district has witnessed eight cases of dengue, including four, in the current month. However, no case of malaria and chikungunya has been reported so far.The spurt in the cases has prompted the Health Department to swing into action and issue notices to 2,634 residents after finding dengue larvae at their residences, establishments and premises.“We are conducting extensive house-to-house survey for source reduction by checking the places where water can be stagnant in houses, establishments and other places. So far, we have visited 4,218 households. We found breeding of larvae at 2,634 households and establishments,” said Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon, Karnal. “We have issued notices to such people who are negligent and are not cleaning their coolers, water tanks, water storage area,” said the Civil Surgeon. “Gambusia fish is also being released in water bodies to control the breeding of larvae,” he said.“We are also screening people to check the fever symptoms in this campaign. From July till date, we have screened 6,895 people,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-634-karnal-residents-get-notices-on-dengue-larvae-317264
28-09-2021||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra bids adieu to soldier Gurjaint Singh||Amid chants of Gurjaint Singh Amar Rahe’, ‘Jab Tak Suraj Chand Rahega Gurjaint Tera Naam Rahega’ and ‘Hindustan Zindabad’, People bid an emotional farewell to Army man Gurjaint Singh who died in an accident in Assam on September 24. He was a Naik in the Army. His mortal remains were cremated at his native village Rai Majra in Shahabad on Monday. He is survived by his wife and two minor children.Gurjaint’s brother Satnam, who is also in the Army, lit the pyre.The family members said they were proud of Gurjaint Singh as he had sacrificed his life. Thousands of people from all walks of life attended the last rites and paid homage.A Naib Subedar of his regiment said during an operational movement, Gurjaint steered his vehicle towards the gorge to save another vehicle coming from the other direction and his vehicle fell into the gorge. Gurjaint sacrificed his life to save the lives of other people. Former Shahabad MLA Anil Dhantori said “He has sacrificed his life and we request the government to take care of the family.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-bids-adieu-to-soldier-gurjaint-singh-317265
28-09-2021||Ravinder Saini||Rohtak: Work suffers as impasse between MDU employees, official continues||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 27The impasse between non-teaching employees and Joint Director Audit (JDA) at Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) here continued on Monday leading to an adverse effect on the university functioning as the employees have been on strike for the past eight days.The employees are adamant on not returning to the work until JDA Vinod Bishnoi is transferred. They alleged that the JDA was deliberately not clearing files of their promotion and pay hike.The ongoing tussle between the two has intensified further with the JDA in his report submitted to the Department of Finance pleading that the promotion policy of the university is not approved by the state government.Actually, Bishnoi was directed to submit his report about the employees’ demands by a high-level officers committee, including Joint Secretary (Finance) and Director (Audit), which visited the MDU on September 8 to look into the complaint against the JDA.“In 2015, the then JDA objected to the promotion cases of some employees stating that the promotion policy of the university needed to be approved from the government. Later, the then Vice-Chancellor ordered that the matter be put up before the government and in the meantime, the promotions may be made conditionally while taking undertaking from the employee concerned,” Bishnoi told ‘The Tribune’.He maintained one of the promoted employees later got retired and the audit section objected to his promotional benefit citing that the promotion policy was yet to be approved by the government. The employees had now made it an issue and were pressuring him to clear the objection, the JDA alleged.Randhir Kataria, president of the employees association, rubbishing the allegations said the university was an autonomous body hence no government approval was required. “Moreover, the promotion policy has been passed by the university’s executive committee, which also has the government nominees as its member,” Kataria added.Prof Gulshan Taneja, Registrar, MDU, could not be contacted for his comments.‘Files not being cleared deliberately’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-work-suffers-as-impasse-between-mdu-employees-official-continues-317268
28-09-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Ballabgarh auditorium lying incomplete||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, September 27The construction work of the first auditorium at Ballabgarh is lying incomplete due to non-clearance of dues of the contractor.The original deadline of the project was December 2016, sources in the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) claim that, the project costing Rs 6.76 crore, has already missed the revised deadlines of December 2019 and December 2020 and the work has been lying stalled for the past one and half years due to wrangles over the payment of dues to the contractor, awarded the project seven years ago.Fund crunchThe work has been lying stalled for the past 18 months mainly due to the non-release of dues amounting to Rs75 lakh. The company is unable to bear further expenses and cost of the construction work. Neeraj Sharma, KBG Construction CompanyThough the foundation stone of the auditorium building, spread on four acres, had been laid way back in August 2014 , the work on it could not gather pace and got disrupted mainly due to shortage of funds faced by the civic body. While earlier it was announced that the cost of the project would be borne by the MCF, but later the officials concerned had to shift the financial burden to the CM announcement funds in 2016-17 in wake of the financial crisis faced by the civic body, said officials concerned.Work to start in 10 daysThe work of this project has been handed over to the Public Works Department and is expected to be resumed in 10 days. Mool Chand Sharma, Transport MinisterClaiming that around 70 per cent of the work has been completed, Neeraj Sharma of KBG Construction company, which had been allotted the construction work, said the work had been lying stalled for the past 18 months mainly due to the non-release of the dues amounting to Rs 75 lakh. The company was unable to bear further expenses and cost. The work to the tune of Rs 4.84 crore has been done on this project, he claims adding that it will be resumed as soon as the bills are cleared. He said he had failed to get any intimation from the officials concerned regarding the payment or allotment of work to any other agency.Admitting financial issues, Transport Minister and local MLA Mool Chand Sharma said the work of this project had been handed over to the PWD and work was expected to be resumed in 10 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ballabgarh-auditorium-lying-incomplete-317269
28-09-2021||Panipat/Sonepat||Partial impact of bandh in Sonepat, Panipat||The bandh had a partial impact in Panipat and Sonepat as the markets in both the cities remained open.In Panipat, the protesters blocked the traffic on the NH near the Dahar toll plaza and Shahpur village. Besides, Vande Bharat Express Train was halted here since 7 am.In Sonepat, the farmers blocked the traffic at around 22 places. They also blocked the rail traffic at the local station. Besides, maximum roadways buses remained off the road. The farmers also tried to shut the markets. — TNSPalwal, Rohtak & F’bad open Shops||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/partial-impact-of-bandh-in-sonepat-panipat-317270
28-09-2021||Sonepat||Bharat Bandh a success, claims Samyukt Kisan Morcha||Overwhelmed by the rousing support, the SKM on Monday complimented the residents of the state and the country for a successful and peaceful bandh.The SKM claimed that reports had been pouring in about the overwhelmingly positive and resounding response to the bandh call to mark 10-long months of peaceful protests over the rightful demands of farmers.The bandh went off peacefully without a single untoward incident in more than 23 states, the SKM claimed.“It is clear that the people are tired of the Modi government’s unreasonable stand on the farmers’ legitimate demands and anti-people policies in numerous sectors.”The country witnessed the fourth Bharat Bandh on Monday. The morcha had given a similar call for September 25 last year when the three farm laws were passed by the government and before the Presidential assent to these.After that, SKM gave a call for the nationwide bandh on December 8 after the protest at the Delhi borders on November 26. The SKM again gave a call on March 26 after the talks broke down with the government in January. — TNSPunjab farmer found dead at SinghuA farmer (54) — Baghel Ram of a Jalandhar village of Punjab — was found dead in his hut at Singhu in the wee hours on Monday. Other farmers said when Baghel Ram didn’t wake up in the morning, they informed the doctors and the police. Heart attack seemed to be the suspected cause of death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bharat-bandh-a-success-claims-samyukt-kisan-morcha-317271
28-09-2021||Karnal/hisar||Good response in Karnal, Hisar & Kaithal districts; life disrupted||With the Bharat Bandh call getting a good response in some districts of the state, normal life was hit as over 140 roads were blcoked by the protesters on Monday.Around 7 am, farmers started blocking most of the roads in both the districts. As many as 22 roads in Karnal and 26 in Kaithal districts, respectively, were blocked. The Swaraj Express Train headed to Jammu was halted at the Karnal station, due to which hundreds of passengers had to face inconvenience. The passengers alleged they did not get any eatables at the local station. Later, the volunteers of Nirmal Kutiya and Dera Kar Sewa Gurdwara served langar to them.Meanwhile, farmers took out a protest march in Karnal and got the office of BJP candidate for councillor’s post Sarita Kalra in the bypoll of Ward-7 closed. They also burnt the BJP flags.In the morning, farmers reached the markets and convinced the traders not to open the shops.In Hisar too, the road traffic remained suspended as farmers sat on dharna on roads at over 100 points in Sirsa, Fatehabad, Bhiwani, Jind and Charkhi Dadri. A commuter complained that the protesters didn’t even allow her to visit a hospital in Hisar.Meanwhile, Haryana Vyapar Mandal chief Bajrang Dass Garg said all grain markets in the state remained closed. The Sarv Karamchari Sangh marked September 27 as “Anti-Privatisation Day”. — TNSBuses off road, pvt cabs fleece customersJhajjar: Unaware of the bandh call, many passengers reached the bus stand and faced disappointment as the roadways buses didn’t ply till 4 pm. Imran of Badli said he had to wait for five hours to get a bus for Hisar. Taking advantage of the situation, private vehicles such as cabs charged around 50% extra fare from commuters. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/good-response-in-karnal-hisar-kaithal-districts-life-disrupted-317272
28-09-2021||---||Bharat Band: Blockade throws rail services off track in Haryana||Ambala, September 27The Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s (SKM) call for Bharat Bandh on Monday affected the rail traffic after farmers blocked the tracks at different locations inthe state.According to information shared by the Ambala division, six trains, including Howrah-Jammu Tavi Festival Special, Jhelum Express, Shri Shakti Express Special, Mourdhwaj Express and Saryu Yamuna Express, were regulated en route.As many as 24 trains, including Chandigarh-New Delhi Shatabdi Express, New Delhi-Amritsar Express, Swarna Shatabdi and Delhi-Bhatinda Express, were cancelled, while 19 trains, including Janshatabdi, Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi, Unchahar Express and Jalandhar City-New Delhi Express, were partially cancelled under the division.Moreover, three Punjab-bound trains, including Katihar-Amritsar Express and Saharsa-Amritsar Express, were stopped at the Ambala Cantonment railway station.Meanwhile, markets also remained closed in Ambala. A group of farmers, however, staged a dharna outside the SDM office in Ambala Cantonment as it was open despite the bandh call.Farmers also blocked the Delhi-Amritsar highway, NH-344 near Hema Majra village in Mullana, Saha Chowk, Panchkula-Yamunanagar highway, Dosarka and Saini Majra toll plaza among several other roads in Ambala. Long queues of vehicles were witnessed on the NH, causing inconvenience to commuters.A large number of passengers were stuck at the Ambala Cantonment bus stand as well. Ranjit Singh, a commuter, said: “The farmers should go and protest in front of the PM. I fail to understand what they will achieve by harassing the public.”Functioning resumes later in the dayThe railway traffic was affected due to the blockade but normal functioning resumedafter 5.30 pm. Senior railway official of Ambala divisionMeanwhile, a group of farmers blocked the tracks at the Shahabad railway station in Kuruksehtra. Due to the blockade, Malwa Express and Dadar Express were halted at the Kurukshetra Junction.Harrowing time for passengersThe govt should resolve the matter at the earliest. Also, the Railways should have cancelled the trains or informed us in advance. PassengersThey also blocked roads at nearly 25 locations, including NH-44 in Shahabad, Teokar border, Pehowa Chowk, Ladwa Road, Birla Mandir Chowk near Thanesar railway station and Karah Sahib.Hisar: Meanwhile, the rail traffic remained suspended in the region as farmers and their supporters blocked the tracks at various points. They turned the Rohtak-Delhi track at the Bahadurgarh railway station near Tikri into a dharna spot. The entry and exit gates of Shri Ram Sharma metro station, passing over the Tikri border, were also shut.Moreover, eight trains were cancelled and 12 were running late by over seven hours in Sonepat too.Police: stir was peaceful in state||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bharat-band-blockade-throws-rail-services-off-track-in-haryana-317244
28-09-2021||New Delhi||Trying to convince farm unions to lift blockade: Haryana to Supreme Court||Amid continued blockade of key roads connecting Delhi to NCR regions by farmers protesting against farm laws, the Haryana Government has told the Supreme Court that it was making “sincere” efforts to remove the blockade for resumption of free flow of traffic.Also read: Bharat Band: Blockade throws rail services off track in HaryanaBharat Bandh a success, claims Samyukt Kisan MorchaSanyukt Kisan Manch threatens Delhi-like agitation in Himachal“Sincere efforts are being made to remove the blockade from inter-state roads and national highways and to resume free flow of traffic on those roads for the convenience of the general public by way of persuading the farmers’ organisations to cooperate,” the Haryana Government said in an affidavit filed in the top court. Regular deliberations were being held by local administrations with farmers’ organisations from time to time to convince them to remove the blockade as the general public was facing great hardship due to such blockades, it added.Giving details of its efforts, the Haryana Government said a state-level committee headed by the Additional Chief Secretary was formed to find a way out. The committee’s September 19 meeting wasn’t attended by the farmers’ leaders. However, industrialists from Sonipat, hit by the blockade, turned up for the meeting on their volition and narrated the “myriad difficulties” faced by them due to the blockade since November last year.Earlier, the UP Government had also submitted in an affidavit that it was making all efforts to convince farmers that their act of blocking roads was causing grave inconvenience to commuters.While hearing a petition filed by Monicca Agarwal of Noida, a Bench led by Justice SK Kaul had on August 23 asked the Centre and governments of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to find a solution to the blockade of roads. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/trying-to-convince-farm-unions-to-lift-blockade-haryana-to-supreme-court-317044
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Traffic thrown out of gear in most Haryana districts||With protesters blocking highways and squatting on railway tracks, normal life was thrown out of gear in several parts of Haryana.Also read: Blockade throws rail services off track in HaryanaTrying to convince farm unions to lift blockade: Haryana to Supreme CourtIn Punjab, dharnas at 500 sites; unions block 20 railway tracksWhile traffic flow remained suspended on a majority of national and state highways, shops, educational institutions, commercial establishments and ‘mandis’ remained closed at several places. The protesters blocked highways in Sirsa, Fatehabad, Kurukshetra, Panipat, Hisar, Charkhi Dadri, Karnal, Kaithal, Rohtak, Jhajjar and Panchkula districts and squatted on railway tracks in Shahbad, Sonepat, Bahadurgarh and Charkhi Dadri.An official said the bandh effect was largely seen in the form of road and rail blockades, which hampered inter-city travel. Not much impact was seen in Gurugram, Faridabad, Narnaul, Rewari and Nuh districts, he claimed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/traffic-thrown-out-of-gear-in-most-haryana-districts-317046
28-09-2021||Satya Prakash||Making sincere efforts to remove road blockades by farmers, Haryana tells SC||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 27Amid continued blockade of key roads connecting Delhi to NCR regions by farmers protesting against farm laws, the Haryana Government has told the Supreme Court that it’s making “sincere” efforts to remove the blockade for resumption of free flow of traffic.“Sincere efforts are being made to remove the blockade from inter-state roads and National Highways and to resume free flow of traffic on those roads for the convenience of the general public by way of persuading the farmer organisations to cooperate,” the Haryana government said in an affidavit filed in the top court.“Regular deliberations are being held by local administrations with farmer organisations from time to time to convince them to remove the blockade as the general public is facing great hardship due to such blockades,” it added.Giving details of its efforts, the Haryana government said a state-level committee headed by the Additional Chief Secretary was formed to find a way out. The committee’s September 19 meeting wasn’t attended by the farmers’ leaders.However, industrialists from Sonepat, hit by the blockade, turned up for the meeting on their volition and narrated the “myriad difficulties” faced by them due to the blockade since November last year.Earlier, the Uttar Pradesh government had also submitted in an affidavit that it’s making all efforts to convince farmers that their act of blocking roads was causing grave inconvenience to commuters.While hearing a petition filed by Monicca Agarwal—a women resident of NOIDA – on the issue, a Bench led by Justice SK Kaul had on August 23 asked the Centre and governments of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to find a solution to the blockade of roads connecting Delhi with NCR towns by farmers agitating against the three farm lawsAgarwal—a single parent with some medical issues—alleged that due to blockade of roads by the agitating farmers travelling between NOIDA and Delhi was taking two hours instead of the usual 20 minutes.On Monday, the matter had to be adjourned as the Bench couldn’t take it up for hearing.The farmers have a right to protest at a designated space, but they can’t block the traffic, a Bench had said. “The solution lies in the hands of the Union of India and state governments... Mr Mehta what is happening? You have to find a solution, they might have the right to a place to agitate, but the roads can’t be blocked like this,” it had told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta.Agarwaal said though her work place was in Noida she had to travel to Delhi frequently as she was in a marketing job. Noting that it was taking two hours instead of the normal 20 minutes, she contended that it had become a nightmare to commute between Noida and Delhi.Maintaining that “democracy and dissent go hand in hand”, the Supreme Court had on October 7, 2020 ruled that roads and public spaces can’t be blocked indefinitely and demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in designated places alone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/making-sincere-efforts-to-remove-road-blockades-by-farmers-haryana-tells-sc-316965
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: Farmers block highways, squat on railway tracks in Punjab, Haryana during 10-hour shutdown||The 10-hour nationwide shutdown on Monday on the call by farmers’ unions to demand the scrapping of three central farm laws got an enormous response in Punjab and Haryana where tens of thousands of farmers blocked major highways, including National Highway 1 linking Delhi.Shops and other commercial establishments were closed in most towns as traders extended their support to the agitating farmers. They opened their establishments only after the shutdown was over.However, there was no report of any untoward incident from anywhere in the states. Emergency medical services were exempted from the blockade.But traffic across Punjab and Haryana was hit badly for several hours as farmers, farm labourers, commission agents, trade and employee unions and activists of political parties squatted on national highways from 6 am to 4 pmThe protesting farmers parked their tractors on highways and major link roads in both Punjab and Haryana and squatted on the road.Even an Indian Army convoy was halted for half an hour in Jalandhar town with farmers allowing it to move ahead after checking documents.Heavy police presence was seen at various places in Haryana and Punjab to maintain law and order.The police diverted traffic at several places as the farmers blocked the highways.Hundreds of people had a harrowing time as buses, taxis and trains did not ply due to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM)-called Bharat Bandh.Also read:Farmers block Chandigarh-Ambala road, Mohali airport road at 5 placesBharat Bandh: Traffic congestion at Delhi-Gurugram borderRakesh Tikait to youth: Take to social media, counter fake newsCommuters were left stranded at railway stations and bus stands in various towns and cities as public transport did not ply. People were forced to trudge with heavy luggage and office-goers too were hit hard.State roadways, private buses and taxis were off the roads, causing misery to thousands of passengers.Buses remained parked at bus stands or bus depots, and passengers were left stranded.Auto-rickshaws and cycle-rickshaws made a quick buck from people wanting to reach their destination on time.Most of the roads across the two states, including in joint capital Chandigarh, wore a near-deserted look.While most of the private schools were shut, the attendance at government offices was negligible.“We have decided not to attend office owing to the closure of all major road links that started early in the morning,” said Nisha Singh, a government employee, who daily commutes from her hometown Kharar to Chandigarh.The worst affected places were Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Amritsar, Bathinda, Ferozepur and Moga.In neighbouring Haryana, there were reports of protesters blocking highways in Ambala, Karnal, Panipat, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Kurukshetra districts.Phagwara Station Superintendent Devinder Singh said the Amritsar-bound 03005 Up Howrah Mail coming from Kolkata was stopped by the railway authorities at 6.35 am, while the Jammu-bound 08237 UP Begampura Express had to be halted at Phagwara at 6.46 am. He said though the Begampura Express had no scheduled halt at Phagwara, it had to be stopped due to track blockade near Jalandhar.The Amritsar-Katihar Express, the Saharsa-Amritsar Express and the Uchahar Express trains were halted at the Ambala Cantonment railway station, while the Ambala-Saharanpur passenger train was halted at the Jagadhri railway station.At the Karnal railway station, the Swaraj Express train headed to Jammu was halted. Three trains were also halted at the Kurukshetra railway station, officials said.Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi urged the Centre to repeal the three "anti-farmer" laws."#I Stand With Farmers & appeal the Union Govt. to repeal the three anti-farmer laws. Our farmers have been struggling for their rights since more than a year & it is high time that their voice is heard. I request the farmers to raise their voice in a peaceful manner," he said in a tweet.State Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu said the PPCC firmly stands by the farmer unions' Bharat Bandh call."Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee firmly stands by Farmer Unions demand for Bharat Bandh on 27 Sept 2021. In the war of right and wrong you can not afford to be neutral!! We urge every Congress worker to fight with all their might against the three Unconstitutional Black Laws!!" he tweeted.Hundreds of farmers blocked the Ambala-Delhi National Highway. They put barricades on the roads leading up to the Shambhu border near Ambala and squatted in the middle of the road. The traffic towards Delhi was diverted to alternative routes.A large number of trucks and other vehicles were stranded on both sides of the highway.A number of farmers gathered at the new grain market in Ambala city, from where they marched towards various city markets to request the shopkeepers to keep their shops closed.Most of the grain markets of Ambala district, the wholesale cloth market, Sarafa bazaar, educational institutes and several commercial establishments remained closed.Shops also remained shut at some other places in Haryana, including in Karnal and Kurukshetra.In Amritsar, a large number of farmers held a protest near the Golden Gate, the entry point of the holy city.Farmer leader Sarwan Singh Pandher said the Centre should repeal the "black farm laws" without further delay.The farmers are demanding the repeal of the three farm laws passed by Parliament last year and have expressed apprehension that they would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporate houses.The government has maintained that the new laws will provide farmers with better opportunities. It has also accused the opposition parties of misleading farmers. --- With agenciesHIGHLIGHTS*Ropar: Farmers sit on dharna at six places, including the railway track near Ropar railway station, bringing traffic in the district to a halt. Farmers sit on the road at the toll plaza on Ropar-Chandigarh road, Ropar-Anandpur Sahib road and Ropar-Bela road. Besides, they sit on the road near Nurpur Bedi bus stand and near Panjkoha marriage palace at Morinda. *Muktsar: Farmers block all highways in the district. Bharat Vikas Parishad and Vyapar Mandal in association with farmer unions organise blood donation camp in Malout town.*Sonepat: A 54-year-old protesting farmer was found dead in his tent at Singhu border in the wee hours of Monday. The deceased has been identified as Baghel Ram of Phillaur in Jalandhar district of Punjab. The body has been sent to the mortuary at the general hospital in Sonepat.*Panipat: Farmers block Panipat-Rohtak highway near Shahpur and Mudlana villages. No impact witnessed so far in Panipat town. All markets in Panipat remain open.*Rohtak: National and state highways wear a deserted look as people avoid going out in view of Bharat Bandh. Groups of protesting farmers stage dharnas on different highways passing through the district.*Faridabad: No impact of the Bharat Bandh so far in Faridabad and Palwal districts. Bus, train and Metro rail functioning as usual. With the imposition of Section 144, police have been deployed at various points to prevent any untoward incident. *Palwal: Traffic movement disrupted on the National Highway 19 near Antoha village after hundreds of farmers and supporters squat on the highway. A spokesperson from the Bharatiya Kisan Union said the blockade would continue till 4 pm. Emergency vehicles are allowed to pass without hindrance, he said. Police have diverted traffic to avoid jams. *Jhajjar: Metro train services suspended in Bahadurgarh town in view of Bharat Bandh call.*Complete bandh observed in Hisar district, including railway services and road transport.*Rohtak: Trader unions oppose call for Bharat Bandh given by farmers, say shops and other commercial establishments to open as usual.*Gurugram: No farmers at Delhi-Gurugram border. However, there is a major traffic congestion owing to heavy deployment of police and paramilitary forces. Delhi Police check vehicles that leads to a jam.*Railway track is blocked near Fatehgarh village in Charkhi Dadri district by protesting farmers.*Rohtak: Farmers block all national and state highways passing through Rohtak. Stage dharnas at several points; protests peaceful.*Sangrur: Farmers block Sangrur-Patiala, Sangrur-Ludhiana, and Sangrur-Bathinda roads.*Bhiwani: Road blocked at Dhanana village.*Hisar: A train is stopped near Ramayan village where farmers sit on dharna at a toll plaza. The Hisar-Bhiwani railway line is blocked near Ramayan village in Hisar district. Farmers block Ludas-Shahpur road in Hisar district. Farmers sit in middle of the road at Baddo Patti toll plaza in Hisar district.*Jhajjar: Protesting farmers sit on the Rohtak-Delhi track at Bahadurgarh railway station near Tikri border. Protesting farmers raise slogans against three farm laws and the Modi govt at Bahadurgarh railway station near Tikri border.*Karnal: Most shops in the city are closed at 9 am. Farmers take out a march in the city. Farmers will not block the NH-44 in Karnal, says Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, state core committee member, BKU (Charuni). "Our focus is on the city. We request the traders to support the farming community. So far, we have received a good response in the CM's city," says Aulakh.*Ludhiana: Passengers of long-route trains, which get stranded at Ahmedgarh, are among the worst affected as they travel with families including children, elderly persons and patients. However, activists of social organisations hold medical assistance camp and langar for them.*Patiala: Farmers block Chandigarh-Bathinda national highway near Passiana police station.*Mansa: Farmers block Sirsa-Mansa road at Sardulgarh and Bathinda-Patiala road at Bhainibagha village.*Chandigarh-Pathankot highway closed for vehicular traffic at Mangarh by protesting farmers.*BKU Dakaunda volunteers have closed the gate of Punjabi University in Patiala.*Ludhiana: All main and link roads passing through the district blocked for vehicular traffic. Protesting farmers, holding banners and placards against farm laws, squatting on the middle of the roads, not allowing anyone to pass through. Commuters in for major inconvenience. Police have made elaborate arrangements to avert any untoward incident, said Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar.*Kaithal: Farmers block several major roads in Kaithal, including at Titram Mor.*Doaba Kisan Committee organises blockades at several places on highways running through Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur.*Farmers start holding protests at 19 places in Bathinda district and 10 places in Mansa district.*Ambala: Farmers block Delhi-Ambala national highway in Shahbad, Shambhu Toll plaza, NH344 in Mullana.*Karnal: Smooth traffic flow on the NH-44 in Karnal district. Farmers block six major roads -- Karnal-Kaithal road in Nissing, Karnal-Assandh road, Assandh-Jind road, Assandh-Safidon road, Assandh-Panipat road. Farmers are assembling in Karnal to take a march in the city. A large number of farmers are expected to assemble in the city, says Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, state core committee member, BKU (Charuni).  "We will appeal to the traders to support the farmers," Aulakh says. Deployment of heavy police force and a company of RAF near Mini Secretariat.Farmers lifted blockade from all the roads in Karnal after the bandh call ended at 4 pm.*Road blocked by protesting farmers at Tanda Urmur.*Morning Shatabdi from Chandigarh to Delhi delayed.*Farmers protest during Bharat Bandh by blocking railway tracks at Barnala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bharat-bandh-farmers-block-highways-squat-on-railway-tracks-in-punjab-haryana-during-10-hour-shutdown-316847
