29-09-2021|| Chandigarh||In Haryana, farmers make a slight shift towards pulses, oilseeds from paddy, millet||In a big boost to the crop diversification scheme, farmers have started moving to pulses and oilseeds from Haryana’s traditional paddy and millet crops. As compared to the year 2020, the area under pulses (moong, arhar, and urad) has increased by a whopping 74 per cent during the 2021 Kharif season registering an increase of 67 per cent in production. The area under moong cultivation alone has increased from 1,13,521 acres to 1,98,438 acres, registering an impressive increase of 84,917 acres, sources said.Similarly, the area under oilseeds has jumped by 42 per cent from 2020 to 2021 registering an increase of 48 per cent in production. While the area under groundnut has increased from 22,847 acres to 27,230 acres (4,383 acres), the area under til (sesame) has registered an increase of 7,469 acres(from 4,298 acres to 11,767 acres). The sources said the farmers over an area of about 98,000 acres had opted for alternative crops across the state, especially in southern Haryana, considered to be Bajwa belt. Sumita Misra, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, said that state government consistent efforts coupled with cash incentives to the farmers for shifting from paddy and bajra to alternative crops  had started paying rich dividends. Under “Mera Pani, Meri Virasat” crop diversification scheme of the Haryana government, the farmers opting for alterative crops  in place of paddy are given an incentive of Rs 7,000 per acres. Similarly, the farmers are given an incentive of Rs 4,000 per acre in case they shifted from bajra to pulses or oilseeds. Officials said the crop diversification would  go a long way in conserving water besides increasing the fertility of land and increasing the availability oilseeds to the common man.  “State government’s consistent efforts coupled with cash incentives to the farmers for shifting from paddy and bajra to alternative crops  has started paying rich dividends,” Sumita Misra, Additional Chief Secretary(Agriculture), said. The increase—Since 2021, area under pulses (moong, arhar, and urad) increases by  74 per cent ; production by 67% . —Area under oilseeds  increases by 42%  while  48%  rise in production. —Farmers opt for crop diversification over an area of about 98,000 acres across Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-haryana-farmers-make-a-slight-shift-towards-pulses-oilseeds-from-paddy-millet-317907
29-09-2021||Palwal||5 of family found dead under mysterious circumstances in Haryana's Palwal||Five members of a family, including a couple and their three minor children, were found dead in their house in Aurangabad village of Hodal subdivision of the district on Wednesday morning under mysterious circumstances.While Naresh (32), head of the family, was found hanging from the ceiling, bodies of his wife and three minor children, including two daughters, were found on beds in their house.This came to light after a neighbour knocked on the door of their house around 8 am today. The police have shifted the bodies for post-mortem examination and launched a probe into the incident.Naresh was a farmer by profession, it is revealed. The cause behind the incident is still to be ascertained, said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-of-family-found-dead-under-mysterious-circumstances-in-haryanas-palwal-317838
29-09-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Rohtak councillors boycott MC meeting, sit on dharna||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 28A majority of the local municipal councillors (MCs) boycotted a meeting of the Rohtak Municipal Corporation here today, alleging large-scale financial irregularities and lack of transparency in execution of developmental projects, inaction on their proposals and rampant corruption in the functioning of the corporation.No meeting heldAction taken reports on earlier agendas have been provided to all councillors. Officials concerned of other departments too had been called for a meeting on Tuesday, but it could not be held. — Dr Narhari Singh Banger, Rohtak Municipal Commissioner‘No dues’ issued only after taking bribeThe no-dues certificates required for property registration were being issued by the corporation officials only after receiving bribes from the applicants. A fixed deposit of Rs70 crore, meant to be used in case of exigency, has been encashed. — Anil Kumar, Deputy Mayor, RohtakEfforts on to resolve stalemateThe issues raised by the councillors need to be looked into and efforts are being made to resolve the stalemate. — Manmohan Goyal, Rohtak MayorThe disgruntled councillors, including Rohtak Deputy Mayor Anil Kumar, staged a protest demonstration after boycotting the corporation meeting. The protesting councillors maintained that the dharna would continue until their concerns were addressed.“An amount of Rs 250 crore has reportedly been spent on AMRUT scheme, but there is no transparency and the officials concerned have no reply to our queries in this regard. It seems that a major chunk of this amount has been embezzled. Public toilets have been made at an exorbitant cost of Rs 25 lakh per unit, which again points towards corruption,” said Anil Kumar. The Deputy Mayor further alleged that the no-dues certificates (NDC) required for property registration were being issued by the corporation officials only after receiving bribes from the applicants. “A fixed deposit (FD) of Rs 70 crore, which was meant to be used in case of exigency, has been encashed and now it is being proposed to sell Municipal Corporation land to generate funds. We will not allow such squandering of public money,” he said.The protesting councillors complained that the developmental works proposed by them for their wards were not being done, nor had any concrete action been taken on their complaints regarding supply of contaminated water for drinking, choked sewerage system and badly damaged roads etc.Later, Rohtak Mayor Manmohan Goyal and Senior Deputy Mayor Raj Kamal Sehgal also joined the protesting councillors. The Mayor maintained that the issues raised by the councillors needed to be looked into, adding that efforts are being made to resolve the stalemate.Contacted for comments, Rohtak Municipal Commissioner Dr Narhari Singh Banger stated that they had provided the action taken reports on earlier agendas to all councillors well in advance and had called the officials concerned of the other departments to have a fruitful meeting on Tuesday, but it was unfortunate that the meeting could not be held.“The next meeting will be convened as per the directions of the Mayor,” he said. Rohtak MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra, who had also come to attend today’s meeting, said there was resentment among the municipal councillors as their voice was not being heard.In a joint statement issued later, a group of pro-government municipal councillors decried the move to boycott the meeting, maintaining that running away from discussions would never solve any problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-councillors-boycott-mc-meeting-sit-on-dharna-317684
29-09-2021||---||Civil Services Athletics Meet begins in Karnal||Karnal, September 28 Three-day All-India Civil Services Athletics (men and women) Meet 2020-21 began with pomp and show at Karan Stadium, here, in which 687 players of 28 states are taking part. Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav inaugurated the meet. In 800-meter men race, Mohammad Shakil from Kolkata bagged first position, while Raj Kumar of Jaipur remained at second position and Shamyu Dondkar from Mumbai came third. Similarly, in 800-meter women race, Yamuna from Mumbai got the first position, while Archana from Mumbai bagged the second place and Pratima from Kolkata was third. In discus throw (35-45 age category), Manu Dahiya from Haryana bagged first position, while Darshna Patel from Gujarat came second and Lalita Rani from Rajasthan bagged the third place. The DC honoured the winners with gold, silver and bronze medals.  Earlier, while addressing the gathering, Yadav stressed on the importance of games and said it was sports which inculcated the feeling of respect even for opponents. Even the enemy becomes friends with the help of sports, he added. “It is a proud moment that Karnal got the chance to host the national games,” he said. The DC exhorted the players to give their best in the games.  Meanwhile, Yadav felicitated his athletics coach Dinesh Rawat. Rawat coached him when Yadav was a student in ITI Delhi in 2009.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/civil-services-athletics-meet-begins-in-karnal-317685
29-09-2021||---||Millet to be included in relief scheme for Haryana farmers||Chandigarh, September 28The state government has decided to include bajra (millets) in the ‘Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana’ in the interest of farmers of the state.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said here today that Haryana would be the first state in the country to include bajra in this scheme. He said considering the difference in the average market price and the MSP of bajra, the registered farmers on the ‘Meri Fasal-Mera Byora’ portal would be given Rs 600 per quintal on the average yield.The MSP for Bajra has been fixed at Rs 2,250 per quintal. It has been decided to compensate only those farmers of the state who have registered on ‘Meri Fasal-Mera Byora’ portal for buying millet. To maintain the yield price, the government agency will buy 25 per cent of the produce.He said in the kharif season this year, 2.71 lakh farmers had registered on the portal for millet. About 8.65 lakh acres of land has been verified. As soon as the procurement starts, Rs 600 per quintal will be paid according to the average yield through the DBT in the accounts of the farmers.In kharif crops, in addition to millet, the purchase of moong, maize and paddy will start from October 1, and the purchase of groundnut from November 2021. Apart from this, the state government is also going to procure toor, urad and sesame for the first time, which will start from December 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/millet-to-be-included-in-relief-scheme-for-haryana-farmers-317686
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration to assess Vidhan Sabha building for Haryana's share||The Chandigarh Administration has decided to carry out measurement of space allocated between Punjab and Haryana in the Vidhan Bhawan building, Haryana Legislative Assembly said in a press statement today.The measurement will judge Haryana’s claim regarding its share in the building. The Chandigarh Administration held a meeting with the top officials of the Punjab and Haryana Legislative Assembly today, during which Haryana Legislative Assembly Secretary Rajendra Kumar Nandal said a committee of three engineers should be constituted to assess the division between the two provinces. According to the press statement of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha, Punjab Legislative Assembly Secretary Surendra Pal Singh said he had not received the orders of the Punjab Legislative Assembly Speaker in this matter. Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta met Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwari Lal Purohit today. He informed him about the ongoing dispute between the two provinces and the need for a new Legislative Assembly building. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chandigarh-administration-to-assess-vidhan-sabha-building-for-haryanas-share-317687
29-09-2021||---||Man held for molesting 9-year-old in Gurugram||Gurugram, September 28High drama prevailed in Pataudi after a man living in a local mosque was cornered and thrashed by locals for allegedly molesting a nine-year-old girl.The accused was reportedly coming from the madrasa when he molested the girl. She had gone there to give food to the local maulvi, who was out for some work at that time. The girl ran back home and confided in her mother, who then confronted him along with other people.The people thrashed him and called the police. The accused was arrested and a case was registered in the Pataudi police station. An investigation is underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-for-molesting-9-year-old-in-gurugram-317688
29-09-2021||Deepender Deswal||INLD bastion Ellenabad to be litmus test for BJP-JJP||Tribune News ServiceHisar, September 28The Ellenabad Assembly byelection, scheduled for October 30, will be a litmus test for the ruling BJP-JJP coalition, the INLD and the Congress.EC guidelines in view of covidThe byelection was necessitated after INLD leader Abhay Chautala had, on January 27, resigned from the Assembly in support of the ongoing farmers’ agitation.The Ellenabad segment has traditionally been a stronghold of the INLD, which had won the seat in the 2019 elections in spite of a split in the party three years ago.Former Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala won from Ellenabad in 2009. Later Abhay won the seat thrice (2010 bypoll, 2014 and 2019).After Chautala’s release from Tihar Jail on the completion of his jail term in the JBT recruitment scam case, the INLD has been trying to resurrect its cadre by organising functions across the state.Abhay is likely to be re-nominated for the Ellenabad byelection. He has gained the sympathy and support of farmers as he kept his word and resigned from the Assembly.The INLD had suffered a setback after Chautala’s elder son Ajay Singh and his sons — Dushyant and Digvijay — formed the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), which is in alliance with the BJP.Meanwhile, the ruling BJP-JJP coalition will be put to test. Though both parties had contested separately in the 2019 Assembly elections, they are likely to field a joint candidate this time. The coalition will have the advantage of being in power.The Congress also has been trying to regain ground after two consecutive drubbings in the Assembly elections. State Congress president Kumari Selja inducted Pawan Beniwal into the party fold recently. Beniwal had contested the last Assembly poll on the BJP ticket.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/inld-bastion-ellenabad-to-be-litmus-test-for-bjp-jjp-317689
29-09-2021||---||Hiring under outsourcing policy banned in Haryana||Chandigarh, September 28The Haryana Government has decided to stop all fresh recruitment/engagement under Part-l and Part-Il of the outsourcing policy with immediate effect.An official spokesperson said an order in this regard had been issued from the Chief Secretary to all administrative secretaries, heads of departments, divisional commissioners, managing directors of boards and corporations, Registrar, Punjab and Haryana High Court and all deputy commissioners.He said till now, in cases involving public interest, departments might engage Group C and D contractual employees against the vacant sanctioned posts with the approval of the Chief Secretary and the Finance Department. However, the state government has now reconsidered the matter and decided to stop all fresh recruitment under the outsourcing policy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hiring-under-outsourcing-policy-banned-in-haryana-317690
29-09-2021||---||Book conductor for misbehaving with passengers: HHRC||Chandigarh, September 28The Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) today awarded a compensation of Rs 20,000 to a person who was beaten up by roadways staff for recording the conductor’s misbehaviour with passengers during a bus travel, and directed the DGP, Haryana, to register an FIR in the matter.“It is a case where an arrogant government official has exceeded his jurisdiction and did not act with humanity. He acted like a goon and thrashed an innocent passenger …,” said the commission.Pawan Kumar, along with his brother, had boarded a bus on the night of September 6, 2019, from Gugga Mandi to Hisar. The conductor, Anil Kumar, took money from him, but didn’t give him the ticket. After Pawan’s persistence, he gave him the ticket.An old passenger in the bus asked for the return of his balance from the conductor, but he entered into an argument with him. Pawan Kumar started recording the incident.The driver stopped the bus and snatched his phone, deleted the video and banged his head on the bonnet of the bus. When passengers intervened and asked the conductor and driver to take the bus to police station they, instead, took it to a workshop in Hisar where, along with other employees of roadways, Pawan Kumar was thrashed.He went to a police station but in vain. Surprisingly, he was booked on the complaint of the conductor. The Hisar SP told the HHRC that it was a false FIR against Pawan Kumar and it was cancelled on December 2, 2019.The commission ordered that Rs 20,000 compensation could be recovered from the conductor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/book-conductor-for-misbehaving-with-passengers-hhrc-317691
29-09-2021||Hisar||Hisar: Two members of inter-state gang of gold thieves held||The Hisar police today arrested two persons who used to impersonate as customs officials and steal gold jewellery from shops.DIG Balwan Singh Rana said the accused were part of a five-member inter-state gang operating in Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand.The accused were identified as Shameer Khan and Vishwajeet, both residents of Uttarakhand. They confessed to committing 22 thefts in Hisar, Bhiwani, Dabwali, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Rajasthan.The police said the gang had stolen 1 kg of gold of a Delhi-based jeweller in Hisar on September 7 by impersonating as customs officials. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-two-members-of-inter-state-gang-of-gold-thieves-held-317692
29-09-2021||---||Faridabad: 892 EWS flats allotted to Khori oustees on provisional basis||Faridabad, September 28The Municipal Corporation has started the allotment of EWS flats to oustees of Khori village on a provisional basis. So far, 892 flats have been allotted. The civic body proposes to give 2,545 flats lying vacant in Bapu Nagar and Dabua Colony here to Khori oustees.ALL FAMILIES HAVE NOT BEEN COVEREDThe MC has fewer flats in comparison with the number of affected families. The rehabilitation scheme will be a failure if all oustees are not given flats. — Nirmal Gorana, khori awas sangharsh samitiThe move comes in the wake of the Supreme Court order, according to which affected families were to be rehabilitated following the demolition drive in Khori village carried out in July.“A tender for repairing the flats, which are in a dilapidated condition, has been released. The flats will be handed over to Khori oustees by April 30 next year,” said a senior MC official.Applicants need to produce voter ID card or Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP) issued prior to January 2021 or an electricity bill in order to be eligible for allotment.The official said, “The documents are under scrutiny. If the documents are found to be invalid, the provisional allotment will be cancelled.”Bhupender Singh, senior architect, MC, said: “About 2,400 applications have been received so far. The last date to apply is November 15. Applicants will be given an opportunity to appeal if their applications are rejected.”In all, 365 persons have accepted the provisional allotment, it is claimed.Nirmal Gorana of the Khori Awas Sangharsh Samiti said, “The MC has fewer flats in comparison with the number of affected families. The rehabilitation scheme will be a failure if all oustees are not given flats.”The MC had razed more than 9,500 houses in Khori village, which was part of the forestland under the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-892-ews-flats-allotted-to-khori-oustees-on-provisional-basis-317694
29-09-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Sonepat: Engineer slips in river during rituals, untraced||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, September 28A software engineer working with Infosys, Sandeep Gautam (30), reportedly slipped and fell in the Yamuna river at Mimarpur ghat in Sonepat district on Sunday and was yet to be traced even after about 60 hours.His family members rued they had to run from pillar to post to get support from the authorities. Finally, a joint team of divers of the NDRF and the state police, besides private divers, looked out for him but to no avail.His wife Manisha said she, along with Sandeep and her mother-in-law Nirmala Devi, had gone to the Mimarpur ghat on Sunday to perform some rituals. Sandeep, posted in Faridabad as a senior consultant in Infosys, was to leave for Canada on October 1 for two years. “As Sandeep went into the Yamuna to perform rituals, he slipped and fell in the river,” she added.“The incident occurred between 8.30 and 8.40 am. We immediately informed the police but they reached as late as 1.30 pm,” alleged Manisha. “We sought help from the administration and made a call to the Chief Minister’s Office. It is only then that we got help from the administration and they called the NDRF team,” she said.“Sandeep knows swimming, he might have managed to come out of the river,” said Manisha.ASI Kuldeep, Incharge, Mimarpur police post, said, “Two boats of civil administration, two boats of the NDRF, deep divers of the NDRF, divers of the Haryana police and even private deep divers are looking out for him. We have also informed the Delhi police.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-engineer-slips-in-river-during-rituals-untraced-317695
29-09-2021||Faridabad||Rape accused held from Faridabad after eight months||A rape accused, who had been absconding for eight months, was arrested on Monday from the district judicial complex here, where he had gone in connection with a case.Sachin, a native of Uttar Pradesh, was remanded in judicial custody. He was booked for rape in 2019.After getting bail, he had married the victim. In January, he was booked under the Information Technology Act after he allegedly clicked obscene photos of his wife and posted them on social media. He was on the run since. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rape-accused-held-from-faridabad-after-eight-months-317696
29-09-2021||Hisar/Bhiwani||DCs take stock of inundated areas of Hisar, Bhiwani, Sirsa||Low-lying localities are still waterlogged due to rain last week, forcing several families to take shelter at safer places in some villages of Hisar and Bhiwani districts.The sarpanch of Tigdana village in Bhiwani district, Pradeep Kumar, said, “About 4,000 people of the village have been affected. About 150 families had to take shelter in upper areas of the village,” he said. Deputy Commissioner RS Dhillon, along with other administrative officials, visited the village. The sarpanch complained that village streets were filled with about two-feet-deep water.In Badhawar village of Hisar district, several families have to wade through water to get essential items from other areas of the village. Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni today visited about 12 villages which are facing flood-like conditions. She directed officials concerned to make efforts to drain out water from the residential areas and fields.In Sirsa, DC Anish Yadav visited fields of Shahpur Begu village. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala told Hisar DC to ensure speedy discharge of water from waterlogged areas. He asked the DC to submit a report about the waterlogged areas at the earliest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dcs-take-stock-of-inundated-areas-of-hisar-bhiwani-sirsa-317697
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Send vigilance reports regularly, Haryana Government tells DCs||The Haryana Government has asked deputy commissioners (DCs) to send reports of the district vigilance teams to the state government regularly.The Chief Secretary, in a communication to the DCs, took strong exception to the non-receipt of the reports of the vigilance teams by the state government. “The requisite reports be sent to the state government periodically,” the communication said, adding that any laxity in this regard would be viewed seriously. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/send-vigilance-reports-regularly-haryana-government-tells-dcs-317698
29-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Court can’t be super-selector in selection process, says Punjab and Haryana HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 28The court cannot assume the role of a super-selector in a selection process, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled. It has added that the manner in which an interview is conducted, and the method adopted by the selection committee to assess the inter-se merit of candidates cannot be gone into by the court by turning into a super-selector.“This work is best left to the interview committee having experts in their fields,” the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash ruled. It also made it clear that a candidate could not challenge the selection process under which he himself was offered admission to another course.The ruling came on a petition by Suraj Dahiya against Maharishi Dayanand University (MDU) and other respondents. The petitioner was seeking the setting aside of admission granted to Khush Dev in the PhD (physical education) course under Haryana Open General Category (HOGC). Among other things, it was argued that the varsity wrongly granted admission to the candidate under HOGC by completely overlooking the fact that he had applied under the EWS category.The counsel added that the bare perusal of the manner of awarding marks to the selected candidates in interview showed that they were unduly favoured, evident from clear-cut overwriting in the marks. As such, the entire selection process was a mere eyewash, liable to be set aside.The Bench asserted that it was quite possible that the interview committee assessing the candidates first felt they were required to be given lesser/more marks, but then changed their mind immediately. There could be endless eventualities/probabilities on the reasons behind overwriting, which could not be adjudicated by the court exercising writ jurisdiction.The Bench added that mala fides had been alleged against the committee and the selected candidates. But none of the candidates had been impleaded as a party. Further, material particulars of fraud/mala fides alleged by the petitioner were clearly absent. The Bench added: “Neither any reason for favouring candidates by the selection committee has been shown, nor has any prima facie proof been produced before us, which would make us believe that candidates have favoured for extraneous reasons.”The Bench observed that the petitioner secured fifth rank, while the private respondent secured third in the general category.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/court-cant-be-super-selector-in-selection-process-says-punjab-and-haryana-hc-317699
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||‘Atal Bhujal Yojana’ to cover 14 districts of Haryana||Devender Singh, Additional Chief Secretary, Irrigation, has said that main purpose of the Atal Bhujal Yojana was to create hydrogeological data network of groundwater resources in Haryana.He was addressing a review meeting through video conference at the Mini Secretariat of Nuh.He said under this scheme, 14 districts of Haryana would be covered, including a total of 1,669 gram panchayats with 36 geo-pressure blocks. In the beginning of the plan, the water security scheme of each village would be prepared and implemented in the next four years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/atal-bhujal-yojana-to-cover-14-districts-of-haryana-317700
29-09-2021||---||Sugarcane farmers threaten to gherao office of Cane Commissioner in Panchkula on Oct 5||Ambala, September 28Sugarcane farmers under the banner of the Samyukta Morcha Ambala on Tuesday, held a panchayat regarding the pending dues of around Rs 66 crore of previous season.They have threatened to launch a stir on October 5 if the government fails to invite the farmers for a meeting to resolve their issue till October 4.The farmers have threatened to gherao the office of Cane Commissioner in Panchkula and set up a permanent morcha there on October 5.Earlier, the farmers had announced to gherao cane commissioner’s office on September 28.A large number of sugarcane farmers gathered at Naraingarh Sugar Mills as the farmers had apprehensions that the mill might not start its operations in the coming crushing season and their previous payments might get stuck.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sugarcane-farmers-threaten-to-gherao-office-of-cane-commissioner-in-panchkula-on-oct-5-317701
29-09-2021||Hisar||Haryana Agricultural University organises online vocational training for mushroom production||Weekly group discussion seriesHisar: The speakathon club in mentorship of training and placement cell of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar launched a new programme namely "Weekly group discussion series". Under this programme, small groups of 8-10 students will be formed in each class by the club volunteers and every week, on Thursday, an online group discussion will be conducted in those groups on the topic given by the club. Prof Baldev Raj Kamboj, Vice-Chancellor and Dr Avnesh Verma, registrar congratulated the club for initiating this special programme for grooming of university students.Self-help group trainingHisar: Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences' College of Dairy Science and Technology started a five-day 'self-help group' training programme for women on "value-added products" on Monday. This training programme is sponsored by the National Commission for Women, Government of India. The Haryana State Rural Livelihood Mission is cooperating in this. The chief guest of this programme was the Chairperson of the National Commission for Women, Rekha Sharma. She inaugurated this training through digital medium. Vice-Chancellor Dr Gurdial Singh honoured the chief guest with a memento.Faculty development programmeHisar: A six-day faculty development programme (FDP) on the topic "Information and cyber security" sponsored by the All-India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) was organised by the department of computer science & engineering, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar on Tuesday. Rakesh Kumar Arya, IGP, Hisar Range was the chief guest of the inaugural session. As many as 132 participants across the country are participating in this FDP, where 16 eminent speakers from diverse backgrounds and industry will deliver their lectures. A total of 18 sessions divided into theory and hands-on practical sessions will be held to acquaint the participants with various aspects of cyber security, ethical hacking and cyber crime.52 years of NSS at varsityKurukshetra: Kurukshetra University Vice-Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva said the goal of the National Service Scheme (NSS) is to combine education with service. The NSS is a symbol of glorious social service. He was speaking as the chief guest at the inaugural session of a programme organised by the national service planning cell of Kurukshetra University on the completion of 52 years of NSS. Earlier, the KU VC also inaugurated the exhibition organised by the NSS programme officers of various colleges at the community centre of the KU. On the occasion, Prof Som Nath honoured Madan Mohan Chhabra, honorary secretary, Kurukshetra Development Board with a shawl and a memento.Grievance redressal systemFaridabad: Prof Arvind Kumar Chawla, a former Vice-Chancellor of Kurukshetra University and presently the Ombudsperson of the JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad reviewed the students' grievance system of the university. He asked the officials to simplify further the mechanism for a speedy resolution of the grievances of students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-agricultural-university-organises-online-vocational-training-for-mushroom-production-317725
29-09-2021||The district administration||Need to prevent spread of dengue, malaria in Yamunanagar||Ashwani Aggarwal Ashu, Jagadhri.Footpaths cry for attention in Panchkula sectorThe huge volume of vehicular traffic on the main road stretch from the traffic control lights to Triveni T-junction (GHS-38) in Sector 20, Panchkula, warrants better restoration and upkeep of footpaths for convenience and safety of pedestrians since it is in poor condition. The one at the dispensary corner is missing while that at the Triveni-corner needs proper repairs and widening to provide a 4-ft walking space there. Better lighting on the stretch will work in favour of drivers and safety of others after sunset.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaDumping garbage near templeThe squalor picture relates to a close neighborhood of a temple, Jhule Lal Mandir in the heart of the old city in Kurukshetra. This is an unnotified dumping yard for garbage. The temple should not be surrounded by litter. Action must be taken by the authorities to keep the area neat and clean.Rakesh Sudan, KurukshetraWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/need-to-prevent-spread-of-dengue-malaria-in-yamunanagar-317726
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Apply online for fee reimbursement||Two HCS officers get new postingsChandigarh: The state government has transferted two HCS officers. ADC-cum-District Citizen Resources information officer, Mahendragarh, Anurag Dhalia, has been posted as CEO, zila parishad, Mahendragarh. SDO (Civil), Kalayat, Virender Singh, goes as MD, Cooperative Sugar Mills, Kaithal. TNSStudents hurt in road mishapHisar: Five schoolchildren were injured when their schoolbus collided with a lorry in Ratia on Tuesday. One of the injured children lost his arm in the mishap. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/apply-online-for-fee-reimbursement-317727
29-09-2021||New Delhi||Anil Vij admitted to AIIMS for post-Covid complications||Haryana home minister Anil Vij is in AIIMS New Delhi, where he is being treated for post-Covid complications.The minister was admitted to AIIMS’ new private ward last night after he complained of fluctuating oxygen levels.AIIMS sources said Vij was under the direct supervision of Dr Randeep Guleria, AIIMS director and pulmonary medicine specialist.“Haryana home minister is stable. He is under observation and care in a private ward,” hospital sources said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anil-vij-admitted-to-aiims-for-post-covid-complications-317431
29-09-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Bypolls to Mandi Lok Sabha and 3 Assembly seats in Himachal, Ellenabad Assembly seat in Haryana to be held on October 30||Chandigarh, September 28The bypoll to Mandi constituency of Himachal Pradesh, Khandwa seat of Madhya Pradesh and Dadra and Nagar Haveli seat of UT of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu will be held on October 30.Votes will be counted on November 2.Besides bypolls to 30 constituencies of various states will also be held on the same day.Ellenabad bypoll to be a litmus test for 3 main stakeholders in Haryana politicsThese include the Ellenabad constituency in Haryana and three seats in Himachal Pradesh – Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai.This was stated in a press release by the Election Commission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bypolls-to-mandi-lok-sabha-and-3-assembly-seats-in-himachal-ellenabad-assembly-seat-in-haryana-to-be-held-on-october-30-317372
