30-09-2021||Parveen Arora||Situation outside BJP meeting venue in Karnal’s Indri tense as farmers cross barricades put up by police||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, September 30The situation outside the BJP meeting venue at Indri in Karnal district was tense on Thursday as a large number of farmers crossed the barricades put up by the police.Farmers had gathered outside the venue of the BJP meeting to protest against the meeting. Indri’s BJP MLA Ram Kumar Kashyap and other leaders were expected to reach there.Farmer leader Rampal Chahal said they would show black flags to the BJP leaders.DSP Mukesh Kumar tried to pacify the farmers and assured them that they would be given a place near the venue for peaceful protest.Unhappy over the place given for protest, a large number of protesting farmers crossed the barricades and reached near the venue of meeting.SP Ganga Ram Punia reached the site to pacify the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/situation-outside-bjp-meeting-venue-in-karnals-indri-tense-as-farmers-cross-barricades-put-up-by-police-318268
30-09-2021||The sewerage line in Vivek Vihar Colony and New Agrasain Colony located on Ghoda Farm Road is blocked for the past one month. Residents are facing problem due to the sewerage blockage but the Public Health Department is not taking care of it. The residents of the colony complained about this to the Public Health Department. The employees of the department also reached the spot to see the situation and left soon after assuring it to be rectified but nothing has been done so far. We will complain about it to the CM Window if the department concerned fails to take note of the matter. —Virender Narwal||Sewerage line blocked in Hisar colony, residents inconvenienced||Slow pace of work bane of commutersThe slow pace of ongoing six-laning project from Pipli to Kurukshetra University road has been an ordeal for the locals. The six-laning work started in 2018 and is still on. Bumpy rides have become a daily experience for the commuters here. The road is the lifeline of the city. The administration should take some steps and provide relief to the locals. —Ramesh Kumar, KurukshetraPanipat industrial sectors lack basic amenitiesPanipat industrialists are deprived of basic amenities. The industrialists are facing a lot of problems in their day-to-day life. They have been complaining of poor sanitation, non-functional streetlights and other problems here. Industrial Sector 29 part 1 and 2 was in the dark for the past over four years. Even roads in Sector 25 part 1 and part 2 are potholed. Panipat is a textile hub and buyers from abroad visit here to purchase products but they do not go back with positive impact. Even, the industrialists associations have raised these issues on every platform, but all in vain. —Shree Bhagwan Aggarwal, PanipatAdministration fails to drain out stagnant waterResidents of municipal Ward 5 in Sampla town are compelled to live under poor condition as rainwater accumulated in the streets has not yet been drained out. The stagnant water has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. Even, foul smell emanating from it has also added to the people's woes. The authorities are turning a blind eye towards the issue while quick action is needed to solve the issue. —Harish, SamplaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sewerage-line-blocked-in-hisar-colony-residents-inconvenienced-318179
30-09-2021||Mahendragarh||National Nutrition Month at Central University of Haryana||Vet practices for farmersKarnal: A group of scientists of the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), reached out to the farmers in Baragaon village under Mera Gaon, Mera Gaurav (MGMG) programme to make the farmers aware about good veterinary and animal husbandry practices. Team members comprising, Dr Bimlesh Mann, Principal Scientist, Dairy Chemistry Division, DrAK Sharma, Principal Scientist, Dairy Economics, Statistics & Management Division, Dr Asit Das, Principal Scientist, Animal Nutrition Division, DrSA Hussain, Scientist, Dairy Technology Division, Dr Hima John, Scientist, Dairy Engineering Division and Shri Sumit Narayan, Technical Officer, Animal Nutrition Division, told the farmers about the purpose of the visit and discussed various issues that the farmers should follow to keep milch animals healthy and to obtain better milk yield.Webinar on tourismMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) organised a webinar on tourism to mark World Tourism Day. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeswar Kumar said tourism played an important role in the development of human civilization. "The trend of tourism is very useful for studies and it always proves helpful in the development of knowledge. Therefore, as an educational institution, it becomes our responsibility to make necessary efforts towards the development of tourism useful for studies," he added. Ankush Nijhawan, co-founder and CEO of TBO Group and Dr Manoj Kumar Matta, director, Oriental Vacations and Journeys also addressed the event as expert speakers.Women cell organises WebinarHisar: The women cell, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology, Hisar has organised a webinar on the topic "Energy consciousness to break the stereotypes". Prof Harbhajan Bansal, dean academic affairs was the chief guest of the webinar. Prof Avnesh Verma, registrar graced the occasion as the guest of honour. Sumedha Kataria, IAS (retired) was the keynote speaker. Prof Alka Sharma, chairperson of the women cell presided over the programme. Prof Bansal highlighted the power of energy in daily life.Fit India Freedom RunFaridabad: The Eklavya club of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, organised the 'Fit India Freedom Run' here recently. The main motive of the event was not only to mark the celebration of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav but also to encourage the youth of the nation to take up fitness, said an official of the university. The members of the club also took part in the run besides the students.NSS volunteers create awarenessYamunanagar: The NSS units of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar visited Karera Khurd village Anganwari and created awareness among the women and children of the village regarding proper nutrition. Celebrating 'Poshan Mah' the young enthusiasts of NSS units reatriated the need for healthy women for a healthy nation. Principal of the college, Dr Major Harinder Singh Kang said on this occasion the ASHA workers of the anganwari, pregnant women and lactating mothers were distributed 'poshan kits'.Alumnus cracks Civil Services examYamunanagar: Shweta Kamboj, an alumnus of DAV Public School, Radaur, has cleared Civil Services exams in her maiden attempt. A ceremony was organised in the school auditorium to honour Shweta. She was given a warm welcome by the school principal and staff. Principal Raman Sharma said Shweta had brought laurels to her school and hometown by passing one of the toughest exams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/national-nutrition-month-at-central-university-of-haryana-318181
30-09-2021||Karnal||CCTV cameras for 7 locations in Kaithal||Aiming at keeping strict vigil on criminals and traffic rules offenders, the Kaithal district administration is planning to install CCTV cameras at seven locations in the city. Besides, all the trafficlights will be made operational. It was decided at a road safety meeting held yesterday.“We are planning to install CCTV cameras at seven places in Kaithal. Titram Mor, Pehowa Chowk, Chotu Ram Chowk are among the points identified by us,” said Pardeep Dahiya, Deputy Commissioner, Kaithal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cctv-cameras-for-7-locations-in-kaithal-318161
30-09-2021||---||‘Run for unity’ at Gurugram on October 31||Chandigarh, September 29 Haryana will organise a state-level, “Run for unity” event in Gurugram on October 31 on the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. This information was shared during a meeting held under the chairmanship of Minister of State for Sports and Youth Affairs Sandeep Singh. The minister said Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar would participate in the state-level programme. Sandeep Singh said the scheme of rewarding the sportspersons would be digitalised soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/run-for-unity-at-gurugram-on-october-31-318162
30-09-2021||---||Indira Gandhi University, Meerpur, reduces qualifying marks for admission||Chandigarh, September 29Indira Gandhi University, Meerpur, has reduced the qualifying marks for the entrance exam of various departments of the university i.e. MSW, botany, zoology, bio-technology, environmental science, mathematics and computer science, English and MCA.The minimum qualifying marks requirement has been reduced from 30 marks to 10 marks (9.5 marks for Scheduled Caste (SC) applicants of Haryana).An official spokesperson said in case of admission for the academic session 2021-22 to MSc physics, the minimum qualifying marks for the entrance exam had been reduced from 30 to 15 marks (14.25 qualifying marks for SC applicants). He said the minimum qualifying marks for the entrance exam of M.Sc. yoga and MA history has been reduced from 30 marks to 5 marks (4.75 marks for SC applicants).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/indira-gandhi-university-meerpur-reduces-qualifying-marks-for-admission-318163
30-09-2021||---||2 booked for child labour in Jagadhri||Yamunanagar, September 29The police booked a proprietor and a labour contractor of a Jagadhri plywood factory on the charge of violation of the Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act.On the complaint of Yamunanagar Officiating District Child Protection Officer Aanchal, an FIR was registered against proprietor Sandeep Goyal and labour contractor Riyajul Hak on September 27.Yamunanagar admn told to investigate caseAccording to information, Riyajul of West Bengal worked as a labour contractor in various plywood factories of Yamunanagar. A 17-year-old boy, also of West Bengal, had allegedly worked as a labourer under contractor Riyajul in a plywood factory of Jagadhri from February to June 12. As per the FIR, the minor reportedly developed fever on June 13 and underwent treatment at a private hospital. After recovering, he died in Delhi on his way back to his native village on June 29.On a complaint of an advocate, Abhik Sinha, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights had asked the Yamunanagar district administration to probe the case. A committee headed by the Jagadhri SDM didn’t found the proprietor or the labour contractor responsible for the death of the boy. But, booked them for child labour.The said factory falls under the category of hazardous units and child labour is prohibited in such factories.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-booked-for-child-labour-in-jagadhri-318164
30-09-2021||Kurukshetra||Farmers protest at Thanesar, demand paddy procurement||Demanding paddy procurement, a group of farmers held a demonstration at Thanesar grain market today. Farmers said the government had failed to start procurement from September 25.After locking the gate of the office of market committee at the grain market, farmers reached mini secretariat with their produce. District Food and Suppliers Controller KK Goel said procurement would begin from October 1. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-at-thanesar-demand-paddy-procurement-318158
30-09-2021||---||Snatcher nabbed post road accident||Faridabad, September 29The police nabbed a snatcher who met with an accident and got injured while fleeing after snatching a bag of a resident, here, last night. The incident took place around 11.30 pm on Tuesday when the police got a call regarding an accident that took place in the NIT area here.The police said the youth who was found lying on the road after the accident was rushed to the hospital, it was revealed that the he was among the three accused, who had snatched a bag from a person last night and had been fleeing on a motorcycle, but met with the accident as their vehicle slipped all of a sudden.“While two of his accomplices managed to escape,he could not flee as he got injured seriously,” said Sube Singh, PRO of the Police Department. He said the accused had been shifted to Safdurjung Hospital in Delhi for treatment.He said police personnel had been posted at the hospital as he would be taken into custody as soon as he recovered.A hunt to nab the other two remaining accused was on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/snatcher-nabbed-post-road-accident-318159
30-09-2021||---||GIS lab launched in Karnal district||Karnal, September 29With an aim to digitising the data of all departments, especially the Revenue, Agriculture, Disaster Management and police through satellite images, a Geographic Information System (GIS) laboratory was started at the Mini-Secretariat here today.Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, inaugurated the laboratory and said the step had been taken by the Haryana Space Application Centre (HARSAC). The GIS mapping would help in getting satellite-based data for more transparent and better planning.The laboratory would also help in detecting active fire locations and further help in taking action against the violators. It would provide map-based solutions to government departments.“I have asked the officials to provide the digital mapping of all parks under the Karnal Municipal Corporation. I have called a meeting of the departments concerned to collect information available with them,” the DC added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gis-lab-launched-in-karnal-district-318176
30-09-2021||Ambala||Anil Vij stable, under observation||Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij, who is admitted in AIIMS, New Delhi, is stable and under observation.The minister’s media coordinator in Ambala, said, “The minister is stable and under observation of Dr Randeep Guleria, AIIMS Director. Some tests are yet to be performed, and he is likely to stay there for a couple of days.”The minister was admitted to AIIMS on Monday night after he complained of fluctuating oxygen levels.Meanwhile, Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar was on Tuesday admitted to a private hospital in Mohali after he tested positive for dengue. The minister was suffering from fever for some days. His platelet level was recorded on the lower side. Now, his condition was stated to be stable. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anil-vij-stable-under-observation-318155
30-09-2021||Karnal||Karnal: Farmers' dharna outside venue, BJP cancels meet||The BJP cancelled a meeting today as farmers staged a protest outside the venue.A meeting of the BJP was scheduled in a marriage palace at Jundla village. Farmers assembled near the venue and burnt the effigy of the Chief Minister.Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, member of the state core committee of the BKU (Charuni), said on receiving the information that farmers were protesting outside the venue, the party had to cancel the meeting. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-farmers-dharna-outside-venue-bjp-cancels-meet-318156
30-09-2021||---||Palwal police to probe attack on Gurugram resident||Rewari, September 29The case pertaining to the attack on a Gurugram resident — Sampurnanand — will now be probed by the Palwal police as the Inspector General of Police (South Range) has transferred it to the Palwal Superintendent of Police (SP).Meanwhile, former minister Capt Ajay Yadav has demanded the formation of a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the case claiming that the victim was going to address a press conference in connection with a ‘land scam’ pertaining to the Ahir Education Society when the attack was perpetrated by his brother Sunil Musepur and others.“The victim, suffering from multiple injuries, has been undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Gurugram while the assailants are roaming freely. I have also talked to the DGP and the IG (South Range) in this regard and have asked them to add Sections of kidnapping and conspiracy to the case that has been booked under Section 147, 149, 323, 325 and 427 of the IPC,” said Yadav.The former minister alleged that irregularities had been committed in the registry of 105 kanals purchased by the Ahir Education Society recently, and has demanded the CM to take action on the matter.“Around 4,805-yards land was shown in the property ID mentioned in the registry documents but the society has bought 105-kanal without paying property and development charges. The land was given to the society on lease and the lease holder cannot get the property ID. Moreover, the sellers were not real owners of the land,” alleged Yadav.The society office bearers have denied the allegations stating that the land has been bought while following all rules. Image of the society was deliberately being tarnished to get political mileage, they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/palwal-police-to-probe-attack-on-gurugram-resident-318168
30-09-2021||---||Sports Dept  to work in tandem with panchayats||Chandigarh, September 29Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala presided over a meeting of officers of the Development and Panchayats Department, and Sports and Youth Affairs Department at Haryana Niwas here today.During the meeting, he said for the maintenance of stadiums in rural areas of the state and providing basic facilities to sportspersons there, preparations were being made by the Development and Panchayats Department, in collaboration with the Sports Department.One rural sports stadium will be strengthened and beautified as a model stadium in each district in the next month with work to be done under the MGNREGA. Thereafter, rural stadiums across the state will be prepared on the basis of the model stadium, the Deputy CM said.Chautala has directed the Development and Panchayats Department to provide resources to sportspersons in rural areas of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sports-dept-to-work-in-tandem-with-panchayats-318169
30-09-2021||---||Illegal structures razed in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, September 29A demolition drive was carried out by a team of the Yamunanagar District Town Planner (DTP) in an unauthorised colony in the revenue estate of Mandebar village on Tuesday. District Town Planner Desraj said several under-construction structures were demolished.“Public should not invest in such unauthorised colonies and should contact our office for any inquiry before buying land,” the District Town Planner said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-structures-razed-in-yamunanagar-318170
30-09-2021||---||60 butterfly species found in Rewari||Rewari, September 29A total of 60 species of butterflies in 10 villages of Khol block in the district have been identified in a special survey conducted by the Forest and Wildlife Department on Tuesday. The survey aimed at studying the effects of climate change, as butterflies are considered bio-indicators of the ecosystem.District Forest Officer (DFO) Sundar Sambharia said Gurugram Chief Conservator (Forest) MS Malik, experts from Delhi, Mumbai, Faridabad and voluntary outfit Nature First and officials of the Haryana State Bio-Diversity Board participated in the survey.Bio-indicators of ecosystem“The survey conducted in Palda, Ahrod, Basduda, Khol, Manethi, Bhalki, Majra, Nandha, Balwadi and Khaleta villages disclosed that the area of Aravali hills is suitable for biodiversity. It is for the first time in the state that such a survey has been conducted. The presence of butterflies is a sign of a healthy ecosystem and it also signifies the presence of rich and diverse life forms,” said the DFO.He said another purpose of this first-of-its-kind butterfly survey was to get information about the importance of all kinds of animals to maintain balance in the nature. Butterflies are also important pollinators and pollinate many plant species. There is a symbiotic relationship between plants and butterflies, he added.“The survey results will help in formulation of a management strategy for conservation of butterflies and moths,” said Sambharia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/60-butterfly-species-found-in-rewari-318171
30-09-2021||---||Kiran Choudhary demands to procure bajra through government agencies||Hisar, September 29Former minister and Congress MLA from Tosham Kiran Choudhary has termed the decision of the state government not to procure bajra through government agencies as anti-farmer.Choudhary said today that the decision was another step of the BJP to ruin the farmers. “The government has taken a U-turn from its promise to purchase bajra from the farmers at the MSP. The kharif crop of the farmers has suffered damage due to the heavy rains. Now, the government not buying bajra is a double whammy for them,” she alleged.The state government had yesterday decided to include the produce of bajra from this kharif season in the “Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana”.It exposed the anti-farmer face of the BJP-JJP government. The non-procurement of bajra would also affect the poor and BPL families while urging the government to procure the millet at the MSP, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kiran-choudhary-demands-to-procure-bajra-through-government-agencies-318172
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Now, CTET on par with Haryana Teacher Eligibility Test||The Haryana Government has decided to give recognition to the Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET) on a par with Haryana Teacher Eligibility Test (HTET).An official spokesperson said as per the decision of the state government, both tests for PRT and TGT in the state would be considered equal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-ctet-on-par-with-haryana-teacher-eligibility-test-318173
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Dy CM Dushyant Chautala launches grameen campaign||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala launched ‘Swachh Survekshan Grameen 2021’ at Haryana Niwas here today.The Deputy Chief Minister directed officers to spread the message of keeping villages clean among by establishing mutual coordination, so that Haryana can top India’s largest cleanliness survey, Swachh Survekshan Grameen.He called upon the CEOs of Zila Parishad, Block and Development Panchayat Officers and Executive Engineers to set goals and get involved in the work. He directed the officials that at least one village in each district should be of five-star level of ‘ODF-plus’ in terms of cleanliness. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-dy-cm-dushyant-chautala-launches-grameen-campaign-318174
30-09-2021||Sunit Dhawan||HCMS docs allege rampant corruption in Haryana Health Dept||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 29Members of the Haryana Civil Medical Services (HCMS) Association have alleged rampant corruption and favouritism in the postings of top health officials in the state Health Department.In a statement issued here today, the doctors’ association maintained that there was a deep-rooted nexus in the department at all levels. “It is now an open secret that money is demanded for transfers, postings, promotions, deputations, leaves, dropping of chargesheets and so on,” said a statement issued by association president Dr Jasbir Parmar.The association also threatened to launch a state-wide agitation if the state government fails to addresses their concerns.Talking to The Tribune, Dr Parmar stated that there was intense resentment among HCMS doctors, working at various state health facilities, over insensitive and callous attitude of the state government and non-fulfilment of their longstanding demands despite repeated assurance and promises by the state’s political leadership. Dr Parmar said their demands were kept pending due to bureaucratic hurdles.The doctors have been demanding a provision of pay structure at par with other states and creation of a specialist cadre on the pattern of Bihar. The association also demanded that direct recruitment to the post of Senior Medical Officer (SMO) should be stopped, pointing out that 95 per cent of the HCMS doctors have only one promotion avenue in their entire service owing to stagnation in the cadre.Pointing out that the demand to stop direct recruitment of SMOs was accepted by the Chief Minister and the Health Minister in 2017, Dr Parmar stated that the state’s bureaucracy was bent upon the direct recruitment of SMOs owing to some vested interest.“The DHS (Dental), Dr Parveen Sethi, is being given extension in service, which shows favouritism and corruption on the part of the government,” the association maintained.The association also decried the move to reduce the retirement age of HCMS doctors from 65 years to 58 and the orders to relieve 116 doctors on September 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hcms-docs-allege-rampant-corruption-in-haryana-health-dept-318175
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||58 Haryana doctors move HC over superannuation||Haryana’s decision to re-fix superannuation age of the HCMS doctors from 65 to 58 has come under scanner, with the Punjab and Haryana HC putting the state and other respondents on notice.It came on a petition filed by Ashwani Kumar Verma and 57 other HCMS doctors.The court made it clear that superannuation, if any, would in the meanwhile be subject to the decision of this writ petition. On the petitioners’ behalf, advocate Sanchit Punia contended that the impugned notification and order of the Health Department dated September 1 were bad in law and required to be declared null, void, arbitrary, discriminatory.He added that the age was reduced with retrospective effect without amending the service rules. They were ordered to be superannuated with effect from September 30 without giving an opportunity of hearing in an illegal and arbitrary manner. —TNSState put on noticeHaryana’s decision to re-fix the superannuation age of the HCMS doctors from 65 to 58 has come under judicial scanner, with the Punjab and Haryana High Court putting the state and other respondents on notice||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/58-haryana-doctors-move-hc-over-superannuation-318157
30-09-2021||Palwal||5 of family found dead under mysterious circumstances||Five members of a family were found dead under mysterious circumstances in Aurangabad village of Palwal district this morning.Suspecting a case of suicide and murder, the police sent the bodies for post-mortem examination and a case of murder was registered against one of the deceased.The victims, identified as Naresh (33), his wife Aarti, son Sanjay (8), daughter Varsha (10) and a niece Ravita (12), were found in their house. While Naresh, head of the family, was found hanging from the ceiling, other victims were found on cots in a room.The incident came to notice of Lakhi Ram, father of Naresh, around 6 am after he failed to get any response from the room of his son sleeping inside. He told the police that as he called a neighbour, all victims were found dead inside after the door of the room was broken open.Claiming that he did not suspect the involvement of any outsider, he said his son might have committed suicide after strangulating others to death in their sleep. He said he was not aware of the cause of the incident as no suicide note was found from the spot.Naresh was self-employed and running a small fast food joint in Jhansi of Uttar Pradesh. He had returned to his house last evening. His wife also hailed from Jhansi. “Naresh was of jovial nature had been sitting with his kin till 10.30 pm in the courtyard,’’ said Bhagat Singh, a cousin, adding that the incident was shocking as no dispute or quarrel between the couple on any issue had come to his notice or other members of the family till date.Though the exact cause of the crime is yet to be ascertained, Pritam Singh, SHO, Mundkati police station, said a case of murder had been registered against the deceased Naresh on the complaint lodged by his father. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-of-family-found-dead-under-mysterious-circumstances-318152
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||39 oxygen plants allotted under PM Cares Fund commissioned in Haryana||Health Minister Anil Vij on Wednesday said of the 40 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants allotted by the Union Government under the PM Cares Fund, the state government had commissioned 39 plants, achieving 98 per cent target.Vij said: “Of the 22 oxygen plants to be set up under CSR, 20 have been commissioned and another 18 plants under CSR are coming up soon.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/39-oxygen-plants-allotted-under-pm-cares-fund-commissioned-in-haryana-318153
30-09-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Waterlogging damages cotton, bajra on 10K hectares in Palwal||Tribune News ServicePalwal, September 29Kharif crops like cotton and bajra are faced with the threat of damage in the wake of about 10,000 hectares of land getting waterlogged after the recent rains.Meanwhile, the authorities concerned have announced to launch a survey in this regard.“Standing crop in about 25 acres of my land is under threat if the water does not get drained out soon,” said Devi Ram, a farmer of Allika village in the district. He said Allika was among several villages in the region which had become a victim of waterlogging primarily due to the seepage of water from the Gonchhi drain and excessive rains. Water in the fields was harmful as higher dampness tends to destroy the plants beyond recovery, he said, adding that it would also delay the sowing of the crops in the next cycle.Salinity problemA survey to assess the exact impact of the problem will be carried out and efforts to drain out excess water will also be made. However, the low capacity of the soil to absorb rainwater due to its saline nature had resulted in the problem. —Kuldeep Singh, senior official, Agriculture deptSeveral villages submergedStanding crop in about 25 acres of my land is under threat if the water does not get drained out soon. Allika was among several villages in the region which had become a victim of waterlogging primarily due to the seepage of water from the Gonchhi drain and excessive rains. —Devi Ram, Farmer of allika villageHarveer of Bamnika village also claimed that crops in 10 acres of his land had almost been damaged due to water standing in the fields for the past about a month.Anup Parashar, who was part of the farmers’ delegation that submitted a memorandum regarding the issue to the local authorities on Tuesday, claimed that over 1,200 acres in Allika, Bamnika, Yadupur, Karna and Gugera villages had been affected severely. Besides there were 15 villages in Hathin subdivision, which had been faced with a similar problem. He said officials of the Revenue Department had assured to conduct a survey and girdawari of the affected areas.Admitting that complaints of water-logging had come to the notice of the Agriculture Department, Kuldeep Singh, a senior official of the department, said a survey to assess the exact impact of the problem would be carried out, besides efforts to drain out the excess water would be made. However, he claimed that the low capacity of the soil to absorb rainwater due to its saline nature had resulted in the problem.The crops which face the damage include mainly cotton and bajra, which have reached the stage of picking and harvesting. The district has a total of about 68,000 acres of agriculture area at present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/waterlogging-damages-cotton-bajra-on-10k-hectares-in-palwal-318154
30-09-2021||Ravinder Saini||Rohtak MC yet to start door-to-door collection of cow dung||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 29The Rohtak Municipal Corporation (MC) has failed to ensure scientific disposal of cattle dung even after five-and-half months when it decided on door-to-door collection of dung in compliance with the National Green Tribunal (NGT)’s direction in this respect.Sources said the MC did not have adequate funds to carry out the dung collection on its own and to setup a boi-gas plant for its utilisation. There are 17,447 livestock while around 1,500 small and big milk dairies are being run in the municipal area. A majority of the livestock rearers flush the dung into sewer lines, leading to choking of sewers and spread of diseases.Dirty water in streetsNo arrangement for dung collection is the root cause of sewerage blockage. Dirty water accumulates in streets and roads, causing inconvenience to residents. —Kanchan Khurana, councillor, ward 13Financial crunchThe Municipal Corporation is already reeling under financial crisis. Moreover, it does not have appropriate land for establishing a bio-gas plant. —Manmohan Goyal, Mayor“No arrangement for dung collection is the root cause of sewerage blockage. Dirty water accumulates in streets and roads, causing inconvenience to residents. The MC authorities wanted to charge Rs 150 per livestock from the rearers but we resisted it as there are many such rearers who have one to two cows or buffaloes,” said Kanchan Khurana, a councillor from Ward 13. She maintained that putting extra financial burden on the cattle rearers was not justified. The MC authorities should make arrangements on its own for door-to-door collection of dung to get rid of the chronic issue of sewerage choking. Manmohan Goyal, Mayor, said a private firm came forward for the door-to-door collection of dung in the city after the MC general house passed a proposal on April 8 to float a tender for dung collection but it also pulled its hand back from doing so after the cattle rearers refused to pay for that.“At least Rs 25 lakh per month is needed for making arrangement for door-to-door collection of dung and later preparing fertiliser from it but the MC is already reeling under financial crisis. Moreover, it also does not have appropriate land for establishing a bio-gas plant,” said the mayor. Goyal maintained there was pressure of the NGT on the MC authorities for ensuring scientific disposal of cattle dung at the earliest hence efforts were underway to find a way out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-mc-yet-to-start-door-to-door-collection-of-cow-dung-318177
30-09-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Waterlogging a threat to Faridabad railway track||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, September 29The railway track passing through the city, located close to the Delhi border, is facing potential threat of damage due to acute waterlogging following rains and overflowing sewage for the past about three weeks.With an underpass of the railway track also lying flooded, several feet of standing water has put its safety at risk.“The accumulation of water in the underpass and on the side of the rail track has become a regular feature for the past several years. This has not only caused inconvenience to the commuters but is also putting the track in danger as the water, if it is not disposed of properly, can result in the caving in of its base,” said an entrepreneur, who has been operating a manufacturing unit in the area.Claiming that the major reason for flooding had been the lack of proper disposal of storm water and sewage, he said one of the main drains in the area was lying blocked or closed at one of the end points since the construction of the flyover at the Badarpur border.The civic authorities have failed to provide a disposal outlet of the rain or waste water accumulating in the passage lying between the track and the factories, it is claimed.“The area adjoining the railway track in the Gurukul Industrial area has been flooded by the sewage released by a housing society near the Greenfields Colony rendering not only the underpass waterlogged but also putting the track under risk,” says a letter written to the Deputy Commissioner recently by an official of one of the manufacturing unit located here .The underpass, which is currently waterlogged, has been existent for the past several years and is being used by commuters who wish to avoid the railway crossing that remains closed frequently due to the passing of trains. More than 200 trains pass from the track, which connects the national capital with the southern parts of the country.When contacted, Ramji Lal, Chief Engineer, Municipal Corporation, Faridabad, said the problem would be addressed soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/waterlogging-a-threat-to-faridabad-railway-track-318160
30-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Humanitarian side of law: Behind bars for 25 yrs, lifer’s parole extended by 3 months||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29A convict, behind bars for 25 years after escaping the gallows in a murder case, has been granted the concession of extended parole by the Punjab and Haryana High Court for attending the marriage of his two nephews — soldiers in the Army and the Navy.Hari Kishan had moved the High Court, seeking directions to the state of Haryana and other respondents to extend for three weeks the special parole earlier granted to him, which was to expire on September 26. Appearing before the Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill’s Bench, his counsel submitted that an FIR for murder and other offences was registered on December 21, 1996, under Sections 302, 148, 149, 449 of the IPC at the Salhawas police station in Jhajjar district before he was awarded death sentence by the trial Court. It was later converted into life imprisonment.His counsel added that the petitioner had already undergone 25 years’ of sentence and was released on three months’’’’ special parole by the jail authorities, which was to expire on September 26. He further submitted that the marriage of his two nephews was fixed for October 14. As such, he prayed for the extension of the parole for three weeks.Accepting the notice of motion issued by Justice Gill, the state counsel did not dispute the fact that the death sentence, awarded to the petitioner, had been converted into life imprisonment. He also did not dispute that the petitioner was granted parole in accordance with the directions issued by the Haryana High Powered Committee, keeping in view the situation arising due to Covid.Displaying the humanitarian side of law, Justice Gill asserted that the petitioner in the present case had already undergone 25 years’ of custody. He was granted three months’ parole, stated to be expiring on September 26. But the marriage of his two nephews was fixed for October 14.“The present petition is disposed of with a direction to the respondents to extend the parole of the petitioner from September 26 to October 26.10.2021. The petitioner is directed to surrender before the jail authorities on October 26,” Justice Gill asserted.Humanitarian side of lawDisplaying the humanitarian side of law, Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill asserted that the petitioner in the present case had already undergone 25 years’ of custody. Hari Kishan had moved the High Court, seeking extension for three weeks the special parole granted to him, which was to expire on September 26 to attend marriage of his two nephews — soldiers in the Army and Navy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/humanitarian-side-of-law-behind-bars-for-25-yrs-lifers-parole-extended-by-3-months-318165
30-09-2021||Nitish Sharma||Close MFMB portal or face stir, farmer union warns Haryana Govt||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, September 29Already protesting against the farm laws, the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) has now warned the state government to either discontinue its Meri Fasal Mera Byora (MFMB) portal or face stir.The union in its letter to the Chief Minister expressed unhappiness with the functioning of the portal and alleged that the portal was not in the interest of farmers and has become a cause of inconvenience for them.BKU (Charuni) spokesman Rakesh Bains said: “Farmers get the registration done on the portal and later the data is used by the government for procurement. There are complaints related to the portal but there is no official to address the grievances. The government should have established complaint centres at grain market-level to ensure smooth functioning. There are cases in which farmers’ data got deleted and also some cases in which wrong data had been fed on the portal. If the data is not rectified, a farmer will not be able to sell the actual produce.”Mukesh Devi, a Shahabad farmer, said: “I have paddy crop in four-acre land but my data is not being shown on the portal. The government should direct the officials concerned to rectify the data.”Kurukshetra Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar said: “There are cases of mismatch data, and it is being verified by the revenue officers. The data is being rectified after verification and most likely the work will be completed by Wednesday. If any farmer faces any issue further, he can contact the Agriculture Department.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/close-mfmb-portal-or-face-stir-farmer-union-warns-haryana-govt-318166
30-09-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Don’t allow new stone crushers in Mahendragarh: NGT panel||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29There is about 100 per cent rise recorded in air-borne diseases in Mahendragarh between 2011 and 2019, a report submitted by the panel under the National Green Tribunal (NGT) said. The assessment of the air quality in the region of stone crushers in the district reveals that the total pollution generated is over the assimilative capacity of the region.Assimilative capacity is the pollutant load an area can take without exceeding the norms.Recommends water-sprinkling systemA panel comprising Deputy Commissioner Ajay Kumar; District Town Planner Parveen Chauhan; Divisional Forest Officer Rohtash Kumar; Suneel Dave, Regional Director, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB); and Sandeep Singh, Regional Officer, Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), presented the report before the NGT in an Action Taken Report (ATR), while recommending that no new stone crushing units of any capacity should be allowed to establish and operate in the region.There are 107 stone crushers in Nangal Chaudhary, 34 in Mahendragarh and 21 in Narnaul. As per the ATR dated September 27, the Consent to Operate (CTO) has been revoked in the case of 46 stone crushers and Consent to Establish (CTE) has been revoked in 26 cases.The NGT was informed that 18 stone crushers had been issued show-cause notices for levying environmental compensation of Rs 86.17 lakh for illegal groundwater extraction.As per the Chief Medical Officer’s (CMO) report, which is a part of the panel’s ATR, there were 21,329 cases of air-borne diseases in 2011. In 2019, a total of 42,309 cases were reported, showing a rise of 98.4 per cent. There were 36,211 cases reported in 2020.The panel said: “The report (from CMO), however, has neither indicated the cause of air-borne diseases nor has identified any specific reason for the increase.”The panel has recommended that stone-crushing units shall provide a water-sprinkling system and cover the conveyor belt to ensure minimum dust generation from their operation for further improvement in air quality. It added that the units would provide telescoping chute at the level of loading and unloading of the finished crushed material to avoid any suspension of the same.Besides, the stone-crushing units might provide a concrete road to assess the crushing and transport area and provide adequate water-sprinkling arrangement to minimise dust formation, the panel said.It has called upon the Health Department to undertake a regular survey of workers and nearby inhabitants to ascertain the impact “due to operation of stone-crushing units besides other air polluting activities”. It also called for carrying out a study to ascertain the number and capacity of stone-crushing units that can be allowed to operate to bring the ambient air quality of the region within the notified standard.During the last hearing on December 3, 2020, the NGT had said: “Right of citizens to breathe fresh air cannot be denied and right of operating stone crushers cannot get preference over and above Right to Life on specious plea that stone crushers were set up as per sitting parameters allowed by the state without study of impact of the carrying capacity.” The next date of hearing is on October 26.In a separate case of Charkhi Dadri stone crusher units, the ATR says that 40 units have been fined Rs 4.77 crore for violating norms, of which Rs 2.39 crore has been deposited. Also, 278 units have been fined Rs 31.67 crore for illegal ground water extraction.Prosecution cases have been filed against 32 units. The next date in the case is October 26.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dont-allow-new-stone-crushers-in-mahendragarh-ngt-panel-318167
30-09-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula: Special court frames charges in Rs 3,000 crore ponzi case||A special court here has framed charges in a 2019 money laundering case, amounting nearly Rs 3,000 crore. About 31 lakh investors were allegedly cheated by way of a multi-level marketing by a Haryana-based company – Future Maker Life Care Private Limited – in a ponzi scheme.The charges were framed under Section 4, PMLA, read with Section 70 and Section 3 of the Act. The PMLA court while framing the charges said from 2015 onwards, the accused through its directors Bansi Lal and Radhey Shyam, along with others, directly or indirectly and knowingly indulged in duping various persons in the guise of giving unrealistic return to them and actively connected with the proceeds of crime amounting to Rs2,959.46 crore.Special Judge Dr Sushil Kumar Garg observed: “From 2015 onwards, all the accused entered into a criminal conspiracy while indulging and knowingly assisting… being a party and actually involved in the process of cheating… and thereby cheated and duped various persons.”The 22 accused in the case, of which one person has died, even bought immovable properties worth Rs9,08,29,296, the court added. On April 6 this year, the court had granted anticipatory bail to Bansi Lal and Radhe Shyam. Earlier, the court had also granted anticipatory bail to 10 other accused, including Sunil Sharma, Deepak Sharma, Manish Grover, Ram Singh, Devi Lal, Suman Devi, Prem Kumar, Sona Devi, Sohan Lal and Bhateri Devi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchkula-special-court-frames-charges-in-rs-3-000-crore-ponzi-case-318147
30-09-2021||---||Haryana CM Khattar opens adventure sports at Tikkar Tal, Morni Hills||Panchkula, September 29To mark the occasion of World Tourism Day, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today formally inaugurated various adventure sports at Tikkar Tal, Morni Hills, under a comprehensive plan of his government to promote tourism in the area.Aero and water sports activities, including parasailing, paramotor and jet scooter have now been made operational commercially.The Chief Minister had taken trials of sports activities at Tikkar Tal in June this year.Khattar said Tikkar Tal would now mark its identity on the country’s map. He said developing Morni was a key feature of the integrated Panchkula development plan.Paragliding at Tikkar Tal, hot balloon in Pinjore soon“With some formalities yet to be completed, the facility of paragliding at Tikkar Tal and hot balloon activity in Pinjore will also be started soon. Work is underway to make arrangements for mobile connectivity, road transportation and petrol pumps in the Tikkar Tal area,” the CM said.“Our government also plans to start water sports activities at Brahma Sarovar, Kurukshetra; Karna Lake, Karnal, Damdama Lake, Gurugram; and Tiliyar Lake, Rohtak,” he said.Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria accompanied the Chief Minister on the occasion.“The required training will be given to local youth by the Tourism Department to develop their skills for carrying out adventure activities. It will not only generate ample employment opportunities for them but will also give a major boost to the efforts for the development of tourism in Panchkula and Morni,” the government said in a press note.Brochure on home stayTo promote Haryanvi culture, the Chief Minister also released a brochure highlighting the key features of the home stay policy of the state which aims at providing tourists an excellent alternative to hotels as they can get an opportunity to live with local families in their homes and experience the native culture and cuisine.“Besides, plans have been made to promote farm tourism in this area,” he said.Earlier on Wednesday, the Chief Minister laid the foundation stone of a tourist facilitation centre at Red Bishop in Sector 1.City tour bus serviceThe CM also launched a city tour bus service “Scenic Tour Package.” The bus will run twice a week and will cover Panchkula, Kalka, Mansa Devi and Nada Sahib.Plan for more citiesOur government also plans to start water sports activities at Brahma Sarovar, Kurukshetra; Karna Lake, Karnal, Damdama Lake, Gurugram; and Tiliyar Lake, Rohtak. — Manohar Lal Khattar, Haryana CMSidhu a political tourist, says KhattarTaking a jibe at Navjot Singh Sidhu over his resignation from the post of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar termed the leader a “political tourist”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-khattar-opens-adventure-sports-at-tikkar-tal-morni-hills-318133
30-09-2021||Ravinder Saini||In Haryana's Jhajjar, waterlogging damages crops on 60K acres||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, September 29Bajra, cotton and paddy crops spread over 60,000 acres in the district have been damaged due to waterlogging after the rains this month, says a survey conducted by the Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department.A majority of the villages under the Salhawas block are the worst-affected while over 5,100 distressed farmers have moved applications to get compensation for the crop loss under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojana (PMFBY). As per the survey report, the standing bajra crop spread over 35,000 acres has suffered up to 60 per cent damage due to waterlogging while about 45 per cent of the cotton and paddy spread over 12,000 and 13,000 acres, respectively, in the district has been damaged, said sources.Assessment done“My cotton crop in 4 acres has been completely destroyed as no immediate arrangement was made by the district authorities to drain out the accumulated water. The fields are still submerged. Motors have now been installed by the authorities to take out the water,” said Rajpal, a distressed farmer from Jaitpur village.Similarly, Bhup Singh of Subana village claims that he lost his entire bajra crop spread over 2 acres. “A majority of the farmers in my village have suffered heavy losses due to the waterlogging. We are now awaiting compensation to come out of the crisis,” he said.The survey, said the sources, reported over 80 per cent crop loss in several villages like Sarola, Mundahera, Chhapaar and Khuddan under the Salhawas block. Besides, Dhana, Chandol, Tumbaheri and Bithla villages were also badly affected by the rains.Dr Inder Singh, Deputy Director, Agriculture, while confirming that bajra, cotton and paddy on 60,000 acres had been damaged in the district, said: “A joint team of an insurance company and our department has assessed the losses by carrying out a village-wise survey. The insurance company has been asked to release the compensation at the earliest to the farmers enrolled under the PMFBY.”Survey findings60% damage reported to standing bajra crop spread over 35,000 acres45% cotton and paddy spread over 12,000 and 13,000 acres, respectively, spoiled||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-haryanas-jhajjar-waterlogging-damages-crops-on-60k-acres-318057
