16-10-2021||THE door was rusty now and the roof much dilapidated because the house was locked for the past 30 years. The crevices in the windowpanes lent a blurrier view to the outside world than they did in my childhood days. Yes||Leaving a gift behind||The house was once majestic, with humongous verandah and extended wooden planked flooring. But today, as I entered the house, everything seemed tender and decrepit. Once, the house had seen its spring with the clinking of utensils and radio songs playing on the kitchen shelf. Today, it seemed that winter had set in and the grey walls were caving in, as if waiting for a final adieu.As I passed through the rooms, opening doors and searching almirahs, I came across a book lying on the table covered in dust. The book was probably kept there decades ago by my grandfather. Did he know that one day I would find my way back to his house and hold the book in my hands?I smiled and my heart rejoiced as I went through the time-worn yellow pages of the book because it was only a few days back that I had wished to grab a copy of this classic and now it was in my hands.The uncalculated act of placing a book on the table years earlier was a source of joy for me today. I conjectured that there is a design in every little task that we perform with impressions for the future.The act of placing a book on the table was schemed so that I would find my way to it years later and experience a surprise bliss. What I do today will probably initiate a ripple effect and will find an impact. If I can leave behind anything worthwhile, it will surely bring a smile on someone’s face and a twinkle in someone’s eyes.So, whether it is a travel story or a family recipe, a hand painting or an entrepreneurial skill, who knows one may find benefits from such humble legacies. The legacy may not be opulent or lofty but it can be charming enough to brighten up one’s day.We all are bound to enter and exit this stage of the world but shouldn’t we leave behind a footprint for someone to cherish? Our actions might be small, but they can definitely find a way to bring cheer to someone known or unknown. Who knows if our gift can brighten up the day of someone in need of some sunshine? All I know is that even after we are gone, we all are capable of leaving behind for someone a gift to cherish.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/leaving-a-gift-behind-325122
