18-10-2021||Bamla village of Bhiwani district in Haryana recently stole the headlines when a young girl of the village||Bamla has come a long way||It was the winter of 1977. Administrative reshuffles were the order of the day as a new political party had swept the polls and taken over the reins of the government. One morning, I was surprised and nervous to see my posting as the SSP, Bhiwani, for I had barely finished my training and was all at sea so far as the investigation work, etc., was concerned. More so, Bhiwani was a super-sensitive district then.In the very first crime review meeting, in the first week of my taking over, the inspector of the Criminal Investigation Agency wanted to brief me about the special challenges in Bamla. ‘What’s so special about this village?’I curiously questioned him. ‘Sir, it’s the village of a big-time drug smuggler of Bhiwani and we haven’t succeeded in arresting him so far,’ he said sombrely.‘But we must get him fast,’ I exhorted him with idealistic impatience. ‘It’s not that easy, sir, though I’m trying my best. He’s deeply entrenched and enjoys some support in the village. It is difficult to develop sources about his movements,’ he said with a bit of helplessness. ‘Have the best boys in your team. I promise to provide all possible resources,’ I encouraged him.From that moment on, Bamla village rankled in my mind. I would look at suspiciously anyone coming to meet me from that village. Though the inspector and his staff were trying their best, yet there was no headway. The drug mafia has its own devious and manipulative ways; the lure of easy and quick money gets it fresh recruits and wins support in the system.However, the lucky break came when one night, a source met the inspector with an actionable intelligence input. The trap was laid and the wanted top man was nabbed in an Ambassador car, with large quantities of opium hidden in its various cavities in the most unimaginably clever ways. The inspector rushed to convey the news to me, though dawn was yet to break. ‘Come straight in. Great news! Sit down. Let’s have a cup of tea together.’ I invited him effusively. He was hesitant. ‘Sir, I’d rather hurry. There’s lots of procedural work to complete,’ he saluted and marched out.And that’s how Bamla was engraved for all such wrong reasons in my memory. Now, seeing this girl bring glory to the village through her performance elated me for a good reason. May the trail blazed by this youngster continue!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/bamla-has-come-a-long-way-325939
