22-10-2021||Flying the flag of Flag Officer Commanding Indian Fleet||The dance that wasn’t to be!||The next evening, the Indian High Commissioner hosted a formal reception. Bachelor officers of INS Mysore had a traditional agenda — to befriend single ladies and invite them for an informal dance on board the next evening. After being received by the hosts, we fanned out looking for prospective partners.Suddenly, a girl, possibly a shade younger than me and wearing salwar-kurta, was sighted in a group. I introduced myself to everybody, addressing her last. After learning that she had come to Ceylon only a couple of years ago, I mentioned the next evening’s gathering and wondered if she would care to join us.She sounded keen but said she would ask her father. I gallantly said I would ask him and asked her to take me to him. She pointed him out and I froze. I feebly asked her if that was not the Pakistani High Commissioner whom I had met on the way in. Amused, she confirmed it.I dashed to take the approval of the president, mess committee. He encouraged me and offered that my share of the party would be defrayed if I got her on board. It was now authorised, but I saw her exiting with her parents. I caught up to say that my invitation to her was approved, even as her father got into the car, and she handed me a slip with her father’s telephone number written on it.The prospect of a sensitive dialogue across the telephone wire with someone I knew not was daunting. By next morning, I decided that I was honour-bound to make the call. So, I braced myself and called up the Pakistani High Commissioner. I introduced myself, exchanged pleasantries, took a deep breath, tabled the issue and waited. The voice at the other end confirmed that the daughter had briefed him and thought it was a good idea. But, he explained, there were certain limitations, not only on diplomats but also on the movements of their family members. He felt it best if his daughter did not visit as invited. Before closing, he thanked me and wished me well in my career.More than four decades later, and four years into retirement, I was invited to speak at the Galle Dialogue – the signature maritime event hosted by the Sri Lanka navy. There I was introduced to the Pakistani High Commissioner. Though it was a long shot, I could not resist the temptation to ask Her Excellency if her father had also been in the foreign service. He had not been, she did not enquire why I asked, and I did not volunteer the reason!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/the-dance-that-wasnt-to-be-327720
