28-10-2021||Reminiscing is a pleasant pastime. So are events that once spiced up life. During my last tenure||The man around the house||Then I retired. There was no 5.30 pm homecoming. The dogs missed the routine. Gradually, they stopped taking notice of me. Even when I returned from an errand, they remained unstirred. If they could speak, they would perhaps say I was one among them, just eating and sleeping.The grandchildren loved hearing my made-up stories. With time, they began to grow out of childhood and I could detect a waning interest. Whenever I began a story, ‘But Nana you have already told us this before,’ the younger one would say.‘Shut up,’ her elder sibling scolded, ‘I don’t remember it. Nana, please tell.’ I knew she was lying, and she knew I knew. But pretence has its charm.Whenever a valise had to be kept in the loft, the wife called me to do it. I had no difficulty in hauling the 20-kg plus up the ladder. But gradually, I began to feel the strain, though I never expressed it. One day, I noticed the maid’s husband doing it. ‘I could have done it,’ I remarked. ‘Of course, you can,’ the wife said with simulated candour, ‘but Hira Lal just happened to be around.’We both have a sweet tooth and layer our toasts liberally with jam. Whenever a new jar arrived, it was passed on to me for unscrewing the cap. I felt needed. But one day, my sinews ran out. Instead of opening it physically, I placed the glass bottle upside down in shallow hot water. After a while, the metal cap expanded and came off easily. That routine has since been followed by the maid. I lost my usefulness.‘Here, please open it,’ the wife said one day, pushing the new maple syrup bottle towards me. As I twisted, the plastic cap came off without too much difficulty. But I pretended and kept applying mock force, even letting out a few audible grunts. I felt great at my success.The wife has her mahjong group. Whenever they play, I keep busy with my own, in an adjoining room. One day, I overheard them discussing spouses. Quickly plugging in my hearing aid, I stood close to the door. ‘With age, a man begins to feel unwanted in the house,’ I heard her say. ‘The other day, I had taken out a new bottle. I first unscrewed the cap and re-tightened it before asking him to do it. I could see the triumph on his face as he opened the bottle.’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/the-man-around-the-house-330635
